
INDIANS

The question now depending as it is understood by multitudes of intelligent men, in nearly all parts of the United States is this 'Shall the people of the United States faithfully observe the solemn treaties, which they have made with the Cherokees and other Indian nations-according to the true intent and meaning ;of those engagements, and the understanding of the parties?' Every person may be ready to ask, on hearing this question, 'can there be any doubt how this question must be answered?' We would answer no, was our government disposed to abide by the eternal rules of right and justice. But recent occurrences have led us to fear that concerning the Indian subject, our nation will go wrong, for a very small temptation, and in the face of solemn obligations.( N.B.the page is torn and spliced at this point. The words are not evenly put together.) It is now gravely declared, that the Indian communities are not nations; that treaties made with them are not binding. That so far as Indians are concerned, expediency is the only rule of morality- and even the President, and Secretary of War, have repeatedly told the Cherokees and Choctaws, that they cannot be protected against the laws of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi,- and all these positions we find are reiterated by the recent report of Mr. White to the Senate. And now when we see all these things and remember that 'self-interest' is an overmatch for benevolence,' we feel greatly concerned lest the character of our country should be tarnished, and the Cherokees, and other tribes should experience great injustice. If ever there was a time when the people of the United States, were called upon to raise their voice in notes of earnest remonstrance, it is the present.  This question concerns us all.  Concerns us as patriots, as philanthropists, as Christians. Shall we then sit down inactive, when so much is depending, perhaps on our exertions.

In the consideration of this subject, two things should be kept steadily in view. The first relates to the removal of the Indians. The whites desire the removal of the Indians, in order to obtain their lands. Now should the Indians go beyond the Mississippi, and have a large territory of good land assigned them, how long would it be before the wave of white population would overtake them, and they be exposed to eacroachments (sic); similar to those now experienced. Has there ever been a time when good land in possession of the Indians, has not been an object of desire to the whites?  And is it not visionary to hope that such a time will ever come? But the country west of the Arkansas territory, on which it is proposed to locate the Indians, is described by Major Long, an authorized agent of the government, as uninhabitable. Other travellers describe it as a boundless prairie, destitute of running water a great part of the year and a small portion only of which is wooded. The Cherokees who have visited it, confirm these statements. Will a removal, therefore, under either of these circumstances, be likely to better the condition of the Indians?

The Second thing, relates to the extension of the laws of the states over the Indians. We have seen this measure extolled in very warm terms. But to us it appears, we must confess a measure of doubtful utility, even should the Indians be admitted to all the privileges of citizenship. The Indians have ever been governed by laws, usages and customs essentially different from ours. They are not therefore, prepared to adopt our institutions at once. Doing so would expose them to all the inconveniences of ignorance and consequently inability to contend with the cupidity and avarice of the whites. But we are not left to conjecture what would be the result in the case under consideration.  Mississippi has extended her laws over the Indians within her bounds. These laws have taken effect; and we are told by a gentleman recently from the Choctaw Nation, that the consequences have already been most disastrous.  All the salutary regulation of the chiefs, relating to intemperance have been annulled-the traders have come in; riot and drunkenness is again prevalent-and there is danger that all the schools will be broken up-and all the missionary operations suspended.

Now we put it to the consciences of the friends of justice and humanity, of liberty and religion, if something ought not speedily to be done, to arrest the evils impending over the devoted heads of the 'sons of the forest.' The remedy for these evils lies in the power of the general government. Let the people then make use of the only constitutional means in their power, and by petition, remonstrance, and argument, induce our rulers if possible to save our nation from a deep and deadly sin of becoming the 'oppressor of the innocent.'--Cincinnati Chr. Jour.

_____________________________________________

NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS.

The following remarks, from the London Missionary Register for February, will show how the Indian Question is regarded by the wise and good in Europe. The reader will notice the inaccuracy of calling these Indians 'subjects' of the United States:-Vt. Chron.

The whole body of Indians within the United States appears to be, according to a late estimate of the War Department, 309,292.  Efforts are making to remove the chief bodies further westward; but the measures in progress for this end, incur the severe reprobation of conscientious men. In truth, the United States, as it appears to us, are in a fearful crisis of their affairs. With respect to two large classes of their subjects--the Aborigines and the Slaves--they are on their trial before the Common Father and Lord of All; and their future condition will probably bear plain and undoubted testimony, either that their Injustice hath brought them under His avenging Hand, or their Equity hath conciliated His favor toward them as a Community.

_______________________________________________

THIS SAID INDIAN QUESTION, by the way, is going to produce quite a sufficient sensation without any unnecessary excitement of the temper of the controvertists (sic). The Report which has been made upon the subject in the House of Representatives, we apprehend, is to be the theme of a wide debate in that body, if not in the co-ordinate branch of the Legislature. It is rumoured (sic), that there is a disposition to make the Indian Question a party question. This we should suppose to be a thing impossible. Great principles of natural and national law as well as public morals, lie at the foundation of it. It is a question not merely what is expedient, but what is right. We do not say that what the committee of each House of Congress proposes, in regard to this matter, is not right. But the question, whether it be or be not right is one which must and will be debated, and decided, upon other than party principles.-- Nat. Int.

_____________________________________________________

From the Journal of Humanity.

MEMORIALS IN FAVOR OF THE INDIANS.

The period has arrived when there is the most urgent necessity for immediate and vigorous action in every part of our country, if we would save the Indians from destruction, and our own nation from perfidy.  We have been slumbering on this great subject in an apathy which is deeply criminal in itself, and portentous to all our interests as a Christian people. Long since it was our duty to have thoroughly examined this subject;- 'to have known the worst, and to have been prepared for it.'

The probable consequence of our apathy now stares us in the face. The designs in regard to the oppression of the Indians and the violation of those solemn treaties, on the inviolability of which they have relied for protection, seems on the very eve of execution.

The Committee to which this subject has been referred in both Houses of Congress have reported unfavorably to the rights and welfare of these unfortunate tribes. The question, though involving the moral character of our whole nation, and the interests, temporal and eternal, of more than sixty thousand human beings in our power, has assumed a party aspect, and threatens to be treated solely as a party measure.

In this crisis every individual is called upon to act. An expression of of (sic) the public voice is demanded more general, immediate, and energetic, than has ever yet been made. There is no time for hesitation. At such periods as this we must act for our country, or we shall soon have none which is worth defending.

Every village and town, which has not yet memorialized on the subject, should do now. The business ought not to be deferred a moment. It may be even now, too late. Yet it never can be useless to declare our hatred to oppression, and our love of justice and benevolence.

'Here is our home,' say the Choctaws, 'our dwelling places, our fields, our schools, and all our friends; and under us are the dust and bones of our forefathers. Why talk to us about removing? We always hear such counsel with deep grief in our hearts.'

Will the people of the United States endure to look in silence, and see these tribes expatriated?--driven out from lands, which are theirs by the gift of the God of the Universe, which were theirs before a white inhabitant had set foot on this whole mighty continent, and which, if any thing could strengthen their rights, had been secured to them on our part by the ratification of innumerable treaties?

Or can we patiently endure to behold them stripped of all their rights as communities, and enslaved upon their own soil?  It matters not by what means they are driven off or exterminated. We may as well push them into the Pacific at the point of the bayonet, as crush them under the iron hand of oppression at home.

Who are we, that look so calmly on the attempt to tyrannize over a portion of our fellow beings? The descendents (sic) of the patriots of the Revolution, who resisted unto blood the unjust imposition of the paltriest tax! Shall we deny to others the justice we demand for ourselves?

Let us, by the multitude and the energy of our memorials, show that we are not indifferent in this CRISIS. Let us, instantly interpose, and sternly forbid the execution of unjust and oppressive designs upon the tribes so unfortunately in our power. Then, even should our benevolent endeavors be fruitless, it will be a consoling remembrance that we did what we could to avert the threatened evil.

___________________________________________

From the New York Observer

MEETINGS AT WHITESTOWN IN BEHALF OF THE INDIANS

Agreeably to previous notice, a meeting of the inhabitants of the town of Whitestown was held at the Brick School House, in the village of Whitesborough, on Monday evening March 15, 1830 for the purpose of taking into consideration the propriety of memorializing Congress in regard to the condition and treatment of the Indians within the several states and territories of the United States, and particularly of those within the State of Georgia. S. Newton Dexter, was appointed Chairman, and Harvey Blodget, Secretary. After several addresses to the meeting, S. N. Dexter, Gen. Theodore Still, Rev. Elon Galusha, Dr. Elizar Moseley; and Dr. Seth S. Peck, were appointed a Committee to prepare a memorial.-The meeting was then adjourned until Friday evening, March 19th.

On Friday evening the inhabitants met pursuant to adjournment. Gen. Still, from the Committee to whom was referred the subject of drawing up a memorial to Congress, presented a memorial, which was unanimously accepted by the meeting.- The Secretary then offerred (sic) the following resolution, which was seconded by the Rev. F. Galusha, and unanimously adopted:

Resolved, that in the opinion of this meeting, the government of the United States in its numerous treaties with the Cherokee Indians, has distinctly and uniformly acknowledged their independent national existence; and has plainly admitted and solemnly guarantied their supreme right and sole title to the lands which they possess; and that an extension of state jurisdiction over these lands before the Indian title is quietly and peaceably extinguished, would be a direct violation of solemn treaties, dishonoring us among the nations of the earth.

 Voted. That the proceedings of the meeting be authenticated by the Chairman and Secretary, and with the memorial be transmitted to Congress.

S. NEWTON DEXTERS,

Chairman,

HARVEY BLODGET, Secretary.

______________________________________________________

INDIAN RIGHTS AND OUR DUTIES.

This is the title of an address delivered at Amherst, Hartford, 'c. by the Rev. Herman Humprey, D.D. It is a spirit-stirring appeal to the understanding and conscience and heart, on the subject of the measures proposed to be taken in reference to the southern Indians. We make a single extract.

Shall 'I be told that all this is idle preaching.'--that I have entirely mistaken the policy of Georgia in reference to the Cherokees--that she has no thoughts of compelling them to emigrate?  I am astonished that such an expedient should be resorted to, to quiet the friends of the Indians and to ward off public remonstrance. It is an insult offered to the common sense of the nation. What? Tell the Indians 'We want your country and you had better leave it,-You can never be quiet and happy here?' and then, because they do not take your advice, cut it up into counties, declare all their laws and usages, after a certain day , to be null and void, and substitute law, which it is known they cannot live under; and then turn round and coolly tell the world, 'O we mean no compulsion!' The farthest in the world from it! If these people choose to stay, why by all means let them remain where they are.'  These are the tender mercies of which we shall undoubtedly learn more in due time. And it all amounts to this. 'You have got a fine farm and I want it.  It make a notch in a corner of mine,--I will help you to move five hundred  miles into the wilderness and there give you more and better land, which you may cultivate and enjoy without molestation, 'as long as grass growns and water runs.' * You must go:- however, do just as you please. I shall never resort to any other compulsion, than just to lay you under certain necessary restictions(sic) Perhaps, for instance, as I am the strongest, and you have more land than you want, I may take two thirds, or three fourths of it from you; but then there shall be no compulsion! Stay upon what is left if you choose. I may also find it necessary to ask you for your house and if you should not give it up, I may be driven to the disagreeable necessity of chaining you to a ring belt and giving you a few salutary stripes--not to compel you to flee from your habitation, the moment you can get loose, (for compulsion; of all things, I abhor) but just to induce you to emigrate willingly' This my friends, is the kind of free agency  taught in the new school of metaphysics, which the Indians must learn and exercise whether they will or not--but as no such school is yet established in this part of the land, we must be excused in adhering, for the present, to our old fashioned notions about free agency, public faith, and common honesty.

______

* Query- How long does water run in the region destined for the future residence of the Indians?

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

The author of the pamplet (sic) of Gov. Cass' article on the last number of the North American Review, treats that writer with great, but for aught we can see,

just severity. We will quote a single passage, after reading which, no honest man can ever quote Gov. Cass as authority.

There is a decision of the Supreme Court of New-York, which rests upon the ground that the small tribes of Indians remaining in that state are not now independent sovereignties.-- Of this Gov. Cass has taken pains to avail himself to the utmost. The pamphlet before us, after showing that if the Oneidas have 'lost their independence,' it by no means follows that the Cherokees have lost theirs, proceeds as follows.

We have not done with this matter, touching the Indians in the State of New York. It would seem that the supreme Court of that state was mistaken, as to the condition of the remnants of tribes remaining there.--Though we entertain a sincere respect for the Chief Justice, and consider him a very able and very upright Judge, yet it is due to truth and to the present issue, to say, that the decision, which he announced; was overruled by a higher tribunal; viz. the Court for the correction of Errors. But does Gov. Cass tell his readers of this? does he let them know, that the decision, to which he refers no less than six times, was overruled, and therefore is not law? Does he mention the fact, that Chancellor Kent, after a most elaborate examination of the matter, came to the conclusion that the Indians in New York are not under the laws of that State, but are distinct communities, and in a certain and very important sense, independent sovereignties? and that, in a numerous court of thirty members the decisions of the court below was overruled, and the reasoning of the Chancellor sustained, with but one dissenting vote? Does Gov. Cass announce these facts? No such thing. It would not answer to let the readers of the North American know them. What! spoil an argument by telling the truth!

But our readers will ask, is it possible that such bare faced deceptions can have been willfully practiced? It is impossible that it should have been otherwise; for Gov. Cass actually quotes part of a sentence and repeats his quotation, from the very argument of Chancellor Kent, to which he was referred by the report of the decision in the court below; both decisions being in the same volume. He takes care, however, not to give any indication of Chancellor Kent's opinion, on the very point at issue.

We do therefore impeach Lewis Cass, Governor of the Michigan Territory, and Superintendent of Indian Affairs, having a double salary, with many emoluments of office, the continuance of which undoubtedly depends upon the powers that be;--we do impeach this celebrated Reviewer in the North American Review, of an act of flagrant and palpable dishonesty as a disputant, in concealing from his readers the true state of this case. Why did he not, like a man, tell his readers, that the decision on which he had been building, was overruled? Why did he not give at least one page, in connexion (sic), from Chancellor Kent's reasoning;--a page which would be worth more to mankind, than any fifty, that he himself ever wrote? There is a Latin maxim which we will translate thus;-and a legal maxim it is as well as an honest one;- to conceal the truth, is just as criminal as to tell a downright lie.  The lawyer who should perform a trick of this kind, by quoting as law a decision, which he knew to have been set aside by a higher court, would deserve to be thrown over the bar.

We charge the reviewer with dishonesty as a disputant. We should not have done this, if it had been a question of politics merely, or of science, or of Indian philology.--But the discussion of the rights of the Indians is a graver subject. No course can possibly be so injurious to them as that of concealing the truth, overwhelming their character with obloquy, and disguising the real state of the case by sophistry, while pretending withal(sic) to a large share of philonthropy(sic) and a great deal of wisdom. There are few moral offences(sic) so atrocious, as first to deprive a weak and defenceless (sic) people of their public and private character, and then assign their destitution of Character as a reason why they should be deprived of their country, their freedom, and (as the event will prove to many of them,) of their lives.

____________________

Whatever is done for the Indians (says the N. Y. Observer) must be done quickly. The Committees on Indian Affairs in both Houses of Congress, have made reports favorable to the views of Georgia, and there is reason to fear that avarice and injustice will finally triumph; that in the language of Mr. Wilberfoce.  'Self-interest will probe an over-match for benevolence.' It is clear that some of those in authority, both in the general and state governments, who are most active on the Indian Question, are totally destitute of moral principle.- Indeed they themselves openly avow it. The authorities of Georgia proclaim the doctrine that 'might makes right;' and the Secretary of War has instructed his agents to offer bribes to the Indian chiefs to induce them to sell their lands.*  After such avowals what may we not expect? Is there any iniquity to which such men will not resort to accomplish their purposes?- If it found necessary to bribe members of Congress, will not the attempt be made to bribe them? If falsehood is necessary to blind the public eye, will any scruple prevent the resort to falsehood?- The case of the Indians is perfectly plain case,and if the people of this country cannot see through the sophistry of those who are seeking to rob them of their lands and their liberty, our own lands and our own liberty may soon fall a prey to the arts of the sophist. The case of the Indians is every man's case. The barrier of good faith which protects them, protects us also; and if it is broken down, all on earth that we hold most dear will lie open to the invasion of tyrants.

What now remains to be done? The answer is plain. Let every honest man resolve that he will wash his own hands of this iniquity; that his testimony against injustice shall stand on record in the archives of our government. If there are towns where the people are so sluggish and indifferent that the people will not meet in public assembly to utter their united protest, let individuals write their own memorials. The people of Massachusetts are setting a noble example. Preparations are in progress for the expression of public opinion in ever town in that Commonwealth. Let it not be said, 'These memorials will be in vain,-they will not save the Indians. They may save the Indians, but if they do not save them, they may save us. Like the blood on the door posts they will be a token; and when the angel of destruction passes through the land to smite it with his plagues, the houses in which that token is found, may escape the judgment of heaven.'

Have the citizens of Vermont no protest to utter on this subject? With a few honorable exceptions, no voice has yet echoed in the Halls of Congress from the Green Mountains in favor of the Indians. Shall it be said that we are behind our sister states in the manifestation of sympathy of our red brethren and a deep sense of the wrongs with which they are threatened?

______________________

*In the instructions of the Secretary of War to Gens. Carroll and Coffee, contained in document No. 3, pp. 179-80, accompanying the Secretary's Report, is found the following language: 'The best resort [to induce the Indians to emigrate] is believed to be that which is embraced in an appeal to the chiefs and influential men-not together, but apart at their own houses- and be a proper exposition of their real condition, rouse them to think upon that; whilst offers to them of extensive reservations in fee simple, and other rewards, would it is hoped, result in obtaining their acquiescence. This had, their people, as a body, it is believed, would gladly go.'

What should be thought of a project which requires such measures to carry it into effect?--Vt. Watch.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Cherokee Phoenix

New Echota, April 21, 1830

The committee on Indian Affairs in the House of Representatives, in page 21 of their report say:

That the greatest portion, even of the poorest class of the Southern Indians, may, for some years yet, find the means of sustaining life, is probable; but, when the game is all gone, as it soon must be, and their physical as well as moral energies shall have undergone the farther decline, which the entire failure of the resources of the chace (sic) has never failed to mark in their downward career, the hideous features in their prospects will become more manifest.

Whoever really believes that the Cherokees subsist on game is most wretchedly deceived, and is grossly ignorant of existing facts. 

The Cherokees do not live upon the chase, but upon the fruits of the earth produced by their labour (sic). We should like to see any person point to a single family in this nation who obtain their clothing and provisions by hunting. We  know of no one. We do not wish to be understood as saying that they do not hunt- they do hunt some, probably, about as much as white people do in new countries, but they no more depend upon this occupation for living than new settlers do. Game has been nearly extinct for the last thirty years, and even previous to that, when the Cherokees depended upon the chase for subsistence, they were obliged to obtain their full supply of meat and skins out of what is now the limits of this nation. Cut off the lst vestige of game in these woods, and you cannot starve the Cherokees--they have plenty of corn, and domestic animals, and they raise their own cotton, and manufacture their own clothing.

The committee do not mean to exaggerate, either in the statement of facts, as they are believed to exist, or in the deductions which they make from them; as to the future prospects of the Indians.

The Committee have, nevertheless, greatly exaggerated--all their statements, of what they call facts, are nothing but unfounded assertions.

The intelligent observer of their character will confirm all that is predicted of their future condition, when he learns that the maxim, so well established in other places, 'that an Indian cannot work, ' has lost none of its universality in the practice of the Indians of the South; that there, too the same improvidence and thirst for spirituous liquors attend them, that have been the foes of their happiness elsewhere;  that the condition of the common Indian is perceptibly declining, both in the means of subsistence, and the habits necessary to procure them; and that, upon the whole, the mass of the population of the Southern Indian tribes are a less respectable order of human beings now, than they were ten years ago.

The maxim of our enemies, 'that an Indian cannot work,' the committee suppose 'well established' and it would most certainly be well established if they could but prove their naked assertions. We know of many Indians who not only work, but work hard. Who labors for the Cherokee and builds his house, clears his farm, makes his fences, attends to his hogs, cattle, and horses; who raises his corn, his cotton and manufactures his clothing? Can the committee tell? Yes, they have an answer at hand. He has no house, no farm, no hogs, cattle, no corn to save him from starvation, and clothing to cover him from nakedness. We know not what to say to such assertions. The above maxim has been received by many as truth, but not by the intelligent observers of their character, but by their enemies and such as have not had the means of knowing facts. But suppose it was once will founded and correctly applied, it has long since lost its universality. We invite any person who may be hesitating on this point to come and see and judge for himself- we are not afraid that the truth, the whole truth, should be known-we desire it-we invite 'the most rigid scrutiny.'

'That an Indian has an inherent thirst for spirituous liquor,'

is another maxim which the committee think is well applied to the Cherokees. On the charge of intemperance, we are very far from pleading not guilty- we have ourselves raised our voice against this crying sin. But if the charge is, that the Cherokees have greater thirst for spirits than whitemen (sic), we unhesitatingly deny it. It is not so-we speak from personal observation. Facts form the only proper criterion in this case, and what is the actual state of things? We know, most certainly know that among the whites of the surrounding counties intemperance and brutal intoxication (at which humanity may well shudder,) may be witnessed in every neighborhood. Go to their elections and courts and number those who are under the influence of inebriating drink, and then come into the nation, and visit the Indian elections, courts and the General Council and make a disinterested comparison, and we pledge ourselves that there is less intemperance exhibited here on these occasions than among the whites. It is an incontrovertible fact, for the truth of which we appeal to all honest eye-witnesses, that on these public occasions, particularly at the General Council, which continues four weeks, a drunken Indian is seldom to be seen. We are sorry that intemperance does exist, but is it not universal? There has been of late considerable reformation among the Cherokees, in common with other parts of the country.

Against the statement of the committee that 'the condition of the common Indian is perceptibly declining,' we must give our unbiased testimony, and appeal to facts repeatedly made public -the common Indian among the Cherokees is not declining, but rising.

The Cherokees are generally understood to have made further advances in civilization than the neighboring tribes, and a description of their real situation may make it of less importance to notice, in detail, the condition of the others. Upon this point, the committee feel sensibly the want of that statistical and accurate information without which they are aware that they cannot expect their representations to be received with entire confidence. To supply this deficiency, however, they have sought information from every proper source within their reach, and do not fear that the general correctness of their statements will be confirmed by the most rigid scrutiny.

Here then is the great mystery-the committee feel sensibly the want of STATISTICAL and

ACCURATE information! This accounts for their misrepresentations.--But was it impossible to obtain correct statistical information? They thought so, we presume, for they sought it 'from every proper source.' If they had only applied for testimonies which disinterested persons would not consider

improper the information would most easily have been obtained. We could have furnished them with a true copy of a statistical table taken in 1824, ' by inquiring at the Agency, we doubt not they could have found another taken in 1810. By comparing these they would have formed a true foundation for facts and accurate deductions. But no, such a course would not possibly answer-they must seek information from somewhere else, not from documents, and resident whitemen, but from the enemies of the Indians, who are looking with eager expectation to their removal, that they may take possession of the spoil, obtained by means the most unmanly and iniquitous.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Extract of a letter to the Editor dated,

Washington City, 2d April, 1830

An attempt has been made in the House to get the Indian Question up, but failed, and I am certain will be taken up next week.  Judge White notified the Senate that he would call it up on Tuesday next, ( 6th inst.)

_____________________________________________

An interesting discussion took place on Friday last in the Senate on the bill to extinguish certain Indian titles. The bill appropriates 40,000 dollars to enable the Executive to bribe the Indian Chiefs. This is a novelty under our Government, but perfectly in character with the present pure and economical Administration. One of those Senators who believe that the President can do no wrong, and who are willing to sacrifice the legitimate constitutional powers of the Senate to make him a despot, was so scandalized at the proceeding, that, after being obliged to confess that 'honesty was the best policy,' he moved an amendment, when the subject was first introduced, which, together with the bill, was laid on the table; and when called up on Friday, to the surprise of every one, it was found that he had been whipped-in, and thus acknowledged that the old maxim he had laid down was obsolete and unfashionable in the present condition of the country. The measure adopted by the Senate on Friday, which was a party question, establishes the singular precedent that the Executive may bribe or make secret presents to the Indians; ' thus, without consulting the Chiefs, introduce that poison among their people which is to lead to their inevitable destruction. The sum appropriated exceeds, we think, any hitherto made, by 20,000 dollars. This measure was opposed, with great ability, by the minority. The speeches of Messrs. Frelinghuysen, Barton, 'c., on this subject shall be given soon. In the course of this discussion, Mr. Forsyth, of Georgia, who has a peculiar aversion to the Cherokees, Creeks, 'c. and who never hears an Indian named that he does not think of those tribes, made the strange avowal on the floor of the Senate, that the question in relation to the Georgia Indians was entirely settled; that the Legislature of his State had issued its edicts; that the President had confirmed them, and that they would be executed in a few months. Thus these poor men are to be robbed of their lands by a combination between the President of the United States and the Legislature of Georgia. People of America, enemies of oppression and cruelty, what think you of this?- Nat. Jour.

An intelligent subscriber in Georgia, who is dissatisfied with our course respecting the Indian Question, proposes some queries respecting it, which seem to demand an answer. This we shall give in a few words.

First, then, of the party and sectional character that has been given to the discussion. We can never concede to political partizans (sic) the right to muzzle our press on questions involing (sic) great principles of public morals, and of natural and national law, by making them subjects of party excitement.  The attempt to do it is as gross and palpable wrong, which it is the duty of every honest and patriotic citizen to resist, and of every newspaper to expose and denounce. Should any member of Congress, wherever he may come from and to whatever party he may belong, be guided in his vote on the Indian Question by party and sectional consideration, he will deserve the scroll of infamy on his forehead; and,shall we, by our silence, not only countenance his crime, but encourage the belief that the whole nation is as profligate and degraded as he? Never! we hear that some persons in different parts of the country are attempting to bespatter the Temperance Society with the filth of their sectarian bickerings (sic); but does the Journal become sectarian by still holding on own its way? The cases are alike in both, unprincipled men are endeavouring (sic) to pervert and corrupt the public mind; and in neither should they receive the countenance of an honest man's silence or withdrawal; from the field-in neither is it right to give up the whole matter into the hands of political or religious demagogues, whenever they may see fit to intermeddle. These subjects are too sacred to be made subservient to their unholy purposes; and if possible they should be made to feel it.

Our correspondent thinks that 'whatever may be the state of the case between the white man and the Indian, Georgia has claims upon the United States which have never been settled, though they have arrived at maturity.' He seems to regard us as opposed to the settlement of these claims. By no means. If Georgia has just claims upon the United States they cannot be brought forward and settled without wresting from a third party any of its rights. Whether she has such claims, is a question which we do not profess to have adequately examined. But if she has, let them be satisfied from the national treasury.  The measures taken by the authorities of Georgia and of the United States have been such as to make the question between the white man and the Indian the prominent one, and indeed the only one on which much interest has been awakened; so that the language of our correspondent is very properly reversed,--we say, that, whatever may be the state of the case between the (sic) Georgia and United States, the Indians have rights which must not be invaded. As they were not parties to the compact between Georgia and the United States, they cannot, without gross injustice, be made to suffer from it.

Why, it is asked, do we not exert ourselves in favor of the almost extinguished Indian tribes in the northern and middle States? Simply because we are not advised that those tribes are not in any immediate danger of suffering from a violation of national faith,-from the injustice of those for whose conduct we, according to the measure of our influence, and in common with out fellow citizens generally, are responsible. So far as we are acquainted with their circumstances, they are in the undisturbed enjoyment of their national rights as secured to them by Treaty. If, however, the policy towards the Cherokees, against which we contend, should prevail, they may not long remain so. And should the time ever arrive when their rights also shall seem about to be sacrificed, we stand pledged to the public-as will be see (sic) by the introductory article in the first number of our Journal-not to permit the crime to be brought to its consummation without resistance.

Journal of humanity.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






$5 REWARD

Strayed from my place on Friday night last, a SORREL HORSE, about three years old, one of his hind legs is of a different color, small star in his forehead, paces and trots well. I purchased him of a man who lives near Calhoun, East Tennessee, and if is probable he may go to that place. I will give the above reward for the delivery of the horse at this town, or will pay a reasonable compensation to any person who will inform me where he is.

JNO. F. WHEELER.

New Echota, April 14, 1830
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






'THE INDIAN BOARD' IN NEW YORK.

WHAT IS IT?-AND WHAT IS ITS DESIGN? We direct the attention of our readers to the following communication for a glance behind the curtains of the New York 'Indian Board.' We have been long looking for the unraveling of this riddle. Is here placed before our readers from a source which enables us to place complete reliance on its statements. The communication is prefaced by an extract from a New York paper which speaks for itself.

Religious Intelligencer.

From the New York Evening Post.

'We understand that at a meeting of the Indian Board of this city, last evening, (March 9) Gov. Houston was present, and furnished some interesting information relative to the Indian tribes in the southwestern parts of the United States. According to his statements, as we are informed, the Indians west of the Mississippi are in a better condition, both in a moral and physical point of view, from those within the limits of the states. He considers the immediate neighborhood of white men as most pernicious to the Indian, imparting to him the vices of civilization, without communicating any of its virtues,- accordingly, the southwestern tribes on this side of the Mississippi, with whom he was long and well acquainted, were in the mass, brutalized in the extreme, poor, living wretchedly, ill clothed, and practicing the most degrading vices. These tribes send forth number of mendicants, who travel the country, and are sometimes found begging as far as Pittsburgh. He drew a contrast between the Creeks who remained in Georgia and Alabama and those who had emigrated to the west of the Arkansas. The former were in the wretched condition already described, while the emigrants, situated in a country of plenty-a country fertile in all the productions of the earth, easily tilled, abounding in game-aloof from the causes of dispute with the white men, and from the contaminating influence of their neighborhood-already began to experience the good effects of the change in their circumstances. He was confident that the only possible method of preserving the Indian race, and of elevating the Indian character was to remove them from the vicinity of the whites until their gradual civilization could be effected. The attempts to Christianize the Indians in their present state, he was of opinion, much as he honored the zeal that had prompted them, were fruitless or worse. The supposed conversions has produced no change of habits. So degraded had become the character of this once independent people, that professions of religious belief had been made, and the ordinances of religion submitted to, when an Indian wanted a new blanket or a squaw a new gown. The only way to bring them to an understanding of the doctrines, and an obedience to the precepts of Christianity, was by educating ' civilizing them in the first place: but this could not be hoped for in the present state of the tribes east of the Mississippi. Fifty years might accomplish the work, if they could be persuaded to emigrate. The white agents, and traders whose interest it was to keep the Indians in their present unfortunate and degraded condition, of which they took advantage, were active and unwearied in endeavoring to prejudice the savages against the plan of emigration.'

Mr. Editor.-Perhaps some of your readers would like to know what is this Indian Board, and what is its claim to the title it has assumed. Having recently enjoyed some opportunity of learning facts on the subject, I think them quite worthy of publication.

This association, as I gather from their printed pamphlet, was projected by the Rev. Eli Baldwin, aided by the counsels of a few other ministers of the Reformed Dutch Church.- That church as a body, is considerably less in point of members than the Congregationalists in Connecticut, the number of churches being only 185 and of pastors 150. But being scattered through several states, and having its centre (sic) in the city of New York, where the old collegiate church is possessed of immense wealth, some of its ministers feel as if they were ex officio entitled to a controlling power in the Christian community. It happens unfortunately for these individuals that not being themselves Dutchmen, but engrafted scions of the Scotch origin, they do not succeed at all in controlling the general synod of the Dutch Church. Thus the synod refused to sanction their movements for a Dutch Sunday School Union, or to be responsible for the vagaries of their Magazine-now happily defunct.  Another misfortune with which they have to struggle, is that everything which they take hold of is so apt to die in their hands. Witness the Jews Society 'c. The business of Foreign Missions was undertaken and has been hitherto conducted independently of their control. And so congenial is the diffusion of the Gospel among the heathen to the emotions of every pious heart, that they have not been able to prevent Dutchmnen and Dutch churches, from contributing liberally to the support of Foreign Missions, without sending their charities through what they claim to be the only legitimate channel.

I speak now only of a certain small division of the Dutch Church, chiefly what are called the Scotch Dutch.-To the catholicism and liberality of the better part of that communion, every one who is conversant with the benevolent operations of the church must concur Dutchmen the most honorable testimony. And such is the growth of evangelical spirit among them, that I doubt not their enlarged charities will soon put some larger communities to the blush. The little circle, of which I am treating neither controls nor represents that orthodox body, to whom our pilgrim fathers were so much indebted for protection and aid.

It is always easier to oppose than to promote, to pull down than to build up, to spend money for objects professedly benevolent than to raise it by the voluntary contributions of the people.  Since the Jews Society was turned back upon its own resources, no way appeared in which these men could induce the people voluntarily to entrust the sacred funds of charity to their disposal.  The countenance, which the new administration seemed inclined to give to the violent projects of Georgia, opened to their minds a new method of 'raising the wind.'

By associating themselves to support the National Government thro (sic) thick and thin, they would in the first place gratify their jealousy of New England. They would also have the pleasure of thwarting the plans and destroying the works of the Methodists, the American Board, the Baptist Board, and the Moravians.  At the same time they would acquire the favor of the Government and obtain the disposal of the vast sums of money which the government would apply for the civilization of the Indians, and the power of growing out of such an extensive patronage. Thus they would be able at once to prevent all Hopkinsians, Aremenians, and Baptists from favorable access to the Indians or at least from deriving any aid in their benevolent operations from the bounty of the United States Government.

Accordingly a correspondence was opened by the Rev. B. with Colonel M'Kenney, the Clerk for Indian Affairs, which resulted in a meeting of eleven persons connected with the Dutch Church, on the 10th of July last.  These men proceeded to call a public meeting, which took place on the 12th of August, when by their request Col. M'Kenney made a speech. In the mean time a constitution was adopted and signed by 29 of the 30 members to which it is confined. Of the Board no less than 22 are connected with the Dutch Church, 3 more are Scotch Presbyterians, on Episcopolian (sic) and one Moravian. These are to represent and control the charities of the whole church towards the poor Indians! The name adopted is 'The Indian Board, for the Emigration, Preservation, and improvement of the Aborigines of America.'

By article 4th, 'this Board engages to afford to the emigrant Indian ALL the necessary instruction in the arts of life and the duties of religion.'

By article 5th, 'this Board is pledged to co-operate with the Federal Government of the United States, in its operations on Indian affairs; and in no instance to contravene its laws.'

By article 6th they 'invite the citizens of the United States, without respect to sect or party, religious or political, to co-operate with them in this benevolent enterprise.'

It appears that the whole is purely a piece of political machinery, in which a few ministers of the Gospel lend the sanction of their name and station to shield the government from the odium of its own oppressions (sic), and to impose upon the poor Cherokees by the high sounding title of 'Indian Board' 'c. with the idea that their true friends, the Christian community, give them up to the tender mercies of Georgia.

It would seem as though men who had much self-respect would not lend themselves to such a 'pledge to cooperate with the General Government' in its measures, right or wrong. Still less that they would place themselves at the beck of such a man as Col. M'Kenney, and base all their movements upon the testimony of his word. (his word! ask the people of Washington how much it is worth.)- and present themselves before the public for no other purpose than to echo and sanction his speech.  But so it was. Their pamphlet contains nothing else of moment but his speech.  It was supposed by most people, that this Board had died in being born. And I strongly suspect a good many of the worthy  men who had been drawn in to sign its constitution hoped it would prove so. In that case it would have been only an additional monument of human weakness. But now it appears, by the article above quoted, that its projectors have no idea of letting it die, till it has done up its work 'for the emigration of the Indians.' Whether it will be as vital after it has emigrated them, and when it comes to the laborious and practical business of 'Preserving and improving' them remains for experiment to prove.

One or two facts connected with the recent meeting are worthy of notice. This 'Gov. Houston' is the man who was Governor of Tennessee and who suddenly deserted his post of honor among civilized beings causelessly forsook a beautiful young wife whom he had just married and broke her heart, and withdrew to find his chosen associates and his brightest pleasures among savages. His friends would gladly say, he is insane, if there were any evidence. But such an apology for his baseness has not even the shadow of proof. His conduct can be accounted for only by an inherent debasement of heart that would not submit any longer to the constraints of social life. Accordingly as I know from his own lips, he is the declared enemy of civilization, an open scorner of religion, and a spiteful mocker of missionaries, and a slanderer of their characters and their labors.

To hear the testimony of such a man, these grave Doctors of Divinity, and elders in the churches, were convened. Several of the members of this Board, (I hope however they were not present) are members of the American Board for Foreign Missions. And all of them ought to be a little acquainted with the effects of Christianity among the southwestern Indians.  And yet they are not ashamed to send out the wicked falsehood, on the testimony of Governor Houston, that nothing good has been accomplished. After all the testimony of eye witnesses, of President Monroe, of Vice President Calhoun, of Drs. Worcester and Cornelius, Mr. Evarts, and hosts of others, one word of this renegade from religion and society is to overthrow it all.

It is manifest at a glance, what Gov. Houston's object is, even by his own shewing (sic). Instead of helping the Indians forward, he would threw them back to that fancied state of elevation which they once possessed; i.e. make them as complete savages as ever. And the power and influence which he may expect to gain among them will illustrates the sentiment of a poet. Ambition when coupled with sordid selfishness and grovelling thoughts, 'Would rather reign in hell than serve in heaven.'

I will not remark upon the utter inconsistency of ministers of the gospel, in giving currency to the idea that the Indians must be civilized before they can be Christianized; nor upon the palpable dishonesty of alleging the distress and poverty of the Creeks  as evidence of a similar state of wretchedness among the Cherokees. The hollowness of that friendship to the Indians which seeks such means to gain credit, is sufficiently manifest. The Indians are not such fools but they will inquire how it happens that the members of this new Indian Board did not sooner find out their wonderful interest in the welfare of our aborigines. And perhaps they may ask how this Board are to procure the funds for redeeming their unconditional promise 'to afford to the emigrant Indians all the necessary instruction in the arts of life and duties of religion.' And possibly it may occur to them to look into some of our periodicals, which all circulate among the Cherokees to find out whether the Dutch Church has a supply of ministers and teachers to spare, for all their wants if they emigrate.

In conclusion, the persons really concerned in this proceeding appear to be Governor Troup, Colonel M'Kenney, Gov. Houston, Dr. Brownlee, and the Rev. Eli Baldwin. And when we contemplate the cruelty of their object, and the recklessness of spirit with which they are forming it, I think it would be well named an 'Indian Board' taking the word Indian in the bad sense only.  But since by the progress of civilization and religion among our red brethren, this word has become ambiguous.  I propose that the corresponding synonyme(sic) should be adopted and that in all future notices it should be designated as the 'SAVAGE BOARD.'

Z.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






PRESENT CONDITION OF THE CHEROKEES.

Letter from the Rev. Samuel A. Worcester, to the Rev. E. S. Ely, editor of the Philadelphian.

 New Echota. C. N. March 10, 1830.

To the Editor of the Philadelphian.

Re. Sir,- In your paper of the 12th ult., after giving some statements in regard to the present condition of the Cherokees, you say, 'Religious people and missions are, however, not to be blamed, because they have not rescued all from vagrancy and want.' Very true. But if missionaries have given false representations in regard to the state of any people among whom they reside, they are much to be blamed. And if the statement in your paper are correct, we are certainly found false witnesses in regard to the state of the Cherokees.  Until however, there is greater evidence against us than yet appears, we cannot plead guilty to the charge. I am aware that it is difficult, by any general descriptions to give an accurate idea of the state of a people to persons at a distance, and also that the same state of things will produce different impressions on the minds of different eye witnesses. Nor will I deny that some statements which have been made of the improvements of the Cherokees have appeared to my own mind somewhat too highly coloured (sic). But of this I am certain, that nothing could well be farther from the truth, than the statements which your informants have led you to make. Your desire is to have the truth known, I have no doubt; and I rely with confidence on your readiness to publish any different statement, if it proceed from a source which you judge worthy of credit.

You have the information second hand from a 'leading man of the nation of Cherokees' (a white man, however, it appears,) 'who has reared a numerous family by a Cherokee wife, that the Indians frequently came fifty or sixty miles over the mountains to his grist mill to beg a peck of Indian meal.' That instances may have occurred, in which Indians have begged a peck of corn meal at a grist mill fifty or sixty miles from home, is not improbable. I know of a grist mill owned by a white man 'who has reared a numerous family by a Cherokee wife,' where, from its local situation in respect to a particular part of the nation, such things may easily have happened. And are there not families in a state of abject beggary in the city of Philadelphia? But that Indians 'come frequently' fifty or sixty miles to that or any other mill to beg a peck of meal, I cannot yet believe. Is it not possible that the word 'frequently' has, through some inadvertence, crept into a place where it does not belong?

But your informant adds, 'that the larger number of the Cherokees were never more wretchedly destitute than at the present.' Widely different is my view of the subject. From what I have learned of the state of the Cherokees by a residence of more than four years among them, I hesitate not to say, that the great mass of the Cherokee people were never before in as good circumstances, in regard to the comforts of life, as at the present time, and that their circumstances are gradually improving every year. You say, Mr. Editor, that 'at this moment' 'The mass of the people even among the Cherokees,' 'are half starved.' Sir, the mass of the Cherokee people are at this moment decently covered with such clothing as white people were, except, in the majority of instances, the want of a bonnet, and the substitution of a handkerchief for a hat. Among the elderly men, a considerable portion adhere partially, but only partially to the ancient costume, but the women and the younger men have almost all abandoned it, and the number of elderly men who assume the constume of whites increases as constantly as the earth revolves. and as to their being half starved, I presume the proportion of those, who suffer in any measure from the want of food, is not greater than in your own city,

You speak of 'those Indians, generally half Indians, who have built them houses and cultivated lands by their slaves.'  Sir, the mass of the Cherokee people have built them houses and cultivated lands with their own hands.

Again you say, 'The seclusion of these cultivated spots are, however detrimental to those natives who still choose to depend on game and the chase.' Those natives, Sir, are gone beyond the Mississippi. There may be a few families among the mountains, who depend mostly on the chase for support, but I know not of one.  I have inquired of numbers of respectable persons, who have grown from infancy to manhood in the nation-among them the present principal chief-and they know not of one.

Again, 'In some instances those who would have cultivated a farm have been deterred by knowing that every hungry Indian brother considers the whole Cherokee reservation as a common, and will carry off the fruits of the labours (sic) of his neighbour (sic), whenever he can find, and thinks that he needs them.' This representation, I suppose, must have been founded on the misapprehension of Indian rules of hospitality. That it has been customary for every Indian to feel bound to make the provisions of his house free to every one who intered (sic) it, is true. That much of this still remains is true. That the indolent have sometimes taken advantage of this custom so as to live at the tables of industrious to an oppressive degree, is also true. But that 'every hungry brother will carry off the fruits of the labour (sic) of his neighbour(sic), whenever he can find, and thinks that he needs them,' is no more true of the Cherokees than of the whites. The Cherokee feels as secure in the possession of produce of his own field, as the farmer of Pennsylvania.

By all these remarks I do not intend to convey the impression, that the Cherokees have already reached, or, nearly reached a level with the white people of the United States in point of civilization.

But they have made great advances, and are steadily advancing still. It is only requisite that they be not hindered, ' that the means which God has so abundantly blessed in this respect continue to operate, ' there is every reason to believe their progress will continue. Any theory in regard to their removal from this place, which is built upon the supposition of the impossibility of their rising where they are, is opposed to fact. They can rise for they are rising.

If I do not trespass too much upon your patience and candour (sic), allow me to quote only two sentences more.

'One principal cause of the decrease of Indian population in North America has been war between the different aboriginal tribes.'

'If our government 'let them alone,' as many philanthropists desire they should, and say they ask no more, they will unquestionably pass away from the earth like the Indians who once peopled the North.'

My only remark on these sentences is, that if the Cherokees are removed beyond the Mississippi, they will be exposed to the evil in question; but, if they are 'let alone' in this respect, there is no probability of their ever again being engaged in hostilities with any other tribe of Indians on the continent,

Yours very respectfully,

SAMUEL A. WORCESTER.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






SENATE

THE INDIANS

Thursday April 8

Mr. FRELINHUYSEN pursued his argument a little more than two hours. Mr. F. began by saying that the Senator from Tennessee founds all his arguments on the basis that the Indians have been all along a part of the inhabitants of Georgia and might at amy time have been made subject to her laws. This basis is necessary to support the claims of Georgia; but it has no support in law or reason. Georgia herself has always, till recently, considered the Indians as independent nations.  Thus they have been treated by her Governors and other high functionaries.

Mr. F. read extracts from a report of the Old Congress in 1787, by which it appeared that Congress then considered the intercourse with the Indians to be a national concern, which was to be managed by the General Government, and not by the several States.- He next read extracts from a proclamation of Congress in 1788 issued for the defence of these very Cherokees against intruders. He regretted exceedingly that the President of the United States had not a year ago issued a similar proclamation, and showed a fixed determination to enforce it.

The President, in his message, referred to the case of the Indians in the State of New York. A more happy illustration for the defence of the right of the Cherokees could not have been chosen. The Indians of New York are not citizens of that State, not subjects under its Government; except that a single statute has been passed for the punishment of crimes.The highest legal tribunal in that State, the Chancellor Kent at its head, decided, with but one dissenting vote in a court of thirty members, that the Indians in the State of New York are independent communities, and are not subject to the laws of that State.

Mr. F. commented on the word guaranty, and asserted that it did not create a right, but secured an existing right. In regard to the Indians, a guaranty secures to them not only their territory, but their customs, their council fires, and their freedom.

We have heard, said Mr. F., of moral treason, during this session. After a review of the treaties which have been made with the Cherokees,' of the guaranty which has been given them, let the Senate consider whether the presenting of a temptation to the Indians to remove, whether a solicitation even, is not the violation of a moral obligation. It is not moral treason; but it is a moral delinquency, a moral obliquity, of which a man would be ashamed in the transaction of his private business.

Georgia was a party to all these treaties. She cannot now violate them. No impartial man, no enlightened conscience, can justify the violation of them.

The intercourse law, which was enacted by Congress soon after the origin of our Federal Government, places the Indians entirely without the circle of State legislation.

But Georgia herself has made treaties with the Cherokees, as an independent people. A treaty was concluded with these Indians at Augusta, in 1773 the very title and introduction of which should forever preclude Georgia from denying that they are a separate people. There was another treaty in 1783, and another still in 1785. There was a treaty also made at De Witt's corner in 1777, between South Carolina and Georgia on the one part, and the Indians on the other; a treaty formed with as much formality as any between European nations.- The parties all sent commissioners with their full powers which were formerly exchanged,and the negotiation began.

So late as 1825, the Governor of Geo. issued a proclamation, in which he declared the treaties with the Indians to be the supreme law ' enjoined upon the citizens a strict observance of them, on penalty of a rigid enforcement of the laws of the United States in such cases provided. We do not ask for anything more for the Cherokees than is fairly implied in the proclamation of the Governor of Georgia, issued five years ago.

The States of Mississippi and Alabama are not only equally bound with the other States of the Union, not to encroach upon the Indians but they are under some peculiar obligations.-They were admitted into the Union under the express and solemn engagement not to invade the rights of the Indians, nor encroach upon their lands.

The famous ordinance of 1787 is made applicable to these States, in all its parts, except the article which relates to slavery.  One of the paragraphs of this ordinance secures to the Indians all their rights, their property, and their liberty.  It would have become Alabama, before she invaded the rights of the Indians, to have considered well this fundamental article of the compact, by which she was admitted into the Union.

Mr. F. proceeded to examine the recent law of Georgia; and declared that, in point of principle, and as the matter will appear in the solemn revision of posterity, the dismemberment of Poland will be pronounced a pure transaction in the comparison.- The law he denominated an outrageous usurpation, and, if carried into effect, it will rouse a tone of indignation from one end of this country to the other.

After commencing on examination of the supposed humanity of the measure of removal, he gave way to a motion to adjourn.

The Senate then adjourned.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Cherokee Phoenix

New Echota: May 1, 1830

We have received through the politeness of a Washington correspondent, a copy of the report of the Secretary of War, in answer to a resolution of the Senate of the 25th of January, showing the progress of improvement among the Indians during the last eight years, and their present condition. The documents touching the Cherokees are Extract of a letter from Hugh Montgomery to the Secretary of War-Letters from Abraham A. Heard and Caleb Starr, laid on the table by Mr. White- and a letter from Samuel A. Worcester to William S. Coodey, laid on the table by Mr. Knight.

The letter from Col. Montgomery, though far from being satisfactory, yet is directly opposed to some of the assertions of the Indian Committee in the House. We make the following extract:

And, first, I must be permitted to divide the Cherokees into two classes; and in the first, I would include the descendants of white parentage, or those who are of mixed blood. This class contains a large portion of this nation; (I would say nearly one-half.) With them, civilization, education, and improvement, in all those branches, has been gradual and regular for the last 6, 10, or 20 years. Some of them have been raised, and a greater portion of them have been educated or have finished their education in the white settlements-where they have learned the language, manners, and customs, of civilized life; and owing to the Government of this nation having latterly devolved upon them, or fallen into their hands, to the almost entire exclusion of the old Indian chiefs, their knowledge in making and in the execution of laws, and in many of those other branches thus acquired in their education, has latterly and suddenly been brought to light.

Who does not see that this is a strong testimony against the Committee- they have asserted, as the reader knows, that nineteen

out of twenty of the Cherokees are miserable, degraded and declining. Our agent on the other hand says, nearly one-half of the nation have been improving in civilization and education, gradually and regularly, for the last 8, 10, or 20 years.

The estimate which the Col. makes of the number of mixed blood is entirely too large. It would require a person intimately acquainted with every neighborhood in the nation to come within the limits of probability. We apprehend the agent is not the person.

Can it be possible that Col. Montgomery intended to convey the idea, as we conceive his words do, that a greater portion of nearly half the nation have been educated in the white settlements? There is an unaccountable error somewhere. Very few have been sent to the states for education-most of these, it is true, have been of mixed blood, but they have, almost invariably, spoken the English language, previous to leaving their country.- The agent further observes:

'But I must confess that both the means and effects of improvement, in most all those branches, have been chiefly, (though not entirely) confined to this class; for amongst the other class, viz: the full blooded Indians, there are some honorable exceptions, both individuals and families; but of those individuals many have, either in whole or in part, received their education in the settlements, where they too have learned the language, manners, and customs, of a civilized life, and having returned to their native land, are improving their farms, buildings, 'c. and stimulating others to improvements, especially in the culture of the soil.

We know not how the writer has received his information, that many of the full Cherokees who form 'honorable exceptions,' have been educated abroad-this is a great mistake. There are a few such undoubtedly, but they form no comparison to the number of those who have imbibed civilized habits at home, and are now affording such happy influence around them. The English language, and the manners and customs of civilized life, can be acquired here without going into the settlements.

But of the balance, viz: the great mass of the full-blooded Indians, the improvement, if progressing at all, is so slow, that it is scarcely perceptible in the four or five years which I have been amongst them.

What impression do the above extracts of the Agent's letter make on the mind of the candid reader, who is earnestly seeking truth?  The question to be decided is this-are the Cherokees improving? Col. Montgomery has certainly answered in the affirmative. Although he can scarcely discover any perceptible improvement among the great mass of the full Cherokees, yet he by no means intimates they are declining-even among them there are honorable exceptions. Unite this 'great mass' with other 'class' nearly half the whole population who are improving plainly, regularly, and gradually, and from them into one nation, as they are to be found,(we see no occasion for dividing them)-in what light is it possible for them to be considered? Improving or deteriorating? Our agent has certainly given testimony in our favour (sic), although his limited means of information did not allow him to state as much truth, as persons better acquainted with the improving condition of the full Cherokees would not hesitate to assert.

It is true, that a few of their children too, are every year taught at the Missionary establishments, but it is often the case that, when they return to the wilds, where the Indian language, manners, and customs prevail, they soon lose what they learn.

We are unable to say what proportion of the children in the missionary schools are full Cherokees-more than one half we presume.  It is true, for the reasons given by Col. Montgomery, that some lose what they learn, but it is far from being general. Many have received permanent advantages from these schools. We hope our agent is not of the number who lightly esteem the effects of missionary exertions among the Indians.- The writer closes by paying some tribute to Guess' Cherokee Alphabet.

The next documents which we shall notice, are the letters of Abram A. Heard, and Caleb Starr. They are in the form of a catechism-thirteen questions proposed by the Hon. Prior Lee, and answers given by these two men. The letter of A. A. Heard is dated, Pleasant View, 12th March, 1830; and of Caleb Starr, Long Savannah, March 12th 1830, the same day with the other. The answers throughout are so much alike, that there is no doubt but they were penned by the same hand, probably by Mr. Heard for we very much question whether Starr, although he sets himself up as a judge of the extent of education among the Cherokees, can write his own language. Of Mr.Heard, we know nothing-but of the other we have heard from boyhood, first as a white citizen, than as a traitor to the interests of this nation and latterly, as a chief among the Cherokees. (See Dr. Ely's article on the preservation, colinization (sic) 'c. of the Indians.) He now lives, we believe, on Monroe County, Tennessee, on a reservation, richly earned, no doubt, by his efforts to induce the poor Indians to emigrate. We might say considerably more of this man, but we will refrain-in this nation he is well known.

As the two letters are precisely alike in substance, and very much so in words, our purpose will be fully answered in inserting but one of them,-that of Starr's. It will be seen that the Hon. Prior Lee has acted more like a lawyer in questioning his witness, than a disinterested man, as all members of Congress should be. He has proposed just such queries as he supposed would bring the desired answers-' the answers have no doubt met his approbation. But what is the testimony of a witness worth until he is thoroughly questioned?  Many of the answers given below may not be, strickly (sic) speaking, false, yet Starr, as much disposed as he is to injure us, would give entirely different answers to another series of questions. We propose to examine him at some length.

Question 1. Have you been much acquainted with the Cherokees during the last few years.

Answer. I have been intimately acquainted with them for the last forty-two years.

Within that space of time, where you ever a chief among the Cherokees, as Dr. Ely has informed the public, or had you ever a voice in their councils?

Answer. No.

2. Have their means of traffic increased, or diminished, since your acquaintance with them?

A. Diminished very much.

Have their means of traffic in other articles, such as corn, pork, beef, 'c. increased or diminished?

Answer.

Increased very much.

3. Have the common Indians improved or grown worse, as to the means or comforts of living?

A. They have grown worse, with the exception of those who have the benefit of public roads.

Have the means of living, as they were to be found in the nation, when you came into it, forty two years ago, improved or grown worse?

Answer. They have grown worse.

How then do the common Indians obtain their living?

A. By agriculture altogether.

Has agriculture, since your acquaintance with the Cherokees, improved or grown worse among them?

A. Improved  greatly.

Do they not raise vastly more corn, potatoes, beans, and other vegetables-do they not own more cattle, horses, hogs, and other domestic animals-do they not raise more cotton and manufacture more clothing- and do they not live in better houses than they formerly did?

A. Yes. There is no comparison between the Cherokees now, and those with whom I first became acquainted.

Can you mention other particulars which you think their means of living have improved.

A. When I first came into the country they cultivated the soil with the hoe entirely- now they have ploughs, and horses to draw them; and whenever any of the farming utensils need repairing, they have blacksmiths at convenient distances. Forty years ago, waggon (sic) wheels had not made the first track in the nation, now they have roads in every directions.- At the time women had to pound all their meal now mills are to be found in every part of the nation. They have greatly improved in their manner of living, dress 'c.

4. Have such Indians menifested (sic) greater disposition to work?

A. Their necessity compels them to use more industry than formerly.

The Indian committee in the House of Representatives have asserted that the maxim ' an Indian cannot work,' has lost none of its universality among the Cherokees- is it so?

A. No. 'Necessity compels them to use more industry than they formerly did.'

How many are there among the whites of whom it may not be properly said 'necessity compels them to use industry?'

A. Very few, if any.

Have you any criterion or rule, to judge of the inclination of the Cherokees to labour (sic).

A. No.

The declaration then made by you, 'but their inclination is not greater than formerly,' is merely an opinion of yours, gratuitously given?

A. Yes.

5. Has the game in that quarter been increasing or diminishing?

A. There is now no game in the country with attention.

Is there a single Cherokee family in the nation who depends upon the chase for subsistence?

A. I think not, for 'there is now no game worth attention.'

6. Of the head man who manage and control the affairs of the nation?

A. John Ross, Major Ridge, Louis Ross, John Martin, Walter Adair, George Sanders, Thomas Foman, George Lowry, Richarad Taylor, and a few others besides circuit and district judges.

Of the above ten persons, is not Major Ridge a full Cherokee- is not John Martin Treasurer, and Walter Adair Circuit Judge- are not John Ross and George Lowrey (n.b) Principal Chiefs?

A. Yes.

You have named but four persons of mixed Cherokees, who belong to the Committee. Can you think of ten others who are members of the Cherokee Legislature?

A. Woman killer, White path, Going Snake, speaker of the Council, Sleeping Rabbit, Tsu-av-gee, Chuleo, Soft Shell Turtle, Walking Stick, Tsa-wa-loo-gee, Nah-hoo-lah, 'c.

7. Does the number of principal men exceed thirty?

A. I think not. There are not more than ten principal men who hold the reigns of government in their hands.

Do you recollect the precise number composing the Committee?

A. Sixteen

How many composing the Council?

A. Twenty-four.

There are then thirty persons who form the Legislative authority of the Nation.- In what way do these come into power?

A. By the suffrage of the people.

The government then is elective?

A. Certainly.

8. What is the probable number of those who may be ranked, as to property and standing, between the head men and the common Indians?

A. One-tenth, or twelfth of the citizens of the nation.

When you say that one tenth, or twelfth of the citizens of the nation are men of property and standing, do you intend to be understood as saying, that nine-tenths are ignorant, miserable, debased, and declining?

A. By no means.

9. What proportion of these first and second classes are either white men or mixed blood?

A. Eight-tenths.

10 Do you know of any who have been educated in the nation so as to be even moderately good scholars; and if so how many?

A. But very few; not more than ten or twelve.

I suppose you mean only these with whom you are personally acquainted?

A. I mean no others.

You have heard of many others, have you not?

A. Yes, at the least calculation, fifty.

11. Are not the common Indians generally as ignorant, miserable, and debased, as in former times, or more so?

A. A great number of them are more so.

Are not the common Indians less ignorant, less miserable and less debased  than in former times?

A. A great number of them are vastly more intelligent, and greatly improved in other respects.

What makes you think a great number of them are more intelligent than formerly?

A. Simply, because they can read and write, and they have a newspaper circulating among them.

12 Do the common Indians get any of the annuity money, or how is that sum disposed of in the nation?

A. The common Indians get none. It is put into a treasury for the support of the government.

Did the common Indians formerly get any of the annuity money?

A. Not a cent.

Did the Chiefs and mixed Cherokees receive any?

A. No.

In what way then was the annuity money disposed of?

A. It was laid out for goods, and paid to traders for debts due them from individuals of the nation.

Were you not one a trader in skins?

A. Yes.

You have then probably received some of the annuity money?

A. I have.

What was done with the goods?

A. They were distributed to the people.

In what why (sic) was this accomplished?

A. By calling the nation together annually at the residence of the agent.

How many do you suppose were congregated on these occasions?

A. Three or four thousand, men women and children.

How far had they to come?

A. Many of them upwards of one hundred miles.

What did each receive?

A. Probably the worth of a blanket to each family.

What was the effect of such meetings on the nation.

A. Demoralizing in the extreme. Besides their natural tendency to make the people indolent, they were always accompanied with drunkenness and its attendant evils. I have seen hundreds drunk at one time.- Many who have gone to these annuities have returned ten times worse off than when they went.

Since the change, have you noticed any such evil effects in receiving the annuities?

A. No, for the money 'is put into a treasury for the support of the Government.'

What is the amount of money received from the United States for Annuities?

A. I think not more than $6,000.

Is this sum sufficient to support their annual councils, and enrich the members, judges, civil officers, 'c.

A. By no means, for the compensation of the members of the Cherokee Legislature is now but $1.50 per day, and their sessions generally last but one month.

13. What portion of the nation do you think would be willing to emigrate to the West of the Mississippi, if they thought that there was a good country for them there, and if they were furnished with comfortable means for removing, and for a year's subsistence thereafter?

A. Three-fourths of the nation, if they thought that the country, was healthy and fertile, and could have a permanent home.

You think then, the assertion that the Chiefs oppose emigration is unfounded?

A. I think so, for the people think the country west of the Mississippi is unhealthy and not fertile, and they think they can have no permanent home there-and these are the great grounds of their objections.

How do they know the country is unhealthy, 'c.

A. Many of them have been there.

Do you think it possible to make them believe otherwise?

A. I think not; besides they would soon find it out when they got there.

Now we seriously ask Caleb Starr, are not the answers we have proposed for him just and true?  If he has any conscience to satisfy he cannot but answer, yes!

N.B. Lowry's name is spelled both ways in the text.

The report of the Secretary of War also contains a letter from Col. John Crowell, agent for the Creeks East of the Mississippi, which gives an account of the condition of that tribe. We beg the serious attention of every reader to the following extract.

Agriculture had improved, and was improving very considerably among them in the years of 1822,'23'24, but since that period it has been declining; the greater part of the nation seem to have given up to intoxication, and their near connection with the whites, affords them facilities to procure liquors and hundreds of families will sell the last peck of corn and potatoes for liquor, and leave the women and children in the most miserable state of starvation.

Agricultures was improving to the year 1824. Now, we ask,in the name of truth and justice, what put a stop to it? That destructive and unrighteous scheme of emigration to the west! according to the testimony of Col. Crowell himself, when the poor Creeks, in 1825 were defrauded out of a large extent of their country, by Commissioners of the United States, and when, with the corrupting influence of gold, their chiefs were divided, and they began to be transported to the 'slaughter house' of the west, their improvement was checked. Yes, it was in 1825, when the present policy of the Government was commenced; and see its effects on the poor Creeks; and yet, those who have put the deadly poison to our lips, will taunt us for our ignorance ' degradation! When will justice be done to the Indian? When will he be treated like another man?

Luther Blake, sub-agent for the Creeks west of the Mississippi, in a letter to Col. M'Kenney, says:

I have since led a part of Creeks to the West, and have been acting as sub-agent for them since September last. I have passed through the Cherokee country West, and I never have witnessed such a striking change for the better in any people, as exists among the emigrant Creeks, nor seen a people more delighted with their change. So with the Cherokees.

So with the Cherokees. We  might very properly ask this Luther Blake- When you passed through the 'Cherokee Country west,' had the emigrants arrived there? If so, were they settled down? Everybody knows the emigrants, except a few families, did not go until last winter. Again, we might inquire- Have you ever been in this nation, so as to be well prepared to judge of the 'striking change for the better' in those Cherokees?  It is surprising that such naked statements will be sent abroad as facts and testimonies!

The report which we have been considering contains some documents which do full justice to the Indians, and which are  worthy of the persons who wrote them.  Among these are a letter from the Rev. C. Kingsbury, to Col. Thos. L. M'Kenney, showing the condition and improvement of the Choctaws, and a letter from Samuel A. Worcester, to Mr.William S. Coodey, on the improvement and present condition of the Cherokees. When a man tells the truth there is no danger of particularizing. We thank these two Gentlemen for giving particulars. So ought Caleb Starr, A. A. Heard, Luther Blake 'c., to have done.  This way of evading truth is unworthy a man of veracity.- In our next we shall publish the letter of Mr. Worcester.

___________________________________

Pg. 3 Col. 3a

Extract of a letter to the editor dated,

Washington City, April 9.

It is with much pleasure that I now have it in my power to inform you that the long expected and dreaded Indian discussion has began (sic) in the Senate. It commenced three days since. The first day our ancient friend Judge White of Tennessee spoke nearly three hours in opposition to the Indians, and entirely abandoned the conscientious opinions he entertained heretofore. He was followed by the Hon. Mr. Frelinghuysen of N.J.in an able speech of some length, having spoken two days, ' will I presume conclude today. His arguments are clear and powerful, and to me conclusive and irresistible. He is a fine speaker. The Bill reported by the Indian Committee you have seen; Mr. F. offered an amendment that until the Indians were willing to remove, they shall be protected in all their rights of soil and sovereignty, heretofore enjoyed.  This is what we want. If they do this, they may, and perhaps wilL, pass the Bill making the appropriation. If they give us this protection it is all we can ask. True we would rather not have the appropriation made, but in these days of new lights and orders, we have to do the best we can and no more.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Page 4 Col. 1-2a

Extract of a letter to the editor dated

Washington City, April 9

It is with much pleasure that I now have it in my power to inform you that the long expected and dreaded Indian discussion has began (sic) in the Senate. It commenced three days since. The first day our ancient friend Judge White of Tennessee spoke nearly three hours in opposition to the Indians, and entirely abandoned the conscientious opinion he entertained heretofore. He was followed by the Hon. Mr. Frelinghuysen of N. J. in an able speech of some length, having spoken two days, ' will I presume conclude to-day. His arguments are clear and powerful, and to me conclusive and irresistable (sic). He is a fine speaker. The Bill reported by the Indian Committee you have seen; Mr. F. offered an amendment that until the Indians were willing to remove, they shall be protected in all their rights of soil and sovereignty, heretofore enjoyed.  This is what we want. If they do this, they may, and perhaps will, pass the Bill making the appropriation. If they give us this protection it is all we can ask. True we would rather not have the appropriation made, but in these days of new lights and orders, we have to do the best we can and no more.

CONGRESS

Tuesday, April 6

THE INDIANS

On motion by Mr. White, the bill to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories, and for their removal west of the river Mississippi was considered in Committee of the Whole; a d

Mr.

White who reported the bill explained its object, and, anticipating objections, he discussed at large the rights of the Indians, the rights of the States, and the power of the General Government, in reference to the right of the former to self government within the limits of sovereign State, against the will of such State, 'c.

Mr.

Frelinghuysen then rose and said, that, as he desired to make some remarks on the subject of the bill, but as he was much indisposed, and it was now late, he would move and adjournment.

At the request of Mr. McKinley, Mr. F.: withdrew his motion, and Mr. McK. moved to add to the 4th section these words:

'And upon the payment of such valuation, the improvements so valued and paid for shall pass to the United States, and possession shall not afterwards be permitted to any of the same tribe.'

After some conversation between Messrs. Forsyth, Sprague and McKinley  on the effect intended by the amendment; and, before the question on the amendment was taken,

The Senate Adjourned.

Wednesday, April 7

The Senate resumed, as in committee of the whole, the consideration of the bill to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories, and for their removal West of the river Mississippi.

Mr.

McKinley withdrew the amendment which he proposed to the 4th section, yesterday, intending as he said, to offer it at a different stage of the bill.

Mr.

 Frelinghuysen  then rose in reply to Mr. White, and spoke about two hours.

Mr. F. commenced by proposing two additional sections to the bill, in the form of provoso; the one to secure the Indians in their rights of territory and sovereignty, which they now possess, against all encroachments whatever; the other to direct that all acquisition of territory from Indian tribes or nations, should be made by treaty as heretofore.

He regretted that the President did not pursue the policy adopted by his predecessors in relation to the Indians.  When these subjects, at the commencement of the government were brought up, General Washington always submitted them to the Senate, and did not act of himself. The policy adopted by General Washington related to the very tribes about which the present Executive has undertaken to decide without consulting wither branch of the National Legislature. He seemed to have, Mr. F. contended, a studied design and desire to act without the interposition of Congress, that he had torn away the aegis of protection from the Indians and that he would not wait for the counsel of his constitutional advisers, but treats them as vassals at the foot of the throne. He next animadverted with considerable severity, upon the directions given to Generals Carroll and Coffee, by the Secretary of War; the purport of which directions was, that they should seek private opportunities of bribing the Cherokee chiefs to sell their country.

Entering upon the consideration of the subject, Mr. F. contended that the Indian title was perfect originally, on the simple principles that Indians are men, and hold their lands by immemorial occupancy.  Admitting that there is an imperfect obligation resting upon the proprietors of wild lands, which should induce them to sell a part of these lands to others, who would use them for tillage- this is an obligation to be enforced by reason, and not by arms; and with this obligation, whatever it may be, the Indians have complied most liberally. It appears by official documents that six years ago the government had before that time obtained of Indians 214,000,000 of acres; and the Senate has been this session informed officially, that but about 1,000,000 acres are now sold annually.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






FLOUR! FLOUR!

The subscriber has several barrels of first rate FLOUR for sale, low for CASH or HIDES.

J. F. Wheeler

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CONGRESS

Tuesday, April 6

THE INDIANS

On motion by Mr. White, the bill to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories, and for their removal west of the river Mississippi was considered in Committee of the Whole; a d (sic)

Mr.

White who reported the bill explained its object, and, anticipating objections, he discussed at large the rights of the Indians, the rights of the States, and the power of the General Government, in reference to the right of the former to self government within the limits of sovereign State, against the will of such State, 'c.

Mr.

Frelinghuysen then rose and said, that, as he desired to make some remarks on the subject of the bill, but as he was much indisposed, and it was now late, he would move an adjournment.

At the request of Mr. McKinley, Mr. F.: withdrew his motion, and Mr. McK. moved to add to the 4th section these words:

'And upon the payment of such valuation, the improvements so valued and paid for shall pass to the United States, and possession shall not afterwards be permitted to any of the same tribe.'

After some conversation between Messrs. Forsyth, Sprague and McKinley  on the effect intended by the amendment; and, before the question on the amendment was taken.

The Senate Adjourned.

Wednesday, April 7

The Senate resumed, as in committee of the whole, the consideration of the bill to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories, and for their removal west of the river Mississippi.

Mr.

McKinley withdrew the amendment which he proposed to the 4th section, yesterday, intending as he said, to offer it at a different stage of the bill.

Mr.

 Frelinghuysen  then rose in reply to Mr. White, and spoke about two hours.

Mr. F. commenced by proposing two additional sections to the bill, in the form of provoso; the one to secure the Indians in their rights of territory and sovereignty, which they now possess, against all encroachments whatever; the other to direct that all acquisition of territory from Indian tribes or nations, should be made by treaty as heretofore.

He regretted that the President did not pursue the policy adopted by his predecessors in relation to the Indians.  When these subjects, at the commencement of the government were brought up, General Washington always submitted them to the Senate, and did not act of himself. The policy adopted by General Washington related to the very tribes about which  the present Executive has undertaken to decide without consulting either branch of the National Legislature. He seemed to have, Mr. F. contended, a studied design and desire to act without the interposition of Congress, that he had torn away the aegis of protection from the Indians and that he would not wait for the counsel of his constitutional advisers, but treats them as vassals at the foot of the throne. He next animadverted with considerable severity, upon the directions given to Generals Carroll and Coffee, by the Secretary of War; the purport of which directions was, that they should seek private opportunities of bribing the Cherokee chiefs to sell their country.

Entering upon the consideration of the subject, Mr. F. contended that the Indian title was perfect originally, on the simple principles that Indians are men, and hold their lands by immemorial occupancy.  Admitting that there is an imperfect obligation resting upon the proprietors of wild lands, which should induce them to sell a part of these lands to others, who would use them for tillage- this is an obligation to be enforced by reason, and not by arms; and with this obligation, whatever it may be, the Indians have complied most liberally. It appears by official documents that six years ago the government had before that time obtained of Indians 214,000,000 of acres; and the Senate has been this session informed officially, that but about 1,000,000 acres are now sold annually.

The British government did not claim the right of disposing the original inhabitants. The proclamation of 1768 expressly says, that encroachments are not to be made upon 'lands which had not been ceded by the Indians.'

Neither the English colonists, nor the confederated States, advanced any claims like those preferred by Georgia. Mr. F. here read, and commented on several resolutions of the old Congress, all of which went upon the assumption that the Indians were independent nations.  'The same policy has been pursued,' he observed, 'down almost to the present day.- More than fifty years have passed, during all which an unvarying, consistent course of public measures has been pursued on this subject. We have made scores of treaties, all resting upon the same basis. And yet Georgia proposes to blot out the memory of all these transactions. If the present policy of the government is to be followed and sanctioned, I wish she could blot them out; I wish all the memorials of our transactions with Indians could be buried in the same grave with the poor Indians themselves. There would be one advantage in such a disposition of them. The world could not find the evidences of our shame.'

Mr. F. asked the Senator from Tennessee to show any distinction between treaties with Indians, and treaties with other nations, the manner of forming them is the same, the language, the stipulations, the ratification the same. The conduct of Gen. Washington in the first six months of his administration viz; August 2, 1789, was then described by Mr. F. That Illustrious statesman addressed the Senate formally, ' in the most respectful manner, and asked their advice as to the relations between the United States and the Indians. The advice of that venerable body was given unanimously; and the subsequent treaties with the Creeks and Cherokees were formed in exact conformity with it.

Mr. F. then proceeded to examine the treaties of Hopewell, of 1785, Holston, 1701, and other similar documents down to the last treaty with the Cherokees which was executed in 1849. He s\then gave way to a motion for adjournment, and is expected to resume the consideration of the subject tomorrow.

The Senate then adjourned.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

New Echota, Cher. Nation

March 15, 1830

Mr. Wm. S. Coodey

Washington City.

Dear Sir:- I cheerfully comply with your request, that I would forward to you a statement respecting the progress of improvement among your people, the Cherokees. Whatever might be said of the propriety or impropriety of Missionaries' discussing the question of the removal of the Indians, it can hardly be doubted that it is proper for any one to give a statement of what passes under his observation, in regard to the present condition of the tribes interested in that question. I shall not say any thing in this communication, which I shall be unwilling to have come before the public, accompanied with my proper signature, if occasion require.

Whatever deficiencies there may be in my statements, I shall use my utmost endeavour (sic) that nothing colored, nothing which will not bear the strictest scrutiny, may find a place.

It may not be amiss to state, briefly, what opportunities I have enjoyed of forming a judgment respecting the state of the Cherokee people. It was four years last October, since I came into the nation, during which time I have made it my home, having resided two years at Brainerd, and the remainder of the time at this place. Though I have not spent very much of the time in travelling, yet I have visited almost every part of the nation, except a section on the Northeast. Two annual sessions of the General Council have passed while I have been residing at the Seat of Government, at which times a great number of the people of all classes and from all parts are to be seen.

The statistical information which has been published respecting this nation I hope you have on hand, or will receive from some other source; goes far towards giving a correct it (sic) view of the state of the people. I have only to say, that, judging from what I see around me, I believe that a similar enumeration made the present year would show, by the comparison, a rapid improvement since the census was taken.

The printed constitution and laws of your nation, also, you doubtless have. They show your progress in civil polity. As far as my knowledge extends, they are executed with a good degree of efficiency, and their execution meets with not the least hinderance from anything like a spirit of insubordination among the people. Oaths are constantly administered in the courts of justice, and I believe I have never heard of an instance of perjury.

It has been well observed by others, that the progress of a people in civilizations is to be determined by comparing the present with the past. I can only compare what I see with what I am told has been.

The principal chief is about forty years of age.  When he was a boy, his father procured him a good suit of clothes, in the fashion of the sons of civilized people; but he was so ridiculed by his mates as a white  boy that he took off his new suit, and refused to wear it. The editor of the Cherokee Phoenix is twenty-seven years old. He well remembers that he felt awkward and ashamed of his singularity, when he began to wear the dress of a white boy. Now  every boy is proud of a civilized suit, and those feel awkward and ashamed of their singularity who are destitute of it. At the last session of the General Council, I scarcely recollect having seen any members who were not clothed in the same manner as the white inhabitants of the neighboring States; and these very few, ( I am informed that the precise number was four) who were partially clothed in Indian style, were, nevertheless, very decently attired. The dress of civilized people is general throughout the nation. I have seen, I believe, only one Cherokee woman, and she an aged woman, away from her home, who was not clothed in at least a decent long gown. At home only one, a very aged woman, who appeared willing to be seen in original native dress; three or four, only, who had at their own houses dressed themselves in Indian style, but hid themselves with shame at the approach of a stranger.  I am thus particular, because particularity gives more accurate ideas than general statements. Among the elderly men there is yet a considerable portion, I dare not say whether a majority or a minority, who retain the Indian dress in part. The younger men almost all dress like the whites around them, except that the greater number wear a turban instead of a hat, and in cold weather a blanket frequently serves for a cloak. Cloaks, however, are becoming common. There yet remains room for improvement in dress, but that improvement is making with surprising rapidity.

The arts of spinning and weaving, the Cherokee women generally, put in practice. Most of their garments are of their own spinning and weaving, from cotton the produce of their own fields; though considerable northern domestic, and much calico, is worn, nor is silk uncommon.  Numbers of the men wear imported cloths, broadcloths (sic), 'c. and many wear mixed cotton and wool, the manufacture of their wives; but the greater part are clothed principally in cotton.

Except in the arts of spinning and weaving, but little progress has been made in manufactures. A few Cherokees, however are mechanics.

Agriculture is the principal employment and support of the people. It is the dependence of almost every family. As to the wandering part of the people, who live by the chase, if they are to be found in the nation, I certainly have not found them, nor even heard of them, except from the floor of Congress, and other distant sources of information. I do not know of a single family who depend, in any considerable degree, on game for support. It is true that deer and turkies (sic) are frequently killed, but not in sufficient numbers to form any dependence as the means of subsistence. The land is cultivated with very different degrees of industry; but I believe that few fail of an adequate supply of food. The ground is uniformly cultivated by means of the plough, and not as formerly, by the hoe only.

The houses of the Cherokees are of all sorts; from an elegant painted or brick mansion, down to a very mean log cabin. If we speak, however, of the mass of the people, they live in comfortable log houses, generally one story high, but frequently two; sometimes of hewn logs, and sometimes unhewn; commonly with a wooden chimney, and a floor of puncheons, or what a New England man would call slabs. Their houses are not generally well furnished, many have scarcely any furniture, though a few are furnished even elegantly, and many decently. Improvement in the furniture of their houses appears to follow after improvement in dress, but at present is making rapid progress.

As to education, the number who can read and write English is considerable, though it bears but a moderate proportion to the whole population. Among such, the degree of improvement and intelligence is various. The Cherokee language, as far as I can judge, is read and written by a large majority of those between childhood and middle age.  Only a few who are much beyond middle age have learned.

In regard to the progress of religion, I cannot, I suppose, do better than to state, as nearly as I am able, the number of members in the churches of the several denominations. The whole number of native members of the Presbyterian churches is not far from 180. In the churches of the United Brethren are about 54. In the Baptist churches I do not know the number; probably as many as 50. The Methodists, I believe reckon in society, more than 800; of whom I suppose the greater part are natives. Many of the heathenish customs of the people have gone entirely, or almost entirely, into disuse, and others are fast following their steps. I believe the greater part of the people acknowledge the Christian religion to be the true religion, although many who make this acknowledgment know very little of that religion, and many others do no feel its power.  Through the blessing of our God, however, religion is steadily, gaining ground.

But, it will be asked, is the improvement which has been described, general among the people, and are the full-blooded Indians civilized, or only the half-breeds? I answer that, in the description which I have given, I have spoken of the mass of the people, with out distinction. If it be asked however, what class are most advanced- I answer, as a general thing- those of mixed blood. They have taken the lead, although some of full blood are as refined as any. But, though those of mixed blood are generally in the van, as might naturally be expected, yet the whole mass of the people is on the march.

There is one other subject, on which I think it due to justice to give my testimony, whatever it may be worth. Whether the Cherokees are wise in desiring to remain here, or not, I express no opinion. But it is certainly just, that it should be known whether or not they do, as a body, wish to remain. It is not possible for a person to dwell among them without hearing much on the subject.  I have heard much. It is said abroad, that the common people would gladly remove, but are deterred by the chiefs, and a few other influential men. It is not so. I say, with the utmost assurance, it is not so. Nothing is plainer, than that it is the earnest wish of the whole body of the people to remain where they are. They are not overawed by the chiefs. Individuals may be overawed by popular opinion  but not by the chiefs.  On the other hand, if there were a chief in favor of removal he  would be overawed  by the people.  He would know that he could not open his mouth in favor of such a proposition, but on pain, not only of the failure of his re-election, but of popular odium and scorn. The whole tide of national feeling sets, in one strong and unbroken current, against a removal to the West.

Your sincere friend,

SAMUEL A. WORCESTER.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






DOCUMENTS

Relating to the boundary line between the Cherokee and Creeks.

We have in our possession, we believe all the testimonies which General Coffee, collected on his late visit to this nation, relating to the unfounded claim of Georgia, and on which the President has made a strange decision. These documents we shall lay before our readers.  We shall begin with the statements made on the part of Georgia.

Executive correspondence and documents relative to the boundary lines between the Creeks and Cherokees, furnished by the Governor of Georgia to General Coffee.

Milledgeville,

28 January, 1829.

Sir- I herewith communicate all the testimony I have been able to collect in relation to the boundary line between the Creeks and Cherokees as understood by those tribes prior to the year 1821. By the treaty of 1818 with the Creeks, the President was authorized to have a line run to designate the boundary of land ceded by said treaty. And the Honorable Wilson Lumpkin, who was appointed for that purpose,run a line from a Locust Tree on the west side of the Chattahoochy,and some distance from the river. By the treaty of 1817, the Cherokees ceded land on the east side of the Chattahoochy, north of this line, and by the treaty of 1818 the Creeks ceded lands on the east side of the Chattahoochy south of it. The conclusion therefore is a rational one, apart from any testimony on the subject, that the dividing line between the two tribes crossed the Chattahoochy River at Sawanah Old Town. The western point of boundary between the two tribes as proved by treaties, and admitted by both tribes, is the mouth of Will's Creek on Cosa River. The line of division then between the two tribes, subsequent to the treaties of 1817 with the Cherokees, and of 1818 with the Creeks, ' prior to the year 1821 was a line the easter end of which was Sawanah Old Town on the Chattahoochy River. By the testimony of James Gilbert, Robert Venable, Isham Williams,and Elisha Winns, it appears that the line from Sawanah Old Town run on to the Hightower River in the neighborhood of the Six's Old Town.- And by the testimony of Major Brooks, from thence down the river to the mouth of Wills Creek.- The testimony of Major Montgomery, George M. Grisham, and also that of Major Brooks, proves that the land on the south side of this line, and on the north side of the line run by the two tribes in 1821, was Creek land- the conclusion then is irresistible, that the dividing line between the two tribes prior to the year 1821, was a line commencing at Sawanah Old Town on the Chattahoochy River, and running to the Six's Old Town, on the Hightower, thence down said river to the mouth of Will's Creek. It is generally reported, in the neighborhood of Sawanah Old Town, and o f the Buzzard Roost, that the line run by the two tribes in 1821, was in consequence of an arrangement of an agreement between them, to which the Government of the United States was not a party. The agreement therefore by which this line was established according to its Constitution and its Laws is not binding upon the United States. And by the treaty of 1827 the Creeks have ceded all the land in their occupancy * within the chartered limits of Georgia, to the United States for the use of Georgia,it follows undeniably that the land south of the line running from Sawanah Old Town on the Chattahoochy River, thence down said river to the Alabama line,and now in the possession of the Cherokees,is the legal right of Georgia.

S. A. Wales

His Ex. John Forsyth

Governor of Georgia.

________

* All the land in their occupancy. This acknowledgement of col. S. A. Wales, authorized commissioner of Georgia, is full of import, and places in its true light the nature of the claim contended for by him and by the State. Georgia now claims the land by virtue of the treaty of 1827, in which treaty, Col. Wales says the Creeks 'ceded all the land in their occupancy within the chartered limits' of the State. We grant it.  But does it undeniably follow that the land south of Sawanah Old Town and the Hightower River was purchased of the Creeks and is therefore, the rightful property of Georgia.. By no means.  Why? Because this very same land now in dispute was not at the tie of the treaty, and for aught any man can prove,  has never been in the occupancy of the Creeks. The reasoning of Col. Wales is a remarkable instance of false conclusions from correct premises.

Ed. Cher. Ph.

GEORGIA, GWINNETT COUNTY .

James Gilbert being sworn saith,that he has lived at the upper part of Sawanah Old Town, on the Chattahoochy River since the year 1819, at that time he understood the dividing line between the Cherokee and Creek tribes of Indians was a trail called the Hightower path,crossing the river at Sawanah Old Town, and running on to the Hightower River-and that this trail was understood by all to be the line that divided the two tribes, until there was another line made, commencing as this deponent is informed at a point on the Chattahoochy River, some distance below Sawanah Old Town called Buzzard Roost-and this deponent further saith, that he has understood from the Cherokees, that the point where the Hightower path crossed the Chattahoochy River at Sawanah Old Town was also called the Buzzard Roost before the line was made.

JAMES GILBERT

GEORGIA, GWINNETT COUNTY.

Robert Venable being sworn saith,that he had lived on the frontier of Georgia for 28 years, and that he has frequently been in the Cherokee Nation and understood from the whites who had married in the Cherokee Nation , that the old and original line between the Creek and Cherokee tribes of Indians was a line crossing the Chattahoochy River at Sawanah Old Town, and running on striking the Hightower in the neighborhood of the Six's Old Town.

ROBERT VENABLE.

GEORGIA, GWINNETT COUNTY.

Elisha Winn, being sworn, deposeth and saith, that he was living on the frontier of Jackson County at the time of the treaty of 1818, with the Creek Indians, and at the time of the treaty of 1817, with the Cherokee Indians; at the time of said treaties the dividing line between the two tribes was what was called the Hightower path,running from the High Shoals on the Apalachee River to Sawanah Old Town, on the Chattahoochy River, ' from thence to Six's Old Town on the Hightower River,and this deponent further saith that John Rogers, who married a Cherokee claimed a reserve immediately south of said path as a Cherokee land under the treaty of 1817, and that the Gen . Government would not have him to claim it because he had taken it upon Creek lands.

ELISHA WINN.

GEORGIA, GWINNETT COUNTY.

Isham Williams being sworn, saith that for sometime prior to the treaty of 1817, with the Cherokees, he was living at the Hog Mountain (now) in the County aforesaid--and that he has understood from those who had become citizens of the Cherokee Nation by marriage,that the dividing line between the Creek and Cherokee tribes of Indians was an old trail crossing the Chattahoochy River at Sawanah Old Town,and running on and striking the Hightower River at a place called Six's Old Town.

ISHAM WILLIAMS.

GEORGIA, GWINNETT COUNTY.

George M. Grisham being sworn, saith that Parker Collins who intermarried with a Cherokee,and who was living a short distance below Sawanah Old Town, on the west side of the Chattahoochy River and below the old trail that was said to be the dividing line between the Creek and Cherokee tribes of Indians, a few years since moved and settled above said trail, and that it was reported that the object of his removal was to get off from Creek land upon Cherokee land.

GEORGE M. GRISHAM.

GEORGIA, DEKALB COUNTY.

Jacob R. Brooks swears that he has resided permanently on the Chattahoochy River since February 1819, and had a transient residence for some time previous,and that he distinctly recollects of conversing wit sundry natives and citizens of the Cherokee nation respecting their boundary,and always, until 1821, understood that the line commenced at Sawanah Old Town on the Chattahoochy River, and ran on to a creek called Alahkulseh, ( S.E. dividing line) thence down said creek to the Hightower River near Sixes Old Town on said river, thence down said river to the mouth of Will's creek and this deponent further saith, he has understood that in the year 1821, an arrangement was made between the Chefs of the two tribes, by which their dividing line was removed,so as to commence at a point fifty miles lower down on the Chattahoochy River called the Buzzard Roost, and from thence to the mouth of Will's Creek, that there was no white man in company when the last line was run, and that he never has understood that the last line was ratified or recognized by the Government of the United States.--And further this deponent saith,that one John Woodall,by permission of the Cherokees, cultivated a farm and built a mill on the west side of the Chattahoochy River a short distance below the line commencing from the Buzzard Roost, and that Rolly McIntosh at the head of a party of Creek Indians,came up and destroyed the mill and crop of said Woodall.

JACOB R. BROOKS.

GEORGIA, DEKALB COUNTY.

James M. C. Montgomery saith on oath, that he was Superintendent of Artificers in the service of the United States in the year 1824, and stationed at the Standing Peach Tree on the Chattahoochy River, for the purpose of erecting public boats to transport provisions down the Chattahoochy River; that while in service at said place,he understood from Indians in that vicinity, who were chiefly or entirely Cherokees, that the land on both sides of said river belonged to the Creeks. And this deponent further saith, that some years prior to 1814, he had obtained a decree of the Cherokee nation against a certain Cawdry, who was then at the head of an Indian family-that he was informed by the Cherokee Indians, that said Cawdry run his property to the Standing Peach Tree. On enquiring whether the land there was Creek or Cherokee, this deponent was informed by several who were leading men in the Cherokee nation,that it belonged to the Creeks, and that any claim or title the Cherokees had to the lands then,was by permission of the Creeks and that it was common for the two tribes (being connected with each other by marriage,) to occupy each others land. And this deponent further saith that the Standing Peach Tree is from ten to twelve miles below the Buzzard Roost, the point from whence the temporary line between the two tribes now starts. And further this deponent saith,that one John Woodall was permitted by the Cherokees to erect a mill 'c. on the west side of the Chattahoochy, immediately below the Peach Tree, and that Rolly McINtosh at the head of a party of Creek Indians as this deponent understood,came up and destroyed said Woodall's crop and mill, and this deponent has often seen the ruins of the same.

J.M.C.MONTGOMERY.

Laurenceville, 22 Jan. 1829.

Sir- At the request of Col. Wales, in conformity wit instructions received by him from your Excellency some time since, relative to the procuring testimony to establish the original boundary line between the Creek and Cherokee nations, I have accompanied him to this place, and a few days since I left him in this county in pursuit of testimony required, with the expectation of meeting again at this place on today. I have since I left here, visited the nation in the neighborhood of Six's Old Town and Hightower River. The Cherokee Indians residing in that neighborhood,do not pretend to deny that the original line between the two nations of Indians, commenced and run as is contended by Georgia, to wit: beginning at the Sawanah Old Town on the Hightower. From what I  have seen in the nation,I am induced to believe that the act of the last Legislature of Georgia extending the civil jurisdiction of the state over the nation, has had the effect designed by Georgia.  The Indians appear to be satisfied,that it will be impossible for them to remain where they are any length of time as a nation--and I am now fully convinced, that if the General Government could be prevailed on to appoint one or more special agents to go into the nation and explain to the Indians (which I believe has never yet been done) fully the intentions and wishes of that Government in relation to their removal and permanent settlement beyond the Mississippi, a majority of the Indians would be now willing to leave the Nation and settle in Arkansas; and by proposing to them a treaty upon the plan or terms suggested by your Excellency,to wit: providing for the removal of such as were disposed to remove,and granting to the half-breeds and whites who have intermarried with the Indians, the right to claim their reserves and become citizens of the State, the same might be immediately effected for the w hole of the territory in their possession within the limits of Georgia.

WM. B. WAFFORD.

To His Ex. John Forsyth.

Newton County Jan 26, 1829

Sir- In compliance with the request of Mr. S. A. Wales I transmit to your Excellency all the information I am in possession of relative to the old boundary line between the Creek and Cherokee Indians.  In the fall of 1818, I was called on by Mr Wilson Lumpkin, U. S. Commissioner, to accompany him as surveyor in running ' marking the lines of the purchase recently obtained from the Creek Indians, bounded on the south by the Hightower path or trail, and on the north by a line running from the head of the Apalachie to Sawanah Old Town on the Chattahoochy. The two last named points having been designated as a dividing line between the creeks and Cherokees so in the last treaties made with them,Mr.Lumpkin and myself had a wish to know what direction it was understood by the Indians the line dividing the two nations would run from the Sawanah Old Town. To obtain this information, we applied to a Mr. John Rogers who had a Cherokee wife, and who lived on the Chattahoochy River near the mouth of Sawanah Creek; having found him to be a man of some intelligence and respectability of character, and who had also been for some years an inhabitant of the Cherokee Nation, we thought it most likely to obtain correct information from him. In reply to our enquiries on that subject,he stated that the line from the Sawanah Old Town would run westwardly, but whether he named any particular point on the Hightower or Coosa River, I do not now recollect, but gave it as his opinions from his knowledge and understanding of the country, that the line which was then run from the head of the Apalachie to the Sawanah Old Town,lying on the west side of the Chattahoochy,the course of which was nearly due west, would be continued on the west side of the Chattahoochy,as the dividing line between the two Nations. I am informed that Rogers yet lives near the Sawanah Old Town; if he was interrogated his answer might throw some light on the subject.

H. LUCKEE.

His Ex. John Forsyth.

[To Be Continued]

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Christian Advocate ' Journal

IMPORTANT FROM THE CHOCTAW NATION.

To the Treasurer of the Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church.

CHOCTAW NATION, March 20, 1830

Dear Brother:- I feel it a duty to communicate, through the Advocate and Journal, a knowledge of the very important measures adopted in the late national council of the Choctaws. Deep is the interest felt by the Christian public, on the subject of measures of the national and state government sin regard to the Indians; ' fearful have been the apprehensions of all of us, as to the influence of such measures, upon those who had recently embraced Christianity. Any circumstance tending in any degree to calm these apprehensions will no doubt be gratefully received by our distant friends. On the enactment of the late law of Mississippi extending all her laws to the extent of her chartered limits forthwith, and making it a thousand dollars fine, and twelve months imprisonment, for an chief or captain to execute the laws of the nation, the shock upon he feelings of the red people was violent. Some fled from their homes in the vicinity of the whites, and from every public road, to the bosom of the nation. But these apprehensions of danger had greatly subsided previous to the sitting of the council. Time was allowed the people to inform themselves of the situation in which they were placed,and the necessity of determining their future course.

On the 15th inst. a national council was convened on the usual council ground. On the first night Col. Leflore was re-elected chief of the western district, by the unanimous voice of his captains and all his warriors present.

On the 16th, previously to entering upon the business of the council, the chief of the eastern district, Col. Fulsome, and the chief of the southern district, came forward with their captains and warriors, resigned their offices as chiefs, and elected Col. Leflore the chief of the nation.

In the afternoon of the 16th the council was organized and the chief delivered an address in which he presented the council with a full view of the difficulties in which they were involved, and the necessity of determining on their future course. The debate continued to a late hour, when the votes were taken, and it was found that the council determined on the emigration of the nation, if the United States would meet their proposition with the liberality proposed by the friends of such a course.

On the 17th the propositions of the nation were prepared and signed, and on the 18th Mr. David W. Hady left the council ground, as express for the city of Washington, bearing the propositions of the nation.

When the council was opened by the chief and the subject proposed during most of the time he spoke, and for some time while other speakers addressed the council, the voice of bitter lamentation and weeping was heard from some of the females who were present

In the conclusion of almost every sitting, a native hymn was sung, and the chief offered up a prayer to the great spirit, the whole congregation prostrating themselves before the Lord. These were seasons of deep and solemn interest, and constantly reminded me of the days of David and other pious kings of Israel.

From the union and brotherly affection, together with the deep and solemn spirit of devotion which uniformly pervaded the council, and continues to prevail in its dispersion, I am strongly inclined to believe that should the U. States give them a liberal treaty and should Mississippi suspend the operation of her laws, that the work of God in the nation will experience no essential injury by their removal.- But either of the above expectations failing, may ruin the nation.

On my return from the council I have heard from some natives who were not at the council. They appear perfectly satisfied, fully believing that the great Spirit will accompany them and bless them in their new home. As far as I can judge, an entire reliance upon their great Father above, is the principal consolation of the people in this their day of fiery trial. They feel a deep interest in the prayers and Christian feelings of their white brethren,and never could a people have a stronger claim upon a Christian community.

Your brother.

Alexander Talley.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






GEORGIA AND THE CHEROKEES

Among the laws which the Legislature of Georgia have recently enacted in reference to the Cherokees, we find the following:

'If any Cherokee shall prevent, or offer, or

by any means endeavor,  to prevent any person belonging to said nation from selling or ceding to the U. States, for the use of Georgia, the whole or any part of said territory, he shall be continued in the Penitentiary for not less than four years.'

Should, therefore, an honest Cherokee caution his neighbor against receiving the bribes  of the crafty white man, designed to cheat  them out of their lands, he would for this simple expression of integrity be liable to imprisonment in the penitentiary, for not less than four  years.  Or should he question the right of a chief to barter away, for a string of beads, all the lands belonging to the Cherokee Nation, he must atone for it by a confinement at hard labor for four years.

A more tyrannical, unjust, ' inhuman exercise of power cannot be found in any despotism on the globe; and if this nation sanctions it, she will not only violate everything sacred in her plighted faith, but will bring upon herself a load of infamy that will lie upon her so long as cruelty is odious, and treachery a crime.

American Spectator.

CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

New Echota: May 8, 1830

CONGRESS

The discussion on the great Indian question is progressing in the Senate. Mr. McKinley concluded his reply to Mr. Frelinghuysen 13th ult. when Mr. Forsyth also commenced in reply to Mr. Frelinghuysen. He did not conclude until the 15th. On the 16th and 17th Mr. Sprague addressed the Senate, at length against the bill, and in reply to Mr Forsyth. On the 18th Mr. Adams of Mississippi had the floor.

_________________________________

We stated in our last, that among the documents contained in the report of the Secretary of War on the improvement and condition of the Indians, which did justice them, were the letters of Messrs. C. Kingsbury and S. A. Worcester. We omitted to mention that Mr. John L. Allen, sub-agent for the Chickasaws, has also done ample justice. Extracts of his letter shall be inserted in our next.

_________________________________

From an article copied from the New York Advocate and Journal which the reader will find in our paper, we have the unpleasant intelligence of the determination of the Choctaws to emigrate. We cannot commend them for taking such a step, just at this time-but we presume they suppose they are compelled by circumstances.- What has now become of the Choctaw Chiefs, who have been deterring their people from enrolling?

__________________________________

It is known to our readers that as soon as the agent, Col. Montgomery, was informed of the murder of Chuwoyee, and the difficulties with the intruders, he dispatched the sub-agent to the frontier, for the purpose of ascertaining facts, and preventing further bloodshed.  This was right. But the sub-agent had hardly left the agency when Col Montgomery, it seems, forwarded a report of the transactions to the Secretary of War- from what he 'had learned verbally.' In this he did the Cherokees a piece of great injustice. Did he not know that more rumor is not to be relied upon, at such times and under such circumstances, much less to be made a foundation for a grave official report? Why did he not wait until his authorized agent returned? The want of impartiality in the Colonel is manifest from the following letter- let the reader compare it with the report of the sub-agent on the subject, which we have already published, and he will be satisfied

H. Montgomery to the Secretary of War.

Cherokee Agency, 18th Feb. 1830

Sir: The sub-agent has not yet returned from the Georgia frontier, but I have learned verbally, that one Indian was certainly killed and another wounded. A gentleman passed this a few days since, who on his way from Georgia, came directly past the smoking remains of several of the improvements that had been destroyed. He states that he saw the sheriff of Carroll County with a guard of about twenty men, endeavoring to apprehend the Indians who had been concerned; that Mr. Ross and Major Ridge did not intend to be taken; that they were guarded with about thirty men each, and were about to stockade round their houses; that the intruders had settled in the houses lately abandoned by emigrants, and they assign as a reason for settling in them, that they had bought the stock and crops of the emigrants, and came out to take care of them. I have for sometime believed, that these improvements would be a subject of contention between the whites and the Indians; the whites claiming them inasmuch as the Government has paid for them and quieted the individual Indians claim to them; and many of them are valuable, and are a strong inducement to squatters to settle down in them.

For the course pursued by Mr. Ross, he cannot plead that he did not know the will of the Government on the subject, for I furnished him with a copy of your order for suspending proceedings against the people settled on that territory, until a decision was had on the title; and it was published in the Cherokee Phoenix several weeks since.

Col Hunter, one of the assessors, on his return from Creek-path, called at the office a few evenings since, and handed me the enclosed certificate, given by a gentleman who had just passed the scene of the action. From this certificate, it would seem that the conduct and very dress of the Indians, was of the most terrific kind, especially to the women and children, and that their treatment of some females, who were at the time in peculiar circumstances, was barbarous in the extreme. But all this does not justify the white in the murder of a poor Indian, who knew not better than to do what he was told to do by his superiors.

I have the honor to be, 'c.

H. MONTGOMERY.

Hon. John H. Eaton

Secretary of War, Washington City.

The following is the certificate. It is made up with falsehoods. Abraham Birch well may congratulate himself that 'after being duly sworn' was left out, for he would most certainly have perjured himself. Answers to the following questions from those who will tell the truth would place this certifier and those who have certified to his veracity in a sticking point. Did major (sic) Ridge command the company? Was the company composed of sixty Indians? Were they all armed? Was Major Ridge dressed in the manner he is here described? Was David Vann with the company. Did this Indian company yell, shout 'c.? Did they behave barbarously?  We commend the agent for sending such a piece of information to the war (sic) Department.

Certificate of Abraham Birdwell

Alabama, Jackson County, February 9, 1830

I Abrahan (sic) Birdwell, of said State and county do hereby certify, having been into the State of Georgia, and on my return home through the Cherokee nation, and on and within the territory claimed by Georgia as Creek land; and on Thursday, the 4th present instant, had my attention attracted by the burning of houses, and by a company of Cherokees, under the command of Major Ridge, a Cherokee Chief; an inquiry of Ridge, thro' Mr. David Vann, another leading character of the nation, I was informed that Major Ridge was authorized by John Ross, principal Chief of the Cherokee nation, to the burning and otherwise destroying the houses, 'c. occupied by the intruders, saying that they were a parcel of scoundrels and rogues, and that the Government would not injure them for thus treating them. These acts were committed on Cedar Creek and Beaver Dam settlement. The property thus wantonly destroyed, was, as I was informed, valued by the assessors, and paid for by the Government of the United States.  After leaving Vann's on the 5th, I saw about four miles on the route home, a woman on a cart, who I was informed had had a child only four days before. Coming on three miles further, I saw another, who had a midwife with her, and in a critical condition. The Cherokees were all armed with guns, pistols, and Ridge himself was clothed in all the garb of Indian warfare,viz; His headdress was a buffalo's forehead ' horns, 'c., there were sixty Indians; the Indians exalted highly, particularly David Vann; the Indians around the fire, with expressions of Indian joy, yelling, shouting; 'c. 'c. I met some men on express to the settlements for aid.

ABRAHAM BIRDWELL.

Test.

H. Pearson.

We certify that Mr. Abraham Birdwell is a man every way entitled to confidence and belief, as a gentlemen of veracity.

WILLIAM WELBORN,

J. H. PEARSON.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We should like the editor of the Cherokee Phoenix or some one of the northern philanthropists, to answer us, in plain terms, a very plain question-is this: Are there, at this time, five thousand Cherokee Indians, of full blood, within the territory? We unhesitatingly say, they are not. And if they be spotted, speckled, and ringstsreaked from run-colour (sic) to a clay-bank, were congregated, we doubt whether they could muster double that number. There might not have been much difficulty in obtaining the four thousand signatures (or rather his x mark) if John Ross gave the order; but it would be difficult, we suspect, to find twenty more now, who had not signed, and who were not compelled to do so nolens volens.-- Athenian, (Ga.)

__________________________________________________

'Poor Devils'- This is the vulgar and approbrious (sic) epethet (sic) which Mr. Forsyth repeatedly applied to the Cherokees in presence of the Senate of the United States. If not respect of the body he was addressing, at least a regard to the feelings of the Cherokee Delegation, who have deterred Mr. F. from the use of such indecent and malignant language.- But when a man's temper survives his argument, he is very apt to supply his deficiency of thought with denunciatory (sic) epithets; but they are weapons of warfare more becoming a street wag than a grave Senator. If Mr. F. expects to sink the Cherokees in the estimation of the public, by calling them poor devils, he will find himself egregiously mistaken. He must resort to something more substantial than the mere railings of ribaldry, if he would convince this nation that the Indians are unworthy of the light of heaven.

American Spectator

If the Hon. John Forsyth succeds in subjecting these devils, he will then be, according to his own showing, 'the prince of the devils.' So at last we shall have worthy leader.

Editor Cher. Ph.

________________

Extract  of a letter to the Editor of the Philadelphian, dated Mississippi, March 3d. '30.



My Dear Brother, - The repeated favours which I have received in your affectionate family; and the frequency with which I have defended you against the accusations of men of corrupt minds, have given you a permanent place in my remembrance.- Hoping to build up Mission-Sunday Schools in this great valley, I have left the Chickasaws, whose willing servant I have been for more than six months. At present the hearts of these brethren 'cry' because they think their 'great father the King of Mississippi' do not love them. They ask, 'What is this? When the white man was in trouble, so were we.-- When he had war, we stood beside him and shed our blood with his.- What is this? Does the old book tell him this?' The missionaries who partake of the scred bread and wine with these children of Jesus are partakers of their afflictions, and have never yet prayed for the success of the 'N. Y. Indian Board.'

AWFUL OCCURRENCE.

An event of a distressing nature took place at Cleaveland (sic), a few days since. As related by a gentleman of this place who was present, the circumstances are substantially as follow:- At an election of the Justice of the Peace, the result being favorable to the Jackson part, they took occasion to relieve their full and bursting hearts, by firing cannon.  Not satisfied with an ordinary charge, they gathered up a large quantity of sand, and rubbish, which was rammed with violence up on the powder. They were cautioned against firing, but in vain. The young man who held the match was intoxicated. With an awful oath upon his tongue, he advanced and applied it.  The cannon burst, and in a moment, he was sent into eternity. A piece of the cannon struck his body and raised it several feet in the air; he fell upon his back with his bowels gushed out.  - Obs. ' Tel.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The following persons are candidates for the General Council in Ahmohee District.

For the Committee

LEWIS ROSS

THOMAS FOREMAN

 For the Council.

GOING SNAKE

DOO-SU-WO-LAH-DAH

JAMES FOREMAN

JOHN WATTS

Maj. JAMES MARTIN

GEORGE BUTLER.

Of the Candidates in Cooseewaytee, we have been requested to insert the following names for the Council.

JOHN FIELD

JESSEE HALF BREED

WATIE

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the New York Observer

MR FRELINGHUYSEN ON THE INDIAN QUESTION.

Dear Sir- At length the Indian Question has been brought forward in the Senate on the motion of Mr. White of Tennessee, to appropriate moneys to be placed under the direction of the President for the purpose of facilitating the removal of the Indians, should they be induced to consent to such a measure. Smooth and apparently harmless in its aspect, it conceals as much injustice and oppression as under one little resolution could stain the records of a free ' generous people. I will not say the people; it is the Senate of the American people, who I fear will fail in responding to the voice of their constituents. On Tuesday, the 6th, Mr. White, who sits near the Georgia Senators, Forsyth and Troup, brought forward his motion, on the success or failure of which, expectation hangs with so much intensity throughout the United States.  By perverting the construction of national law, 'c. he made out the semblance of justice on the part of Georgia, in her projected invasion of Indian rights, but the whole structure was the next day demolished by Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, who rose in reply on Wednesday, spoke two hours on Thursday, and concluded with speaking upwards of an hour on Friday. These six hours may be considered as sacred to the cause of truth, justice, humanity and religion. They were not suffered to pass without fervent prayers to the God of nations, that he would bless this effort for the good of the Indians, the prosperity of our country, and the glory of his own great name. There were the Senators, who were to hear and decide, surrounding the orator; there also were many philanthropists and Christians, the deep current of whose feelings ran along with the powerful flow of the speaker. Above, among the listeners in the gallery, was an aged Cherokee, sitting almost directly above Mr. F., and drinking eagerly in all he said, with feelings probably like those of a man on trial for his life. From time to time members of the House would be seen coming in little companies, especially the Georgians and those who expect to speak on the question, when it shall arise. Not least in sensibility were the ladies present, who are ever found on the side of sympathy and humanity. The desk of the speaker was loaded with books of reference, as if authority on his side of the question was inexhaustible. Mr. F. rose with deep sincerity and even solemnity depicted in his countenance,

'As conscious of his awful charge,

And anxious mainly too,'

that the grave and reverend Senate should feel as he felt. He seemed to feel as if he had a high duty to discharge a heavy burden to lay down, the consideration of which not only banished every thought of courting popular admiration, but even the somewhat necessary precaution of a little parliamentary policy, a little of the conciliatory in his exordium, when great and powerful men are opposed to him. Rectitude and magnanimity appear to have such full possession of his soul; unsuspiciousness and straightforwardness seem such prominent attributes of his mind, as to forbid the indulgence of anything below them, even though a soft word might turn away wrath. He commenced with some severe remarks upon the indiscretion and precipitancy of the President, in speaking as he does in his message so decidedly on the future condition of the Indians; and thus committing himself to one course of action, without consulting the Senate, or taking the benefit of the deliberations of the House on a subject, so profoundly interesting to the happiness and very existence of a sovereign nation, and involving consequences of the greatest import to this country. The ardor of his benevolent feelings would occasionally break forth and overflow from the main channel of his argument, while he pleaded in strains of true eloquence and earnestness the cause of the weak and the oppressed, and warned his peers, even by the sanctions and solemnities (sic) of the last day, to follow truth and justice, instead of self-interest and prejudice in their great decision

Among the printed documents from which he read extracts-documents embracing laws, treaties, adjudications, 'c., were two very pungent curiosities; the one a proclamation of the then Governor of Georgia, (who sat opposite to him,) recognizing the very rights which Georgia now denies; the other a treaty, found in a book of which there is but one copy known in the District, more than thirty years old, called the treaty of Dewitt's Corner, in which of the specified time and place, Georgia and the Indians met by their plenipotentiaries.  The powers of the respective representatives were defined; they were placed on a basis as equal and reciprocal as that of any two high contracting parties, and it was called an 'Indian Congress.' This treaty was ratified with these identical Cherokees. The mass of argument and evidence presented on this occasion, can be neither surmounted nor surrounded. It can only be broken through. Nor will this be done so much under the influence of rational conviction, as that of self-interest, state pride, and party spirit. Yes, party spirit, whose active and malignant influence can be as easily excited in the dignified Senate, and the high-minded House of Representatives, as in a common town meeting. Mr. F. did not so much speak as if he firmly and fervently expected to succeed, as that he might discharge his duty to God, his conscience, and his country, and wash from his own skirts the stains which he saw gathering on the American Senate.

If you ask, 'How will the Indian question be decided?' the reply always is, 'Perhaps in their favor, if they do not make it a party question.' To make it a party question will be no difficult matter.  The President has decided. What is he to do. The Secretary of War agrees with him.- What hope is there? A majority of Congress go with them, on every great and conflicting question. But the voice of remonstrance will be raised. When the question shall come up in the House, which will not probably  be until the result is known in the Senate, the note of that remonstrance will be loud and deep.  Storrs, Spencer, Burgess, Everett, Elsworth, Huntington, and others, are expected to speak on one side, as well as M'Duffee, Thompson, Wilde, 'c., on the other. Exhort the churches to pray that God would overrule the whole.  Never was prayer more needed than at this crisis, when the policy of the government is forming in respect to a new and most important class of subjects of legislation.

Every good man must rejoice in the acquisition of Mr.

Frelinghuysen in the national councils. He has taken a high standing for a new member, and a high stand, too; but with the  possession, it is believed, of sufficient powers to maintain his position successfully and permanently.  To speak of his personal appearance, the interest of a bland and expressive countenance is much brightened by a certain appearance of imperfect health, a slight paleness, which indicates the operation of vigorous intellect, and ardent feelings, too strong for the slender earthly tabernacle. Thought lies deep in his eye; reason exerts her powers with vigor and clearness; imagination displays her most brilliant charms, unsullied by any meretricious exceptions; dignity, sincerity, and earnestness, all combine to render him attractive and powerful as a debater, far before the large majority of his compeers, and scarcely behind one of them. A few years' practice will no doubt so improve his in many respects as to bring him by the side of the first and best here. In a comprehensive sweep of intellect and nervousness of ratiocination I suppose he must at present be considered as surpassed by Webster, as much as W. is by him in the charms of an elevated, chaste, and beautiful imagination.- Mr. Clayton, the matter of whose speech on the land resolution has been called second only to Webster, must not be compared with Mr. F. as an orator. With whatever high interest politicians and statesmen may have regarded the celebrated debate and debaters in the Senate last winter, on constitutional questions, I look upon Mr. Frelinghuysen as having been placed in a situation, on this new question, surpassed by none in interest and importance. When the rights of man, the cause of oppressed, and national duties and obligations before God are involved in the question, how momentous the situation of these who are called upon to vindicate these rights, and enforce those duties and obligations! The eyes of the American church and of the friends of humanity are turned on him and his coadjutors; and as they expect them to do their duty, so when the conflict shall be over, may they all truly say, as he remarked to me a few moments after he had concluded his exhaustive speech: 'I have been earnest, because I was oppressed with a sense of duty.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






English Opinion

ON THE INDIAN QUESTION

Several of the leading London periodicals have commented, with deserved severity, on the principles recently advanced in the country in relation to the Indians. The London Christian Observer, a work which has long been held in the highest estimation by the religious public on both sides of the Atlantic, in a review of the Essays of William Penn, has the following remarks:-N. Y. Obs.

This ably written publication has just reached us from the other side of the Atlantic; where, we trust, it has already met with that attention which its importance demands. The minor details would not interest European readers; but the general question is not alien to any mind that is alive to the claims of justice or humanity.

We noticed the subject in our number for last May (p.326,) and have also alluded to it in our reference to President Jackson's message, and on other occasions. The Indians have been again and again recognized by treaty as independent nations, ' their lands and laws secured to them by the most solemn pledges; and for Georgia, or any other state in the Union, to force them involuntarily to submit to its sovereignty, under pain of banishment beyond the Mississippi is both inequitable and cruel. The religious part of the community in America have expressed themselves on the subject in a manner that does them honor; but we fear their arguments will not avail in the legislature, where there appears to be a strong disposition to side with Georgia against the poor Cherokees, as unhappily recommended by the President.- The result is the more lamentable as the Cherokees are rapidly advancing in civilization, and all the characteristics of a free, happy, intelligent, and religious nation. They know their own rights, and feel keenly the injustice of their oppressors.

We had written the above, when some recent American papers reached us, in which we find a debate in Congress on the presentation of a memorial from New York in favor of the unfortunate Indians.  Nothing, except it be some of the speeches in our own West Indian assemblies, can be more harsh, tyrannical, and unchristian, than the remarks of one of the members for Georgia on the occasion.- He thought it most supercilious for persons to pretend to interfere in behalf of others; let them mind their own business; it is quite time enough for persons to complain when they are hurt themselves; the Indians are 'savage tribes.' 'the remnants of a conquered people,' 'infidel aliens;' and those states within whose limits they live have a right to extend their laws over them; 'it might be well enough for the State of New York or,' continued he sneeringly, 'the British Parliament, to legislate for that amiable and oppressed race of vagrants;' but, for himself he hated such 'political homilies,' such 'mawkish mixtures of sentiment and selfishness;' it was 'ridiculous and disgusting;' and the memorial (which another member said had been 'got up at a grog-shop,') was intended only to show the 'eloquence and philanthropy of the memorialists.'  We can only say, that the orator is worthy of the cause. If common justice and humanity, or the irrefragable arguments of 'William Penn,' had not convinced us which was the right side of the question, this speech of Mr. Wilds, of Georgia, would have done so. As to his argument, the lands of the Cherokees are not 'within the limits of Georgia,' though surrounded by Georgia; they never formed a part of that state; the possessors are not represented in the legislature, they no more belong to Georgia, than the vineyard of Naboth to Ahab; and if taken, as we fear they will be, either by fraud or force, the curse of 'God cannot but alight upon the aggressors?

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CREEKS

CREEK NATION, 20th April, 1830

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S.

Our Father- We the chiefs and head men of the Creek Nation, in Council convened, inform you that they sent a delegation to Washington City, and they have returned. Our agent was there and heard their talk to you. On the return of the delegation, the Chiefs of the Nation were assembled, and a deputation appointed to address you another letter, begging to be protected in the land they now inhabit. Our Great Father has known for some time that we do not wish to emigrate west of the Mississippi. Some of our people have gone, but we do not wish to go, but wish to be protected by our great father on our land. While the delegation was at Washington, they were informed that some confusion had arisen among the Chiefs of the Nation, and when the delegation returned they found it to be the case. The agent has long since known that the Upper Towns wanted Neothlocco Hopey or Little Doctor to be their head man, and they have broken Tuskina and appointed him in his place. This is all the talk we have at present, but when our agent returns we will get him to write you again on some business.- The Secretary of War sent us a letter by B. Hawkins and Rolly McIntosh while we were in council, advising us to emigrate, but we say to him as we have said before, that we do not wish to leave our country, Neo Micco and Neothlocco Hopey were present at the council, when the above talk was given, and the deputation appointed to represent the Nation.

g_ed, Little Doctor,

Neo Micco

Tuskinahaw

Ochache Emarla

John Steedham

Hahalau Hajo

Efkeemarlla Hajo

Billy Barnard

Mennawway

Hopoeth Micco

Tuske Martla

Witness, N. F. Collins

Daniel B. Asbury,

Clerk, Creek Nation.

_____________

Alabama-- The Grand Jury of Pike County at the late Spring Term of the Circuit Court, have presented 'Philip Wager, a Brevet Major in the service of the United States, and now stationed at Fort Mitchell, for having issued a proclamation, ordering all white persons, not having permits or Indian wives, within the space of 15 days, to leave the country, once known as the Creek Indian Nation, by which fear and confusion among the white settlers have been created, operating materially to their injury and against the welfare of the county of Pike; the Grand Jury present also, 'that there is no law to authorize the said Philip Wager issuing this proclamation, that the legislature of Alabama, by an act passed in the year 1829, incorporated the Creek Indians among the citizens of the State, and annexed their alleged territory to different counties in the State; that the State of Alabama, as a sovereign state, has alone the right to interfere with any white citizen who may be settled in any part of the country; that the said Philip Wager, and the soldiers under his command, are, themselves, while they remain in the said country, once known as the Creek Indian Nation, citizens of the state, and owe exclusive allegiance to it; and that the said proclamation is against the laws, the peace and dignity of the State of Alabama.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Alabama:The Grand Jury of Pike County at the late Spring Term of the Circuit Court, have presented 'Philip Wager, a Brevet Major in the service of the United States, and now stationed at Fort Mitchell,' for having issued a proclamation ordering all white persons not hiving permits or Indian wives, within the space of 15 days to leave the country, once known as the Creek Indian nation, by which fear and confusion among the white settlers have been created, operating materially to their injury and against the welfare of the county of Pike; the Grand Jury present also, 'that there is no law to authorize the said Philip Wager issuing this proclamation, that the legislature of Alabama, by an act passed in the year 1829, incorporated the Creek Indians among the citizens of the State, and annexed their alleged territory to different counties in the State; that the State of Alabama,as a sovereign State, has alone the right to interfere with any white citizen who may be settled in any part of the country; that the said Philip Wager,and the soldiers under his command,are,themselves, while they remaining the said country once known as the Creek Indian nation,citizens of the State, and owe exclusive allegiance to it; and that the said proclamation is against the laws, the peace and dignity of the State of Alabama.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

 Extracts of a letter from Jno. L. Allen, sub-agent for Chickasaws, dated 7th February, 1830,

'In conformity with yours of the 29th February, to give the Department of War the information of which I may be in possession, touching the condition of the Indians within the Chickasaw agency.

'They (the Chickasaws) have a plenty of horses of a superior quality, or at least well adapted to the use of the Indians; they use them on their farms with much less food than is generally given those animals that are raised and used by the whites; and when travelling through their country, they travel from thirty to fifty miles per day; never feed them, but let them subsist entirely on what grass or cane they can procure for themselves when hobbled out at a night.

'They have large herds of cattle, swine, sheep, and goats, and poultry of ever description that are in use generally, in that section of country. The country is well watered, and is well adapted to the culture of cotton, corn, wheat, oats, peas, potatoes, beans, 'c.

Cotton, beef, and pork, are the principal articles for transportation. There will be cotton exported from the nation this year, probably to the amount of 1000 bales; beef and pork to n inconsiderable amount.

'The proceeds from the sales of cotton, horses, beef, cattle, hogs, 'c. after retaining a sufficiency for their home consumption, is generally applied to the purchase of necessaries and luxuries of life; to wit: slaves, sugar, and coffee; as well as dry goods of various descriptions, which are calculated to render them comfortable, and ornament their persons. The time has come when they no longer depend on the rifle for support, but it is used more for their recreation and amusement, then for the means of sustenance.

'Every family cultivates the earth more or less, as his thirst for gain, or his imaginary or real wants increase.

'Much to the honor of the Chickasaws, for the last eight years, the practice of the men requiring the women to perform all the labor in the fields is much changed; the men now, (with a few exceptions) cultivate the earth themselves, while the female part of the family is engaged in their household affairs. They spin, weave, make their own clothing, milk cows, make butter, cheese, 'c.  They keep themselves decent and clean, and, in many instances, particular attention is paid to fashions that are in use by the whites.

'It is their constant practice to appear in their best apparel at their public meetings, also, when they visit the country villages in the white settlements.

'Many of the Chickasaws profess Christianity.  I attended a Camp meeting in November last, at the missionaries; divine worship was performed alternately by the white and red men, in the English and Indian languages; and, for the first time, I saw the sacrament taken by the Indians. Everything was conducted with the utmost good order and decorum.

'As a nation, the men are brave and honest. The women (the half-breeds in particular) are beautiful and virtuous; and, I am of the opinion that there has been greater advancements in civilization, in the last eight years, than there was in twenty previous.

'I think the present state of education does not meet the wishes or expectations of the chiefs and headmen of the nation.

'Education is confined generally to the half-breeds and youths generally of the first promise. There are, at this time, several white men that have identified themselves with the Indians, by marriage, and several half-breeds that have sufficient education to enable them to transact a considerable portion of the business for the nation.

'The municipal laws of the Chickasaws consists in written laws or resolutions, commanding that which is right ' prohibiting that which they conceive to be wrong. Their laws are few, easily understood, and rigidly enforced, and are highly calculated to promote peace and good order among themselves.

'As I have already mentioned the state of agriculture, I have only now to say something on the subject of the mechanic arts, the knowledge of which is confined to white men that have identified themselves with the Indians, particularly of the highest grade proposed among them; to wit: house carpenters, wheelwrights, millwrights, blacksmiths, 'c.  All the arts necessary for farming use, stocking plows, halving axes, hoes, making slides, truck wheels, draw bars, gates, 'c. is generally confined to the common Indians and slaves.

'The Chickasaws being surrounded by the white inhabitants, I have found it a difficult matter to restrain the whites from violating the intercourse law, by driving their stock over the line upon the Indian land, making settlements, trading with the Indians in a manner that is prohibited by law, as well as stealing their negroes, horses, cattle, 'c.; but I am proud to have it in my power to say that those white persons who are so troublesome to the Indians are generally men of the lowest grade ' dregs of society. such men as are always unwilling to conform to the laws that govern the civilized world.'

'They, (the principal chiefs) stated that if the laws were extended over them, they had no belief that they would be placed upon an equal footing with the whites; and, if they were made so by law, all the officers of the law would be composed of white men; and, as they were unskilled in law suits, and the whites would be partial to each other, they had no belief that they would be able to withstand the encroachments of the whites upon them; and, if they did attempt it, that in a few years they would not have a vestige of property left, consequently they would exchange their country for any they could get, rather than, as they conceive, lose their native freedom.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






DOCUMENTS

Relating to the boundary line between the

Cherokees and Creeks.

[Continued.]

12 May, 1829

Sir:- Mr. Gaine arrived this evening with your communication authorizing me to run and mark a line along the Creek Path to the boundary line, which will be done if the surveying party are not arrested.  We are now about 15 miles on the line from Sawanah Old Town, to the Sixes Old Town, and as yet have met with no interruption in our progress. An express immediately however has been despatched to the Agent, Col. Montgomery, by the half-breed, for an authority for our arrest, and those individuals living on the west side of the Chattahoochy, say that we will be stopped before the survey is completed; if we are, we can probably be relieved by a habeas corpus. The real Indians appear indifferent about the survey, and were it not that they are to a considerable extent under the influence of the whites and half-breeds living amongst them, I believe they would render the surveying party all the assistance in their power. A considerable number of whites have moved and still are moving over and settling on the disputed land. The occupants complain of their intrusion and conduct. May I be permitted to suggest to our excellency, the propriety of removing these Indians, and to adopt some measure to prevent the whites from encroaching on the settlers, until the dispute is finally adjusted; such a course would tend to allay the excitement that exists here amongst the Indians against the State of Georgia and would, I have no doubt, have a beneficial influence in the procurement of the remainder of the land in the chartered limits of the State.

S. A. WALES.

His Ex. John Forsyth.

Milledgeville, Feb. 18, 1829

Dear Sir:- Your report and the evidence collected by you, having been examined, I have conceived it proper to have the Old Creek and Cherokee boundary line traversed and marked from Sawanah Old Town to Sexes Old Town. You have been appointed Commissioner to superintend this work as you will find by the inclosed document. authority being given to you to procure a surveyor, and the requisite assistance, you will observe the following instructions._ Contracts with the surveyor and all other persons employed by  you, must be specific, so much per time, and on the most reasonable terms while engaged in the public service.  If the line has been already marked, as I presume it has, not much labor in marking it will be necessary, the object of the General Assembly being not to mark a permanent boundary line, but only to leave the line marked with sufficient distinctness to enable the officers of the General Government who shall be sent to have the Cherokees and other Indians removed above it, to ascertain where it is. Your immediate attention to this business is expected, and as early a report after the work is finished as practicable. The Surveyor must furnish you with a map of the line traced, describing the course and distances, and the manner in which it has been marked and remarked. An advance of money will be made on your requisition, if necessary.

JOHN FORSYTH.

Col. S. A. Wales.

Tuesday, February 18, 1829

Ordered that Col. Samuel A. Wales be, and he is hereby appointed commissioner to superintend the tracing and remarking of the line between the Creeks and Cherokees within this State prior to the last Treaty of Cession by the Creeks, from Sawanah Old Town on the Chattahoochy, to Six's Old Town on the Hightower, having authority to employ a competent surveyor and such assistance as may be necessary. The surveyor and other assistants to be paid by the State, such sums for their labor as may be agreed upon with the Commissioner. The Commissioner will be allowed at the rate of $5 per diem. and his reasonable expenses while employed.

Milledgeville, April 2, 1829

Sir:- I received you letter of the 10th ult. and regretted that your professional engagements prevented you from immediate attention to the commission given to you by the Executive. Under the expectation that you will proceed to the execution of the task, confided to you as early as practicable. I have, after great hesitation, determined to to make another appointment, but to rely upon your known zeal to make such arrangements of your professional business as will permit you to devote the earliest time to this public concern. I cannot apprehend that you will be molested by the Cherokees- if there is a well grounded apprehension of danger you will inform me immediately, and the necessary protection will be afforded to you and your party by the State.

JNO. FORSYTH.

Col. S. A. Wales.

Milledgeville 5 May, 1829

Sir:- A letter has been received from Mr. Thomas, the surveyor written with your approbation and concurrence, suggesting that the true line between the Creeks and Cherokees on the other side of Hightower, was from the junction of the Oostenalah and Hightower along the Creek Path to the Tennessee. In support of this opinion he quotes the very satisfactory letter of General Jackson to the Secretary of War, dated the 4th of June, 1816. The object of the General Assembly is adopting the resolutions under which you are acting was to have the true line between the Cherokees and Creeks within our jurisdiction surveyed and marked.- After running and marking with sufficient distinctness, the line from Sawanah Old Town to the Sixes Old Town, you will consider yourself authorized to run the true line beyond, beginning at the mouth of the Hightower and Oostanalah, along the Creek Path to where it crosses our boundary line.

JOHN FORSYTH.

Col. S. A. Wales.

Marion County, Tennessee,

August 31, 1829.

Sir:- I have spent most of the last three weeks in the Cherokee Nation, endeavoring to persuade them to remove west of the Mississippi, and I am sorry to say that I have been unable to effect, though I believe that some good has resulted from my visit, in conciliating their feelings.  If Congress rejects their memorials on the subject of the late Georgia Law, claiming jurisdiction over its territory within its chartered limits, it will, I have little doubt produce the desired treaty. Nothing else save power, or such a measure will. Just before my departure from Nashville, I was informed by the Secretary of War, that General Coffee of your State, had been appointed to unite with me in the visit to the Cherokees and Creeks. I have not had the pleasure of seeing or hearing from him, and not knowing where he resides, my present object is to request that you will be pleased to notify him, that it will be unnecessary for him to visit the Cherokee Nation, as no good could possibly result from it. Indisposition prevented me from going to the Creek Nation, where perhaps General Coffee can go, and where I hope he may be able to do some good.

I have the honor to be

Your obedient Servant.

Wm. CARROLL.

His Ex. John Forsyth.

Augusta, September 13, 1829

Sir:- Your letter of the 3d. of August was forwarded to me from the seat of Government, and received this morning. A copy of that part of it which relates to General Coffee of Georgia, will be immediately transmitted to him as the most effectual mode of complying with your request. I regret to find that the Cherokees contemplate an appeal to Congress against the right of the State to exercise its sovereign authority within its territorial limits.- Such as appeal may produce angry discussions, but can in no event be useful to the Tribe or to any of the individuals belonging to it.

I am with great respect,

Your obedient Servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.

Gen. William Carroll

Jasper, Marion County, Tennessee.

Winns' Ferry, Hall County Ga.

17th November, 1829.

Sir:- We take the liberty of addressing you on the subject of boundary between the Creeks and Cherokees, as it is understood that Col. Coffee of Alabama has been appointed a Commissioner to collect testimony respecting said boundary. From the information of several men of respectability living near where the line runs, we have no doubt in stating that if the following men are called on to give evidence, that the line could be well established to run from Sawanah Old Town on Chattahoochy River, known as the Old Red Bank Town. The men to call on for evidence are Jack Right, Sleepy Man, and George W. Freeman, all of whom live near the old trail and know it as the old line between the two nations, which will strike Etowah River six miles above the line run by Col. Wales, including some valuable settlements of land, that was left out by Col. Wales.

Yours Respectfully.

ELI M'CONNELL,

RICHARD WINN.

His Ex. G. R. Gilmor.

Account of the settlement of the Cherokees in the neighborhood of the Creeks, as stated in a council held at Thelehka, January 11, 1818.- Sour Mush and Shoe Boot his interpreter, Cherokees both of whom were present at the first Council between the nations.



The whites run them from where they formerly lived to Aubucan, a Town in the Upper Creek Country, where the Creeks told them to live in their Country and raise their children. That the Chiefs now present were there at the first Talk in peaceable times before the whites and Cherokees had any fighting. The Creeks owned all the land up to the head of owned all the land up to the head of Coosa River, and all the waters of the Coosa. That the Tennessee was the Cherokee River and their lands joined on the dividing ridge. In former times on the Chattahoochy and Cherokees claimed as low down as a river which empties into it called Choky River, since then they were told by the Cowetan King that they might live as low down as the Cunvhee Mountain, but that their young men now claimed as low down as the Hog Mountain, although they have no claim to it. The foregoing is the substance of a talk delivered by the old Cherokee Chief Sour Mush, in the presence of a deputation of Cherokee Chiefs of whom he was at the head, and interpreted by the old chief Shoe Boots* at a public meeting of the Creeks in my presence, and addressed to me on the day and at the place before mentioned.

(Signed) D. B. MITCHELL

Agent for I. A.

__________________

* Interpreted by the old chief Shoe Boots. It was proved before General Coffee, of Alabama, by the Affidavit of five respectable men in this nation, that Shoe Boots was incapable of interpreting a sentence of the Cherokee into the English language.  As we have not the Affidavit in our possession we think it necessary to relate this fact.-  Ed., Cher. Phoe.

General William M'Intosh, some short time previous to the treaty of 1825, held at Indian Springs, informed me that there was a strip of country about thirty miles in width then in possession of the Cherokee Nation. He stated it had been in dispute some years and was compromised by a ball play in favor of said Cherokee Nation of Indians.

HUGH W. ECTOR.

Milledgeville, Nov. 29th, 1829.



___________________________

We have now presented before the public all the testimonies on the part of Georgia which have come to our knowledge, ' which have been considered by the state as fully establishing her claim to the line run by Col. Wales. The reader can judge- We think the weakness of the evidence is fully apparent, especially when met by counter statements, to which we shall now commence to devote a portion of our columns.

_________________________

James Daniel, late one of the Judges of the Cherokee courts, in the Cherokee Nation, aged forty years, has been raised in the southeastern part of the Cherokee Nation- is acquainted on the Appalachy and Chattahoochy Rivers,- he thinks the High Shoals of the Appalachy is nearly about due east from the Buzzard Roost on Chattahoochy-he knows of the place called Sawanah Old Town on Chattahoochy and the place called Buzzard Roost on the same river, and he never knew of any other places known by these names. He further states that he was educated in Green County Georgia,and when there he has frequently heard the subject of the boundary between the Creeks and Cherokees mentioned amongst the people of that country, running from the High Shoals of Appalachy a direct course to the mouth of Will's Creek on Coosa River, and he always received the same impression from the Cherokees. Given under my hand in the Cherokee Nation.

JAMES DANIEL.

6th December, 1829

Test.

JAMES SAUNDERS

ROBERT D. HARRIS

Cherokee Nation 6th Dec. 1829.

George Saunders, a half breed Cherokee, aged about fifty seven states that he was born and raised in the southeastern part of the Cherokee Nation: that he has always since he was grown been familiar with what was thought to be the line that divided the lands of the Creek Nation from those of the Cherokees as claimed by the Cherokee Nation ,and which was as follows: Beginning at the old Cherokee corner, which stands about 25 miles east of the High Shoals of the Appalachy, and to run thence to the said High Shoals of Appalachy, and thence a direct line to the mouth of Will's Creek on the Coosa River.- This was the understanding of the Cherokees so far as I have understood it. The above statement is made at the special request of General Coffee United States Commissioner, desiring me to state what I know of the old and true line between the Creeks and Cherokees, and which is as stated above according to the best of my knowledge and recollection. I have never known of but one place called the Sawanah Old Town, and but one place called Buzzard Roost, and they both on the Chattahoochy and are generally known by those names. He further states that his brother Alexander Saunders was living at the Old Sawanah Town on the Chattahoochy River about the year 1807 or 1808, and at the same time a man by the name of Rhode Easley, a citizen of Georgia, who formerly had a store at the High Shoals of the Appalachy, and he had also a stock of cattle and established a cow pen on the west side of the Appalachy about 4 or 5 miles west of the High Shoals and settled a stock keeper there-that Alexander Sanders (sic) and Thomas Woodward, a half breed raised a company of Cherokees and went to Easley's cow pen and drove off the family and burnt the improvement as being on Cherokee lands.-He thinks this took place 21 or 22 years ago. his

GEORGE SANDERS x

mark

Test.

ROBERT D. HARRIS,

JAS. DANIEL.

JAS. SANDERS.

I George G. Weatherspoon, a citizen of Gwinnett County, in the State of Georgia, have resided in the country about six years--I have heard a great deal said since I have been in this country about the line that divided the lands of the Creek and Cherokee Nations, and have had some curiosity and anxiety to ascertain what was the true line between those nations, which as led to many conversations with the old settlers of this country on that subject, from all of which I have been informed that the line between the two nations began at the High Shoals of Appalachy and run with the Hightower Path which passeth at the north foot of the Stone Mountain and to the Shallow ford on the Chattahoochy.

G. G. WEATHERSPOON.

Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 9th December, 1829.

ISAAC GILBERT, Jr.

Gwinnett County, Ga.

At John Roges, Cherokee Nation.

9th December 1829

I Daniel Clover, a resident of Gwinnett County in the State of Georgia, now sixty-eight years of age, have lived in the State of Georgia thirty-four years. I settled near Greensborough in Georgia about 33 years since, when the Indians of both Cherokee and Creek Nations were frequently in trading at Greensborough. Alexander Dale, and John Fidler were at the time trading with the Indians, and went out to the nations on their trading tours. I became well acquainted with both of them. Mr. Dale, now Col. Dale of Alabama, was frequently at my house and I had many conversations with him about the Indians on various subjects, I asked him if he knew the line between the two nations,- he said he did know it, that it began at the Old Cherokee Corner in Georgia and run thence to the High Shoals of Appalachy, and thence with the Old Hightower Path to the shallow ford on Chattahoochy; but I have no recollection that he stated the line any further. The Old Cherokee Corner that I have mentioned stands about eight miles from Athens in Georgia. I have seen it frequently ever since I first came into the country,- it is marked on a white oak ' a number of other trees, and the marks had the appearance of being very old when I first saw it. I do not know by whom or when it was made, but it has always been called the Old Cherokee Corner.

DANIEL CLOVER.

Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 9th December, 1829.

ISAAC GILBERT,Jr.

Gwinnett County, Georgia.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the New York Observer

Washington, April 19, 1830

Dear Sir- To the information contained in my last, I have little to add this week except that Mr. Frelinghuysen was succeeded on the Indian question by Mr. M'Kinley, of Alabama, who took the opposite side of the question with considerable appearance of argument, but whose inferiority to his predecessor in debate was palpable to all. He possesses, however, a quality always commendatory-the appearance of sincerity.- A voice of unwonted harshness or rather hoarseness impairs his elocution. He served to prepare the way for Mr. Forsyth, who debates well even on the wrong side.  He has an air of much courtesy, dresses with peculiar neatness, and between his head, which is quite grey, and the rest of his person, which is more youthful, there seems a struggle for the mastery. In this debate he exhibited much coolness of manner, and a kind of confidence of success which probably arose from his knowledge of the views of the President and a majority of the Senate. I was sorry to hear him call the Indians repeatedly, 'these poor devils'. it was language unbecoming a dignified Senator, and orator of pure speech, or a man of delicacy. He affected much contempt of them, and their laws. Among all the subjects of ridicule, however, which he sought he could find only two old and state laws of the Cherokees, which he introduced to discredit their ability in making laws. These he introduced for the sake of deriding what had been called their civilization. Mr. Sprague happily answered him by summarily declaring that the gentleman had himself brought forward the most cogent argument to prove their civilization when he introduced to the Senate of the United States two printed volumes of their laws.

Nothing could exceed the argument of Mr. Sprague for clearness, connectedness, and conclusiveness. As a Senator remarked to me, it was like a chain of mathematical evidence.- The general features of this gentleman's countenance resemble those of Mr. Webster, though they are less prominent and striking. He has (probably insensibly) caught something of his manner.  Nor is he so very far from him in logical acumen, but he is rather too slow in the impassioned parts of his delivery; thus detracting from the power which would otherwise accompany the effusion of his animated thoughts. He had truth and justice on his side, and well did he vindicate their honor. If I mistake not, no speech on this question in either House will appear better in print to the meditative mind of one sitting down to be instructed. The keen bright eye of Sprague is no deceitful image of his mind. He must rise high and have influence. Though not, I believe, professedly a religious man, he is strictly moral, and perhaps, may be called 'almost a Christian.' I was pleased with his very reverent allusions to the Supreme Being, so different from the reckless manner of most Southern and Western speakers, who use the name of God, as a Roman would the name of Jupiter. Mr. S. had the advantage of Mr. Frelinghuysen in his-may I term it- strong ordo-the masterly arrangement of his arguments, presenting every consecutive part and the crowning whole in a manner that could not be mended.

Mr. Webster was seen to take notes during a part of Mr. Forsyth's speech, but a severe cold has occasioned his frequent absence since the commencement of the debate. Perhaps he will sum up.

'William Penn' is seen sitting among the spectators, taking notes of the speeches.

An attempt has been made to bring forward the question in the House, but without success.

The funeral of Alexander Smyth, late of Virginia, was attended to-day. His body reposes among the distinguished dead, (alas! no more distinguished,) where Gerry, Pinkney, Howell, Gaillard, and others lie, to await the summons of the Great Archangel.

Yours,'c.

__________________________________________

From the American Spectator

The Indian Question-Mr. Sprague.

Washington, April 20, 1830

MY ESTEEMED FRIEND: Pursuant to your request, I will now commence our correspondence. Without apologies or promises that my letter will be filled with erudite or interesting subjects, discussed in a sage-like manner, I will write to you on matters and things in general, on whatever is transpiring in our great Capitol, or indeed, on any thing under the sun that interests me.

To your inquiries I would reply, the subject which at present is occupying our Senate, is the Indian Question.- This mode of expression you may not understand. Situated as you are in a retired village, and unacquainted with the intricate arts of hypocrisy and double dealing, you may think it strange for one to call the appeal of the Cherokees a question. You would rather say a hint to remind the legislators of the United States that the Cherokees will now avail themselves of their plighted promises. But, incredible as it is, the assembled wisdom of our nation are gravely deliberating on the question, Shall we fulfil what we have sworn to perform? Shall we prove ourselves honest men, or the veriest departers (sic) from truth that ever inhabited our planet?

I had the pleasure on Saturday of hearing Mr. Sprague, of Maine, take a part in this present debate. He had indeed the aids of humanity, justice, and religion, to support his arguments; but never was a cause more eloquently advocated.  Mr. Sprague is indisputably an orator in the best sense os the term. He is a man of mild temperament. Calm and deliberate in his ordinary method of speaking, I did not think he could be so roused as he was on Saturday. But when I perceived his eye lit up with a new fire; his actions almost vehement; his voice expressive of the deepest feeling, the conviction was irresistable (sic).  I said, it is the influence of a holy cause upon a high and noble mind, that has produced this energy. In every appearance before the public, Mr. Sprague has been characterized by eloquence and good taste. On Saturday, however, he seemed to excel even himself. His reasoning was most logical and conclusive.  He took up the arguments of his opponents, one by one; and in a gentle, manly manner showed them to be mere 'trifles light as air.'- Throughout his whole speech there could be found no weak places, or a single point, which is a fair controversy would have been objectionable.- Mr. Sprague has many resources, and he brought them all to bear on this subject. Experience, observation, modern history, ancient lore, Biblical record, all contributed to strengthen ' illustrate the sentiments he was expressing. Some portions of his speech were specimens of the keenest satire. There was no coarseness; he wounded his adversary most deeply, but it was with a polished weapon; not as an assailant, or in a revengeful spirit, but simply as a necessary self-defence.- The natural right and legal claim of the Indians to their own land, were made perfectly clear to every candid mind. After he had brought forward the usages, the laws, the best feelings of mankind, in favor of the Indian cause, Mr. S. finally made the most successful appeal to the sanctions of religion. He carried the cruel persecutors of this unfortunate people to a higher tribunal; he reminded them of that day of reckoning, of whose realities they must take a part, and that just Judge, with whom cruelty and injustice will meet their due and awful reward. Thus did Mr. Sprague prove himself the eloquent defender of the oppressed Indians. How this debate will terminate I know not. I have been told that there is not enough of righteousness in our land to protect the injured- that the oppressor will triumph. O, my country! can it be- must thou be thus disgraced? Shall thy peaceful borders be disturbed with the tear of anguish, the cries of distress, calling for aid, and there be found none to succor? Unworthy of thee as are too many of thy sons, still whilst thou has a Sprague and a Frelinghuysen to lift up their voices in behalf of justice and humanity, thou shalt not be without honor; iniquity and oppression shall not go on with impunity, and undisturbed in their desolating career.

Adieu- Yours, 'c.

R. T. Y.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Nashville Whig and Banner.

INDIAN HOSTILITIES.

Extract from a letter to the editor, dated,

Columbus, Miss. April 23.

You have no doubt heard of the great dissatisfaction that at present prevails among the Choctaws between the several districts, in consequence of the late proposition to Government for the sale of their lands, 'c.

At their late council held at Wilson's in March ult. two of their chiefs, Col. Fulsom and Mr. Garland resigned, and Col. Lafloer, as they say, was partially declared Chief or King of the whole nation,--it having been done by a minority of the natives thereof; and there being a great many opposed to selling at any price; and Lafloor having many personal enemies, in consequence (partly) of having their laws enforced, which are very severe, for drunkenness and other vices. The tattlers, therefore, had ample ground for indulging the news-carrying, and no doubt adding greatly thereto. The opposing parties are therefore violently incensed at each other, and the districts adjoining us, are hourly expecting the commencement of hostilities, and in fact there are various conjectures as to the final issue of this matter.

Yesterday morning a traveller, whose name is Hamlet, was shot in the nation about twelve miles below, on the Orleans Road, by some person in ambush; and from the intelligence received we were at first satisfied that the outrage was committed by Indians; we are however happy to say, that we are now convinced the Indians are clear, to the satisfaction of all persons, and that the offence was committed by a couple of trifling white men.  They are pursued by active enterprising whites and Indians,and no doubt they are ere this arrested. The unfortunate man was shot in the left arm near the shoulder, and but for the bullet glancing by striking the bone would have been killed upon the spot; it ranged across the breast but without wounding the same. He suffers very much, we are however in hopes he will recover.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

New Echota: May 15, 1830

Our readers will perceive, from the proceedings of the Senate, that the bill reported by Mr. White has passed that body and the amendments proposed by Mr. Frehinghuysen rejected! It has been a matter of doubt with us for some time, whether there were sufficient virtue and independence in the two houses of Congress, to sustain the plighted faith of the Republic, which has been most palpable sacrificed by the convenience of the Executive. Our doubts are now at an end- the August Senate of the United States of America, (tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Askelon,) has followed the heels of the President, and deliberately laid aside their treaties. They have declared that they will not be governed by these solemn instruments, made and ratified by their advice and consent. When it comes to this, we have indeed fallen upon evil times.  Very soon the House of Representatives will decide, if it has not already decided, on this important question.  It is much to be feared the Representatives of the people will not respond to the views and feelings of their constituents, but deliver their weak allies to their enemies. Be that as it may- let both Houses of Congress decide as they may, we confidently think justice will be done, even if the Cherokees are not in the land of the living to receive it-posterity will give a correct verdict. But we are not now making such an appeal-we hope we are not yet at the end of our row-we hope there is yet a tribunal where our injured rights may be defended and protected, and where self interest, party and sectional feelings have nothing to do.- Let then the Cherokees be firm and united- Fellow citizens, we have asserted our rights, we have defended them thus far, and we will defend them yet by all lawful and peaceable means.- We will no more beg, pray and implore, but we will demand justice, and before we give up and allow ourselves to despondency, we will, if we can, have the solemn adjudication of a tribunal, whose province is to interpret the treaties, the supreme law of the land. Let us be firm and united.

______________________________________

The following needs no comment. It seems the laws of Georgia are not rigid enough-the citizens must therefore resort to the rod, without trial or jury, to correct the poor Indians.

Hail Columbia happy land!

At a meeting of fifty-three citizens of Randolph County, called in 24th district, for the purpose of adopting some rule or regulation to put a stop to the Creek Indians hunting and pilaging (sic) our country and destroying our stocks. The meeting being formed, the following resolutions were entered into:

Resolved, That in future if any Indian or Indians be found in this county hunting or passing with a gun or guns and camp equipage appearing for camping and hunting, it shall be the duty of the person or persons, so seeing or finding said Indian or Indians, to give immediate information to a sufficient number of the above citizens, and they shall proceed to take from them their arms and all property found with them and inflict on their backs not exceeding fifty lashes with a hickory or cowskin and order them over the Chattahoochee, and if they do not immediately proceed to go and is found lurking or apparently way laying the party he shall receive double his first punishment.

Resolved, That all the arms and other property taken from the Indians by this company, shall be publicly advertised and sold to the highest bidder, and the proceeds to go to the use of the county.

Resolved, that if any member of this company when called to turn out refuse or neglect to turn out to assist to detect Indians shall pay the sum of two dollars for each offence, unless he can give sufficient excuse.

Resolved, That the proceedings of this meeting be published in the Columbus Enquirer in order that the agent and chiefs of the Indians may be apprised what will be the consequence if their subject follow their former practice.

WM. COOPER, Chairman,

Edmund C. Beard, Clerk.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

New Echota: May 15, 1830

Our readers will perceive, from the proceedings of the Senate, that the bill reported by Mr. White has passed that body and the amendments proposed by Mr. Frehinghuysen rejected! It has been a matter of doubt with us for some time, whether there were sufficient virtue and independence in the two houses of Congress, to sustain the plighted faith of the Republic, which has been most palpable sacrificed by the convenience of the Executive. Our doubts are now at an end- the August Senate of the United States of America, (tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Askelon,) has followed the heels of the President, and deliberately laid aside their treaties. They have declared that they will not be governed by these solemn instruments, made and ratified by their advice and consent. When it comes to this, we have indeed fallen upon evil times.  Very soon the House of Representatives will decide, if it has not already decided, on this important question.  It is much to be feared the Representatives of the people will not respond to the views and feelings of their constituents, but deliver their weak allies to their enemies. Be that as it may- let both Houses of Congress decide as they may, we confidently think justice will be done, even if the Cherokees are not in the land of the living to receive it-posterity will give a correct verdict. But we are not now making such an appeal-we hope we are not yet at the end of our row-we hope there is yet a tribunal where our injured rights may be defended and protected, and where self interest, party and sectional feelings have nothing to do.- Let then the Cherokees be firm and united- Fellow citizens, we have asserted our rights, we have defended them thus far, and we will defend them yet by all lawful and peaceable means.- We will no more beg, pray and implore, but we will demand justice, and before we give up and allow ourselves to despondency, we will, if we can, have the solemn adjudication of a tribunal, whose province is to interpret the treaties, the supreme law of the land. Let us be firm and united.

______________________________________

The following needs no comment. It seems the laws of Georgia are not rigid enough-the citizens must therefore resort to the rod, without trial or jury, to correct the poor Indians.

Hail Columbia happy land!

At a meeting of fifty-three citizens of Randolph County, called in 24th district, for the purpose of adopting some rule or regulation to put a stop to the Creek Indians hunting and pilaging (sic) our country and destroying our stocks. The meeting being formed, the following resolutions were entered into:

Resolved, That in future if any Indian or Indians be found in this county hunting or passing with a gun or guns and camp equipage appearing for camping and hunting, it shall be the duty of the person or persons, so seeing or finding said Indian or Indians, to give immediate information to a sufficient number of the above citizens, and they shall proceed to take from them their arms and all property found with them and inflict on their backs not exceeding fifty lashes with a hickory or cowskin and order them over the Chattahoochee, and if they do not immediately proceed to go and is found lurking or apparently way laying the party he shall receive double his first punishment.

Resolved, That all the arms and other property taken from the Indians by this company, shall be publicly advertised and sold to the highest bidder, and the proceeds to go to the use of the county.

Resolved, that if any member of this company when called to turn out refuse or neglect to turn out to assist to detect Indians shall pay the sum of two dollars for each offence, unless he can give sufficient excuse.

Resolved, That the proceedings of this meeting be published in the Columbus Enquirer in order that the agent and chiefs of the Indians may be apprised what will be the consequence if their subject follow their former practice.

WM. COOPER, Chairman,

Edmund C. Beard, Clerk.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Extract of letter to the Editor, dated,

Washington City, April 26, 1830

I have it now in my power to give you some news of a more definitive character relative to our affairs. The debate in the Senate on the amendments offered to the Bill reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs, by the Hon. Senator from New Jersey, has resulted in their rejection, by vote of 20-27. Although there was nothing more contemplated by them, then was solemnly stipulated in our treaties. They could not meet the approbation of the grave Senators sent there to mete out justice to all parties,-to render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's. The Hon. Mr. Sprague then offered another, which in truth and substance was a simple question put to the Senate, Will you be governed towards the Indians by the various Treaties made with them? It was decided in the negative! The Senator from New Jersey then proposed to amend the Bill by a proviso, that until the Cherokees should chose to remove, they should be protected by the Government as was stipulated in their treaties, and according to the extent and meaning of those instruments when entered into- and pray sir, what do you think was the result?  It was all which we asked from the government. It was all we expected, and we humbly prayed for that protection, which in justice and good faith we had a right to demand and expect. But men and things have materially changed. The 'poor devils,' as we are called by the 'grave and reverend senator' from Georgia, were not worthy of protection, their welfare and existence were a matter of two (sic) small notice, for the amendment was rejected by a vote of 20 to 27.

A regular and systematical course of policy has been pursued to cast us, in defiance of all that is just and sacred upon the 'tender mercies of Georgia,' that she may in the exercise of her boasted friendship, without interference, legislate us into ruin and expulsion from the homes of our fathers and infancy. Although she protests the use of force, it requires by an ordinary mind to foresee the result of her unjust and oppressive legislation, backed by Executive influence and the treachery of the United States; for treachery it surely must be, if all the solemn pledges made and stipulated, were never intended to be fulfilled. The proceedings of the Senate, and the 24th of April will long be remembered by all just and good men. The Cherokees are a people who in the days of their strength, were treated as a Nation. Go to Britain and ask who they were? and you will receive for answer that, 'they were a distinct and sovereign people and as such we treated with them.'  Turn to the colony of Georgia and ask the same question, and her history gives the same reply. The to the Great Washington and all his successors down to the latest Chief Magistrate, and their acts all prove the same thing. Ask of General Jackson when the thunders of his cannon were heard in the southern forests, and he will say they are a nation, competent to contract with the Government, though President Jackson may deny it and say they are the subjects of Georgia. Whatever the circumstances may have grown up around them since the year 1785, or 1817, the meaning and force of their treaty obligations cannot be impaired.  Though power may declare they shall not be observed, justice will not respond. And although these unfortunate people, who left their homes and families, and flocked to the standard of the brave commander at Talledega, Horseshoe, 'c., and nobly fought the battles of Georgia, are now repaid with ingratitude and oppression, they are not yet vanquished. Though the strength and force of a dominant party is arrayed in opposition to all that they wish to enjoy as a free people, they are not frightened, and until something more pointed than words and high sounding epithets and denunciations are presented, they will continue to cling to their homes of their pristine fathers.

We had hoped and calculated upon the wisdom and justice of Congress, but in one branch we see already the result and effect of the declaration made to us on the 8th of April 1829. In the other branch the Government may in some measure maintain its exalted character, by a course more congenial to the principles of their own Constitution and the examples of great rulers. The generous course of policy pursued by Jefferson towards these ill-fated beings will go down to the latest posterity with increasing lustre, and is now looked upon by many as the best trait in the character and life of this great Statesman.

I do not believe that the feelings of the American people will respond to the proceedings of the Senate. I do not believe that they  will think our treaties should thus be thrown aside, and Georgia in defiance of so many pledges, and all that is just, should break down our humble Government and triumphantly mock our sufferings.

Our next and last chance is before the Supreme Court; and until we have its veto, let us be firm and unshaken in our stand.  Let not the dark clouds which hover around our political sun, cause us to despond and if it sets, I hope to see it rise again, if not at Echota, not within the limits of the United States.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Extract of letter to the Editor, dated,

Washington City, April 26, 1830

I have it now in my power to give you some news of a more definitive character relative to our affairs. The debate in the Senate on the amendments offered to the Bill reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs, by the Hon. Senator from New Jersey, has resulted in their rejection, by vote of 20-27. Although there was nothing more contemplated by them, then was solemnly stipulated in our treaties. They could not meet the approbation of the grave Senators sent there to mete out justice to all parties,-to render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's. The Hon. Mr. Sprague then offered another, which in truth and substance was a simple question put to the Senate, Will you be governed towards the Indians by the various Treaties made with them? It was decided in the negative! The Senator from New Jersey then proposed to amend the Bill by a proviso, that until the Cherokees should chose to remove, they should be protected by the Government as was stipulated in their treaties, and according to the extent and meaning of those instruments when entered into- and pray sir, what do you think was the result?  It was all which we asked from the government. It was all we expected, and we humbly prayed for that protection, which in justice and good faith we had a right to demand and expect. But men and things have materially changed. The 'poor devils,' as we are called by the 'grave and reverend senator' from Georgia, were not worthy of protection, their welfare and existence were a matter of two (sic) small notice, for the amendment was rejected by a vote of 20 to 27.

A regular and systematical course of policy has been pursued to cast us, in defiance of all that is just and sacred upon the 'tender mercies of Georgia,' that she may in the exercise of her boasted friendship, without interference, legislate us into ruin and expulsion from the homes of our fathers and infancy. Although she protests the use of force, it requires by an ordinary mind to foresee the result of her unjust and oppressive legislation, backed by Executive influence and the treachery of the United States; for treachery it surely must be, if all the solemn pledges made and stipulated, were never intended to be fulfilled. The proceedings of the Senate, and the 24th of April will long be remembered by all just and good men. The Cherokees are a people who in the days of their strength, were treated as a Nation. Go to Britain and ask who they were? and you will receive for answer that, 'they were a distinct and sovereign people and as such we treated with them.'  Turn to the colony of Georgia and ask the same question, and her history gives the same reply. The to the Great Washington and all his successors down to the latest Chief Magistrate, and their acts all prove the same thing. Ask of General Jackson when the thunders of his cannon were heard in the southern forests, and he will say they are a nation, competent to contract with the Government, though President Jackson may deny it and say they are the subjects of Georgia. Whatever the circumstances may have grown up around them since the year 1785, or 1817, the meaning and force of their treaty obligations cannot be impaired.  Though power may declare they shall not be observed, justice will not respond. And although these unfortunate people, who left their homes and families, and flocked to the standard of the brave commander at Talledega, Horseshoe, 'c., and nobly fought the battles of Georgia, are now repaid with ingratitude and oppression, they are not yet vanquished. Though the strength and force of a dominant party is arrayed in opposition to all that they wish to enjoy as a free people, they are not frightened, and until something more pointed than words and high sounding epithets and denunciations are presented, they will continue to cling to their homes of their pristine fathers.

We had hoped and calculated upon the wisdom and justice of Congress, but in one branch we see already the result and effect of the declaration made to us on the 8th of April 1829. In the other branch the Government may in some measure maintain its exalted character, by a course more congenial to the principles of their own Constitution and the examples of great rulers. The generous course of policy pursued by Jefferson towards these ill-fated beings will go down to the latest posterity with increasing lustre, and is now looked upon by many as the best trait in the character and life of this great Statesman.

I do not believe that the feelings of the American people will respond to the proceedings of the Senate. I do not believe that they  will think our treaties should thus be thrown aside, and Georgia in defiance of so many pledges, and all that is just, should break down our humble Government and triumphantly mock our sufferings.

Our next and last chance is before the Supreme Court; and until we have its veto, let us be firm and unshaken in our stand.  Let not the dark clouds which hover around our political sun, cause us to despond and if it sets, I hope to see it rise again, if not at Echota, not within the limits of the United States.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Congress

Senate

Saturday, April 24.

REMOVAL OF THE INDIANS

The bill provided for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories, and for their removal West of the river Mississippi, was resumed in Committee of the Whole.

Mr. WHITE concluded in his remarks in reply to the arguments of gentlemen in opposition to the bill;

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN made some observations in explanation of some parts of his former remarks which he thought had been misapprehended by Mr. WHITE.

The question on Mr. F's amendment was divided, ' first taken on adding to the bill the following proviso:

Provided, always,  That until the said tribes or nations shall choose to remove, as by this act is contemplated, they shall be protected in their present possessions, and in the enjoyment of all their rights of territory and government, as heretofore exercised and enjoyed, from all interruptions and encroachments.

The proviso was rejected, by the following vote:

YEAS- Messrs. Barnard, Barton, Bell, Burnet, Chambers, Chase, Clayton, Foot, Frelinghuysen, Holmes, Knight, Marks, Naudain, Robbins, Ruggles, Seymour, Silsbee, Sprague, Webster, Willey--20.

NAYS- Messrs, Adams, Benton, Bibb, Brown, Dickerson, Dudley, Ellis, Forsyth, Grundy, Hayne, Hendricks, Iredell, Johnston, Kane, King, Livingston, McKinley, Mclean, Noble, Rowan, Sanford, Smith, of S.C., Tazewell, Troup, Tyler, White, Woodbury--27.

The question was then taken on the other proviso, which is as follows:

And provided also, That before any removal shall take place of any of the said tribes or nations, and before any exchange or exchanges of land be made as aforesaid, that the rights of any such tribes or nation in the premises, shall be stipulated or secured, and guaranteed by treaty or treaties, as heretofore made.

YEAS- Messrs, Barton, Bell, Burnet, Chambers, Chase, Clayton, Foot, Frelinghuysen, Holmes, Knight, Marks, Naudain, Robbins, Ruggles, Seymour, Silsbee, Sprague, Webster, Willey--19

NAYS-Adams, Barnard, Benton, Bibb, Brown, Dickerson, Dudley, Ellis, Forsyth, Grundy, Hayne, Hendricks, Iredell, Johnston, Kane, King, Livingston, McKinley, McLean, Noble, Rowan, Sanford, Smith of S. C. Tazewell, Troup, Tyler, White,Woodbury--28.

Mr. Sprague then moved to add a proviso in the following words:

Provided always, That until the said tribes or nations shall choose to remove as is by this act contemplated, they shall be protected in their present possession, and in the enjoyment of all their rights of territory and government, as promised or guaranteed to them by treaties with the United States, according to the true intent and meaning of such treaties.

The amendment was negatived by yeas and nays, 20 to 27, the vote being the same as on the first proviso.

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN NEXT OFFERED THE FOLLOWING PROVISO:

Provided always, That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to authorize the departure from, or non-observance of, any treaty, compact, agreement, or stipulation heretofore entered into and now subsisting between the United States and the Cherokee Indians.

This amendment was rejected by yeas and nays, by the same vote as the preceding.

On motion by Mr. M'KINLEY, the fourth section was amended, by adding thereto the words following.

And upon the payment of such valuation,the improvements so valued and paid for shall pass to the United States, and possession shall not afterwards be permitted to any of the same tribe.

A verbal amendment in the fourth section, proposed by Mr. SPRAGUE, having been agree to,

Mr. SANFORD moved to add the following section:

And be it further enacted, That where the lands in any State are held by Indians, and such lands belong to the State, subject to the claim of the Indians, or the State, or it guarantees are entitled to purchase the Indian title, the President of the United States may give and assign to any such Indians, any suitable district or portions or the lands described in the first section of this act, when any such Indians shall choose to remove to and reside on the western lands, so as to be assigned to them.

Mr. WOODBURY moved to add thereto the following:

Provided, That no part of the expense of extinguishing the titles, or paying for the improvements of the lands on the removal, or of the expense of extinguishing the titles, or paying for the improvements of the lands on the removal, or of the first year's residence of the Indians, referred to in this section, shall be borne by the United States.

This was accepted by Mr. SANFORD, as a modification of his motion, and the amendment was then rejected by yeas and nays, 10 to 37, as follows.

YEAS-Messrs, Barnard, Dudley, Ellis, Forsyth, King, McKInley, M'Lean, Marks, Sanford, White.--10

NAYS- Messrs, Adams, Bell, Benton, Bibb, Brown, Burnet, Chambers, Chase, Clayton, Dickerson, Foot, Frelinghuysen, Grundy, Hayne, Hendricks, Holmes, Iredell, Johnston, Kane,Knight, Livingston, Naudain, Noble, Robbins, Rowan, Ruggles, Seymour, Silsbee, Smith of S. C., Sprague, Tazewell, Troup, Tyler, Webster, Willey Woodbury--37.

On motion by Mr. FORSYTH, the second section was amended by adding thereto the following:

When the land claimed and occupied by the Indians is owned by the United States, or the United States are bound to the State within which it lies, to extinguish the Indian claim thereto.

On motion by Mr. WHITE, the blank in the eighth  section was filed with 500,000 dollars,and the bill reported to the senate with the amendments which having been concurred.

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN moved further to amend the bill, by adding the following proviso, which was rejected:

Provided, That before any change shall take place, the President of the United States shall nominate, and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint three suitable persons, and by them cause the country to which it is proposed to remove the Indians to be fully explored, and a report made to the President, and by him to Congress, of the extent of good and arable lands that can be obtained, and of the proportion of woodland in such country and of its adaptation to the objects of this bill, and to the wants and habits of the Indian nations.

The bill was then engrossed for a third reading by yeas and nays, as follows:

YEAS- Messrs. Adams, Barnard, Benton, Bibb, Brown, Dickerson, Dudley, Ellis, Forsyth, Grundy, Hayne, Hendricks, Iredell, Johnston, Kane, Livingston, M'Kinney, M'Lean, Noble, Rowan, Sanford, Smith of S. C., Tazewell, Troup, Tyler, White, Woodbury--28.

NAYS--Messrs. Barton, Bell, Burnet, Chambers, Chase, Clayton, Foot, Frelinghuysen, Holmes, Knight, Marks, Naudain, Robbins, Ruggles,Seymour, Silsbee, Sprague, Webster, Willey--19.

The Senate then Adjourned.

__________________

The following is a copy of the bill providing for the removal of the Indians, as it was passed by the Senate to a third reading:

Be it enacted, 'c. That it shall and may be lawful for the President of the United States to cause so much of any territory belonging to the United States west of the river Mississippi, not included in any State, to which the Indian title has been extinguished, as he may judge necessary, to be divided into a suitable number of districts, for the reception of such tribes or nations of Indians as may choose to exchange the lands where they now reside, and remove there; and to cause each of said districts to be so described by natural or artificial marks as to be easily distinguished from every other.

Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the President to exchange any or all of such districts, so to be laid off and described, with any tribe or nation of Indians now residing within the limits of any of the States or Territories, and with which the United States have existing treaties, for the whole or any part or portion of the territory claimed and occupied by such tribe or nation, within the bounds of any one or more of the States or Territories, when the land claimed and occupied by the Indians is owned by the United States or the United States are bound to the State within which it lies to extinguish the Indian claim thereto.

Sec. 3 And be it further enacted, That in the taking of any such exchange or exchanges, it shall and may be lawful for the President solemnly to assure the tribe or nation with which the exchange is made, that the United States will forever secure the guaranty to them, and their heirs or successors, the country so exchanged with them; and if they prefer it, that the United States will cause a patent or grant to be made and executed to them for the same: Provided always, That such lands shall revert to the United States, if the Indians become extinct, or abandon the same.

Sec. 4 And be it further enacted, That if any of the lands now occupied by the Indians, and to be exchanged for, there should be such improvements as add value to the land claimed by an individual or individuals of such tribes or nations, it shall and may be lawful for the President to cause such value to be ascertained by appraisement or otherwise, and to cause such ascertained value to be paid to the person or persons rightfully claiming such improvements.

Sec. 5.  And be it further enacted, That upon the making of any such exchange as is contemplated by this act, it shall and may be lawful for the President to cause such aid and assistance to be furnished to the emigrants as may be necessary and proper to enable them to remove to, and settle in, the country for which they ma have exchanged, and, also to give them such aid and assistance as may be necessary for their support and subsistence for the first year after their removal.

Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the President to cause such tribe or nation to be protected, at their new residence, against an interruption or disturbance from any other tribe or nation of Indians, or from any other person or persons whatever.

Sec. 7 And be it further enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the President to have the same superintendence and care over any tribe or nation in the country to which they may remove as contemplated by this act, that he is now authorized to have over them at their present places of residence.

Sec. 8  And be it further enacted, That, for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this act, the sum of 500,000 dollars is hereby appropriated, to be paid out of any money in the Treasury, not otherwise appropriated.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

DOCUMENTS

Relating to the boundary line between the

Cherokees and Creeks

[Continued]

HEAD OF COOSA, 15th Dec. 1829

Thomas Caudray, a white man married to a Cherokee wife, says he was born in the State of Georgia, and when very small his father removed to East Florida, and afterwards to Pensacola, where he was raised until about twenty-two years old; his father kept a public house in Pensacola, and an Indian trader by the name of James Deriso was in the habit of putting up and boarding at his father's when in Pensacola selling his peltries and laying in his goods- he the said Deriso was then said to be living at the Buzzard Roost on Chattahoochy which was said to be inhabited by Creek Indians- the singularity of the name Buzzard Roost raised by curiosity to inquire where it was and who lived there, which led to the information mentioned. When I was about twenty-two years of age, I left my parents and came into the nation, and have been here ever since. I am sixty-six years of age, and have lived in the Cherokee Nation about forty-four years, and I have frequently been at the Buzzard Roost on Chattahoochy which is the only place by that name I ever knew; it has been fifty years or upwards since Deriso first traded from Buzzard Roost to Pensacola. At a treaty held many years since in the State of Georgia between the United States and the Creek Indians, where General Pickens, General Wilkinson, and Col. Hawkins were Commissioners, the Cherokees sent a delegation of chiefs to attend the treaty and try to fix the boundary line between the two nations more distinct than it previously had been known; I recollect that Sour Mush, Chulio, ' Dick Rowe were apart of the delegation that attended the treaty, and after they had returned, I had frequent conversations with them on the subject of the line.- They all agreed in their statements to me at that day, which was as follows, that they the Cherokees and the Chiefs of the Creek Nation had agreed-that the line should begin at the High Shoals of Appalachy and to run with the Old Hightower Trail by the Stone Mountain and to the Shallow Ford on Chattahoochy, and then to make an offset and run the line towards the Coosa River, so as to include all the Cherokee settlements on the Cherokee lands; at that time the Cherokees were living at Suwanney Old Town, at the Standing Peach Tree on Chattahoochy, on Sweet Water Creek which runs into the latter river near the Buzzard Roost, as low down as the Salt Lick, which is within four or five miles of its mouth-they were also settled on all the creeks which run into the Hightower on the south side. I never knew but one noted trail called the Hightower Trail and that is the one I have mentioned as crossing at the Shallow Ford on Chattahoochy and runs from there to the Hightower Old Town on the Hightower River.

THOMAS CAUDRAY.

Witness

Rob't. D. Harris.

CHEROKEE NATION, TWO RUNS VILLAGE, 14th December, 1829.

Thomas Petit, mixed blood Cherokee and white, thinks he is about 61 years of age, was born and raised on the head waters of Chattahoochy until he was thirteen or fourteen years old, towards the close of the Revolutionary War. General Pickens with an army burnt the town of Chohta and Sorta two villages on the Chattahoochy-he was taken prisoner with his mother and many others, but the General left my mother and myself in the nation when he took most of the prisoners away with him. Shortly after that my mother left that part of the country and moved down the Hightower River and settled the place called the Red Bank.  We were among the first settlers of that town. After living there some years when I was nearly grown, my mother moved about twenty miles to the Pine Log Village, where I have lived and in the neighborhood of the same place ever since. A great many years ago there was a treaty held at Fort Wilkinson between the whites and Creeks, and the head chiefs of our nation were afraid the Creeks would sell some of our lands and sent Old Sour Mush, Old Chulio, Old Turkey and Eutalitta to attend the treaty and try to make a line with the Creeks; and they sent Old Segawee with them to interpret between the Cherokees and Creeks, and they sent Dick Rowe to interpret between the Cherokees and the whites. General Pickens and Col. Hawkins were Commissioners who held the treaty. After they came back from the treaty, Old Sour Mush told me that they had agreed upon a line with the Creeks, that at first they differed a little; the Cherokees proposed to make the Old Cherokee Corner the beginning corner of their country, but the Creeks refused to go so far back, but proposed to let the Cherokees begin at the High shoals of Appalachy which the Cherokees agreed to.  They agreed the line should run from there to the Ten Islands on the Coosa River, so as to leave the Stone Mountain on the Cherokee lands. I have always understood among the Cherokees that they owned the country on both sides of the Coosa River as low as the Ten Islands. I was one of the commissioners for the Cherokee Nation who marked the line between the two nations in 1822, which had been agreed on in 1821. This is the only line I ever heard of between the two nations which said line runs from Buzzard Roost on the Chattahoochy to the mouth of Will's Creek on the Coosa River. The above statement is just and true to the best of my knowledge and belief. Thomas Petit further states that he is familiar with the story of the Indians taking Blackburn's whiskey, which is as follows: Blackburn was descending the Coosa River with a boat of Whiskey-when he arrived at Pathkiller's near Turkey Town.  The Pathkiller informed Blackburn that there was a large camp of Creek Indians lying at the Ten Island, and he thought if he went there they would take his whiskey from him. On hearing this news, Blackburn determined he would not go down the river any further and got the Pathkiller to store up his whiskey which was put into one of his houses and locked up and he, Blackburn, went home-after he was gone the Creeks heard of the whiskey and came and demanded it of Pathkiller and threatened to break down the door if he would not open it for them--he was compelled to give his key and they took the whiskey and put it in the boat and carried it off down the river--there was said to be upwards of one hundred Creek Indians that came and took the whiskey. This has been the substance of the circumstance as I have always heard it.

his

THOMAS PETIT x

mark

Sworn to and subscribed before me the date above,

Walter Adair,

Circuit Judge.

OLD HIGHTOWER TOWN,

13th Dec. 1829

Wallen Eata, a full blood Cherokee, aged about 60 years, when young he lived at Tugalo Old Town on Tugalo River; and in the time of the Revolutionary War the white people drove them off and about thirty families of the Cherokees moved down the Chattahoochy and settled at the New York Towns on that river, which are about forty or fifty miles below the Buzzard Roost-the place had been occupied before they went there by the Creek Indians, but they had moved away-the Cherokees remained there about one year, and there being no Cherokees there but the clan or party that went there together, they broke up and moved over and settled at the Hightower Town, where he has lived ever since. He formerly understood they claimed the country down the water of Chattahoochy to a place called the Mineral Springs some distance below the Buzzard Roost, and from there to the Ten Islands on the Coosa River;- that after General M'Intosh married a Cherokee wife he asked liberty of the Cherokees to settle on their land on Chattahoochy the same place where he was afterwards killed by his own nation..

Wallen Eata always thought the Cherokees owned the land lower down to the south, then the line from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek, but that was the only line ever run between the two nations.

Interpreted by

JOHN WRIGHT.

Witness

Robt. D. Harris

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






THE SENATE.

The decision of this body, in relation to the Treaties existing between the United States and the Cherokee Indians, will not escape the deserved reprobation of the public. This nation will not submit in silence to a decision by which its faith and honor are to be wrecked-it will not fold its arms and slumber or smile over an act that must inevitably cover it with shame. The Senate have refused to recognize the binding force of our treaties with the Cherokees; they have denied the obligatory character of these solemn compacts; they have treated with levity and contempt those bonds which the probity and faith of this nation have been most sacredly pledged. There are not treaties between the United States and any foreign Powers upon earth couched in terms so explicit and so incapable of misinterpretation as those which have been entered into with the Cherokees. Those treaties have been ratified by every Chief Magistrate, Cabinet, and Senate, from the administration of General Washington to the present time. Those whom we most venerate among the dead, and honor among the living, have given their solemn sanction to those treaties; and if it be possible for a nation to be bound by all that is sacred in plighted faith and veracity, then we are responsible for the fulfulment (sic) of these treaties. And yet, notwithstanding these obligation, and in the face of all the remonstrances that have accumulated on their tables, from a thousand sources, the Senate have taken a step that will, unless arrested, annihilate the political existence of the Cherokees. This is an act of treachery that calls for the indignant denunciations of every honest and honorable heart. This nation, if true to itself, and the naked claims of justice, will pour its unmingled and unmeasured abhorrence upon this unprovoked destruction of our national faith.

It is not out of the power of the Senate to repair the deep injury which they have inflicted upon the honor of this country; it is beyond their reach to wipe off the stigma which they have cast upon our character for common honesty. But what have they done for the Cherokees in consideration of having violated their express engagements? They have threatened them with an immediate destruction of their just rights, if they remain where they are; but in case they see fit to remove beyond the inhabited parts of the United States, they will treat with them then. Treat with them then? Yes, in the very same breath in which they declare they will not preform the treaties which they have already made, they offer them, upon conditions degrading even to savages, more treaties! There is a presumption and impudence in this new proffer, quite as intolerable as the faithless conduct which preceded it. No person of common sense will listen to the declaration of that man who violates one promise, that he may have an opportunity of making another, more in accordance with his interests. And the Senate have it not in their power, after what has passed, to secure the confidence of the Cherokees. They may talk of new treaties forever; but unless they can expunge from the breast of the Cherokee his memory, they will never regain his confidence.  But this loss of character for faith and honest, is the mildest feature in the retribution that awaits us. We may forfeit with unconcern the respect of a community, or nation, and smile over the ill-gotten gains of our perfidy; but there is a witness above, whose eye never slumbers, and from whose hand the guilty cannot escape. Soon or late, the oppressor will lie lower than the helpless being upon whom he trampled.

American Spectator.

______________________________________________

The Indian Bill Passed.- It will be seen from the letter of our Washington correspondent, that the bill in the Senate which contemplates the removal of the Indians residing in any of the States and Territories, to the western wilderness, has passed to be engrossed. This bill is most artfully contrived,-avoiding all appearance of compulsion, and expressing much regard for the welfare of the Indians,-while in reality it is only intended to aid the cruel persecutions which have been instituted against them in Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi.- This is sufficiently evident from the rejection of the amendment offered by Mr. Frelinghuysen, which provides that 'until the said Indians shall choose to remove as by this act is contemplated, they shall be protected in their possessions, and in the enjoyment of all their rights of territory and Government as heretofore exercised and enjoyed, from all interruptions and encroachments.'  Here then is an explicit refusal on the part of the Senate, to protect the Indians in the privileges they have heretofore enjoyed! What is this but abandoning them to the tender mercies of Georgia? What but annulling the spirit, if not the exact words, of the Treaties to which our government has made itself a party? What but compelling them in fact, whatever may be the form, to seek a refuge from their tormentors in the wilderness of the West?  The Senate well knows that they cannot live under the laws of Georgia,- the operation of which, so far as related to them, is oppressive in the extreme. The Act of January 23rd, 1830, abolishes, with one fell sweep, 'all laws, ordinances, orders and regulations, of any kind whatever, made, passed, or enacted, by the Cherokee Indians;' and in return for this privilege, enacts, that no 'Indian or descendant of any Indian, residing within the Creek or Cherokee nations of Indians, shall be a competent witness in any Court of the State to which a white person may be a party, except such white persons residing within the said nation.'- The Senate knows that the Choctaws in Mississippi have already determined to remove, because they prefer a pilgrimage, they scarcely know where, to an abolition of all their internal 'rights, privileges, immunities and franchises,' as heretofore enjoyed, and subjection to the laws and supervision of the State.- This, however, we must be allowed to suppose, is precisely the end which the Senate seeks; and as that body has refused to protect the Indians in their sacred rights, we hold them, accessary to the crime of this cruel expatriation. --N. Y. Jour. Com.

____________________________________________________

From the New York Advertiser.

The Senate of the U. S. have passed the bill for the removal of the Indians, by a vote 27-20- We publish the ayes and nays below, wishing particularly to direct the attention of every reader to those ranged on the sides of this question. The mild terms in which the committee on Indian Affairs thought it prudent, indeed necessary, to couch their meaning, will not blind the eyes of the country, any more than did those of the Senators. The intention is but too well understood; there is the same appearance of determined injustice and oppression, with the same professions of humanity, which have marked the plan in its progress. No one can doubt that if this project be finally carried into effect, we shall acquire the character of hypocrites, as well as that of oppressors of the feeble and inoffensive. The few individuals who will be regarded as having held the vote in their own hands, and turned the scale on the wrong side, will not, we trust, soon be forgotten. If any evidence could be needed, to prove the true design of the bill, in placing the Indians out of the reach of protection, and without security, it would be abundantly furnished by the fact that the amendments were only designed to give that security which the framers of the bill appear to have thought it best only to pretend to promise.

We add an extract of a letter, dated Washington, April 26th.

'I enclose you the bill concerning the Indians, with Mr. Frelinghuysen's amendment, and the ayes and nays on the first proviso. You will perceive that of the votes north of the Mason and Dixon's line against these 'poor devils' (as Mr. Forsyth repeatedly called them, in debating the question,) there were from New York two, New Jersey one, and New Hampshire one. I regret that one of the 14 New England Senators could be so lost to his duty as a Senator, and so regardless of the feelings and sympathies of the people of the East, as to violate our faith, and strike this fatal blow upon this defenseless and unfortunate race. I consider their fate as sealed. The are destined to become extinct. As long as they occupy a single section of land which tempts the cupidity of any white man, means will be devised to wrest it from them.

'We pledge ourselves to guaranty them a title beyond the Mississippi and what is our guaranty? The rights of the Cherokees. Now these treaties are all void, because they conflict with 'state sovereignty'. And when we shall want the country thus 'guarantied,' we shall find some other pretext, equally ridiculous, to take it. I reflect, with solemn awe, upon our treatment of these remnants of this noble race.  These 'savages' have had no one to tell their tale. In our numerous wonderous (sic) conflicts with them, from our first settlement of the country they have had no Tacitus, no historian to rehearse their wrongs; it has been all exparte-all a one-sided affair. The account is fairly and impartially registered in Heaven, and I fear the balance is sadly against us.

Mr. Sanford proposed an amendment embracing the Indians in New York, 'c. the preemptive right to whose lands belonged to the state; that whenever the state could purchase them out, the United States should assign them lands in the West, these Indians to be removed at the expense of the states where they are located.

This amendment was advocated by the mover, and by several of the southern members, to propitiate New York: but it was readily perceived that this would be, in effect, a donation to a state,  and constitutional scruples immediately rushed into the heads of the restrictionists, and New York lost the boon. Mr. Frelinghuysen, and Mr. Sprague, severally offered amendments, the object of which was to require an observance of treaty stipulations, but these were negatived; and the Senate of the United States, 27 to 20 has thus, in the face of their constituents, and the world, denied the faith of treaties! The House will, I fear concur, and this is an effect of the 'great moral and political revolution' which was accomplished in the election of Jackson.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

New Echota: May 22, 1830

Many of the people of Georgia are just waiting for the first day of June, to begin a work upon the Cherokees. Their first onset will be on the leading men, supposing that if they are ousted, others will of course follow. Having this object in view, plans are already matured to break up a number of individuals in the nation. We understand there are false notes and false accounts made up, to the amount of several thousand dollars, against Messrs. Ross, Ridge, Vann, 'c. and that some time in June, the Sheriff of Carroll County will make his descent on these men. If we know anything of the feelings of these Cherokees, we believe they would first see their property go by piecemeals (sic), before they would run to the western country for shelter.

___________________________________________

The intruders are not yet removed, ' we know not when they will be, if they are ever to be removed. The number of the gold diggers is accumulating daily, and it is said they speak rather lightly of the troops. It is estimated that not less than ten thousand dollars worth of Gold is dug every day by these men. This is undoubtedly a moderate estimate. What is then the whole amount which has been carried away by the permission of the Government? We say

permission, for we can conceive no way why they should have continued so long in their unlawful occupation, without being in the least molested. If they dig $10,000 a day, and supposing they have been employed 150 days, the sum of one million, five hundred thousand dollars has been taken away from the poor starving and naked Cherokees! So much for government honesty, fair dealing, and justice. If humanity to the Indians (to which many hypocritically lay claim) is the order of the day, let the sum be returned to these 'poor devils' to save them from starvation and nakedness.

Among the many circumstances, which induce us to believe, that the Government has been conniving at this public robbery, are the following, which are worthy of notice. Sometime since, the agent of the United States, Col. Montgomery, warned these miners off, and threatened to prosecute them under the intercourse law. Many took the alarm and left the nation. It is well known that agent did not prosecute them.  We have been informed from a source which induces us to make it public, that soon after the return of the agent from Georgia, his son-in-law, Mr. Hardwick, who lives next door to him, and we believe is under the protection of the agency, was seen, with a number of hands, digging for gold, with the intruders. If it should turn out that we have been misinformed, we shall do ourselves the pleasure of making proper correction.

_______________________________________________

CHEROKEE NATION, 14th May, 1830.

Mr. Boudinott, Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Dear Sir- We are betrayed in the Senate of the United States, of which we have received certain information by letters from our Delegation. Mr. Frelinghuysen's amendments, to the resolutions of the committee on Indian Affairs in which our rights agreeable to treaty were comprehended have been voted down, by 27 votes to 20. The simple question in a form of an amendment, will you be governed by treaties you have made with the Indians? was also voted down by the like vote! Our apprehensions that the subject would be molded into a party question are now realized before, us. In the House of Representatives, we may presume the same result. While the spear thrown by Jackson's Party in the Senate, is quivering in our sides, and our hearts' blood is flowing a pace, we have the consolation to know that we are defended, so far as that defence can go, by such men as Frelinghuysen, Sprague and Robbins, and the tears of Christians and all good men mingle with ours in this our day of sufferings. In a trial of this kind, where, (aside from Political influence) strong interests depend in the result, and which are felt and supported by a portion of the Judges, we may apprehend the verdict to be given in their own behalf. Such were the character of the votes of Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Mississippi, North Carolina, Indiana and Illinois, who afforded on this occasion 14 votes.  Deduct these from 27 leaves 13 disinterested votes against us, and gives us 7 votes majority of the same character, which is a fair commentary of the strength of our cause before an impartial tribunal, if any can be found in these United States.

Our correspondent will please to excuse us from publishing his entire piece. Although his remarks are strictly correct, yet it would be, we conceive, a deviation from our rule of forbearance and moderation to express truth with severity, even when it is richly deserved, as in the present case. Our correspondent comments upon a toast which was drank by Senator Hayne of South Carolina, at the late political dinner served in Washington. It is certainly a curiosity, considering the gentlemen who drank it, and the time and place when it was drank. SENATOR HAYNE, who in a few days was to give his vote in a case of momentous importance, on which, perhaps, depended the destiny of a whole people, drinking the following toast, before the President of the United States, and the principal leaders of the party, was indeed a matter of astonishment. What was the nature of his vote when it was given?-When party spirit has such an ascendency (sic), it is time to tremble for liberty and justice. But here is the toast:

'The State of Georgia. By the firmness and energy of her Troup, she has achieved one great victory for state rights; the wisdom and eloquence of her sons, will secure here another proud triumph, in the councils of the Nation.

Drank with great applause.'

Our correspondent next comments upon the speech of Mr. Wayne on the occasion. We insert the following sentence:

'Then Wayne expressed thanks, spoke of Revolutionary deeds done by Georgia, who nobly

tho' last, joined in the opposition to Britain, but neglected to tell that she was the first and only one that did submit and was conquered!'

If an impartial tribunal had decided against us, our feelings would have been different from what they are now.- But we know party spirit has given the verdict-we therefore perfectly agree with our correspondent in what follows:

Mr. Editor, we know that General Jackson's reputation would be blasted forever, if a majority of his friends did not sustain his reputation in his construction of Indian rights. Here is the doctrine and plan disclosed in a report made by Senator Benton.- 'Those who make the President must support him, their political fate becomes identified and they must stand or fall together. Right or wrong, they must support him,' This is the language of party spirit which has organized power to trample on our rights. What the people will say to this we know not, and it is not material to know.  This Nation has intelligence enough to know that the Government of the United States is a sentimental Government, and that they under every oppression and aggrievance will show to the American public, by every fair and peaceable means, their oppressed condition and ask for protection. So long as we live we will demand at their door, the use and enjoyment of that liberty they profess to love. Can we demand this in vain? The majesty of freemen, and their disposition to render justice, we believe to be our security and the rock of our refuge. We still hope.

_______________________________________________

Washington City, 3rd May, 1830

Very Dear Sir-Your letter dated 14th ult. I had the pleasure of receiving yesterday. It gives us much satisfaction to hear from our homes and friends at this distance, and after so long an absence. We know too, they are anxious to hear from us.- They have long been kept in painful suspense as to their fate. Public expectation has been raised to a high degree. All eyes have been turned to the present Congress; and there our hopes have rested as upon the rock and pillar of our safety. Fond anticipations have been cherished in the justice and magnanimity of the 'congregated wisdom' of the American people.  While we have held forth to them and to the world our solemn treaties, our barriers against oppression, we have consoled ourselves in the sanguine belief that the spirit of Washington and Jefferson, which still breathes upon the face of these solemn pledges, would still prevail with their successors and descendants. But alas! how is it? Look back to the 24th of April, and you will see grave Senators turning with contempt upon these poor children of the forest, placed under their kind protection and a deaf ear to their humble and humiliating cries for justice. See these ill-fated beings coldly thrust aside all their claims for justice and humanity. See them thrown upon the mercy of a foe whose persecuting edict has long since gone forth, and under whose power wrongs have already been consummated upon our innocent heads; and created a dark forebodings of the future. Expectation has been raised, but to be disappointed;-Bright prospects, to be blighted; and fond hopes cherished to be crushed, but not extinguished. The people of the United States have not yet said to the Cherokees 'we have only promised to deceive you, and now since we have grown strong and you weak, our pledges you hold in your hands are void. 'They are not to bind us longer. They are worth--NOTHING!!' When they in the majesty of their strength and greatness shall rise up and declare us a people no longer, then will our appeals be silences; then shall we be prepared to meet our fate. Their sentiments have not governed the majority of the Senate, but a spirit I pray Heaven, may never enter the Councils of our people so long as they are a people. Let us then remain firm, and united in our efforts, pursuing that course of forbearance toward our enemies that prudence and moderation will dictate.  Giving no cause for complaint and exception to the wise and good, and spurning with indignant feelings him who will sacrifice his own and his country's weal, to gain a paltry sum of filthy lucre. Let us prove to the world that as Cherokees, we know our rights, and as men we feel the evils of injustice; and although power may crush our humble institutions and shackle us with the chains of oppression, yet will we still breathe the healthy air of our own mountains, and proclaim from their tops, that justice-that Heaven born spirit, is banished from civilized society and Government, and innocence fallen a victim and sacrifice to civilized atrocity and avarice.

We have my dear sir, fallen upon strange times.  The old adage that a 'new broom sweeps clean' it seems will be sadly verified in our case, for the new administration has been scrubbing hard to clear, and relieve us, not of impediments to our welfare, but our most sacred rights and enjoyments. It is even held a crime and punishable in the

Georgia penitentiary for an honest Cherokee to counsel and advise his neighbor for his good! But it is a charitable and Christian act to despatch agents to our Nation to persuade, promise largely, threaten, utter falsehoods, and even move upon the poor Indian 'in the line of his prejudices,' 'by large offers' (to use the phrase of the very Hon. Secretary who tried it effects to his disappointment) and all for what? Why to compel this poor Indian to commit an act contrary to his will and better judgment, prejudicial to himself and country's interest, and probably his ultimate ruin, merely to gratify the insatiable anxiety of Georgia to oust the Cherokees of their cultivated possessions, contrary to law and justice! No: not exactly contrary to law, for they have thought best to enact laws that our oppression may be conducted systematically! But see the admirable consistency, and acute perception between right and wrong; the legislature of Georgia declare it a crime and punishable for an Indian to do good; and the Executive of the United States hold that it is right and just to do an Indian wrong, if it is thought that it may turn out to his benefit. Surely the clear and philosophical principles of the learned Paley are coming fast into disrepute among the reformers of the present age. Be it so. The tocsin  of alarm may sound from the walls of Georgia's prison; Executive denunciations heralded forth by its `organ' and a formidable phalanx of Troups arrayed, yet will I say, and do say, let us remain upon our own lands, and think not of Arkansas as a home--never; and let the traitor look to his safety; and here if treaties are not binding, we shall have no more. Let it not be said that the Cherokees ever sold the last spot of earth, where lie mouldering (sic) in dust, the bones of many a sire, to gratify civilized rapacity, and to hasten their own destruction.  We know well there is no abiding place in the West for us, if forced from our present and lovely abode. Our neighbors need not be uneasy at our determination to remain; we have no warriors. They fell under gallant Jackson. We have prayed for justice; and we are prepared to meet our doom.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






FOREIGN

GEORGIA LAWS

We copy the following extracts from the speeches of Mr. Peel and Mr. Brougham, in the British Parliament, in order that our readers many know the opinion which is entertained of justice of the Laws of Georgia, in other countries.--Poug. Int.

On the 23rd of February, Lord John Russel brought forward his motion to allow Birmingham, Manchester, and Leeds to send each two Members to Parliament. Mr. H. Twiss, and Mr. Peel opposed the measure; the latter gentleman spoke to the following effect:-

When the subject of Universal Suffrage occured (sic) to his mind, he could not help being struck with a question put to him last night, by the Hon. Member for Clare, relative to a state in another country, which had the advantage of Universal Suffrage in its full extent.  He begged to be understood that he had great respect for America and for its institutions, and it was not from any desire to raise a prejudice or draw invidious distinctions against any one of its States that he now made a comparison between its representation and that of England.- He was asked whether, in the state of Georgia, certain measures had not been adopted on the subject of quarantine, and he (Mr. P.) could not help reflecting, at the time, that the enactment referred to, was made in a land, and passed in an assembly elected by universal suffrage.- (Cries of 'No,no.') His meaning was that every free man had a right to vote at the election of a Representative, and that entitled him to say that the assembly was elected by universal suffrage. In alluding to the subject he was willing to make allowance for the feeling which must prevail in a country where slavery was established; but still he did not think that if the same state of circumstances existed in any place for which a British House of Commons was to legislate, that such a law would have been suffered to pass. He found it enacted in that State, that if any slave or free person of colour (sic) should circulate or bring into circulation any written or printed paper inciting the slaves to insubordination against their masters, he should be punished with death. The second enactment was still more painful, and by that it was provided, that if any slave or free person of colour (sic) should teach a slave to read or write, the same would be punished by whipping, by a fine of $500, and imprisonment in the common gaol. Now making every allowance for the influence of those feelings which arise from the possession of slaves, still he was convinced that the British House of Commons though neither elected on the principles of annual Parliaments nor of universal suffrage, would long pause before it could be induced to make such an Act, if it had the power to do so, for Jamaica, or any of its West India Islands.

Mr. BROUGHAM said the Right Hon. Secretary had referred to an act of the legislature of Georgia. Holding in the highest respect and esteem his brethren in America he deeply lamented that there should exist, on the statute book of one of the states of the Union, so disgraceful a set of regulations as those which had been mentioned; but that they proved anything, whatever, against parliamentary reform he utterly denied. It was because the black people of Georgia had not only no power to be chosen to the Legislature, but had not amongst them, one single voice in the choice of the Legislature- it was for this reason, and this reason alone, that the page blackened in our sight, and that we condemned the Legislature of Georgia. What was the horrible- what was the unspeakable iniquity of the Legislature of which we complained? It was, that they had enacted the most cruel capricious, and unjust penalties-against whom? Against themselves.- their constituents- the men whom they represented?  No such thing-but against the men whom they did not represent- against the men, not one of whom they would allow ever to raise his voice, even to a whisper, upon any one public measure, but least of all upon that public measure which alone made the case applicable to the present inquiry.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The St. Louis (Missouri) Gazette states that the Fox and Sac Indians have become desirous of selling their country to the United States. It lies west of, and is bounded east, the whole extent, by the Mississippi-south by the State of Missouri, and a more beautiful and valuable country for agricultural purposes is perhaps no where to be found in the West.  The prairies are generally small, the forests extensive, the streams of water numerous and pure, the soil deep and rich; and in point of mineral wealth, the country is represented to be greatly superior to that lately purchased of the Winnebagoes and other Indians.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






LITTLE ROCK, Ark. March 23

General John Campbell, Agent of Indian Affairs for the Creek Indians West of the Mississippi, arrived at this place in a keel-boat, with his family, on Wednesday morning last, on his way to the Western Creek Agency.

Steam-boat Arrivals.--The steamboat Amulet, Captain Potter, arrived at our landing on Monday evening, last week, (after our paper had gone to press) from Pittsburgh, and two days and eight hours from mouth of White River, and left early on Tuesday morning last, for Cantonment Gibson, laden with the contractor's supplies for that post. She had on board upwards of one hundred cabin and deck passengers, among whom were upwards of ninety emigrants, mostly for up the river.

The steam-boat Industry, Captain Johnson, passed up, on Wednesday morning last, from the mouth of White River, with seventy or eighty emigrating Cherokee Indians, bound for the Cherokee Nation up the Arkansas.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Over the grave of Push-ma-ta-ha, an Indian chief buried at Washington, a monument has been erected, on which are inscribed his last words: 'When I am gone fire the big guns over me.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






MARRIED

At the Valley Towns by the Rev. E. Jones, 12th April, 1830, A-ga-lu-ga to Ga-lo-nus-gee, Dsu-do-dsa-la to Ga-lu-sda-ye, Dso-sdo-suh-to Du-na-ye, Guh-na-ne-da to Yo-gwe-se, Oo-dsa-lu-de to Dse-ge-eh.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

SPEECH

Of Mr. Robbins, of Rhode Island, in Senate of the U. S.

April 21, 1830

The bill to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the state of territories, and for their removal west of the river Mississippi, being under consideration, Mr. Robbins of Rhode Island addressed the Senate as follows:

Mr. President: The whole argument in favor of this bill turns upon the question, whether the Indian nations within our territorial boundaries are competent to make treaties with the United States. For it makes no difference whether the Indian nation be within the chartered limits of a state, or out of those limits, if within the limits of the United States. For if being within a state renders the Indian nation incompetent to make a treaty, the being within the United States makes them equally incompetent, the reason being the same in both cases-namely, the being within the jurisdiction of another power; and therefore, as the argument is, subject to that jurisdiction.

If these Indian nations are competent to make treaties, then the proposed law is unnecessary; as its object may be effected by treaty; and this law is not necessary to aid the Executive in making this treaty.- And if these Indian nations are competent to make treaties; then this proposed law is not only unnecessary, but it is unconstitutional; for it is to make a treaty by the legislature; which can only be made by the Executive and Senate.

The turning question, then, of this whole debate, I repeat, is, whether the Indian nations within our territorial boundaries are competent to make treaties.

Before I proceed to discuss this question, I have to remark that it is matter of surprise that this question should now be made, when it is now made for the first time. From the time of the discovery of this new world by the old, down to this time, now more than three hundred years, the competency of an Indian nation, situated within the jurisdiction of another power, has never been made a question before. No jurist, no writer upon public law has ever made it a question.  But, through all that long tract of time, treaties upon treaties, and almost without number, have been made with them, without a doubt, in a single instance, of their competency to make them.  This is not denied on the other side; indeed it is admitted that the doctrine and practice of all past time, for century upon century, has been, to consider these nations, thus situated, as competent to make treaties. But all this is treated as if the whole world, from the beginning down to this time, had been benighted upon this subject; as if they had ignorantly supposed and be-______ Indian nations, thus situated, were competent to make treaties when in truth they were not competent to make treaties. That Great Britain was in this deplorable state of ignorance, with all her statesmen; that our governments, both state and nations, had been in this deplorable state of ignorance with all their statesmen; that the jurists or writers upon public law, of all the world, had all been in this deplorable state of ignorance. I say so treated; for I do not perceive that this new opinion is advanced with any loss confidence, or with any more diffidence, or account of that mass of authority and usage against it.

I have further to remark, that if indeed it be so, that these Indian nations, thus situated are not, and have not been, competent to make treaties, then all the treaties made with them are nullities.  If so, the consequence of that consequence is enough, I should think, to make gentlemen pause a little, and even fear the success of their own argument; for the consequence would be such that the whole body of the rights acquired by Indian treaties or held under them, would be torn from their foundations, and the resulting evils would be incalculably great. I have said that in that case these treaties would be nullities, and who can doubt it?  The President and Senate have the power to make treaties; but a treaty made with a party not competent to make it, is not a treaty; and the President and Senate are not competent to make a compact which is not a treaty; so that ever such treaty is void, as a treaty because the Indian nation was not competent to make it; ' it is void as a compact, because the President and Senate are not competent to make it. If this be so, my Hon. friend from Tennessee need not disquiet himself upon the subject of his contradictory obligations; for, upon his doctrine, these treaties have created no obligations upon the United states.

Again; I have to remark that if these Indian nations, thus situated, are not competent to make treaties, no more treaties can be made with them; that treaties which have been made, and not ratified, if any such there be, must be rejected; treaties which have been projected, for the purchase and extinguishment of Indian titles, as that in Indiana for instance, must be abandoned. We are to get no mare lands from them by treaty; if you are to get them at all, you are to get them by compact, and this compact to be made, not by the Executive and Senate, but by the Legislature. And, pray, how is the Legislature to make such a compact? It would be impossible, I think, to overcome the difficulties to this mode of acquiring Indian lands.

And then, in case of future wars with these Indian nations, how are they ever to be terminated? and how are the relations of peace to be ever restored, without the intervention of treaties?

Can anyone then wish to see established a doctrine fraught with these, and it may be with other equally deplorable consequences?  I should hope not.

But if we must prove, what has never before been denied-what has always been admitted-admitted in theory, and in practice admitted-namely, that the Indian nations within our territorial boundaries are competent to make treaties-how is that competency to be made out?

I agree that an Indian nation to be competent to make a treaty, must be a sovereignty; for that treaties, properly so called, can only be made by sovereigns with sovereigns; but for this purpose it is not material whether the sovereignty be dependent or independent; sovereignty is all that is necessary to this competency. The honorable gentleman from Alabama (Mr. M'Kinley) said the sovereigns must be equal, but he will find no authority for that opinion, if, but equal, he meant anything more than that both must be sovereigns. A dependent sovereignty is still a sovereignty, and competent to make a treaty. I understood this to be admitted by the honorable gentleman from Georgia, in the outset of his argument; though I could not reconcile the subsequent part of his argument with this admission.

Now what is sovereignty? It is to be sui juris-- that is, to be subject within itself to no law but the law of its own making; externally it may be subject to another jurisdiction, and then it is a dependent sovereignty-to what degree dependent, will depend upon the treaty or treaties by which it is made dependent, if so ,  made by treaty. Now this is the condition of every Indian nation in our country, juris and therefore sovereign; but subject externally to another jurisdiction, and therefore a dependent sovereign. This has always been their condition since they ceased to be independent sovereignties.- Since they ceased to be independent sovereignties, these never has been a time when this was not their condition. When, or where I would ask, has any Indian nation been subject within itself to the law of another jurisdiction? I know of none; I have heard of none. If there be one, that one would be an exception from the rest; that one may ave relinquished its right to be juris; and then it would not be regarded as an exception.

Now the fact of being sui juris, and always having been so, constitutes the right to be so. I would be glad to know if any nation has, or ever had, a better title to be juri sui juris that the fact of being so, and of always having been so than a present possession fortified by a prescription that knows no beginning; that runs back as far as memory or tradition goes, and beyond to where it is lost, in that oblivion in which unknown times and their memorials are all buried and lost! And such is the title of every Indian nation now in fact sui juris, to be, and remain sui juris. There never was, there never can be, any better title to the right of being sui juris. To the validity of such a title, its acknowledgment by other sovereignties is not necessary; but is it were, there never has been a time in which it was not acknowledged by other sovereignties, or was denied by any other; but it is not necessary for a right in present possession, fortified and sanctified by such a prescription as this is, stands on higher ground, much higher, than any acknowledgment by other sovereignties could place it.  Unquestionably then these nations are sui juris, or right sui juris; therefore sovereign, therefore competent to make treaties.

A multitude of matters have been urged upon our consideration on the other side, not to disprove the fact of the Indian nations being at this moment sui juris, nor the fact that they have always been sui juris; for these can neither be disproved nor denied; but to prove that though they are sui juris de jure; not being aware, as it appears to me, that the fact constitutes the right.

It is said, for instance, that the crown of Great Britain claimed a right to this country by the right of discovery; that what was the right of the crown, is now our right, and therefore, that the Indian nations are not sui juris de jure.

Now what was the right as claimed by discovery? (I make no question of that right, for the time has gone by for making that question except as a moralist or historian. Whatever was the defect of that right originally, time now has supplied that defect, as far as defect of right can be supplied by lapse of time.) But what was that right as claimed by discovery? It was that a right to the domain of the country, subject to the right of occupancy by the Indian nations; and that occupancy to be without restriction as to mode, and without limitation as to time; with the right of alienation of their possessory title, restricted to the proprietary of the domain. This was the claim of the British crown as founded on discovery; it was so defined and settled in the case referred to by the honorable gentleman from Alabama, (Mr. M'Kinley) the case of Johnson and M'Intosh.  It was so settled by the court, in that case, because it had been so settled by what had become the customary law of nations. But did the King of Great Britain claim (for that is the important question) did he claim these Indians as his subjects, over whom, or for whom, he had a right to legislate, for their internal regulation? No never; never was a claim of that kind advanced; never heard of; never thought of that claim left them as it found them, subject within themselves only to their own jurisdiction.

Besides this notorious fact, the right of pre-emption, claimed by discovery, is decisive to prove that the right of jurisdiction was not claimed. If the crown claimed these Indian nations as his subjects, who claim a preemptive right to their titles? did any king claim a preemptive right to the land titles of his own subjects? Never.  If discovery then is a good authority for what it claims it is food for what it disclaims; it disclaims the right of jurisdiction over and for the Indian nations. It therefore affirms and confirms this right in them, and guaranties it to them. is it possible that the honorable gentleman from Mississippi can suppose that the case of Grenada is a case in point? That was the case of a conquest, and the conquest ceded by the treaty of peace to the conqueror to be holden as a part of his dominions, and the people s a part of his subject; and both have been holden so ever since.

It is said again that a state has a right to exercise jurisdiction over persons within its territorial limits, and of course over the Indian nations within its limits; and, therefore, that such Indian nation can have no right to exemption from that jurisdiction. If this state right was admitted, it would not disprove the Indian right; it would only prove that the two rights were incompatible, and that if the State right is averted and executed against the Indian right, that Indian right must be annihilated.- That the Indian nation is placed within the limits of another jurisdiction, proves nothing against the Indian right, for that must be the situation of ever Indian nation within our territorial limits.  It is son, and was to be so, by the very claim originally made to the country, on which it was originally settled, and by which it is now held. This country was in the possession of these Indian nations; the British claim to it as founded in discovery, was a claim to the domain of their country, subject to their right of occupancy. They of course must be situated i that domain. That domain was parcelled out into colonies, now become states. So that, by our very claim to their country, they were to be and to remain within our jurisdiction, and exempt for that jurisdiction, subject only to their own.

To strengthen this state claim against the Indian right, it is said that the state within its territorial limits has all the rights which the crown of Great Britain had within the same limits. But, as has been stated, the crown of Great Britain made no such claim against the Indian right. Happy will it be for these nations, if the claim of that crown is adopted by the states as the measure of their claim, and if they will content themselves therewith.

Still it is said that a sovereign independent state has a right to jurisdiction over all its won population; and these states were sovereign and independent when they adopted their Constitution; and that they did not surrender this attribute of sovereignty by that adoption.  Admitting all this, it is still to be proved that an Indian nation within a state is a part of the population of a state, is the population which constitutes the community which constitutes the state, which is protected by the laws and amenable to the laws of the state as that community. But an Indian nation within a state is not a part of that community.

The population of the United States is taken periodically by regular census; it is now about to be taken for the fourth time; were the Indian nations within the United States ever included in any  census, as a part of the population of the United States? Never, as everyone knows. And why not, if all persons within the limits of a sovereign jurisdiction are necessarily the subjects of that jurisdiction, as a part of the population under that jurisdiction?

The states pay direct taxes to the United States in proportion to their numbers; that is, to their population. But re the Indian nations included in that population?  Never-they are expressly excluded by the Constitution of the United States. Then the states themselves, by adopting the Constitution, have defined  what constitutes their own population; and have excluded from it these Indian nations.

Still it is insisted, and as a branch of the same argument, that the Constitution gives the Executive no authority to go within a state and make a treaty with a part of its population. This is true; but an Indian nation within a state, as we have just seen is not a part of its population. The power to make treaties as given by the Constitution, is a general power, and may be exercised at the Executive discretion, with any nation or people competent to make a treaty; and it is not material where that nation is situated or placed; if competent to make a treaty, or Executive is competent to make it with them.

Again, it has been said that in several states in which is situated some tribe or remnant of some tribe of Indians, that these states have subjected these Indians to state legislation. Without stopping to inquire how that fact is, and if a fact whether it has been with the will or against the will of these Indians; it is enough to say, that if those states have undertaken that legislation over those Indians against their will; and while they were a tribe and sui juris and when unto that time they had always been sui juris; that fact instead of proving a right in that legislation, proves a wrong by that legislature and instead of disproving the Indian right, it proves a violation of that right. I trust it is too late in the day, and so enlightened as this is, to contend that a fact which is a wrong, is a precedent to justify a similar wrong; and that a violation of right in one case, becomes a warrant for a violation of right in all similar cases.

In the multitude of matters urged upon our consideration, to show that the Indians are not sui juris de jure, these are all which appear to me to have the appearance of argument; for in the rest, I confess I cannot see even that appearance.  It is said for instance (and I notice it as a sample of the rest-for it would be endless to notice them all in detail) that the Indian is an inveterate savage, and incapable of civilization.  Admitting this to be the fact which I by not means do admit, what has it to do with the question whether his nation is sui juris and competent to make a treaty? Is the Indian right less a right because the Indian is a savage? or does our civilization give us a title to his right? A right which he inherits equally with us, from the gift of nature, and nature's God.  The Indian is a man, and has all the rights of man. The same God who made us, made him, and endowed him with the same rights; for 'of one blood hath he made all the men who dwell upon the earth.' And if we trample upon these rights; if we force him to surrender them; or extinguish then in his blood; the cry of that injustice will cry to the throne of that God, and there, like the blood of Abel, will testify against us.  If we should be arraigned for the deed before his awful bar and should we plead our boasted civilization in its defence, it would in his sight, but add deeper damnation to the deed, and merit but the more signal retribution of his eternal justice. As to the civilization of the Indian, that is his own concern in the pursuit of his own happiness. If the want of it is a misfortune; if neither takes from his rights, nor adds to our own. As to his being an inveterate savage, and incapable of civilization, I do not believe it; in that respect. I believe he is like the rest of mankind. The savage state is the natural state of man, and that state has charms to the savage, which none but the savage knows.  Man nowhere, at no time, ever rose from the savage to the civilized man, but by the spur of an absolute necessity; a necessity which controlled and could not be controlled; it was not until he could no longer live as a savage; or go where he could not live as savage that he would submit himself to that incessant labor and severe restraint, which lies at the foundation of all civilizations; ' to which nothing but education and habit reconciles the nature even of civilized man. The wild and free nature of the savage, uncustomed to involuntary and constant labor, and to the multiplied and severe restraints of civilized society, revolts at the idea of that labor, and has strong repugnance to them can only be overcome, as I have said, by the force of an overruling necessity. I have said this, not that I disapprove or would discourage attempts at their civilization; but to account for the only partial success, if it has been only partial, which has attended those attempts; and at the same time to vindicate the Indians from the charge of incapacity for civilization; any further forth than is applicable to all mankind,while, in a savage state.  That very necessity exists, and is beginning to exert its civilizing tendency, where the tribes in question now are; but will no longer exist if they are removed as is contemplated by this bill.

Again, it is alleged against one of these nations, situated not in one, but in several of these states, that they have been guilty of an act which force its their right to live independently of state jurisdiction, and which requires that the forfeiture should be immediately and rigorously enforced. It is the act of their having changed the form of their government for their own internal regulation. It seems that to better their condition, and with a view to their own civilization, they have discarded that of the savage, and adopted the government well devised to improve that condition and insure that civilization; a government that is in itself a monument of wisdom, that speaks volumes in favor of their capacity for civilization, and of their advances therein, for it has every essential feature of a free and well balanced government. It is evidently not a work of blind imitation, for while it has followed the best models, it has followed them only so far as they were adapted to their circumstances; and it is original so far as their circumstances required it to be so and where it is original, it is no less admirable than where it is imitative. Attentive to those circumstances-so far from assuming any powers inconsistent with their external relations, either to the United States or to those states, that government recognizes and ratifies those relations exactly as they exist, and confined itself entirely to provision for their own internal police. Sensible of their rude state, and with a view to their own civilization, it makes it the primary duty of the nation to provide the means of education, and to promote the acquisition and diffusion of knowledge. - Indeed, all its provisions show a wise survey of the present, and a provident forecast for the future. Now, this new government is not to be tolerated for a moment; state legislation must come and abate it as a nuisance, and the nation are to be punished for this atrocious act, with the forfeiture, and forever, of every national right. They are not to be permitted even to resume the government they had discarded, and to live again as savages; but they are at once and forever to be subjected to the rule of another jurisdiction, never again to enjoy the right of self government; a right which has come down to them from their fathers,and through an unknown series of generations, and for an unknown series of ages. A right which they had used, but not abused; certainly not in the act which is made a pretext for its destruction.

Ill fated Indians! barbarism, and attempts at civilization, are alike fate to your rights; but attempts at civilization the more fatal of the two. The jealous of their own rights are the contemners of yours; proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to take advantage of  your weakness. You have lands which they want or rather which they desire, for they do not want them; your rights stand in their way, and those proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to destroy your rights by their legislation.- Proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to present to your feeble and helpless condition, this alternative-either to abandon your homes, the habitations you have built, the fields you have planted, and all the comforts you have gathered around you; the homes of your fathers, and the sepulchers of their dead; and go far into the depths of an unknown wilderness; there to abide the destiny which may there await you; or to surrender your rights, and submit yourselves to their power, but to expect no participation in their rights.

An alternative which has planted dismay and despair in every heart that palpitates in that nation; for they see their situation, and that nothing is left them but resignation to their fate. Within themselves they have no resource; without they have no hope.- The guarantee of treaties made with the United States- the faith of a mighty nation pledged for their protection--which was their hope, is now their hope no more; like the morning cloud and the early dew, it has passed away; for the chief of that mighty nation has been appealed to make good that guarantee, but has been appealed to in vain. He has told them that he will not make it good; and that they must submit to that alternative.

But we are told they have deserved all this, because they have changed the form of their government. But has this changed their external relations with the United States? or with those states? Not in the least. Nor in any one possible respect. The new government, like the old, is made for their own internal regulations and for that object merely. Sui juris as they are and always have been, they had a right to make the law for their own internal regulation, according to their own will, and to change it from time to time, according to that will. They have done this, and in doing this they have done no more than they had a right to do. If they now are a government within a government, at which such an outcry is made as justifying their destruction, so they always have been; and not more so now than they always have been. They have always been what the gentleman calls an imperium in imperio-dependent and without the external prerogatives of sovereignty; but still an imperium. But no matter-no matter how justifiable, how proper that change of government was; how strictly a mere exercise of right, they see and they feel that their doom is sealed; that the decree is gone forth, and will be executed.

The cry of the miserable Indian will not arrest it; the sympathy of this nation in that cry will not arrest it; that sympathy is not credited, or if credited is despised; and we are told here, and in a tone of defiance, too, that no power shall arrest it. My fears are that no power will arrest it, none certainly will if this bill pass, and without this amendment; for then the Executive will not arrest it. But if executed, and when executed, for one, I will say, that these Indians have been made the victims of power exerted against right; the victims of violated faith, the nation's faith; the victims of violated justice; yes, I call God to witness of his violated justice.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We cheerfully insert the following letter from a distinguished correspondent to Washington, designed to expose another of the base arts resorted to by the opposers of Indian rights. We cannot believe, however that the people of the United States will be deceived by the pretence, that the government does not intend to compel the Indians to leave their country. The trick is so obvious that our wonder is that any man of sense can expect that the people will not instantly detect it. No one supposes that the government of the United States are about to compel the Indians by any direct measures to abandon their country.  The complaint is, that they refuse to fulfil (sic) their solemn treaties with these poor people--that they refuse to protect them from the oppression of Georgia and her sister States. The complaint against Congress is, that while these treaties are the supreme law of the land; while it is a matter of public notoriety that Georgia has passed laws in direct violation of them, laws which deprive the Indians of their national existence, and compel them to choose between expatriation and slavery; and while the President of the United States has publicly declared that he shall not interfere to enforce treaties--the complaint is, we say, that under these circumstances,Congress manifest no care for the country; that while they grant to the President and to Georgia all the facilities which are wanted for the accomplishment of an iniquitous project, they refuse to utter one word of disapprobation. Is it any justification of such conduct that Congress have a legal right to grant these facilities, and that there is no harm in the grant in itself considered.  As well might a guardian justify himself for placing a pistol in the hands of a murderer, after he has avowed his intention to shoot his ward. Such a guardian, in the judgement of law and of common sense is himself a murderer; and the Senate of the United States. by passing the bill providing for the expense of removing the Indian, after the public avowals of Georgia, has made itself a partner in her guilt.

N. Y. Obs.



Washington, April 29, 1830

I find in some of the papers a very uncandid statement of the Indian Question, lately before the Senate. These papers represent that the object of the government is to provide only for such tribes, as may choose to remove. This all looks very fair. But the fact is, that the government intends to permit the states of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, to legislate over the Indians; to abrogate their own government; and in this way, it is hoped that the poor Indians will prefer, as the lesser evil, to quit their homes and go away into the wilderness. This declared intention of the government, called upon the committee on Indian affairs, to sustain the unjust claims of these states; and hence the Report made by Mr. White, as the chairman of that committee, goes into an elaborate presentation of the various grounds, assumed by the state of Georgia, adverse to the Indians. His argument before the Senate also, put in issue directly the rights of this state, and the conflicting rights of the Indian tribes, and the whole debate turned upon this question; and yet now these newspapers most unfairly represent, that no designs against the Indians are meditated; when Georgia insist (and the General Government acquiesces in it,) that she may and has by her laws abolished all the Indian laws, rules, and customs, and spread over the Indian tribes, her sovereignty.

Let then the government met the case fairly-let the people look at it, let them understand what is really intended, and not be told that this bill merely for the removal of those 'who may choose

to go.' This apparent fairness is one of the strongest objections to the bill, for it conceals the real object. This real object has been debated-the amendments to the bill disclosed it. They were voted down, by a course of arguments, insisting, that Indian treaties were not treaties, in the true meaning of that term; and that if they were so, the General Government, had no right to make them, as it respected Georgia.

The agents of the United States, who were lately sent among the southern tribes, in their report to the War Department, expressly say. If the government withhold their protection as desired by the Indians, and leave them to the legislation of the states, that the Indians will be willing to exchange their present territory and move off.

In the wish that justice may be done as well to these tribes, as to the confidence of the public, I have submitted this abstract of the case.

___________________________________________

THE INDIAN BILL

Some of the papers that profess to be friendly to the present Administration have endeavored to mislead the public, on the subject of the bill for the removal of the Indians, now before the House of Representatives.- They represent the bill as very innocent-that it provides only for those tribes that may choose to remove, and hence infer the unreasonableness of the opposition made to it in the Senate. Now, one of the most objectionable features of this act, is that the real object is by it, concealed. All who are conversant with the Indian Question know that the matter has become a controverted one, by the unwarrantable claims set up by several States to legislate over the Indians; and thus, by rendering their condition uncomfortable, compel them to remove. Some of these tribes, more than a year ago, applied to the General Government for protection against such State encroachments, and they were told that the United States could not interfere, and that they must either remove or submit to this harsh legislation. The Indian Agents have expressly recommended this mode of leaving the Indians to State legislation; and have stated that in their opinion this would induce the tribes to exchange their country. When the bill just mentioned was reported to the Senate, the very purpose of declaring to the Executive, that the National Legislature felt bound in good faith to protect the Indians against all these State pretensions-that the tribes were our allies, under our patronage, and not subject to the laws or authority of any State.  And the whole discussion turned on this question of conflicting claims between the United States on the one hand, and individual States on the other. All knew that the particular bill before the Senate, in itself considered, seemed to be quite harmless. But the question put to the Congress was, will you countenance the oppressive manner in which you know this bill is to be carried into effect? Will you permit State legislation, by harshness and injustice, to extort from the Indians a consent to remove that will be a mere choice of evils-a reluctant and painful submission to an alternative forced upon these people, in violation of our plighted faith? It is wonderful that some of the public journals should seek to disguise the answer given by a majority of the Senate to such inquiries. But the people will understand the matter, and we fear not the answer which they will yet give.

Washington City Chron.

___________________________________________

It is with feelings not less of pungent sorrow, than of unmeasured indignation, that we have read the doings of the Senate of the United States on the 24th day of April last. And that sorrow is not rendered less pungent, nor that indignation less intense, by the reflection that a stigma as foul as that fixed upon the forehead of Cain, has been irrevocably stamped upon our country through the instrumentality of the Senators from our own state.

We are ever disposed to treat the constituted authorities of our land with all that respect to which their stations entitle them and to nobody of men on earth have we been disposed to defer with more respect and veneration that the United States' Senate. But, when we read such proceedings as the following; no respect  or veneration, shall restrain us from the bold expression of our national character, in which every individual, how ever humble, had a deep and tender interest.

***************************************************

It is not our intention to investigate the wire-drawn arguments of otherwise just men, and distinguished jurists, to support the position, that civilized man possesses the natural right to rob the savage of the inheritance of his fathers; it is not our intention to scan the justice which in bye-gone days, led the Pioneers of our republic, to exercise superior arts which civilization gave them, to wrest the fairest portion of our world from the possession of its legitimate owners; it is not our province to probe the heart and pass judgment upon the motives which actuated a large portion of these from whom we have derived our being, in adding field to field that they might enlarge the inheritance which they should leave to their children; nor whether in all these doings they contemplated the command of Him who gave the whole, to its then proprietors, 'do justly, love mercy.'

We would not if we could excite the commisseration (sic) of our readers, at the waste of human life which has marked the progress of the Europeans ' their descendants, nor tell how the thousands and the tens of thousands of once proud and independent men, who were guilty of a skin not colored like our own, have receded at the approach of their more artful invaders or how these tenants of the forest, gifted with the highest order of intellect, have over almost the whole face of a boundless empire, been swept into total annihilation. We would neither avenge their wrongs, nor write their epitaph.

But the proceedings of our Senate are of a character totally different both in principle and in operation; this character depends not upon any combination of accidental circumstances; but in their capacity of guardians of a nation's honor, have laid a ruthless hand upon the pillars which support the temple of universal justice. They have by a solemn act of legislation authorized the public violation of all the treaties, compacts, agreements, and stipulations, ever made by the government of the United States, with the Cherokee Indians.

In vain shall we search throughout the achievers of the civilized world for another act, of such unblushing atrocity. Even the petty princes of the barbary (sic) States, can plead custom in justification of their violation of treaties and disregard of plighted faith and those nation may lay the responsibility of such hardened iniquity upon a despotic Dey. But that a deliberative Assembly, representing the Christian people of the United America, should solemnly resolve that they will disregard and trample under foot, the plighted faith and solemn treaties of our government! Oh it is sickening to the heart of every one who loves his country. It is portentious (sic) of evil days.

Let it be remembered that among those who have sanctioned this detestable principle, is one, and only one, among the twelve New England Senators-two and the only two who represent the sovereignty of the Great state of New York,--and from the state of New Jersey--and then let it be remembered that the whole responsibility of this national disgrace must rest upon them; for had they voted with their associates and in accordance with what we believe the unanimous sentiment of their constituents, the foul blot would not have stained our national escutcheon.

Ontario Phoenix

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Cherokee Phoenix

New Echota: May 29, 1830

Before the next number of our paper shall be issued, the first day of June, the day set apart by Georgia, for the extension of her assumed jurisdiction over the Cherokees, and the execution of her laws touching the Indians, will have arrived. The day is now at hand-the Cherokees have looked to it deliberately-they have anticipated its approach, but they are sill here, on the land of their fathers. So conscious are they of their rights as a people they they have thought it not best to avoid the threatened operation of civilized and republican not to at religious laws, by a precipitate flight to the western wilds. They are still here, but not to agree or consent to come under these laws. This they never will do-they have protested against the measure, and will always protest against it.

When the time comes that state laws are to be executed with rigor, as they no doubt will be, backed by the executive of the United States, and the late decision of the Senate, upon the reprobate Cherokees, we are unable to say what the effects will be. To us, the future is but darkness. One thing we know, there will be suffering. The Cherokees will be a prey to the cupidity of white men- every indignity and every oppression will be heaped upon them. They have already undergone much, when the time is merely in anticipation,-how will it be when full license is given to their oppressors?

We have heretofore related instances where this indignity and oppression have been perpetrated on individuals of this nation. Besides those we have mentioned the following may perhaps convey a proper light to the public on the conduct of civilized men towards savages: In the neighborhood of Tarrapin Creek, there lives a Creek man by the name of Hog, who, by his industrious habits, has been enabled to accumulate some property, consisting, chiefly of large stocks of horses and cattle. Living as he does near his white brothers, who are clamorous for the removal of the Indians, that they may not be harassed by savage neighbors, his best horses became the objects of much desire to some of them. By the precaution of the Hog and the constant watch he kept about his stables and lots, he was able to preserve these horses. Finding they could not steal them, we understand another expedient was resorted to lately by these members of the 'Pony Club'. Four whitemen (sic) came to this Indian's house, two of whom were armed with rifles. Finding the Hog alone with his wife, one of the men who was armed, proposed to buy his horse, and offered his gun for compensation. The Creek Indian refused to sell for such a trifle. The white man then proposed to exchange with the Indian.  The offer was again rejected, the Indians' (sic) horse being greatly superior in value to the other. At this the white man observed he would have the horse, and proceeded towards the lot with a bridle. Hog's wife discovering the intention of these men followed, and in attempting to prevent them from catching the horse, was knocked down by the other armed man with a gun. She fell senseless to the ground. Hog ran into the horse lit,' by driving off the horses, ' giving the alarm, prevented these robbers from accomplishing their design. The woman lay for some time apparently dead; but finally came to herself. We understand she is better, and is likely to recover.

Comment is unnecessary. We intreat (sic) you, respected reader,-we implore you, to pause after perusing the above facts, and reflect upon the effects of civilized legislation over poor savages. The laws which are the result of this legislation, are framed expressly against us, and not a clause in our favor. We cannot be a party or a witness in any of the courts where a white man is a party. Here is the secret. Full license to our oppressors, and every avenue of justice closed against us. Yes, this is the bitter cup prepared for us by a republican and religious  Government-we shall drink it to the very dregs.

_______________________________________________

Dreadful Inundation at Vienna. In the 1st of March the Danube, which had been greatly swelled by the channel having been blocked up by the ice, and also by every day's thaw, burst over the banks, breaking down every dam, or wall that opposed its course; and in one hour all the suburbs that lie near the Danube, the chief of which are the Rosau and the Leopoldstadt, each containing 25,000 inhabitants, were in a state of total submersion. Every street was suddenly converted into a canal, where the waters were gushing and foaming, and forcing their way into the houses to the height of 7,8, or 12 feet.  It stole upon the unsuspecting sufferers in the night, and advanced with such rapidity, that in many instances only one or two members of large families had time to escape, ' even those who reached a place of safety, were obliged to remain the whole night in a state of nudity, exposed to the inclemency of the air; in some houses whole families have been found drowned in their beds; in others they had climbed up chimneys to the roofs of their houses and many bodies had been found naked in the courtyards, caked in ice, and bearing the appearance of crystalized (sic) corpses.- The number of animals that have perished is enormous. In Rosau, not a little family but has lost its cow, horse, and pigs; and in the horse barracks alone, forty horses have perished. The Austrian observer of the 6th March, states, that the number of persons who have lost their lives in this catastrophe, supposed at first to be 30, was found, on the 5th inst. to be 72. No accounts had been received at Vienna from the country on the left bank of the Danube, but it was feared that many persons had perished in the floods. Private letters carry the number of persons who have perished at 400.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIAN QUESTION

Our readers will perceive from another part of our paper, that the Indian Question has been decided in the Senate. The speakers against the Indians were Messrs. White of Tennessee, Forsyth of Georgia, Adams of Mississippi, and McKinley of Alabama. Messrs. White and Forsyth each addressed the Senate twice, during the debate. Messrs. Frelinghuysen of N. Jersey, Sprague of Maine, and Robbins of Rhode Island, advocated the rights of the Indians, and the execution of the treaties with them, in good faith. The former made two speeches, during the debate. The cause of justice and honour (sic) was ably defended-but in vain. The glory is departed. Our disgrace is written in characters which neither time nor repentance can efface.  If the House of Representatives concur with the Senate, the world will know just what confidence to place in treaties with the United States. Carthaginian fidelity.`Punic faith' will henceforth cease to be a proverb-and our country will succeed to the inheritance of that name of reproach and ignominy which the lapse of so many centuries has not been able to detach from the nation of Hannibal. Would that disgrace were all! But such an example `in high places' will send a deadly influence through the whole land.  When honesty, when justice, when magnanimity, all give place to expediency and to sordid interest, in the councils of a nation, they cannot long maintain their ground in the intercourse of individuals.

And it is not only the future influence of the measure which ought to fill the country with alarm. We regard the vote in the Senate as a criterion of public sentiment. It shows how far we have floated down the stream of political depravity.  The days of our Pilgrim fathers-the days of the heroes of our Independence-the days of Washington and our other illustrious patriots, have passed-never-never to return. The bare thought of such a measure would have sickened the minds of those who than guided our affairs. The proposition to expel the Indians from their native soil would have been spurned with indignation. Our future orators on the fourth of July may dwell, if they please, on military victories, and on naval glories, but who, on that day, will venture to speak of moral virtue, of political honesty, as an ornament of our country? What American will not henceforth instinctively shudder at the very name of governmental faith, and public justice?

To New England there is still left one topic of consolation;-her sons, with one exception, have borne their testimony against the oppression and robbery of the Indians. She may still reply to the reproaches of other nations-and reply with consciousness of innocence, `Tho canst not say I did it.' And when the judgements of heaven come down on our country-and come they will-she may hope that her remonstrances will spring up in remembrance, and that the destroying angel will sheath his sword on her borders.- Con. Obr.



________________________________________



 The Indian Question will probably be brought up in the House next week. A debate of great warmth and energy is confidently expected. The manner in which this question was disposed of in the Senate has only deepened a sense of responsibility with those who are now called upon to make the highest efforts to save our national faith from utter ruin. Those who are determined to sustain the unjust proceedings of Georgia, will be met face to face, and breast to breast; no twisting, or turning, or evasive movements will be allowed; they will be compelled to declare whether the one hundred and sixth treaties which we have made with the Indians mean any thing, or whether they are a mere farce; whether the highest enactments of this Government are a binding reality, or a hypocritical jest.  We are perfectly willing to see those men reduced to this alternative. If this nation is incapable of being bound by treaties, let it be known. If we can sport with everything sacred in plighted faith, let us not deepen our crimes and infamy by concealment. Let the tale of our guilt and degradation be told at once; let it be proclaimed amidst the scoffs and execration of foreign courts; let us stand before the world in the light of heaven for just what we are- a nation whose professions are a mockery, and whose vows are a lie. Amer. Spec. May 8.



_____________________________________________________



A Correspondent, Judging from the tenor of our remarks on the Indian Question, accuses us of hostility to the present Administration. Indeed!- has it come to this!- that tos (sic) the man who conscientiously dissent from the opinions entertained by the Executive is to be regarded in the light of an enemy? Is universal and unqualified assent the only terms upon which he can escape from the charge of enmity? The bare assertion of this is the highest insult that can be offered to any generous, high minded Administration. That friendship is worthless which does not discriminate between what is destitute of all compliment to the man who receive it, and of all evidence of worth in the man who bestows it. Smiles bestowed upon our faults are more to be dreaded than censures upon our merits- the first will lead us to ruin, the last will only lead us to stricter scrutiny into the motives and tendency of our actions. Were we plotting the destruction of this administration, and the ruin of the country, we would fill the lips of men with a blind indiscriminate

eulogy over its every act, and we would look to flattery and adulation for effects which can never be produced by the most active and unrelenting hatred. There is more than one in power who may with propriety say-'Save me from my friends, and I will take care of my enemies.' Ib.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

DOCUMENTS

Relating to the boundary line between the

Cherokees and Creeks

[Continued]

I John Rodgers, aged 55 years, haved (sic) resided in the Cherokee Nation 27 years, twenty-five years of the same I have lived near this place. Soon after I came to the Nation I married a daughter of Thomas Cordry; a Cherokee family that lived then on the Hightower River. The next year after I married, my father-in-law proposed for his whole family to remove and settle on the Chattahoochy River near Suwany Old Town, where many of his family connections were already living. When the proposition was made I inquired to know if there was no danger of our getting on the Creek lands? I was answered by the old man and by those who knew the country best, that there was no danger, for that the Creek line ran with a trail or path that passed near the Stone Mountain called the Hightower Trail. We removed and settled near this and have remained here ever since, and I never heard the Cherokees acknowledge any other line but the one I have mentioned; but I have never been correctly informed which of the two paths was meant by the name of the Hightower Path. There was one which led from the High Shoals of the Appalachy by the northern side of the Stone Mountain to the Shallow Ford in the Chattahoochy, and the other from the same place by the foot of the Stone Mountain on the south side, and to the Standing Peach Tree on the Chattahoochy; both of these paths were called Hightower Paths, but which of them was considered the line I never knew. In addition to many others who I have heard speak of the above line, I particularly heard from Col. Rhode Early, who was an old Indian trader, and who informed me that the Chiefs of the two nations had agreed upon the same at a treaty that was held at Fort Wilkinson about the year 1802, when Gen. Wilkinson and Gen. Pickens were Commissioners. I have no knowledge of the two nations ever having agreed upon a line west of the Chattahoochy River, until the line was marked from the Buzzard Roost to the mouth of Will's Creek about the year 1822.  There have never been any Creek Indians living on the Chattahoochy River since I lived here, higher up the river than the lower end of Sand Town, which is sixteen miles below the Standing Peach Tree.  I never knew any other place called Suwany Old Town, but the one near this, nor but one called Buzzard Roost.

Signed JOHN ROGERS.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 9th Dec. 1829.

Signed, ISAAC GILBERT, J.P.

Gwinnett Con. Ga.

Old Red Bank Town, Cherokee Nation

10th Dec. 1829

George Still, a half breed Cherokee, aged about sixty years, has been born and raised in the Cherokee Nation-when he was a small boy his father and mother moved and settled a short time in the Old Hightower Town, and then moved and settled in the Pumpkin Patch Village on a creek about 10 miles from the river on the south side-they lived there one year. They then went down the country and lived with the Creeks one year, and then they returned and lived one year again in the Pumpkin Patch Village, then they moved and settled on the south side of the river opposite the mouth of Oostunnahlee and had made one crop, when Genl. Andrew Pickens of South Carolina marched an army into the Cherokee Nation down the river into the forks, and crossed the Hightower just above the forks, and destroyed all the improvements of several Cherokee families who had settled there; he recrossed the river and destroyed all the villages and improvements wherever he went-this took place in the time of the Revolutionary War. Where the Pumpkin Patch Village of Cherokees was settled, there had been a settlement, a small village of Creeks, but there were all gone before he went to the country, and has never known of any other Creeks being settled in the country since, anywhere on the waters of Hightower River.  He has since then lived in several different parts of the nation, until just after the close of the late Creek War, he moved and settled at the Standing Peach Tree on the east side of Chattahoochy River, and he lived there until about two years ago. All the time he lived at the Standing Peach Tree he believed he was living on Cherokee land, the Cherokees told him so-the Creeks were living at Sand Town on Creek land which is about 115 miles below the Standing Peach Tree-he always understood after he went to the Chattahoochy to live, that the Cherokees owned the land to the High Shoals of Appalachy and by the Stone Mountain-he never knew of any line between the two nations west of Chattahoochy, until the line was run from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek-he never heard of but one place called Suwannah Old Town, and but one place called Buzzard Roost. The said George Still declares the foregoing statement to be just and true to the best of his knowledge and recollection, and has hereunto subscribed his name,the date above written.

Signed GEORGE STILL.

Robt. D. Harris.

OLD RED BANK, CHEROKEE NATION.

South side Hightower,

10th Dec. 1829

Jno. Wright, a white man married to a Cherokee wife, states that he came into this nation when a boy-he does not know his age correctly, but he thinks he was about twelve years of age. He has lived i this country about forty-seven of eight years, all of which time he has lived on the waters of Hightower, and the last twenty -fife years he has lived on the south side of the river. The second year after he came into the country he lived in the Hightower Town of village,--this was about forty-five years since. At that time there was a respectable village at the place; Old Catagiskee and Old Tarrapin two principal Chiefs of the nation lived then in the Hightower village, -- Red Bank village was then settled on both sides of the river, and a few Cherokees lived at Eallatuna on the South side of Hightower. At the time I came first to Hightower village there were the remains of an improvement of a few Creek families, who I was informed had lived there before I came to the country, but they were gone before I knew the place, they were said to have been a hunting party. I never heard of any other Creek Indians on the waters of Hightower to this day, except a few Creek men who came here and married Cherokee wives. About the close of the Revolutionary War, Gen Andrew Pickens of South Carolina, and old Gen. Clark of Georgia, marched an army into to the Cherokee Nation and penetrated the country as low down the Hightower as the Oostinalee into the latter river. I was then a boy and then in the Hightower Village, the inhabitants of which ran and left their town, but they did not cross the river at that place nor attack the Hightower Village. He recollects the Cherokees were settled in the Suwanny Town on the Chattahoochy by about thirty -five years since as near as he can recollect the time-about the time he settled on the south side of Hightower near where he now lives, the subject of the line between the Creeks and Cherokees was frequently mentioned amongst he Cherokees, and he recollects that they, the Cherokees, claimed the land on Appalatchy as low down as the High Shoals, and from thence to run out by the Stone Mountain and the Buzzard Roost on the Chattahoochy, and from there to run westwardly with a ridge that divides the waters that run into the Hightower River from those running southwardly, leaving all the waters of Tallapoosa to the Creek Nation. He never heard of any correct line between the two nations until the line was agreed on and run from Buzzard Roost on the mouth of Will's Creek. Turkey Town on the Coosa River is the lowest down the river where there has been any Cherokee settlements that he knew of, they settled that place on both sides of the river about forty years since-about 8 or 10 miles below the junction of Hightower and Oostanali, is the Turnip Mountain town settled o both sides of the Coosa River, that place has been settled about thirty years since.  The village of Two Runs, about ten miles above the fork of the river, Hightower and Oostinalee were settled thirty years since. The old Hightower Town on the south side of the river twenty miles above the junction of the rivers was settled when I first came to the country forty-seven or eight years since. The Six's  Village about thirty -eight miles above the junction of the rivers was settled on both sides of the river about 30 years since. The Red Bank Village about six miles above the Six's was settled on both sides of the river; this place was settled about two years after he came to the country.  Hickory Log Village, two miles above Red Bank, has been settled on both sides of the river about 30 years since.  The Long Swamp Village bout 12 miles above Hickory Log was settled on both sides about 35 years since-besides the villages before mentioned, there are numbers of Cherokee families settled and living all through the country out from the river, on the south side of the Hightower as far up and down as the villages are settled. Many years ago a man by the name of Blackburn was descending the coosa River with a quantity of whisky, as I have been informed, and at Turkey Town the Indians took his whiskey from him-this I know by report. He has no recollection of ever hearing that the Creek Nation claimed the lands on the Hightower and Coosa rivers where the Cherokees were settled. The forging statement contains nothing but the truth according to the best of mu knowledge and recollection. Given under my hand the date above written.

his

JOHN WRIGHT x

mark

Witness.

Robt. D. Harris

Sworn to and subscribed before be, this 14th day of Dec. 1829.

WALTER ADAIR,Judge. C. C. upper circuit, Cherokee Nation.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIAN QUESTION

Our readers will perceive from another part of our paper, that the Indian Question has been decided in the Senate. The speakers against the Indians were Messrs. White of Tennessee, Forsyth of Georgia, Adams of Mississippi, and McKinley of Alabama. Messrs. White and Forsyth each addressed the Senate twice, during the debate. Messrs. Frelinghuysen of N. Jersey, Sprague of Maine, and Robbins of Rhode Island, advocated the rights of the Indians, and the execution of the treaties with them, in good faith. The former made two speeches, during the debate. The cause of justice and honour (sic) was ably defended-but in vain. The glory is departed. Our disgrace is written in characters which neither time nor repentance can efface.  If the House of Representatives concur with the Senate, the world will know just what confidence to place in treaties with the United States. Carthaginian fidelity, `Punic faith' will henceforth cease to be a proverb-and our country will succeed to the inheritance of that name of reproach and ignominy which the lapse of so many centuries has not been able to detach from the nation of Hannibal. Would that disgrace were all! But such an example `in high places' will send a deadly influence through the whole land.  When honesty, when justice, when magnanimity, all give place to expediency and to sordid interest, in the councils of a nation, they cannot long maintain their ground in the intercourse of individuals.

And it is not only the future influence of the measure which ought to fill the country with alarm. We regard the vote in the Senate as a criterion of public sentiment. It shows how far we have floated down the stream of political depravity.  The days of our Pilgrim fathers-the days of the heroes of our Independence-the days of Washington and our other illustrious patriots, have passed-never-never to return. The bare thought of such a measure would have sickened the minds of those who than guided our affairs. The proposition to expel the Indians from their native soil would have been spurned with indignation. Our future orators on the fourth of July may dwell, if they please, on military victories, and on naval glories, but who, on that day, will venture to speak of moral virtue, of political honesty, as an ornament of our country? What American will not henceforth instinctively shudder at the very name of governmental faith, and public justice?

To New England there is still left one topic of consolation;-her sons, with one exception, have borne their testimony against the oppression and robbery of the Indians. She may still reply to the reproaches of other nations-and reply with consciousness of innocence, `Tho canst not say I did it.' And when the judgements of heaven come down on our country-and come they will-she may hope that her remonstrances will spring up in remembrance, and that the destroying angel will sheath his sword on her borders.- Con. Obr.



________________________________________



 The Indian Question will probably be brought up in the House next week. A debate of great warmth and energy is confidently expected. The manner in which this question was disposed of in the Senate has only deepened a sense of responsibility with those who are now called upon to make the highest efforts to save our national faith from utter ruin. Those who are determined to sustain the unjust proceedings of Georgia, will be met face to face, and breast to breast; no twisting, or turning, or evasive movements will be allowed; they will be compelled to declare whether the one hundred and sixth treaties which we have made with the Indians mean any thing, or whether they are a mere farce; whether the highest enactments of this Government are a binding reality, or a hypocritical jest.  We are perfectly willing to see those men reduced to this alternative. If this nation is incapable of being bound by treaties, let it be known.  If we can sport with everything sacred in plighted faith, let us not deepen our crimes and infamy by concealment.  Let the tale of our guilt and degradation be told at once; let it be proclaimed amidst the scoffs and execration of foreign courts; let us stand before the world in the light of heaven for just what we are- a nation whose professions are a mockery, and whose vows are a lie. Amer. Spec. May 8.



_____________________________________________________



A Correspondent, Judging from the tenor of our remarks on the Indian Question, accuses us of hostility to the present Administration. Indeed!- has it come to this!- that tos (sic) the man who conscientiously dissent from the opinions entertained by the Executive is to be regarded in the light of an enemy? Is universal and unqualified assent the only terms upon which he can escape from the charge of enmity? The bare assertion of this is the highest insult that can be offered to any generous, high minded Administration. That friendship is worthless which does not discriminate between what is destitute of all compliment to the man who receive it, and of all evidence of worth in the man who bestows it. Smiles bestowed upon our faults are more to be dreaded than censures upon our merits- the first will lead us to ruin, the last will only lead us to stricter scrutiny into the motives and tendency of our actions. Were we plotting the destruction of this administration, and the ruin of the country, we would fill the lips of men with a blind indiscriminate eulogy over its every act, and we would look to flattery and adulation for effects which can never be produced by the most active and unrelenting hatred. There is more than one in power who may with propriety say-'Save me from my friends, and I will take care of my enemies.' Ib.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The following persons are Candidates for the General Council to represent the District of Etower(sic) for the next session.

For the Committee

DAVID VANN

OLD FIELDS

For the Council

JOHN BEAMER,

CHULIO

BEAN STICK

SOFT-SHELL-TURTLE

WALKING STICK

The following persons are candidates for the General Council in Ahmehee District

For the Committee

LEWIS ROSS

THOMAS FOREMAN.

For the Council

GOING SNAKE

DOO-SU-WO-LAH-DAH

JAMES FOREMAN

JOHN WATTS.

Maj. JAMES MARTIN

GEORGE BUTLER.

Of the Candidates in Cooseewaytee, we have been requested to insert the following names for the Council.

JOHN FIELDS.

JESSE HALF BREED.

WATIE.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

DOCUMENTS

Relating to the boundary line between the Cherokees and Creeks.

[Continued]

CHEROKEE NATION, RED BANK OLD TOWN,

December 11th, 1829

Tarchechee, a full blooded Cherokee, supposed to be nearly sixty years old, was born and raised in the Cherokee Nation; lived in the early part of his life on the head waters of Chattahoochy and on the northwest side of Hightower River, and when he had a wife ' five little children he removed to the south side of Hightower, and has ever since lived at different places on the creeks that empty into the Hightower on the south side.- he now has many grand-children, and he always thought he was living on Cherokee land, he never heard that the Creeks claimed any land on any of the waters of Hightower. He never heard anything about the line between the two nations, until he heard they had run a line from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek. He has lately heard that the people of Georgia claimed some of the Cherokee land; but he did not know how they claimed it, as he always thought it belonged to the Cherokees. The above statement was interpreted by John Wright and George Still to be the true statement of what the said old Indian, Tarchechee said to Gen. John Coffee, U. States' Commissioner, which interpretation we have made correctly to the best of our knowledge and understanding of the Cherokee language.

JOHN WRIGHT,

GEO. STILL.

Attest,

Robt. D. Harris.

PHILLIPS' CHEROKEE NATION, 13th December, 1829.

James Buchanan, in his 70th year of age, a citizen of Jasper County, Georgia- at present traveling in the Nation, being enquired of by Gen. Jno. Coffee, United States' Commissioner, who is collecting evidence of the true line between the Creek and Cherokee Nations, if I know anything on that subject,-in answer thereto, I have heard that subject spoken of frequently in the State of Georgia. I was living in that State during the Revolutionary War and have lived there ever since, and from all I have heard the impression has been made on my mind that the Buzzard Roost on Chattahoochy was considered the line between the nations. The subject of Indian lands has been much thought and spoken of in Georgia, and in conversations generally on that subject, I have always understood the above to be the line between the two nations. The above statement I make upon honor as being true to the best of my information and impression.

JAMES BUCHANAN.

Test

Robt. D. Harris.

AT PHILIPS' IN THE HIGHTOWER TOWN, 13th December, 1829

I employed John Wright (the same man who gave me a statement on the 10th day of this month) to ride with me as a pilot and interpreter,- we set out from his house at the Red Bank Old Town, and travelled on an old Indian path that led down the Old Hightower Towns. In passing along said paths, some of which seem not to have been used for many years, some others are more plain and in use at this day. Those paths all or the greatest part of them seemed to be leading southwestwardly direction, I enquired of Wright if he had knowledge of who first mad e those paths, he informed me he had a perfect knowledge, that when he first came into the country, there was not path in that part of the nation but the one we were then travelling on, and which led from the Hightower Town up the river on this side, keeping the river for a distance of upwards of fifty miles, when the river bore away a little more to the north, the path continued its course in all from Hightower Old Town about one hundred miles to the Little Chota Town on the Chattahoochy, a place much older than Hightower-between the two places the I was a communication kept up on the old path we were travelling on-that there was but one other path of any notice on the south side of Hightower River, and that one led from the Old Hightower Town southwardly to the Creek Nation on the Chattahoochy down about the Great Falls near where Columbus now stands.  That the paths we crossed had been made since he was in the country leading from the various settlements made on Hightower River, out to other Cherokee settlements made towards the heads of the creeks that run into the river, and from some of them (the latter mentioned settlements) to the Chattahoochy,- that since his being here paths had been made from the Old Hightower Town to the Standing Peach Tree, to the Shallow Ford, and to Sowanny Old Town, all on the Chattahoochy River. That all the paths spoken of were made by the Cherokees in passing from their various towns and settlements, and as their trading paths to the towns in Georgia-that he never knew of any path made by the Creeks or particularly used by the Creeks, but the one which led from Hightower to the falls on Chattahoochy before mentioned.

(Signed) JOHN COFFEE.

The above memorandum made by General Coffee has been red to me, and I acknowledge the same to be true and correct as stated to him by me, date above.

JOHN WRIGHT.

Witness

Robt. D. Harris

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 14th December, 1829.

WALTER ADAIR, Judge C.C. Upper Circuit Cherokee Nation.

HEAD OF COOSA, 21, Dec. 1829.

The statement of Chickasawtee, one of the chiefs of the Chero. Nation who signed the Treaty made by that nation with the State of Georgia, at Augusta, on the thirty-first day of May 1783. His signature being the sixth name of the Cherokees on that Treaty. He says that the line of that Treaty, as understood by him, was to run from the top of Currohee Mountain, to the Lower Big Falls on the south fork of the Ocone River, and then it stopped. They were at Augusta, and not on the ground he has been speaking about. But his understanding at the time was, that if he was at the falls of the Ocone, where the line stopped, and turn his face towards the setting of the sun, and look towards the Ten Islands on Coosa River, leaving the Stone Mountain on the right, that he would be looking along the line between the Cherokee and Creek lands. He does not know his age at the time of the Treaty of Augusta, but he had then a family and some of his children were grown,-he supposes he must be hear one hundred years old.

his

CHICKASAWTEE x

mark

Sworn to and subscribed before me the date above written.

JOHN RIDGE,Clerk

National Council, Cherokee Nation.

TREATY

Georgia.

By his excellency John Milledge, Governor and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of this State, and of the Militia thereof:

To all to whom these presents shall come, Greeting:

KNOW YE, That Horatio Marbury Esquire,who hath certified the Treaty between the commissioners on the part of the State of Georgia on the one part,and the head men and warriors of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, of the other part, hereunto annexed, is Secretary of State, in whose office the archives of the same are deposited.

Therefore all due Faith, Credit, and Authority, are and ought to be had and given his certificate and attestation as such.

In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my Hand, and caused the Great Seal of this State to be put and affixed, at the State House in Louisville, this twenty-third day of November in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and two-and in the seventh year of the Independence of the United States of America.

By the Governor.

HOR. MARBURY.

Secretary.

GEORGIA.

Articles of a convention held at Augusta in the county of Richmond and State aforesaid, this thirty-first day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three, and in the seventh year of the Independence of the said State; between his Honor Lyman Hall, Esquire, Governor and Commander-in-Chief in and over the said State; General John Twiggs, Colonel Elijah Clark, Colonel William Few, the Honorable Edward Telfair, Esquire, and General Samuel Elbert; commissioners appointed by the Legislature of the same, on the one part; and Tarpine of the lower towns, Tarpine son on the Great warrior, the Bird-in-close or the Chequaena-Jack, Claunau, Chickasawtee, Ascastee, Amakantee, Claunwastee, Joenatua, Julalaha, John, Chisquauna, Chenawata, head men Warriors, and Chiefs of the Herds or Tribes of Cherokee Indians in behalf of the said nation, on the other part-

Whereas a good understanding and union between the inhabitants of the said State and the Indians aforesaid, is reciprocally necessary and convenient, as well on account of a friendly intercourse and Trade, as for the purposes of Peace and humanity. It is therefore agreed and covenanted,

1. That all differences between the said parties heretofore subsisting shall cease and be forgotten.

2d. That all just debts due by any of the said Indians to any of the merchants or traders of the said State shall be fairly and fully paid; and all negroes, horses and other property, taken during the late war, shall be restored.

3d. That a new line shall be drawn, without delay, between the present settlements in the said State and the Hunting grounds of the said Indians; to begin on Sawannah River where the present line strikes it, thence up the said river to a place on the most northern branch of the same commonly called Keowe, where a north east line, to be drawn from the Top of the Ocunna Mountain, shall intersect; hence along the said line, in a southwest direction to the top of the said Mountain; thence to the top of the Currohee Mountain; thence to the head or source of the most southern branch of the Okoney River including all the waters of the same, and thence down the middle of the said branch of the Creek line.

4th. In consideration of the friendship, which the people and Government of the said State bear to the Indians aforesaid, and of their good will, evidenced by their present attendance, the Governor and Commissioners aforesaid have made presents to them to a considerable amount, which they hereby acknowledge to have received.

5th. That a Trade shall be carried on by the traders and merchants of the said State, to the towns of the said Indians in which the traders in who shall reside among them, and the Pack-horse-men in going and coming shall be protected: the Trade to be subject to future regulation of Government.

6th And lastly, they the Head men, Warriors, and Chiefs, whose hands and seals are hereunto affixed, do hereby for themselves and for the nation they are empowered by and effectually represent, recognize and declare, that all the lands, waters, woods, and game lying and being in the State eastward of the line herein before particularly mentioned and described, is are, ' do belong ' of right appertain to the people and Government of the said State of Georgia; and they the Indians aforesaid as well for themselves as the said Nation do give up, release, alien relinquish and forever quit claim, to the same, or any part thereof.

Done and executed at Augusta aforesaid the day and year above mentioned in the presence of those whose names are  subscribed.

LYMAN HALL, (L.S.)

JOHN TWIGGS, (L.S.)

ELIJAH CLARK, (L.S.)

W. FEW. (L.S.)

EDW'D TELFAIR, (L.S.)

marks;

TARPINE, x  (L.S.)

TARPINE x   (L.S.)

CHEQUAENE x   (L.S.)

NINEAN JACK, x (L.S.)

CLAUNAU x  (L.S.)

CHICKSAWTEE x   (L.S.)

ASCASTER x   (L.S.)

AMAKANTEE x   (L.S.)

CLAUASTEE x   (L.S.)

JONENATUA x   (L.S.)

JULALAHA x    (L.S.)

JOHN x    (L.S.)

CHISQUAUNA x    (L.S.)

CULATEE x    (L.S.)

CANAUTEE x    (L.S.)

CAT x    (L.S.)

Witness

Geo. Watson,

And'w M'Lean

GEORGIA, SECRETARY OFFICE,

22nd November 1802

I do hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a true copy from the original deposited in this Office.

HOR. MARBURY

Secretary.

HEAD OF COOSA, 22st Dec., 1820

The statement of Chuleowah, an old Cherokee Chief, supposed too be about, or nearly ninety years of age. He says many years ago he was very friendly with the Creek Chiefs, and being a Chief himself in his own nation, he received a friendly talk from the Creek Chief, inviting him to attend at a treaty that they were about to make with the United States in Georgia, and they would give him an honorable seat with themselves, in their Council, at the Treaty ground. At that time the Black Fox, and Pathkiller, the two principle Chiefs of the Cherokees, thought it best to send some of their chiefs to attend the Creek treaty, and see if they did not encroach on the Cherokee land.  They directed this deponent and six others to attend the Creek treaty and try and fix a line between the two nations; the other persons were as follows: Sour mush, The Bark of Hightower, Youtaletah, Old Turkey, Ticahwee and Dick Rowe, Interpreter: they proceeded to the Treaty ground, and met the Creeks in friendship as they had proposed; and we the delegation from the Cherokees,and the Creek Chiefs present entered upon an agreement of a line between the two nations; and we agreed that the line or corner between them should be the lower big shoals of the Appalachy, the place where a man by the name of William Scott then had a store; they further agreed that the line should run from that place as follows: Supposing they had been standing at the Shoals at Scott's store; with their faces towards the sunset they would make the line to run by Sand Town on Chattahooche, from thence to the Ten Islands on the Coosa ' continued the same course across the Coosa until they came to the long leaf pine, that grows on the head waters of the rivers that run into Mobile Bay.-  After we had finished our talk and agreement with the Creek Chiefs, be this deponent delivered a talk to the United States Commissioners, in forming them what we had agreed upon, which finished our business, and we then came off home. The talk that I gave to the Commissioners has been this day read to me, ' I acknowledge it to be my talk as delivered.- Being asked by Gen. Coffee the United States Commissioner to explain my meaning in that talk; when I said 'our lands extend as far as the Appalatchy on the line 'c,' I explain as follows: suppose I had been standing at the Falls of Appalachy at Scott's store, I meant to say our land extended up the river Appalatchy to its head on the line'c. About two years after the Creek War, this deponent and a number of Cherokee families, in number about fifty, removed ' settled on the Chattahoochy at Sand Town. They had a town house where they usually met in Council; they remained there until the line was run from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek,--as that line struck the river about one mile above them, leaving them on the Creek land, they also broke off and came away to the settlements in the Cherokee Nation. He states that at an early time, before the time he attended the Creek treaty in Georgia, the Cherokees claimed the land from Var's Store on the waters of Oakmulgee to the N York Town on the Chattahoochy, but at the treaty in Ga., they had agreed to give up to the Creeks a part of what they thought their claim, and agreed upon the line from the falls at Scott's store ton the Appalatchy and by Sand Town 'c.  He states that a part of his relations who lived with him at Suint Town, had been raised amongst the Creeks at Coweta, and when he settled they came and lived near him. There were seven Creek men of them who had married his relations; he says there were no other Creek families living at Sand Town at the time he lived there.

his

CHULEOWAH x

mark

Sworn to and subscribed before me, the same day above written.

JOHN Ridge Acting Clerk National Council, Cherokee Nation.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






SPEECH

8th of June 1802

The undersigned deputation of Cherokee chiefs to Gen. Pickens and Col. Hawkins.

We are here on our business, we have to inform you we have settled our affairs with the Creeks, and now we address ourselves to you.--When people have a little of a thing they love to take care of it, we have but a little land, and we well know that you know where it is as well as we do ourselves, we shall rely on you two and on Congress for our rights.  You all know and we know where the Tarpine sold the land; you know our lines and you run them, the people are over and going over.- I went to Congress last year at green corn time there I found Col. Wofford who claimed the lands where he lives as belonging to the Creeks, it done not belong to the Creeks. It belongs to the Cherokees.- We were told by the Secretary of War that Col. Hawkins was placed to take care of them, that he, with Gen. Pickens was to see the Cherokee righted if anything was wrong in their land. I have taken care of the people who settled over the line, they have raised their stock and made a good deal off our land. All we wish now is for those who have moved over the lie, to move back again.  Let them go into the side of the white people we do not care how near they are to the lie o their own side, and their stock may come over after grass, this we care nothing about and they are welcome to it. The people about Jack Wards must be moved, we will move our people towards the old towns, and you must move the white people over to their own side, he is on Soque Branch of Chattahooche, Samuel Adair he is over the line, he is a half breed and raised among the white people. He live not far from Ocunne Mountain-Old Yonah he has a white woman and lives at the fork of Chotee and Soeque there are two families with him, they must move off to their own people.

You must take all I say in friendship, I want things straight. The doctrine from Congress have been to keep things right on both sides, we abide by it, and will assist to take care of our part and to assist each other. We told the Secretary at War (sic) we had our land already small, little enough to spread out our stocks on and to live on. We do not wish to settle out ourselves, we have yet a little game, but when that is gone, the Secretary at War told us to spread out on the Creeks and in the good land with our stocks, this we shall soon do.  We are spinning and weaving.  Col Hawkins told us to do this and we are glad of it, it is good,we have tried it, but we are not yet ready to spread out in our settlements, as we have as yet a little game.- Our lands extend as far as the head of Appalatche on the line, all westward we have to attend to and be answerable for, and if anything belonging to the white people should be over on our lands there it is safe, and if our young people commit any bad acts it(sic) that quarter we are answerable for them and to se and keep it straight.- The Cherokees are a people who take a little time to settle their affairs, we came have settle ours with the Cowetuhs and Cussetuhs,and as to ours with the white people we find no difficulty, and we have everything straight with them, this is what we told the Creeks.

I came down to listen to the Creeks and white people, and to settle the little business about the people over the line.

CHULEOWAH

OGOSETUH

CHUHADDOCUH

YOUTARETUH

CHADOKIK

Richard Roe, Interpreter.

I certify the foregoing to be a true copy from the original.

ANDREW PICKENS, Jr.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The Removal of the Indians

Our readers are, no doubt, aware, that this disputed question which had produced a commendable agitation of public feeling, and called forth the manly and independent expression of public sentinent (sic), is at length decided by the Senate, in favor of removing the Indians.

The Yeas were 28, and the Nays 19-majority 9.  This majority Mr. Brantly, of the Columbian Star, pronounces 'respectable and decided'- and we feel no disposition to dispute their claim to that application. But we think it due to the talents and conscientious integrity of the gentlemen who opposed the measure, to pronounce the minority as equally respectable and decided. We find it impossible to conceal our astonishment at the insolence which the Editor of the

Star displays in his last paper; while speaking of that numerous and respectable body of his fellow-citizens who dared, during the pending of the above question, to differ from him in their judgement of the case. Their private sentiments and public memorials he denominates 'lugubrious forebodings of self-constituted judges!' and the editorial remarks of such journalists as opposed the claims of Georgia to the territory, he modestly calls 'the formidable denunciations of petulant cotemporaries (sic)!!'

We beg the pardon of our sarcastic and magisterial brother, for calling his conduct on this occasion 'insolent'- but we cannot recall the expression.

The true definition of the word, 'petulant,' is 'saucy, perverse, wanton:-now we ask the good sense of our readers whether it is becoming the character of a Christian, or a gentleman, to heap such railing epithets upon the conductors of twelve or twenty of the most respectable religious, literary, and political journals in the Nation, and we may ask Mr. Brantly, by whose authority did he conduct his side of this controverted question, since all who have expressed a different view of the subject are unceremoniously rebuked as 'self-constituted judges?'

We leave the Editor of the Star and his ungenerous reflections, in the in the (sic) meantime, to the disposal of other 'contemporaries' whom he includes in the charge of petulance-reserving to ourselves the privilege of adverting to this subject in a future number.-N. Y. Bap. Rep.

_______________________________________________

Page 2 Col. 2b.

Trial of Tuskina.- Yesterday, May 7th- came on the trial of the Indian Chief Tuskina, arraigned before the District Court of the United States, on a charge of stopping and detaining the United States' mail.

It appeared from the testimony, that on the 6th February last, while the mail stage was passing through the Creek Nation, about four or five miles to the east of Line Creek, with the Messrs. Clines and another passenger, Tuskina hailed the driver in broken English, requiring him to stop, and as it afterwards appeared, wished him to take a message to Captain Walker, on the subject of tolls due the nation for passing through their lands. Tuskina was very much intoxicated, and the driver did not understand him, or attend to his wishes. The passengers spoke roughly to him, and he taking advantage of a turn in the road, crossed so as to head the stage, and placed himself before it. He attempted to take hold of the reins and made a pass at the driver with a common Jack knife, though he was not near enough to reach him. The passengers became alarmed and advised the driver to stop.  One of the witnesses testifies; that there were a number of Indians insight, and some present, but that they all condemned the conduct of Tuskina. He also declared that the stage was not detained by the prisoner, but by the extraordinary terrors and apprehensions of the passengers. After a detention of about an hour and a half, the stage proceeded on its route without further molestation.

A Bill of indictment was preferred containing two counts, one for feloniously attempting to stop the mail- the other for knowingly and wilfully obstructing its passage. The Grand Jury ignored the first count, and found a true Bill on the second. On this a conviction was had, and the Prisoner was fined by the Court in the sum of one hundred dollars.

Thus has ended an affair, trifling and unimportant in itself, but which, by the ridiculous exaggerations of two or three terrified travellers, and the peculiar aspect of our Indian relations, has thrown the whole Country into commotion, drawn out the troops of the Government, and occasioned a parade and show of authority, that, as times are, would hardly be exceeded were the dissolution of the Union to be attempted.

From the turn the matter had taken it was highly necessary and proper for the sake of example, that the prisoner should be punished, but we confess we could not repress a feeling of mortified pride in reflecting, that a single Indian in a whiskey frolic, should be able to stir up the government to such an exhibition of its power. Had the driver possessed a particle of intrepidity, or had the passengers been governed by the ordinary firmness of men, the stage would have kept on its way, and the public ear would not have been abused by exaggerated tales of Indian interposition. We must not be understood in these remarks, as bestowing censure on the government, or its agents, for their conduct in this unfortunate affair; on the contrary, we are aware that the course they have pursued was rendered necessary by circumstances which they could not control.--Mobile Register.

_________________________________________________________________

LITTLE ROCK, (Arkansas,) April 1

Our South Western Frontier.-The frequency with which our citizens, residing in the southwestern district of our Territory, are alarmed by the savage incursions made upon them by the neighboring Indians, and the many citizens who have fallen victims to the tomahawk and scalping-knife, are fearfully impressing them with a dread of yet more direful events. So great is this apprehension, that our citizens in that quarter are driven to the necessity of having spies through the country about them, that timely notice may be given of the approach of any savage foe.

Our Legislature has repeatedly memorialized Congress on the subject of the danger to which our citizens are exposed, and petitioning that an adequate military force may be so located, as to afford protection to our frontier settlements. Those applications for protection have not only been in vain, but they have been worse than in vain. Not only have they been unheeded, but the small military force which for sometime occupied Cantonment Townson, has been withdrawn, and we are left to the mercy of the merciless savages. Our citizens are compelled, by turns, to leave their farms to the care of their wives and children, while they, as scouts, are hovering round the enemy to mark the road they take, in order to prevent more of their numbers from perishing in their own cornfields.

How much longer are we thus to be exposed?

It is confidently expected that the President, who is better acquainted with the merciless savage than any of his predecessors, and who best knows the surest means of defence, will not suffer the present session of Congress to terminate, without strongly recommending such measures as will efficiently protect our citizens.--Advocate.

How will it be when 70,000 more savages are placed in the neighborhood of Arkansas? Ed. Cher. Phoe.

____________________________________________

Page 2 Col. 3b.

The Indians- The bill which has passed the Senate providing for the removal of the Indians beyond the Mississippi, appropriated $500,000 for that object, to be used entirely at the discretion of the President, or, to speak more explicitly, to be used for bribing the Chiefs of the Indian Nations, to consent to an exchange of lands. No provision has been made to protect the Indians from the operation of the unjust and arbitrary laws of Georgia and Alabama, which are intended to take effect on the first day of June next. By this act of the Senate, all existing treaties with the Indians have been violated, the national faith broken, and our national honor sacrificed. Those who relied upon the justice of the government, and placed themselves under its protection,a re wantonly abandoned to destruction. Some, however, state that the Indians will finally consent to remove. Perhaps they may consent; our fathers, when placed in a similar situation, consented to remove to the west of the Atlantic, and seek refuge in an inhospitable wilderness, rather than longer endure the iron scourge of European despotism; and why may not the Indians take a similar course?- Oppression can do much to convince any people that they had better remove beyond the reach of its power, but if it should not have the desired effect upon the Indians, perhaps the sum of $500,000 distributed as bribes to their chiefs, may induce those chiefs to sign the contract for their removal.

Respecting this business the Ontario Repository justly remarks: 'And now, will not the people of this nation demand of their rulers an account of their unrighteous stewardship? for this has been done, not only with deliberation, but against the loud and emphatic remonstrances, of every sect and party in the United States.- It is due to the people of this state to know, that their senators, Dudley and ' (sic) Sanford, have voted with the majority on this question. Woodbury of New Hampshire, the only Jackson senator from New England, has also betrayed his trust, and violated the knewn (sic) wishes of his constituents.'

Dutches Intelligencer

____________________________________________________

From the Albany Daily Advertiser, of Friday.

Small Pox- We have read the Annual Address delivered before the Medical Society of the State of New York, Feb. 1830, by T. Romeyn Beck, president of the society. To say that it is able, would be superfluous, its author is too well known to require our approbation. The subject of the address is the Small Pox, its history, and the possibility of its extinction.

He says that it is now generally conceded, that this disease was unknown to the ancient Greeks and Romans. The first medical account of it is given by the Arabians.  Rhazes, a physician at Bagdad (sic), in the beginning of the tenth century, is one of the oldest writers on the disease, whose works are now extant. He, however, quotes earlier authors, from which it would appear that it was introduced into Egypt by the armies of Omar, the successor of Mahomet.

It is supposed that this disease was brought into Spain about the eight (sic) century by the Saracens, and thus propagated over Europe. It was first brought to this country immediately after its discovery by Columbus.  St. Domingo, containing, by computation a million of natives, was in a few years deprived of the whole number, by the combined effects of the sword and this dreadful epidemic. Mexico lost, in a very short time, upwards of three millions of inhabitants; and in several instances, whole tribes of Indians, in both Americas, appear to have been nearly extinguished by its ravages. In 1707, it destroyed, in Iceland, 16,000 persons, being more than one fourth of its inhabitants. In 1733 Greenland was almost depopulated by it.

The practice of inoculation had its origin in eastern countries, and was introduced into Constantinople when it was in general use not only in Asiatic countries, but in Barbary. In 1714, Dr. Timoni, a Greek physisian (sic), educated at Oxford, but residing at Constantinople, first communicated an account of the practice to the Royal Society of London, and from this a knowledge of its advantages came to be spread throughout Europe.

The individual who more particularly attraced (sic) the attention of the British public to it, was Lady Mary Wortley Montague, the wife of the English ambassador at Constantinople. While there, in 1717, she caused her son to be inoculated, and he had the disease mildly. When she returned to England, in 1722, she had her daughter inoculated, and this was the first case in that country: it was successful. Afterwards, six criminals under sentence of death were offered the alternatives, of suffering according to their sentence, or of submitting to inoculation. They embraced the latter were inoculated by Mr. Maitland, (the physician of Lady Montague,) and all passed favorably through the disease.

In America, the practice was first introduced by Dr. Boylston of Boston, on his own child. In six months, he inoculated 244 persons, but of these six died. When the death of an inoculated patient occurred in England, there was much ferment. Inoculation was denounced by the press and from the pulpit. But on investigation it appearing that of those who had the natural small pox, there died one in five or six, and of those who were inoculated, only one in fifty, the ferment subsided and the practice of inoculating was extended. Subsequent improvements in the mode of communicating the infection and of treating the disease, made inoculated small pox fatal only in about one case in two hundred.

The loss of lives in Great Britain and Ireland, from 1770 to 1800, exceeded 35,000 annally (sic).

In 1798 Dr. Jenner made the discovery of the benefits of vaccine matter in checking the influence of the small pox, and Dr. Beck gives some instances of its happy effects. During the twelve years, preceding the practice of vaccination, 5.500 died of the small pox in Copenhagen alone; whereas, since its introduction (1802) down to 1808, the deaths from it, throughout the whole Danish dominions, were only 158.

Formerly 10,000 died annually in the Prusian (sic) dominions, of small pox. In 1817, only 2,940.

In Bavaria, in 11 years, succeeding the promulgation of severe laws requiring vaccination, only five deaths happened from small pox, and 162,000 were vacinated (sic).

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

New Echota: June 5, 1830

We neglected to notice in our last the arrival of the detachment of the United States' troops, which the President has ordered to this nation for the removal of the intruders. From the last accounts they were stationed near Scudders' on the Hightower River about 20 or 30 miles from the Gold mines. They have done nothing efficient as yet, that we know of.  We understand the agent is with them.

_____________________________________

Under our Congressional head, it will be seen that the Indian Question is under a course of warm discussion in the House of Representatives. In our next we shall probably be able to give the result of the debate. We have no expectation that the decision will be in favor of the treaties and the Indians. We should however, rejoice to be disappointed.

____________________________________________

In our last we gave some account of a disgraceful attempt of four white men to rob a Creek Indian, by the name of Hog.- Since then a report has reached us that the same men, or others of the same character, soon after their failure, actually robbed this poor Indian, after knocking him down and stabbing him with a knife. The Hog is represented to be, by those best acquainted with him, one of the most inoffensive men. He is a small and weakly man.- Now as an Indian cannot be a competent witness in Georgia according to the law of the state now said to be in operation, such acts must go unpunished.

______________________________________________

The following is a copy of a note addressed to a gentleman of this nation; by a citizen of Georgia. It confirms the statement we made two weeks ago, that a number of the citizens of the adjoining counties were ready to fall upon the Cherokees with false accounts and forged notes.

May 20, 1830

Dear Sirs,

I just drop you a line in haste to inform you that I understand that a number of persons have been forging notes on Indians living on this side of the Hightower, calculating that on the first of the laws of Georgia will be extended thro' (sic) the nation.

This hint I give you that the persons who are innocent may not be taken at a surprise.

Yours with great respect.

_____________________________________________

We believe, says the Chautauga Phoenix, the Indians [Cherokees] and the whites are both to be blamed. In the first place, the whites should not have interfered with the rights nor intruded upon the lands of the Indians; and, in the next place the Indians deserved severe chastisement, for the cruelty manifested to the intruders; and lastly, the whites should have taken a legal course to obtain redress.

Can the editor of the Chautauga Phoenix point to a single act of the Cherokees towards the Intruders which was cruel, and deserved severe chastisement?

Ed Cher. Phoenix.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CONGRESS

REMOVAL OF THE INDIANS.

On motion of Mr. Bell, the several special orders of the day were postponed, and the House resolved itself into committee of the whole, Mr. Wickliffe  being called to the chair, and took up the bill making an appropriation to enable the President of the United States to effect and exchange of lands with the Indians, within the States, and to provide for their removal beyond the river Mississippi.

Mr.

 Bell, chairman of the committee on Indian Affairs, rose and addressed the Committee at large, in explanation of the objects of the bill, and the policy and expedience of the measures which it contemplated.- Having spoken upwards of two hours, he intimated his willingness to give way, and allow some other gentleman to continue the argument; if it was the pleasure of the Committee to sit longer, reserving what he had further to say for another day.

Mr.

Lumpkin, of Georgia, rose and expressed a willingness to proceed with the remarks which he designed to make, if the committee were disposed to continue the sitting; but, it being half after three o'clock, (and some members intimating a wish after the late fatiguing sittings of the House; that the committee should rise) he gave way; and the committee rose, and

The House adjourned;

The House the (sic) resolved itself into a committee of the whole of the state of the Union, Mr. WICKLIFFE in the chair, and resumed the consideration of the bill 'providing for an exchange of lands with the Indian tribes, and for their removal of West of the river Mississippi.'

Mr. LUMPKIN was entitled to the floor, but he said, considering the circumstances under which he obtained it yesterday, he felt it his duty to resign it to Mr. BELL, who had not finished his remarks.

Mr. BELL when rose, and, after acknowledging the courtesy of the gentleman from Georgia, proceeded with the argument which he commenced yesterday, and addressed the committee about five hours on the various questions presented by the bill, and connected with our Indian relations.- When he concluded,

On the motion of Mr. STORRS, of New York, the coinmmittee (sic) rose.

The House resolved itself into Committee of the whole on the state of the Union. Mr. WICKLIFFE in the chair.

The Committee then procceded (sic) to consider the Indian bill.

Mr. LUMPKIN then took the floor in defence of the policy and expediency of the bill. After he had concluded.

Mr. ELLSWORTH took the floor in opposition to the bill.

Mr. FOSTER then obtained the floor and addressed the Committee in favor of the bill. He continued his argument until between 5 and 6 o'clock, when the Committee rose and reported progress.

The House adjourned.

_________________________________________________

Page 3 Col. 5

The following ar a list of the names as candidates for the next General Council to represent Chickamauga District.

For the Committee.

John Baldridge,

Jas. Brown,

Jas. Starr,

Rich. Taylot.

For the Council.

Little Meat

Sleeping Rabbit

Bark

Wahhatchee

Three Killer

Hunter Langley

Broom

Kahiquayagee

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






DIED-- At the Head of Coosa, on the 22d of May, DANIEL ROSS, aged about 70 years, a respectable citizen of this Nation.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






POETRY

From the Philadelphia Christian Advocate

THE CHEROKEE

Gaze on this landscape! once in fleet career,

The desert chieftain trod exulting here!

Cleft with light bark the still and shaded floods,

Pierced the recesses of the old gray woods;

Poured midst their hidden dells his wild halloo (sic),

And the light shaft with aim unerring threw.

Proud was his spirit, fierce, untamed and free,

Scorning to crouch to pain, from death to flee,

With feeling suited to his savage state,

Faithful alike to friendship or to hate,

Seeking no meed beyond a warrior's fame,

And fearing nought except a coward's shame.

These wilds were his; amidst his chosen dell,

Where clustering wild flowers fringed the gushing well,

His hut was reared; and there, at closing day,

He heard his children's laughter- shout of play,

While, weary with the chase, his limbs were laid,

In listless rest, beneath the oak tree's shade.

Then o'er the ocean-sea the white man came

Held to his lips the cup of liquid flame,

With smooth, false words, and bold encroaching hand,

Wrenched from the Cherokee his father's land,

Still on his fast receding footsteps prest (sic),

And urged him onward to the distant West,

'Till all the precincts of his narrowed ground,

Were closely hemmed with cultured life around;

And burning cottages and mangles slain,

Had marked war's footsteps o'er the ravaged plain.

Wearied, at length, the pale browed (sic) stranger swore,

To seek the Indian's hunting ground no more;

Treaties and oaths the solemn compact sealed,

And plenty crowned once more the blood stained field.

Then o'er the red men's altered nature smiled

A kindlier spirit, and a soul more mild;

Bright knowledge poured its sunlight o'er his mind,

His feelings softened, and his heart refined.

No longer then, when passed the storm flash by,

He saw the lightning of Manitto's eye,

Or listened trembling, while his anger spoke,

As high o'er head the pealing thunder broke.

He learned to light in heaven his spirit's flame,

And blend a Saviour's (sic) with Jehovah's name.

Then tell us, ye, who have the power to save,

Shall all his hopes be crushed in one wide grave?

Shall lawless force, with rude, remorseless hand,

Drive out the Indian from his father's land,

Burst all the ties that bind the heart to home,

And thrust him forth, 'mid distant wilds to roam?

Oh no! to mercy's pleading voice give ear,

The wak'ning wrath of outraged justice fear,

Stain not with broken faith our country's name,

Nor weigh her tresses to the dust with shame!

Remember yet the solemn pledge you gave,

And lift the potent arm, to shield and save!.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

We give in this paper the proceedings of the United States Senate in relation to the removal of the Indians.- It will there be seen that every proposition recognizing the rights of the Indians, or the validity and binding force of solemn treaties, has been voted down.  Every attempt to prolong their tranquility or to stay the uplifted arm of oppression, has been met with as prompt and decided a negative, as if it did not involve in its consequences the dearest rights of man,-as if inability to resist aggression was a sufficient justification for authorizing it--yes, with the same apparent recklessness of consequences as if they neither felt accountable for their votes to their constituents, or their God. But let it be remembered that these are the proceedings of the Senate, the members of which are required only once in six years to surrender their authority into the hands of the people. In the other house we hope for better things.- They will hardly venture to disregard the will of those who have clothed them with authority, and who may at no distant period have an opportunity to express, through the ballot box, their approbation or disapprobation.

We hope that our readers will give these several votes a careful examination-their feelings, which revolt at injustice and the oppression of the weak and defenceless(sic) will make the proper comment.--Rochester Obs.

_________________________________________________

The Indian Bill, as it passed the Senate, is now fairly before the House.  Mr. BELL, Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs, has supported the provisions of the bill in a speech of great length and wide excursion. A large number of the ablest men in the House were seen taking copious notes, and a powerful debate is confidently anticipated. We hope the bill will not be made a party question.

If there ever was a question propounded of our National Legislature, which imperiously demanded an exemption from all party influence, it is that which is now pending. This question is too solemn, too full of moral responsibility, to admit the trifling display of party strength. Let political distinctions be displayed upon proper themes; but upon a question involving the faith and honor of our nation, and the rights and happiness of another, every man ought to give such a decision as he would not hesitate to carry in his hand to the bar of God. Let the unerring voice from within be heard; let the sentiments of thousands, expressed in their earnest memorials, be heard; let the opinions that are coming to us from other continents and climes, be heard; let the sacred sanctions of those whom we most honor among the glorious dead, be remembered; let the righteous verdict of an impartial posterity be anticipated. If there be a listening ear turned to these oracles, we fear not the result-the decision will be one upon which Justice and Humanity will set their brightest seal. But if sectional interest and party spirit shall be allowed to predominate, not only will the first principles of equity be violated, and all that we most venerate in the memories of our forefathers be profaned, but the pavement will be laid upon which this nation will travel down to disgrace and ruin!

Amer. Spec. May 15.



________________________________________________



The Memorial of the Cherokee Legislature, recently presented to Congress, will convince the public that the men who penned that document perfectly well understand their rights, and are prepared to mantain (sic) them, by sound argument against the bewildering sophistry of our Executive constructions. It is a gratuitous piece of impudence for our Government to set themselves up as conservators over men so perfectly well qualified to take care of themselves. All they ask of us is to let them alone. ----Id.

_____________________________________________________

The Indians.---The bill which has passed the Senate of the United States, for the removal of the Indians, provides that the President shall lay off so much of any territory belonging to the United States, west of the Mississippi, as he may deem necessary, for the reception of such Indians as may choose to exchange the land on which they reside, and remove thither; which territory is to be forever guaranteed to them, and their heirs and successors. The Indians are also to be paid for the improvements on their lands and aid is to be given them in removing, and for their support and subsistence the first year thereafter.

The bill is mild in its language; and were the Indians at liberty to pursue their own inclinations, unawed by the unjust and oppressive laws of Georgia, and secure of the protection of the United States, whether they stay or go, there is nothing on the face of the measure, which would particularly alarm their friends. But when the pretensions which have been avowed, and the course which has been pursued, by Georgia; the language employed by her Senators during the debate on the bill, and the rejection of every amendment which was offered by its opponents, are taken into consideration, there is no room to doubt, that if the bill passes the House of Representives (sic), no choice will be left to the Indians, but to abandon their country, or be subjected to every species of persecution which may be calculated to dishearten and drive them to despair.

West. Rec.



'Poor Devils'- The papers tell us, that Mr. Senator Forsyth, of Georgia while pleading for the removal of the Indians, frequently spoke of them under this contemtuous (sic) appellation.--Something of a same spirit has also shown itself elsewhere. It has been pretended, for instance, that the mere circumstance of a 'few naked savages dancing upon land,' could never ensure them a title to it.

But such barefaced pretences (sic) will never do.  The 'savages' it seems, whether naked or clad, have had their land guaranteed by treaty with the United States; and whether the Indians are 'poor or rich' the pledge must be redeemed, or the nation dishonoured (sic). It will avail the oppressors nothing to asperse the character of the oppressed. It is by adding insult to injury; a thing, by the way, which is very customary with unprincipled men.

Western Rec.

_________________________________________

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

SPEECH

Of Mr. Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, in Senate U. S. - April 6, 1830.



The Bill to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories, and for their removal West of the river Mississippi, being under consideration, Mr. Frelinghuysen spoke as follows:-

Mr. President: I propose an amendment to this bill, by the addition of two sections in the form of provisos. The first of which brings to our consideration the nature of our public duties, in relation to the Indian Nations; and the second provides for the continuance of our future negotiations, by the mode of treaties, as in our past intercourse with them. The following is the amendment:

Provided always,  That, until the said tribes or nations shall choose to remove, as by this act is contemplated, they shall be protected in their present possessions, and in the enjoyment of all their rights of territory and government, as heretofore exercised and enjoyed, from all interruptions and encroachments.

And provided always, That before any removal shall take place of any of the said tribes or nations, and before any exchange or exchanges of land be made as aforesaid, that the rights of any such tribes or nations in the premises shall be stipulated for, secured and guarantied by treaty or treaties as heretofore made.'

The first of these sections discloses the real object sought by this bill, seemingly composed of harmless clauses. It supposes that the design of the system of which the present bill forms but a part, is really to remove all the Indian tribes beyond the Mississippi, or in case of their refusal, to subject them to State sovereignty and legislation.- The Hon. Senator, (Mr. White) who yesterday addressed the Senate, found it necessary so to consider it; and to anticipate and endeavor to meet all such objections to this course of policy, as he deemed worthy of a refutation.

Sir, I prefer that this latent object should be fully before us, that we and the nation may look at it and freely scrutinize it.  At an early stage of the present Administration, its views and opinions on the interesting subject of our Indian relations, were developed in language not to be mistaken. It is greatly to be regretted, Sir, that our present Chief Magistrate did not pursue the wise and prudent policy of his exalted predecessor, President Washington, who, at a time of collision and difficulty with these tribes came before the Senate, and laid open to them, in propositions for their approbation, in various important subjects involved in our relations. The annexed extract from the Journals of the Senate illustrates the principles of Washington's Administration. It follows:

'SATURDAY, August 22, 1789.

'The President of the United States came into the Senate, attended by General Knox, and laid before the Senate the following state of facts, with the questions thereto annexed, for their advice and consent.'

This was a most important document. It developed all the collisions that existed between the Indian tribes and the States; and referred to the consideration of the Senate certain leading principles of policy which he thought it was wise to pursue.

The principles are embodied in seven distinct  interrogatories. The 4th of which submits to the Senate 'whether the United States shall solemnly guarantee to the Creeks their remaining territory, and maintain the same, if necessary, by a line of Military Posts.' This question was wholly answered in the affirmative by that body, and the blank (for an appropriation of necessary funds) was ordered to be filled at the discretion of the President of the United States. Again, on the 11th of August, 1790 President Washington sent a special message to the Senate by his Secretary, the subject matter of which he introduces by the following suggestion:

'Gentlemen of the Senate:

'Although the treaty of the Creeks may be regarded as the main foundation of the future peace and prosperity of the Southwestern frontier of the United States, yet, in order fully to effect so desirable an object, the treaties which have been entered into with the other tribes in that quarter must be faithfully performed on our part.'

He then proceeds to remind the Senate, that, by the treaty with the Cherokees, in November, 1783, (the Treaty of Hopewell,) 'the said Cherokees placed themselves under the protection of the United States, and had a boundary assigned them; that the white people settled on the frontiers had openly violated the said boundary by intruding on the Indian lands; that the United States in Congress Assembled, on the first day of September, 1788, had, by their proclamation, forbidden all such unwarrantable intrusions, ' enjoined the intruders to depart without loss of time; but that there were still refractory intruders remaining. The President then distinctly announces his determination to exert the powers entrusted to him by the Constitution, in order to carry into faithful execution the Treaty of Hopewell, unless a new boundary should be arranged with the Cherokees embracing the intrusive settlements, and compensating the Cherokees in the cessions they shall make on the occasion. And in view of the whole case, he requests the advice of the Senate, whether overtures shall b e made to the Cherokees to arrange such new boundary, and concludes his communication with the following emphatical question: '3d. Shall the United States stipulate solemnly to guarantee the new boundary which may be arranged?'

It produced as pointed a response- for the Senate

'Resolved, In case a new or other boundary than that stipulated by the Treaty of Hopewell, shall be concluded with the Cherokee Indians, that the Senate do advise and consent solemnly to guarantee the same.' A new boundary was arranged by a second treaty; the solemn guarantee was given to the Cherokees; and cogent, indeed, should be the causes that now lead us to think or speak lightly of such sacred obligations.

I lament, Sir, that so bright ' illustrious a precedent was not regarded, and that the President had not yielded to the safe guidance of such high examples; and I deplore it the more because it was concerning these very tribes, in the State of Georgia, that General Washington chose to confer with his constitutional advisers.

Instead of this just proceeding, the present Administration have thought proper, without the slightest consultation with either House of Congress-without any opportunity for counsel or concert, discussion or deliberation, on the part of these coordinate branches of Government, to despatch the whole subject in a tone and style of decisive construction of our obligations and of Indian rights. It would really seem, Sir, as if opinion was to be forestalled, and the door of inquiry shut forever upon these grave questions, so deeply implicating our national faith and honor.

We must firmly protest against this Executive disposition of these high interests. No one branch of the Government can rescind, modify or explain away our public treaties. They are the supreme law of the land, so declared to be by the Constitution. They bind the President and all other departments, rulers, and people.  And when their provisions shall be controverted--when their breach or fulfillment become subjects of investigation-here, Sir, and in the other Hall of our Legislation, are such momentous concerns to be debated and considered. That we may freely exercise these essential powers, and review the proclaimed opinions of the Executive, I have submitted the first branch of the amendment. We possess the constitutional right to inquire wherefore it was that, when some of these tribes appealed to the Executive for protection, according to the terms of our treaties with them, they received the answer that the Government of the United States could not interpose to arrest or prevent the legislation of the States over them. Sir, this was a harsh measure, indeed, to faithful allies, that had so long reposed in confidence on a nation's faith. They had in the darkest hour of trial turned to the aegis which the most solemn pledges had provided for them, and were comforted by the conviction that it would continue to shed upon them a pure and untarnished beam of light and hope. Deep, indeed, must have been their despondency, when their political father assured them that their confidence would be presumptuous, and dissuaded them from all expectation of relief.

Mr. President: The instructions that have proceeded from the War Department to the Agents of Indian Affairs have excited just and strong jealousies of the measures that are now recommended. They have prompted this amendment in the hope that by some public and decided expression of our disapprobation, a train of political management with these tribes may be arrested, and our country saved from the dishonor of burning over the consent of corrupted Chiefs, to a traitorous surrender of their country.

I will read a part of these instructions; they are from the War Department to Generals Carroll and Coffee, of the date of 30th May, 1829: 'The past (remarks the Secretary, in respect to Indian Councils,) has demonstrated their utter aversion to this mode, whilst it has been made equally clear, that another mode promises greater success. In regard to the first, ( that by councils,) the Indians have seen in the past, that it has been by the result of councils that the extent of their country has been from time to time diminished. They all comprehend this.- Hence it is that those who are interested in keeping them where they are alarm their fears, and by previous cautioning induce them to reject all offers looking to this object. There is no doubt, however, but the mass of the people would be glad to emigrate; and there is a little doubt that they are kept from this exercise of their choice by their chiefs and other interested and influential men,' 'c.  Again: 'Nothing is more certain than that if the chiefs and influential men could be brought into the measure, the rest would implicitly follow. It becomes therefore, a matter of necessity, if the General Government would benefit these people, that it move upon them in the line of their own prejudices, and, by the acception of any proper means, break the power that is warring with their best interests.  The question is, how can this be best done? Not, it is believed, for the reason suggested by means of a general council.- There, they would be awakened to all the intimations which those who are opposed to their exchange of country might throw out; and the consequence would be- what it has been-firm refusal to acquiesce. The best resort is believed to be that which is embraced in an appeal to the chiefs and influential men, not together, but apart, at their own houses, and by a proper exposition of their real condition, rouse them to think of that; whilst offers to them of extensive reservations in fee simple, and other rewards, would, it is hoped result in obtaining their acquiescence.'

Let us analyze this singular state paper. It does not relish the congregation of Indian councils. In these assemblies, they deliberate and weigh the policy of measures-they calculate the results of proposed improvements. These councils embody the collected wisdom of the tribes.  Their influence is of the authority of law; the people look to them for protection. They know that in the multitude of counsellors there is safety. Hence nations, far in advance of the Indians, always meet in council, when their great interests are to be promoted or defended. But these special agents are discouraged from hoping that the object can be obtained in this good old fashioned way. The Indians are too wise (to be caught when the net is spread so fully in sight. They are directed to avoid all associations; and with the public purse in hand, to take the chiefs alone-to approach individually, and at home--'to meet them in the way of their prejudices.' I admire the ingenious clothing of a most odious proposal.

A strong hint is suggested to try the effect of terror, and, by a proper exposition of their real condition, rouse them to think upon that, and to follow this up with 'large offers to them of extensive reservations in fee simple, and other rewards.' The report made by one of these agents of the War Department, dated September 2d, 1829, still further discloses the nature of the exigencies to which the Indians are to be subjected, to constrain their removal. The agent observes, 'The truth is, they (the Cherokees) rely with great confidence on a favorable report on the petitions they have before Congress. If that is rejected, and the laws of the State are enforced, you will have no difficulty in obtaining an exchange of lands with them.' It may be true, that as we withdraw our protection, give them over to the high handed, heart-breaking legislation of the States, and drive them to despair, that when improper means fail to win them, force and terror may compel them. We shall have no difficulty, the agent assures the War Department. Sir, there will be one difficulty that should be deemed insurmountable. Such a process will disgrace us in the estimation of the whole civilized world.  It will degrade us in our own eyes, and blot the page of our history with indelible dishonor.

Now, Sir, I have brought this measure before the Senate, and wait with intense anxiety to hear the final disposition of it.  Where is the man that can, in view of such policy, open the door, or afford the slightest facility to the operation of influences that we should blush with honest shame could we, in an unguarded moment, consent to have employed them with our equal in the scale of civilization. It is not intended, Sir, to ascribe this policy exclusively to the present Administration. Far from it.  The truth is, we have long been gradually, and almost unconsciously, declining into these devious ways, and we shall inflict lasting injury upon our good name, unless we speedily abandon them.

I now proceed to the discussion of those principles which, in my humble judgment, fully and clearly sustain the claims of the Indians to all their political and civil rights, as by them asserted.

And here, Mr. President, I insist that, by immemorial possession, as the original tenants of the soil, they hold a title beyond and superior to the British crown and her colonies, and to all adverse pretensions of our confederation and subsequent Union:- God, in his Providence, planted these tribes on this Western continent, so far as we know, before Great Britain herself had a political existence. I believe, Sir, it is not now seriously denied that the Indians are men, endowed with kindred faculties and powers with ourselves; that they have a place in human sympathy, and are justly entitled to a share in the common bounties of a benignant Providence. And, with this conceded, I ask in what code of the law of nations, or by what process of abstract deduction, their rights have been extinguished?

Where is the decree or ordinance that has stripped these early and first lords of the soil? Sir, no record of such measure can be found. And I might triumphantly rest the hopes of these feeble fragments of once great nations upon this impregnable foundation. However mere human policy, or the law of power, or the tyrant's plea of expediency, may have found it convenient at any or in all times to recede from the unchangeable principles of eternal justice, no argument can shake the political maxim- that where the Indian always has been, he enjoys an absolute right still to be, in the free exercise of his own modes of thought, government and conduct.

Mr. President: In the light of natural law, can a reason for a distinction exist in the mode of enjoying that which is my own?  If I use it for hunting may another take it because he needs it for agriculture? I am aware that some writers have, by a system of artificial reasoning, endeavored to justify, or rather, excuse the encroachments made upon Indian territory; and they denominate these abstractions the law of nations, and, in this ready way, the question is despatched. Sir, as we trace the sources of this law, we find its authority to depend either upon the conventions or common consent of nations.  And when, permit me to inquire, were the Indian tribes ever consulted on the establishment of such a law? Whoever represented them or their interests in any Congress of nations, to confer upon the public rules of intercourse, and the proper foundations of dominion and property? The plain matter of fact is, that all these partial doctrines have resulted from the selfish plans and pursuits of more enlightened nations; and it is not matter for any great wonder, that they should so largely partake of a mercenary and exclusive spirit towards the claims of the Indians.

It is however admitted, Sir, that when the increase of population and the wants of mankind demand the cultivation of the earth, a duty is thereby devolved upon the proprietors of large and uncultivated regions, of devoting them to such useful purposes. But such appropriations are to be obtained by fair contract, and for reason able compensation. It is, in such a case, the duty of the proprietor to sell-we may properly address his reason to induce him; but we cannot rightfully compel the cession of his lands, or take them by violence if his consent be withheld. It is with great satisfaction, that I am enabled upon the best authority to affirm, that this duty has been largely and generously met and fulfilled on the part of the aboriginal proprietors of this continent.  Several years ago, official reports to Congress stated the amount of Indian grants to the United States to exceed 214 millions of acres. Yes, Sir, we have acquired, and now own, more land as the fruits of the bounty, than we shall dispose of at the present rate to actual settlers in two hundred years.  For, very recently, it has been ascertained on this floor, that our public sales average not more than about one million of acres annually. It greatly aggravates the wrong that is now mediated against these tribes to survey the rich and ample districts of their territories that either force or persuasion have incorporated into our public domains. As the tide of our population has rolled on, we have added purchase to purchase- the confiding Indian listened to our professions of friendship--we called him brother, and he believed us-millions after millions, he has yielded to our importunity, until we have acquired more than can be cultivated in centuries--and yet we crave more. We have crowded the tribes upon a few miserable acres on our Southern frontier--it is all that is left to them of their once boundless forests, and still, like the horseleech, our insatiated cupidity cries give, give.

Before I proceed to deduce collateral confirmations of this original title, from all our political intercourse and conventions with the Indian tribes, I beg leave to pause a moment, and view the case as it lies beyond the treaties made with them; and aside also, from all conflicting claims between the confederation and colonies, and the Congress of the States.  Our ancestors found these people, far removed from the commotions of Europe, exercising all the rights, and enjoying the privileges of free and independent sovereigns of this new world.  They were not a wild and lawless horde of banditti; but lived under the restraints of Government, patriarchal in its influence.--They had chiefs, head men and councils. The white men, the authors of all their wrongs approached them as friends--they extended the olive branch, and being then a feeble colony, and at the mercy of the native tenants of the soil, by presents and professions, propitiated their good will. The Indian yielded a slow, but substantial confidence-granted to the colonies an abiding place, and suffered them to grow up to a man's estate beside him. He never raised the claim of elder title--as the white man's wants increased, he opened the hand of his bounty wider and wider.  By and by, conditions are changed.  His people melt away; his lands are constantly coveted; millions after millions are ceded. The Indian bears it all meekly; he complains, indeed, as well he may; but suffers on; and now he finds that this neighbor, whom his kindness had nourished, has spread an adverse title ever the last remains of his patrimony, barely adequate to his wants, and turns upon him, and says: 'away, we cannot endure you so near us.  These forests and rivers, these groves of you fathers, these firesides and hunting grounds, are ours by the right of power, and the force of numbers.' Sir, let every treaty be blotted from our records, and in the judgment of natural and unchangeable truth and justice, I ask who is the injured, and who is the aggressor?  Let conscience answer, and, I fear not the result. Sir, let those who please, denounce the public feeling on this subject, as the morbid excitement of a false humanity; but I return with the inquiry, whether I have not presented the case truly, with no feature of it overcharged or distorted  And, in view of it, who can help feeling, Sir?--Do the obligations of justice change with the color of the skins?  Is it one of the prerogatives of the white man, that he may disregard the dictates of moral principles, when an Indian shall be concerned? No, Mr. President. In that severe and impartial scrutiny which futurity will cast over this subject, the righteous award will be, that those very causes which are now pleaded for the relaxed enforcement of the rules of equity, urged upon us not only a rigid execution of the highest justice, to the very letter, but claimed at our hands a generous and magnanimous policy.

Standing here, then, on this unshaken basis, how is it possible that even a shadow of claim to soil or jurisdiction can be derived, by forming a collateral issue between the State of Georgia ' the General Government? Her complaint is made against the United States, for encroachments on her sovereignty. Sir, the Cherokees are no parties to this issue; they have not part in this controversy. They hold by better title than either Georgia or the Union.---They have nothing to do with State sovereignty, or United States sovereignty. They are above and beyond both. True, Sir, they have made treaties with both, not to acquire title  or jurisdiction; these they had before--ages, before the evil hour, to them, when their white brothers fled to them for an asylum. They treated, to secure protection and guaranty f or subsisting powers and privileges; and so far as these conventions raise obligations, they are willing to meet, and always have met, and faithfully performed them, and now expect from the great People, the like fidelity and plighted covenants.

I have thus endeavored to bring this question to the control of first principles. I forget all that we have promised, and all that Georgia has repeated conceded, and by her conduct confirmed. Sir, in this abstract presentation of the case, stripped of every collateral circumstance, and these only, the more firmly establish the Indian claims, thus regarded; if the contending parties were to exchange positions; place the white man where the Indian stands; load him with all these wrongs, and what path would his outraged feelings strike out for his career? Twenty shillings tax, I think it was, imposed upon the immortal Hampden, roused into activity the slumbering fires of liberty in the old world, from which she dates a glorious epoch whose healthful influence still cherishes freedom. A few pence of duty on tea, that invaded no fireside, excited no fears, disturbed no substantial interest whatever, awakened in the American colonies a firm resistance; and how was the tea tax met Sir? Just as it should be. There was lurking beneath this trifling imposition of duty, a covert assumption of authority, that led directly to oppressive exactions.  'No taxation without representation' became our motto. We would neither pay the tax nor drink the tea. Our fathers buckled on their armor, and from the water's edge, repelled the encroachments of a misguided cabinet. We successfully and triumphantly contended for the very rights and privileges that our Indian neighbors now deplore us to protect and preserve to them. Sir, this thought invests the subject under debate with most singular and momentous interest. We, whom God has exalted to the very summits of prosperity--whose brief career forms the brightest page in history; the wonder and praise of the world; Freedom's hope and her consolation. 

We, about to turn traitors to our principles and our fame-about to become the oppressors of the feeble, and to cast away our birth-right! Mr. President, I hope for better things.

It is a subject full of grateful satisfaction, Mr. President, that, in our public intercourse with the Indians, ever since the first colonies of white men found an abode on these western shores, we have distinctly recognized their title; treated with them as the owners, and in all our acquisitions of territory applied ourselves to these ancient proprietors, by purchase and cession alone, to obtain the right of soil. Sir, I challenge the record of any other different pretension. When or where did the assembly or convention meet which proclaimed, or even suggested to these tribes, that the right of discovery contained a superior efficacy over all prior titles.

And our recognition was not confined to the soil merely. We regarded them as nations--far behind us indeed in civilization, but still we respected their forms of government--we conformed our conduct to their notions of civil policy. We were aware of the potency of any edict that sprang from the deliberations of the council fire; and when we desired lands, or peace, or alliances to this source of power and energy, to this great lever of Indian government we addressed our proposals-to this alone did we look, and from this alone did we expect aid or relief.

[TO BE CONTINUED]

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CONGRESS

From the National Intelligencer,

MONDAY MAY 17

The House then again resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole, Mr. WICKLIFFE in the Chair, on the bill for the removal of the Indians.

Mr. LUMPKIN, of Georgia, addressed the committee about two hours in support of the bill.

Mr. ELLSWORTH of Connecticut, followed in a speech of about an hour against the bill.

Mr. FOSTER, of Georgia, next rose, and occupied the floor about two hours in support of the bill. When he concluded, several gentlemen rose, but

Mr. EVANS, of Me. obtained the floor, and on his motion the committee rose, and

The House adjourned.

May 18

The several special orders of the day were then, on motion of Mr. BELL, further postponed, and the House again resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole, Mr. WIICKLIFFE in the Chair on the bill to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indian tribes, and for their removal beyond the Mississippi.

Mr. EVANS, of Maine, addressed the committee upwards of three hours in opposition to the bill and in reply to its advocates.

Mr. HUNTINGTON, of Connecticut, followed in a speech of nearly the same length on the same side.

Mr. JOHNS, of Delaware, succeeded, and addressed the committee at great length, also against the bill. [Mr. J. was speaking at 9 o'clock ' the House had not adjourned at 10.]

From the National Journal.

WEDNESDAY, May 19

The House then took up the amendments made in committee of the Whole on the State of the Union on the Indian bill.

The first amendment was agreed to viz. to insert the words 'and territories.' The second amendment, as follows having been read:

Provided, That nothing in this act contained shall be construed as authoring or directing the violation of any exiting treaty between the U. States and any of the Indian tribes.

Mr. STORRS, of New York moved to amend the amendment by adding,

'Nor to authorize the occupation or purchase of any lands belonging to the Cherokee Nation, or any possessory interest or claim therein of any individual Indian or Indians, without the consent of the said nation given by treaty for that purpose.'

Mr. BATES then addressed the House for about two hours and a half in opposition to the bill.

Mr. CROCKET then rose and stated his determination to vote against the bill.

Mr. TEST then obtained the floor, but yielded for a moment while Mr. HEMPHILL sent an amendment to the Chair, which he requested to have read, as one which he intended to offer at a proper time. This amendment provides for the appointment of three Commissioners to be send to the Indian nations, and ascertain if it was their desire to remove, and to examine the lands west of the Mississippi, etc.

Mr. EVERETT then spoke in position to the policy of the bill for about three hours. It was near 6 o'clock when he closed.

Mr. WILDE then took the floor in defence of the bill, and continued to address the House until half past seven o'clock.

Mr. DESHA called for the previous question, but subsequently withdrew the call.

Mr. CARSON renewed it, but it was not sustained by the House.

Mr. TEST spoke for a considerable time in opposition to the bill.

Mr. LAMAR supported the measure.

After another unsuccessful motion for the previous question, the House, at half past ten o'clock, adjourned.

From the National Journal

MONDAY, MAY 24.

The House then proceeded to the unfinished business of Wednesday last, being the bill providing for the removal of the Indians beyond the river Mississippi -- the question pending being on a motion for the previous question. This question being announced by the Chair.

Mr. CLAY moved a call of the House, but the yeas and nays being demanded and ordered on the motion, he withdrew it.

Mr. IRVIN of Ohio renewed the motion, and on motion of Mr. EVERETT of Mass. the yeas and nays were ordered, which being taken, the motion for a call of the House was carried- ayes 165, noes 25.

The clerk proceeded accordingly to call the roll; when Mr. MARTIN remarked, that as almost every member probably in the City had just answered, he moved that the call be discontinued, but the House refused to consent; and the call proceeded, and 198 members answered to their names.

Mr. CARSON moved to suspend further proceedings; ayes 99, noes 86.

On trying the sense of the House on seconding the motion for the previous question, only 78 rose, and the motion  was therefore not seconded by a majority of the House.

The question then recurred on the amendment.

Mr. BELL opposed the amendment, and argued briefly that the bill itself proposed an appropriation only to carry into effect existing contracts and treaties with the Indian Tribes according to their construction by the Government, and introduced no new policy as was contended by the opposition to it. Therefore the amendment was unnecessary.

Mr. STORRS replied, and contended that no treaty in existence contained the provision which his amendment proposed and that it was therefore necessary and expedient.

Mr. WAYNE denied what the amendment assumed namely, that the Cherokees were a nation, independent of the State of Georgia.  He expressed a determination to take an opportunity of going to the foundation of this question of Indian rights and that whatever credit gentlemen might obtain for a fanciful eloquence, they should not have the benefit of the argument.

Mr. WILDE called for the reading of the eighth article of the treaty with the Cherokee Indians west of the Mississippi, of May 26, 1828, as a reply to the resolution of Mr. STORRS.

Mr. VINTON argued that as that treaty was made by the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, it had no binding effect on the Cherokees remaining on the east of the Mississippi. He commented on that treaty as a direct and gross violation of all justice, and expressed the indignation he had always felt at such an attempt to violate the rights of third persons.

Mr. BURGES contended that the treaty of 1828, was particularly a fraud, a deep and lasting disgrace to the last administration; and that this bill contained, by implication, a confirmation of that fraud, now attempted to be palmed upon this nation, to sustain which opinions he adverted to the history of the treaty and the circumstances growing out of it.

Mr. JENNINGS made a few remarks which were indistinct to the reporter.

Mr. LEWIS opposed the amendment, and argued to show that the treaty which had been denounced, was just and proper, and cited the treaty with the Indians east of the Mississippi, to show that the bill before the House in was conformity to the settled policy of the Government. He read the Journal to show that many gentlemen who opposed this bill, supported precisely the same provisions in 1826, when recommended by a different President; inferred from that, that the opposition to it was a party opposition to the Administration, and to the South; that as this bill was known to be the leading measure of the present President, it was an object of great solicitude with the opposition to defeat it; and therefore called on those who avowed themselves the supporters of the Administration, to sustain this measure; that if they did not, they would be faithless, and traitors to their party. Mr. L. then proceeded at some length to vindicate the policy of the bill, and in reply to Messrs. STORRS AND EVERETT. When he concluded, Mr. STORRS rose and said, that as a gentleman from Pennsylvania, (MR. HEMPHILL,) was about to offer an amendment to the bill, of a more extensive effect, and which would supersede the amendment now before the House, he would withdraw it until the question could be taken, on that which he [Mr. H.] was about to propose.

Mr. EVERETT of Massachusetts, replied briefly to Mr. LEWIS'S reference to himself, in which among other remarks, he observed that, if the provisions of the present bill were precisely the same as those which he had supported in 1826, it was singular that the gentlemen who now advocate this should have voted against that, as was the case with the members from Georgia itself, and he vindicated himself from the imputation of being influenced in his course on this subject by party considerations.

Mr. THOMPSON, of Georgia, followed in a short speech in support of the bill, and in reply to its opponents.

Mr. VINTON, then took the floor, and addressed the House two hours against the bill. When he concluded, seven or eight members rose; but,

Mr. DESHA, having obtained the floor, moved the previous question

Mr. THOMPSON, of Georgia, moved a call of the House.

Mr. LAMAR of Georgia demanded the yeas and nays on this motion, which, being taken, the call was ordered by a vote of 128 to 29.

The roll was then called, when it appeared there were seven members absent, two of whom soon after entered the Hall, and after sometime,

Mr. BROWN moved a suspension of further proceedings, which motion was decided by yeas and nays in the affirmative.

The motion for the previous question recurring the House divided, and tellers being appointed by the Chair, they reported ninety-three for putting the previous question and ninety-nine against it.

Mr. WAYNE of Georgia, then rose and addressed the House an hour and a half in discussing the relative rights of the Indians of Georgia, and of the General Government, and in earnestly advocating the bill, and resisting the arguments of those who opposed it.

Mr. SPENCER of New York, next took the floor and occupied an hour and a half in a review of the topics introduced into the debate, and installing his objections to the bill. He concluded at eight o'clock, when the call for the question was loud and general; and no other gentleman rising to address the House,

The question was put on the amendment reported by the committee of the whole to the bill viz: that, in executing the provisions of the bill, the faith of treaties with the Indians shall not be violated-and concurred in ayes 141, noes 54.

Mr. McDUFFIE, then rose and said, he was satisfied it was the solemn duty of the House, to come to a decision on this subject.  He was not going into the argument, but he wished to say this was a practiced question. Whatever we may think here, said he, the State of Georgia has assumed the attitude from which she will not shrink; and if we refuse to exercise the power which we may constitutionally assume on this question; the guilt of blood may rest upon us. I demand the previous question.

Tellers were appointed to count the numbers who reported 97 for the previous question, and 98 against it, so it was not seconded.

Mr. HEMPHILL then rose to propose a substitute for the bill, (which was nearly as its substance could be gathered from the reading of it by the Clerk) to provide for the appointment of three Commissioners by the President and Senate, not to be residents of any of the States immediately interested, who should go through the Indian Tribes, east of the Mississippi, and ascertain their disposition to emigrate -- then to explore the country west of the Mississippi, and ascertain the quality and extent of the country, which could be offered to the Indians, in exchange for their lands east of the river, and on what terms they would make the exchange, dispose of their improvements, etc., and remove, and report the whole to the President, to be laid before Congress at its next session; and appropriates 30,000 dollars to carry the provision into effect.

Mr. H. said it was not his intention to go into a discussion of the bill. But this had been called a party Question, and the advocates of the bill had appealed to the friends of the Administration to support the President in this measure.  He denied that party feelings influenced him. The President had not a better friend than himself in the whole nation; but on a question involving, as this did, the moral and political character of the country, he could not yield up his judgment to his regard for the President.  Mr. H. then briefly explained the object of his amendment, which was to obtain full information, and enable Congress to act understandingly on the important questions. The original bill proposed to place half a million of dollars in the hands of the Executive, to effect a removal of the Indians. This was too great a responsibility for any Executive. The House should take the measure into its own hands, and indicate the mode, and manner in which it should be effected.

Mr. THOMPSON, of Georgia, said he had forborn to take up the time of the House in delivering his views at large on the bill, and he was therefore privileged, he thought, in again demanding the previous question, [which would of course put by the amendment.] Accordingly,

Tellers were appoint to count the House, who reported 93 in favor and 93 against the previous question. The SPEAKER voted in the affirmation -- so the motion for the previous question was seconded.

Mr. VINTON moved a call of the House, and Mr. WILLIAMS demanded the yeas and nays, which, being taken, the motion for a call of the House was negatived -- ayes 80, noes 115.

Mr. MILLER, of Pa., then said he could not permit the main question to be taken without one more effort to arrest this measure.  He therefore moved to lay the bill on the table, and called for the yeas and nays, which were ordered, and being taken, the motion was negatived -- ayes 94, noes 103.

Mr. BATES then observed that there was a gentleman absent from indisposition who could not vote tonight on the bill, and to give him an opportunity tomorrow, moved an adjournment, and called for the Yeas and Nays, which were ordered; and the question being put, the motion was negatived -- Ayes 84, Noes 112.

The previous question was then put 'Shall the main question be now put?' and the votes being 99 to 99, the SPEAKER voted with the ayes, and decided the question in the affirmative.

So the main question was at last put 'shall the bill be read a third time?' and was decided in the affirmative by the following vote:

YEAS -- Messrs. Alexander, Allen, Alston, Anderson, Angell, Archer, J.S. Barbour, P.P. Barbour, Barnwell, Baylor, Bell, Jas. Blair, John Blair, Bockee, Boon, Borst, Bouldin, Brodhead, Brown Chambreleng, Campbell, Carson, Chandler, Claiborne, Clay, Coke, Coloman, Connor, Hector, Craig, Robert Craig, Crawford, Crocheron, Daniel, Davenport, W. R. David, Desha, DeWitt, Drayton, Dwight, Earl, Findlay, Ford, Foster, Fry, Gaither, Gilmore, Gordon, Hall, Hammons, Harvey, Haynes, Hinds, Hoffman, Howard, Hubbard, Isacks, Jenning, R.M. Johnson. Cave Johnson, Perkins King, Lamar, Lea, Lecompte, Loyal, Lewis, Lumpkin, Lyon, Magee, Martin, Thomas Maxwell, McCoy, McDuthe, McIntre, Mitchell, Monell, Nuckolls, Overton, Pettis, Polk, Potter, Powers, Ramsey, Rancher, Roane, Scott, Wm. B. Shepard, Shields, Speight, Richard Spender, Sprigg, Standifer, Sterigere, Wiley Thompson, Trezvant, Tucker, Verplanck, Wayne, Weeks, C.P. White, Wickliffe, Wilde, Yancy -- 102.

NAYS-- Messrs, Armstrong, Arnold, Bailey, Noys, Barber, Barringer, Bartley, Bates, Beekman, Burges, Batman, Cahoon, Childs, Chilton, Clark, Condret, Cooper, Cowles, Crockett, Creighten, Crowingshield. John Davis, Deberry, Denny, Dickinson, Doddridge, Dorsey, Dudley, Duncan, Ellsworth, George Evans, Joshua Evans, Edward Everett, Horace Everett, Finch, Forward, Gorham, Green, Grennell, Hawkins, Hemphill, Hodges, Hughes, Hunt, Huntington, Ihrie, Ingersall, Thomas Irwin, William W. Irwin, Johns, Kendall, Kennon, Kincaid, Adam King, Leiper, Letcher, McHary, Martindale, Lewis Maxwell, McCreery, Mercer, Miller, Muhlenberg, Norton, Pearce, Peirson, Randolph, Reed, Richardson, Rose, Russel, Aug. H. Shepperd, Seemes, Sill, Samuel A. Smith, Ambrose Spencer, Stanbury, Stephens, Henry R. Storrs, Wm. L. Storrs, Strong, Sutherland, Swann, Swift, Taliaferro, Taylor, Test, John Thomson, Tracy, Vance, Varnum, Vinton, Washington, Whittlesey, Edward D. White, Williams, Wingate, Young--97.

[The only variation between the last vote and the preceding votes on the previous question 'c. was, that just before the final vote, Mr. DICKINSON (who had been previously absent from indisposition) came in and voted against the third reading-- and Messrs. DWIGHT, FORD, RAMSEY, and SCOTT, who voted against the previous question, because, as was understood, it superseded Mr. HEMPHILL'S amendment, voted for the third reading, after that amendment was set aside by the previous question

At 10 o'clock, the House adjourned.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, JUNE 12, 1830

The reader will find the result of the discussion on the Indian question in the House of Representatives under our Congressional head. The bill passed the House by a majority of five votes only after the adoption of an amendment, viz: that in executing the provisions of the bill, the faith of treaties with the Indians shall not be violated. There were 141 votes in favor of the amendment, and 51 against it. By adopting this amendment, the House have solemnly acknowledged, by an overwhelming majority, the binding force of the existing treaties with the Indians. This is encouraging- it is the voice of the nation-and we hope public sentiment which has had evidently a strong influence in the discussion of the Indian question in the House, will finally bring about such matters, as will retrieve the honor of the United States. The Senate must now either adopt the amendment which they have already discarded or the bill must fail. In either case, our fears will not be realized in their full extent.

_____________

We understand the intruders at the gold mines have been removed by the military. But it is very probable they will return unless the troops are stationed there.  We have not learnt whether they will be.  They are greatly needed on the Tennessee frontier, where new mines have lately been discovered, and where not less than two hundred are employed in collecting the precious metal. Besides those on the mines there are intruders snugly settled nearly on the whole extent of the frontier.

_________________

A WAY TO PRESERVE THE INDIANS.

It is a common remark with the advocates of the removal of the Indians, that it is necessary to assign them a different country out of the limits of the States and Territories, (as they say) because if they are let alone where they are, they will become extinct. Can such matters facts speak louder than words. It is well known that the Cherokees east of the Mississippi have been and are now rapidly increasing in population. How is it with the Cherokees west of the Mississippi? They must be increasing if the assertions of many wise men are correct. They have been estimated by the officers of the Government at four or five thousand. We now learn from an intelligent gentleman in this nation, who has lately received a letter from his father, on the Arkansas, that a census of these Cherokees has been taken, and that the number of souls, including the last emigrants, is only 1936.  Now if this be so ' the West is to preserve the Indian race, what has become of those Cherokees? Some no doubt are gone to the Texas, ' some to Red river, but where are the rest? This is indeed a good way to save the Indians. The system need only to be pursued faithfully and perseveringly and it will be crowned with complete success.

_____________

We are told three Georgia officers were the other day about Hightower, hunting some negroes, belonging to Shoe Boot's estate, but they were obliged to return without a booty. A forged deed of gift is the foundation of the claim.

___________________

We commence this week the publication of Mr. Frelinghuysen's speech on the Indian Question. As soon as we can find room, we shall also publish Mr. Sprague's and others delivered in the House on the same subject.

_____________

We are indebted to the Hon. Mr. Crockett for a copy of Mr. Frelinghuysen's speech in pamphlet form-also the speech of Mr. Sprague; and to the Hon. Mr. Frelinghuysen for a copy of his speech in the Senate, on Sabbath mails.

_____________

The following copy of a letter from a gentleman of veracity, which we have neglected to publish earlier, will confirm our former statement on the same subject.

CREEK PATH, April 11, 1830

MR. EDITOR,

Sir--I have hitherto forborne to complain about the intruders, and I do not now complain with any hope of seeing them removed soon, but merely to let the world, and those less acquainted know what man is capable of doing when left unrestrained by either divine or natural law. Some days since a Mr. Lathom with some others were to the residence of the Hungry's and compelled his wife to leave the place, (Hungry not being at home.)  But previous to this some or other of them had completely divested her of the means of support, had taken her potatoes ' beans, killed her hogs; ' before she was fairly out of the house, they threw it down, and now have it in possession. The loss of the Hungry must be considerable, for he had a large stock of cattle. I saw some of his hogs snugly penned up by one of the intruders. And I have this day seen some four or five men of the same cast returning from ordering off Mrs. Baldridge of this place (wife of George Baldridge who was robbed not long since,) who I am told is now moving what little she has left to Mr. E. Gunter's. The intruders are to take possession of the place on Tuesday next.

They are even robbing each other of houses and farms, and when this is the case among themselves, it must be expected that Indians will fare but poorly. But this state of things is natural among robbers, who frequently fall out and kill each other about the booty they have mutually taken from the helpless. I think there are about one hundred families of intruders in this vicinity.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






DIED- at Oougillegee, on 10th Inst. Mrs. Sally Copeland, Consort of Austin Copeland.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






DOCUMENTS

Relating to the boundary line between the Cherokees and Creeks.

[Continued]

HEAD OF COOSA, 21 Dec. 1829.

The statement of Walkingstick, a Cherokee Indian, supposes he is about fifty five years of age. He says he came to the waters of the Hightower on the south side when a boy, and has been raised there on Crawfish Creek about fifteen miles above Old Hightower Town; about eight years ago, he removed and settled on Sweetwater Creek about ten miles from Buzzard Roost, and settled on what he thought to be Cherokee lands intending to remain there, but when the line was run from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek, it left him about one quarter of a mile on the Creek side; he therefore determined to remove back to his own nation. He has been back three years. He states that when General Sevier marched an army into the Cherokee Nation, upwards of thirty five years ago, he crossed the Hightower River about one mile above the mouth of the Oostanalee, and a party of the Cherokees met the General and fought him, and he then turned backward again and recrossed the river. He was one of a body of about one hundred men who embodied to meet the General, but they were too late in getting to the place of operations-he mentions this circumstance to show the Cherokees then occupied the Country in dispute.

his

WALKINGSTICK X

mark

Sworn to and subscribed before me, the same day above written.

JOHN RIDGE.

C. N. Council C. N.



HEAD OF COOSA, 21st Dec. 1829.

The statement of the Flute, or Old Turkey, a Cherokee Indian, supposes he is between sixty and seventy years of age. He was one of the Cherokee Chiefs who accompanied Chuliowah and others in 1802 to a treaty in Georgia between the United States and the Creek Nation. He says when they arrived at the treaty ground they were received by the United States Commissioners in a very friendly manner, and informed them that their presence was absolutely necessary to the business they had to do, as they wished to know the proper or true line between the two nations before they made the purchase from the Creeks so that they might not purchase from the Creek Nation the land that belonged to the Cherokees.- He also states that the Creek Chiefs received them kindly, and were willing to agree upon a line between their lands, and they then agreed to make a corner at the Shoals or falls on Appalachy that is at or near William Scott's old store, this is the lowest falls on that river. They then agreed to run the line from there to the Chattahoochy, leaving the S. Mountain on the right on the Cherokee lands, and strike the Chattahoochy at the mouth of a large creek, which empties into the river on the west side about two miles below the Buzzard Roost, and from there to the Ten Islands on Coosa River, and then to the long leaf pine on the Tombigby waters.- He never knew of any other line between the two nations, but the one he has spoken of until the line was agreed upon from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek, and he never heard that the Creek Indians claimed the land above the later line until lately, since the line has been run.--He means to say that he heard the State of Georgia claims it lately under a purchase from the Creek Nation, he has never yet heard that the Creek Nation claims the land above the line.

his

OLD TURKEY X

mark:

Sworn to and subscribed before me the day above written.

JOHN RIDGE,

C. N. C. Cherokees.

HEAD OF COOSA,21 Dec. 1829.

The statement of Major Ridge, one of the principal Chiefs, and member of the Executive Council of the Cherokee Nation, states, that at a time Col. Barnet and Governor Sevier United States Commissioner met at Ten Islands on Coosa to run out the line of the treaty with the Creek Nation, under the provision of the Treaty of Fort Jackson in 1824, a great number of Cherokees met them at the Ten Islands in order to show the Commissioners the line of the Cherokees on the Coosa River, and whilst there at the Ten Islands the Cherokees discussed the subject of their line amongst themselves, when they determined to appoint two Commissioners on their part who should designate and point out the different points at which their line should run.- They appointed Col. Richard Brown as the Commissioner to designate the line--west of Coosa River, and they appointed this deponent, Major Ridge, to designate the line east of the Coosa River. They the nation agreed that the line crossed the Coosa at the Ten Islands, and Col. Brown said the line should run thence to Black Warrior River just below the old town that General Coffee burnt in time of the Creek War, from thence to long leaf pine, and thence to a place where Moses, a Cherokee Indian settled 'c. and this deponent Major Ridge said the line should run eastwardly from the Ten Islands to Cedar Creek, the waters of Tallapoosa, a place where an Indian trader used to live, thence to Hanallaachuokee Indian where the Creek Indians call it Appicoohie village, thence to the deep water New Yorker on Chattahoochy, thence to the White oak trees, thence to Vann's store on the Oakmulgee.  After that time he this deponent with a Delegation of Cherokees went to Washington, and on the 22d of March 1816, we concluded a treaty with the United States which established the line west of Coosa, to begin at Ten Islands and run to the Flat Rock or Stone on Bear Creek.  In making this treaty we considered we were giving away a part of our country, but in order to have it settled we agreed to it as stated. He further states that the Cherokee Nation became anxious to have a line made and marked between the two nations, and for this purpose they appointed a delegation to go on to the Creeks ' agree upon a line to be run between their lands, and in the year 1821 they sent the Chief Chuliowah and others to establish the true line; this deponent was one of the party with the Cherokees set up our claim to the limits I pointed out before, from Ten Islands to New Yorker, but the Creeks refused to agree to it, but they proposed to make it from Buzzard Roost, to the mouth of Will's Creeks, which we agreed to rather than leave the line open any longer, and when we marked the line, we agreed to hold our Country adjoining each other and always remain neighbors, but it seems that M'Intosh violated that agreement by selling the Creek land, but although he violated his pledge to us in that respect, he was not base enough to sell the land beyond the line he made, for he never did sell any land over the line from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek.

Sworn to and subscribed before me, the same day above written.

JOHN RIDGE,

C. N. C. Cherokee Nation.

HEAD OF COOSA,21 Dec. 1829.

Thomas Woodard, a half breed Cherokee,now about fifty years of age, was born in Hightower Old Town on the south side of Hightower River, and was raised there, he was accustomed to hunt on Appalachy about the falls and about the Stone Mountain and on Chattahoochy, there are two shoals or falls on the Appalachy, the upper shoal is the one called the High Shoal, the Lower Falls, which has been spoken of by Chickasawteehe is fifteen or twenty miles below the High Shoals. About three years before the Creek War, Alex Sanders, himself and a party of Cherokees, went down to the country between the Stone Mountain and the High Shoals, and burnt the houses of six families that had moved and settled there on Cherokee land; but they did not burn the improvement of Col Rhode Easly at his cow pens in the same neighborhood, as he had permission from the Cherokees to keep his stock on their land, as he had a store at the High Shoals, and they were in the habit of trading with him. Two years after the late Creek War, he removed his family with three other families and settled on the head waters of the Tallapoosy River in the range where his horses ran, and shortly afterwards several other Cherokee families came and settled in the same neighborhood with him; he tho't they were all settled on Cherokee land-one of his neighbors by the name of Overtaker was appointed a captain of the light horse, and served as such until the line was run out and marked from Buzzard Roost to the mouth of Will's Creek, that the line left the Captain of the Light horse, on the Cherokee land about twelve miles, and he, this deponent, was left on the Creek land about two and a half miles.  After the line was run out the Overtaker moved over and settled on the Creek side of the line, and both of them became law makers in the Creek Nation, under the provisions of the treaty of boundary between the two nations, and they remained there until the Treaty of 1826.  Under the provisions of that treaty we were paid for our improvements, and we all, fifteen families in number, moved away and came to the waters of Coosa river. After General William McIntosh had married a Cherokee wife, he moved higher up the Chattahoochy River then he formerly lived and settled where he was afterwards killed, soon after he had removed and settled higher up on the river, he (McIntosh) and this deponent were in conversation together, when McIntosh informed him that he was not certain if he had not settled on the Cherokee lands, that he might be twelve miles above the line.

his

THOMAS WOODARD x

mark

Sworn to and subscribed before me the same day as above written.

JOHN RIDGE, acting

Ckk. N. C. Cher. Nation.

The undersigned are all men of old age, and have been Chiefs of rank in the Cherokee Nation for many years, and make the following statements, before Gen. John Coffee, a Commissioner of the United States.- We have heard the statements given by Chickasawtee, Chuliowah, Walking Stick, Old Turkey and Major Ridge in regard to the boundary between the Cherokee and Creek Nations and believe them to be true--Further we do know that the Cherokees have claimed lands as far south as a line running from Vann's old Store on the Oakmulgee to the Ten Islands in the Coosa River, thence to the long leaf pine thence to the flat rock of stone; and that the Chiefs of the two nations, in 1821, entered into a written agreement definitively establishing the boundary between the two Nations; commencing at Buzzard Roost on the Chattahoochee River, thence to the Coosa River, opposite to the mouth of Will's Creek, thence down the southeast bank of the Coosa River to a point opposite to the lower end of the Ten Islands; and that this line was agreed to be the Cherokees with the view of putting the subject of boundary out of any further dispute; and that each nation may know how far their respective laws and jurisdiction can rightfully extend, and that if in case the Creeks should ever dispose of any lands bordering on our boundary, that our rights may not be questioned; or infringed upon by the State of Geo. The Cherokees have been and are exclusively in the occupancy and possession of the Country lying north of said line; and that the Cherokees have never agreed to at any time nor ever acknowledged any other boundary between them and the Creeks north of the aforesaid line as established and run out.

his

GOING SNAKE, x

mark

SLEEPING RABBIT x

CHOONUKEE x

TALESKEE x

CAHNOHTLE x

BUFFALOE FISH x

A. SMITH x  Young chief

CHOONOOLUNGSKE x

SPRING FROG x

Sworn to and subscribed before me at the Head of Coosa this 21st Dec. 1827.

JOHN RIDGE Clerk

 N. C. C. Nation.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE MEMORIAL

The Cherokee nation has presented to Congress, an other Memorial on the subject of their political rights. It is a most able and lucid document, written by a 'full Cherokee', and would do honor to any statesman in this enlightened Republic. The language is plain, simple, energetic, and pathetically expressive; at the same time dignified, decorous, pertinent and respectful. It embraces a wide range of powerful argument in comparatively a narrow space, without circumlocution or waste of words and in every paragraph, comes directly to the point. We should be glad to publish it entire, but, for want of room, can hardly give even a syllabus.

The Cherokees urge their claim to territorial possession and self government, on the ground of immemorial inheritance, acknowledged independence, and the faith of treaties. They were in possession of their country when America was first discovered. They were considered and treated by the English either as a hostile nation, or as allies offensive and defensive.- They have always treated with the United States, as a distinct and independent Power.  They are entitled to protection against the usurpation of an oppressive State; on the ground of treaties repeatedly concluded, and as often ratified, between themselves and our national government; as well as on the ground of proffers and promises by our national Executive. In confirmation of all this, they make a pertinent appeal to the Constitution of the United States, which, declares 'that all Treaties made under the authority of the United States shall be the supreme law of the land, and the Judges of every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the laws or constitution of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.'

They very feelingly, but with dignified language of self-respect, advert to the wrongs and spoilations of white intruders, and particularly to the domineering and aggressive spirit of a neighboring State; with the confident hope that our national government will not leave them unprotected, nor suffer a wanton infringement of their legitimate rights, in disregard or forgetfulness of the faith so solemnly and frequently plighted.

In conclusion they glance at their own progress in civilization; take a retrospect of the past ingeniously acknowledge the protection and fostering care, heretofore extended to them by our national government; and cast themselves upon the faith and honor of the United States for redress or wrongs and grievances.

We know not who can read this memorial without interest. It is a most weighty and powerful appeal of these magnanimous, and now enlightened sons of the forest, to the honor, faith, and integrity of our government, upon which they have, in every respect, a legal claim, both of natural right, and of solemn covenant. If their appeals are disregarded, we cannot doubt, that God will regard and treat us as altogether a

faithless nation, and, sooner or later, will pour down the vials of his wrath upon our guilty land. If the defenseless Indian is still pursued, robbed of his birthright, rooted out of his inheritance and driven from the graves of his fathers, it is infinitely easy for the Governor of Nations, by either or all of his 'four sure judgements,' to root out the people of this land, and to sweep the nation with the besom of destruction. The mighty and strong arm of the civil power, may wrest away the vineyard of Naboth; but the God of Israel, who never slumbers nor sleeps, will take cognizance of the wrong, and judge the destroyer with seven fold vengeance.

Boston Christian Herald.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The following persons are Candidates for the General Council, to represent the District of Etower for the next session.

For the Committee.

DAVID VANN

OLD FIELDS.

For the Council.



JOHN BEAMER

CHULIO

BEAN STICK

SOFT SHELL TURTLE

WALKINGSTICK

The following persons are candidates for the General Council in Ahmohee District.

For the Committee.



LEWIS ROSS

THOMAS FOREMAN

(three lines in Cherokee)

For the Council.

GOING SNAKE

DOO-SU-WOLAH-DAH

JAMES FORMAN

JOHN WATTS

Maj. JAMES MARTIN

GEORGE BUTLER.

Of the Candidates in Cooseewaytee we have been requested to insert the following names for the Council.

JOHN FIELDS

JESSE HALFBREED

WATIE

For the Committee.

ELIJAH HICKS

JOHN RIDGE.

The following is a list of the names as candidates for the next General Council to represent Chickamauga District.

For the Committee

JOHN BALDRIDGE

JAS. BROWN,

JAS. STARR

RICH. TAYLOR.

For the Council.

LITTLE MEAT

SLEEPING RABBIT

BARK

WAHHATCHEE

THREE KILLER

HUNTER LANGLEY

BROOM

KAHNIQUAYAGEE

(seven lines in Cherokee)

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






FLOUR, FLOUR.

The Subscriber has several barrels of first rate FLOUR for sale low for CASH OR HIDES.

J. E. Wheeler.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

SPEECH

Mr. Frelinghuysen. of New Jersey in Senate U. S. - April 6, 1830

CONTINUED

I now proceed, very briefly, to trace our public history in these important connections. As early as 1763 a proclamation was issued by the King of Great Britain to his American colonies and dependencies, which, in clear and decided terms, and in the spirit of honorable regard for Indian privileges, declared the opinions of the crown and the duties of its subjects. The preamble to that part of this document which concerns Indian Affairs, is couched in terms that cannot be misunderstood. I give it a literal extract: 'And whereas it is just and reasonable, and essential to our interest and the security of our colonies, that the several nations  or tribes of Indians with whom we are connected, and who live under our protection should not be molested or disturbed in the possession of such parts of our dominions and territories, as not having been ceded to or purchased by us, are reserved to them or any of them as their hunting grounds.' Therefore the Governors of colonies are prohibited, upon any pretence whatever, from granting any warrants of survey, or passing any patents for lands, 'upon any lands whatever, which, not having been ceded or purchased, were reserved to the said Indians;' and by another injunction in the same proclamation, 'all persons whatever, who have either wilfully or inadvertently seated themselves upon any lands, which, not having been ceded to or purchased by the crown, were reserved to the said Indians as aforesaid, are strictly enjoined and required to remove themselves from such settlements.'

This royal ordinance is an unqualified admission of every principle that is now urged in favor of the liberties and rights of these tribes. It refers to them as nations that had put themselves under the protection of the Crown; and adverting to the fact that their lands had not been ceded or purchased, it freely and justly runs out the inevitable conclusion that they are reserved to these nations as their property, and forbids all surveys and patents, and warns off all intruders and trespassers. Sir, this contain the epitome of Indian history and title. No King, Colony, State or Territory, ever made, or attempted to make, a grant or title to the Indians, but universally and perpetually derived their titles from them. This one fact, that stands forth broadly on the page of Indian history-which neither kings nor colonies-neither lords, proprietors, nor diplomatic agents, have on any single occasion disputed, is alone sufficient to demolish the whole system of political pretensions, conjured up in modern times to drive the poor Indian from the last refuge of his hopes.

The next important era in the order of time, relates to the dispute of the Colonies with Great Britain.--The attention of Congress on the eve of that conflict was called to the situation of these tribes, and their dispositions on that interesting subject. Then, Sir, we approached them as independent nations, with the acknowledged power to form alliances with or against us. For, in June 1775, our Congress resolved, 'That the Committee for Indian Affairs do prepare proper talks to the several tribes of Indians for engaging the continuance of their friendship to us, and neutrality in our present unhappy dispute with Great Britain.' Again, on the 12th July, 1775, a report of the Committee was agreed to with the following clause at its head: 'That the securing and preserving the friendship of the Indian nations appears to be a subject of the utmost moment to these colonies.' And, Sir, the journals of that eventful period of our history are full or resolutions, all of which indicate the same opinions of those illustrious statesmen, respecting the unquestioned sovereignty of the Indians. I forbear further details. After the Revolution, and in the eighth year of our Independence in the month of September, A. D. 1783, the Congress again took up the subject of Indian affairs and resolved to hold a convention with the Indians residing in the Middle and Northern States, who had taken up arms against us, for the purposes of receiving them into favor and protection of the United States, and of establishing boundary lines of property,  for separating and dividing the settlements of the citizens from the Indian villages and hunting grounds, and thereby extinguishing, as far as possible all occasion for future animosities, disquiet and contention.' If, at any point of existence as a people, a disposition to encroach upon the Indians, and to break down their separate and sovereign character, could have been looked for, or at all excused, this was the time, when we had just come out of a long, severe ' bloody conflict, often prosecuted by our foes and unnatural barbarity, and to aggravate which, these very tribes had devoted their savage and ferocious customs. And yet, Sir, what do we find? Instead of the claims of conquest, the rights of war, now so convenient to set up, the American Congress, greatly just, accord to these very Indians the character of foreign nations, and invite them to take shelter under our favor and protection; not only this, but adopt measures to ascertain and establish boundary lines of property between our citizens and their villages and hunting grounds.

Under the Confederation of the old thirteen States, and shortly before the adoption of the Constitution, on the 20th of November, 1785, a treaty was made with the Cherokee Nation at Hopewell. This treaty, according to its title, was concluded between 'Commissioners Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, of the one part, and the Headmen and Warriors of all the Cherokees, of the other.' It gives 'peace to all the Cherokees,' and receives them into the favor and protection of the United States.  And, by the first article, the Cherokees agree to restore all the prisoners, citizens of the United States,

or subjects of their allies, to their entire liberty.' Here, again, we discover the same magnanimous policy of renouncing any pretended rights of a conqueror in our negotiations with the allies of our enemy. We invite them to peace; we engage to become their protectors, and in the stipulation for the liberation of prisoners, we trace again the broad line of distinction between citizens of the United States and the Cherokee people.

Who, after this, Sir, can retain a single doubt as to the unquestioned political sovereignty of these tribes. It is very true, that they were not absolutely independent. As they had become comparatively feeble, and as they were, in the mass, an uncivilized race, they chose to depend upon us for protection, but this did not destroy or affect their sovereignty--the rule of public law is clearly stated by Vattel-'one community may be bound to another by a very unequal alliance, and still be a sovereign State. Though a weak State, in order to provide for its safety, should place itself under the protection of a more powerful one, yet, if it 'reserves to itself the right of governing its own body, it ought to be considered as an independent State.' If the right of self government is retained, the State preserves its political existence and permit me to ask, when did the Southern Indians relinquish this right? Sir, they have always exercised it, and were never disturbed in the enjoyment of it, until the late Legislation of Georgia, and the States of Alabama and Mississippi

The treaty next proceeds to establish territorial domains, and to forbid all intrusions upon the Cherokee country, by any of our citizens, on pain of outlawry. It provides, that if any citizen of the United States shall remain on the lands of the Indians for six months 'after the ratification of the treaty, such persons shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the Indians may punish him or not, as they please.' What stronger attribute of sovereignty should have been conceded to this tribe, than to have acceded to them the power of punishing the citizens according to their own laws and modes; and, Sir, what more satisfactory proof can be furnished to the Senate, of the sincere and inflexible purpose of our government to maintain the rights of the Indian nations, than the annexation of such sanctions as the forfeiture of national protection, and the infliction of any punishment within the range of savage discretion.-- It is to be recollected, that this treaty was made at a time when all admit the Cherokees to have been with very rare exceptions, in the rude state of Pagan darkness.

Mr. President, it is really a subject of wonder, that after these repeated and solemn recognitions of right of soil, territory and jurisdiction, in these aboriginal nations, it should be gravely asserted that they are mere occupants at our will; and what is absolutely marvelous, that they are a part of the Georgia population- a district of her territory, and amenable to her laws, whenever she chooses to extend them.

After the Treaty of Hopewell was made and ratified, ' in the year 1787, the States of North Carolina and Georgia transmitted their protests to Congress, in which they complained of the course of transactions adopted with respect to the Indians and asserted a right in the States to treat with these tribes, and to obtain grants of their lands. The Congress referred the matter to a Committee of five, who made an elaborate report, that disclosed the principles upon which the intercourse of the confederacy with these people was founded.  It is material to a correct understanding of this branch of the subject, that we should advert to a limitation, subsisting at that time, upon the powers of the old Congress. The limitation is contained in the following clause of the Articles of Confederation:- 'Congress shall have the sole and exclusive right and power of regulating the trade and managing all the affairs with the Indians not members of any States: Provided that the legislative right of any State within its own limits be not infringed or violated.'

Upon this clause and its proviso, the Committee proceed to report. 'In framing this clause the parties to the federal compact must have had some definite objects in view; the objects that come in view principally in forming treaties, or managing affairs with the Indians, had been long understood, and pretty well ascertained, in this country. The Committee conceived that it has been long in the opinion of the country, supported by justice and humanity,  that the Indians had just claims to all lands occupied by, and not fairly purchased from them.' The laws of the States can have no effect upon a tribe of Indians or their lands within a State, as long as that tribe is independent and not a member of the State.   It cannot be supposed that the State has the powers mentioned,' (those of making war and peace, purchasing lands from them and fixing boundaries) 'without absurdity in theory and practice. For the Indians are justly considered the common friends or enemies of the United States, and no particular State can have an exclusive interest in the management of affairs with any of the tribes, except in uncommon cases.'  The Senate perceive the estimate that was formed of these State pretensions. The Committee argue with conclusive energy, that to yield such powers to particular States, would not only be absurd in theory, but would in fact destroy the whole system of Indian relations-that this divided, alternate cognizance of the matter, by the States and by the Congress, could never be enforced, and would result in discordant and fruitless regulations. The grounds assumed in this able report are unanswerable.  The Committee regarded the subject as national, concerning the whole United States, of whom the Indians were the common friends or foes. That such a concern was too general and public in all its bearings, to be subjected to the legislation and management of any particular State. The Congress therefore assumed the entire jurisdiction and control of it. And after this report, we hear no more of State protests. They yielded their claims to much safer depositary of this interesting trust. Sir, I take leave to say that the sound, sensible principles of this report have lost nothing of their authority by time, and that every year of our history has confirmed their wisdom, and illustrated the justice ' humanity of the Congress of '87.

The Convention that formed and adopted the Constitution, in their deliberations upon the security of Indian rights, wisely determined to place our relations with the tribes under the absolute superintendence of the General Government, which they were about to establish. The proviso under the old compact, that had in ambiguous terms reserved to particular States an undefined management of Indian Affairs, was altogether discarded, and the simple, unqualified control of this important branch of public policy was delegated to Congress, in the following clause of the Constitution: 'Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, among the several States, and with the Indian tribes.' An incidental argument, in favor of my views, cannot fail to strike the mind on the face of this clause. The plea that is now for the first time, argued against the Indians, rests upon the allegation, that the tribes are not distinct nations-that they compose a portion of the people of the States; and yet, in this great national charter, the work of as much collected wisdom, virtue, and patriotism, as ever adorned the annals, or shed light upon the government of any age or country, the Indian tribes are associated with foreign nations and with several States, as one of the three distinct departments of the human family, with which the General Government was to regulate commerce.- Strange company, truly, in which to find those it now seems convenient to denominate a few poor, miserable savages, that were always the peculiar subjects of State sovereignty, mere tenants at will of the soil, and with whom it is 'idle' to speak of negotiating treaties.

There was another subject, closely connected with this, that engaged the anxious deliberations of the great statesmen who composed the memorable convention-and this was the treaty power. To found this well, was a concern worthy of their first and best thoughts. The good faith of a nation was not to be pledged but on grave and great occasions, for when plighted, it brought the nation itself under obligations, too sacred to be argued away by the suggestions of policy or convenience, profit or loss. They, therefore, subjected the exercise of this high function to two great departments of the Government- the President and Senate of the United States. They required formalities to attend the exercise of the power, that were intended and calculated to guard the trust from rash and inconsiderate administration. But these requisites complied with, and a treaty made and concluded, no retreat from its claims was provided or desired by the convention.  No, Sir. To shut up every avenue of escape-to compel us to be faithful. 'Treaties' are declared, by the charter of our Government, 'to be the supreme law of the land, anything

in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.' How could the inviolate character or a treaty be more effectually preserved? Let conclusions agitate the commonwealth-let the strifes of party shake the pillars of the political edifice-around the nation's faith barriers are raised, that may smile at the storm. And, Sir, if these guards fail; if these defenses can be assailed and broken down, then may we indeed despair.- Truth and honor have no citadel on earth-their sanctions are despised and forgotten, and the law of the strongest prevails.

Mr. President, I fear that I shall oppress the patience of the Senate by these tedious details- but the subject is deeply interesting, and each successive year of our political history brings me fresh and strong proofs of the sacred estimation always accorded to Indian rights.  Sir, in the very next year that followed the formation of the Constitution, on the first of September, 1788, the encroachments of the whites upon the Indian territory, as guarantied to them by the treaty of Hopewell made with the Cherokees, as we have already stated, in 1785, caused a proclamation to be issued by Congress, of the date first mentioned, affirming in all things the treaty of Hopewell, and distinctly announcing (I give the literal clause,) 'the firm determination of Congress

to protect the said Cherokees in their rights according to the true intent and meaning of the said treaty.' And they further resolve 'that the Secretary of War be [See 4th page]  directed to have a sufficient number of the troops in the service of the United States, in readiness to march from the Ohio, to the protection of the Cherokees, whenever Congress shall direct the same.'

The next important event in connection with the Cherokees, is the Treaty of Holston, made with them on the 2d July, 1791.  This was the first treaty that was negotiated with the Cherokees after the Constitution. And it is only necessary to consider the import of its preamble to become satisfied of the constancy of our policy, in adhering to the first principles of our Indian negotiations. Sir, let it be remembered that this was a crisis when the true spirit of the Constitution would be best understood; most of those who framed it came into the councils of the country in 1788. Let it be well pondered, that this Treaty of Holston was the public compact, in which General Washington, as a preparative solemnity, asked the advice of the Senate- concerning which he inquired of that venerable body, whether, in the treaty to be made the United States should solemnly guarantee the new boundary to be ascertained and fixed between them and the Cherokees.

The preamble to this treaty, I will now recite:

'The parties being desirous of establishing permanent peace, and friendship between the United States and the said Cherokee Nation and the citizens and members thereof, and to remove the causes of war, by ascertaining their limits and making other necessary, just and friendly arrangements; the President of the United States, by William Blount, Governor of the territory of the United States of America south of the river Ohio, and Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Southern District, who is vested with full powers for these purposes, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States; and the Cherokee Nation, by the undersigned Chiefs and Warriors representing the said nation, have agreed to the following articles,' 'c.

The first article stipulates that there shall be perpetual peace and friendship between the parties-a subsequent article provides that the boundary between the United States ' the Cherokees 'shall be ascertained and marked plainly, by three persons appointed on the part of the United States and three Cherokees on the part of their nation.'

In pursuance of the advice of the Senate, by the 7th article of this treaty, 'The United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation all their lands not hereby ceded.'

And after several material clauses, the concluding article suspends the effect and obligation of the treaty upon its ratification

'by the President of the United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States.'

Now, Sir, it is a most striking part of this history, that every possible incident of form, deliberation, advisement and power, attended this compact. The Senate was consulted before our plenipotentiary was commissioned-full powers were then given to our Commissioner--the articles were agreed upon--the treaty referred to the Executive and Senate for their ratification, and, with all its provisions, by them solemnly confirmed.

Mr. President, it requires a fullness of self-respect and self-confidence, the lot of a rare few, after time has added its sanctions to this high pledge of national honor, to attempt to convict the illustrious men of that Senate of gross ignorance of constitutional power; to charge against them that they strangely mistook the charter under which they acted: and violated almost the proprieties of language, as some gentleman contend, by dignifying with the name and formalities of a treaty 'mere bargains to get Indian lands.' Sir, who so well understood the nature and extent of the powers granted in the Constitution as the statesmen who aided by their personal counsels to establish it?

Every Administration of this Government, from President Washington's have with like solemnities and stipulations, held treaties with the Cherokees; treaties, too, by almost all of which we obtained further acquisitions of their territory. Yes, Sir, whenever we approached them in the language of friendship and kindness, we touched the chord that won their confidence; and now, when they have nothing left with to satisfy our cravings, we propose to annul every treaty-to gainsay our word-and, by violence and perfidy, drive the Indian from his home. In a subsequent treaty between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, concluded on the 8th July, A. D. 1817, express reference is made to past negotiations between the parties on the subject of removal to the west of the Mississippi; the same question that now agitates the country, and engages our deliberations.- And this convention is deserving of particular notice, inasmuch as we shall learn from it, not only what sentiments were then entertained by our Government towards the Cherokees, but, also, in what light the different dispositions of the Indians to emigrate to the West, and to remain on their ancient patrimony, were considered. This treaty recites that application had been made to the United States, at a previous period, by a deputation of the Cherokees, (on the 9th January, 1809) by which they apprised the Government of the wish of a part of their nation to remove west of the Mississippi, and of the residue to abide in their old habitations.  That the President of the United States, after maturely considering the subject, answered the petitions as follows: 'The United States, my children, are the friends of both parties, and, as far as can be reasonably asked, they are willing to satisfy the wishes of both. Those who remain may be assured of our patronage, and aid, and our good neighborhood.' 'To those who remove, every aid shall be administered, and when established at their new settlements, we shall still consider them as our children, and always hold them firmly by the hand.'  The convention then establishes new boundaries, and pledges our faith to respect and defend the Indian territories.  Some matters, Mr. President, by universal consent, are taken as granted, without any explicit recognition. Under the influence of this rule of common fairness, how can we ever dispute the sovereign right of the Cherokees to remain east of the Mississippi, when it was in relation to that very location that we promised our patronage, aid and good neighborhood? Sir, is this high-handed encroachment of Georgia to be the commentary upon the national pledge here given, and the obvious import of these terms?-How were these people to remain, if not as they then existed, and as we then acknowledged them to be, a distinct and separate community, governed by their own peculiar laws and customs? We can never deny these principles, while fair dealing retains any hold of our conduct.  Further, Sir, it appears from this treaty that the Indians who preferred to remain east of the river, expressed 'to the President an anxious desire to engage in the pursuit of agriculture and civilized life in the country they then occupied,' and we engaged to encourage these laudable purposes.  Indeed, such pursuits had been recommended to the tribes, and patronized by the United States for many years before this convention. Mr. Jefferson, in his message to Congress as early as 1805, and when on the subject of our Indian relations, with his usual enlarged views of public policy, observes, 'The aboriginal inhabitants of these countries, I have regarded with the commiseration their history inspires. Endowed with the faculties and the rights of men breathing an ardent love of liberty and independence, and occupying a country which left them no desire but to be undisturbed, the stream of overflowing population from other regions directed itself on these shores.  Without power to divert, or habits to contend against it, they have been

overwhelmed by the current or driven before it. Now reduced within limits too narrow for the hunter state, humanity enjoins us to teach them agriculture and the domestic arts; to encourage them to that industry which alone can enable them to maintain their place in existence; and to prepare them in time for that society which, to bodily comforts, adds the improvement of the mind and morals. We have, therefore, liberally furnished them with the implements of husbandry, and household use; we have placed among them instructors in the arts of first necessity; and they are covered with aegis of the laws against aggressors from among  ourselves.'- These, Sir, are sentiments worthy of an illustrious statesman. None can fail to perceive the spirit of justice and humanity which Mr. Jefferson cherished towards our Indian allies. He was, through his whole life, the firm unshrinking advocate of their rights, a patron of all their plans for moral improvement and elevation.

Mr. President, it will not be necessary to pursue the details of our treaty negotiations further. I beg leave to state, before I leave them, however, that with all the Southwestern tribes of Indians we have similar treaties. Not only the Cherokees, but the Creeks, Choctaws, and Chickasaws, in the neighborhood of Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, and Mississippi, hold our faith, repeatedly pledged to them, that we would respect their boundaries, repel aggressions, and protect ' nourish them as our neighbors and friends: and to all these public and sacred compacts, Georgia was a constant party. They were required, by an article never omitted, to be submitted to the Senate of the United States for their advice and consent. They were so submitted: and Georgia by her able representatives in the Senate, united in the ratification of these same treaties, without, in any single instance, raising an exception, or interposing a constitutional difficulty or scruple.

Other branches of our political history shed abundant light upon this momentous question. When the Congress of the United States directed their cares to the future settlement and government of the vast and noble domains to the Northwest of the River Ohio, ceded by the State of Virginia, among other matters which they deemed to be vitally connected with the welfare of that region, was the condition and preservation of the Indian Nations. The third article of their celebrated ordinance, for the government of the Northwestern Territory, is in the following words: 'Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary to good government and happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged.  The utmost good faith shall always be observed towards the Indians; their lands and property  shall never be taken from them without their consent; and, in their property, rights and liberty, they never shall be invaded or disturbed, unless in just and lawful wars authorized by Congress; but laws founded in justice and humanity shall, from time to time, be made, for preventing wrongs being done to them, and for preserving peace and friendship with them.'  Sir, the more minutely we look into the proceedings of the Congress of 1787, the more deeply shall we venerate the wisdom and virtue, the largeness of views, and the political forecast that blessed and illustrated the councils of our country. This solitary article would forever stand out, and alone sustain their reputation.- We shall presently learn what concern was manifested by the State of Georgia, to spread the whole influence and control of this article over the cession which she made to the Union of the territory now composing the States of Alabama and Mississippi.

How can Georgia, after all this, desire or attempt, and how can we quietly permit her, 'to invade and disturb the property rights and liberty of the Indians?' And this, not only not 'in just and lawful wars authorized by Congress,' but in a time of profound peace, while the Cherokee lives in tranquil prosperity by her side. I press on the inquiry- How can we tamely suffer these States to make laws, not only not founded in justice and humanity,' 'for preventing wrongs being done to the Indians,' but for the avowed purpose of inflicting the gross and wanton injustice of breaking up their governments - of abrogating their long cherished customs, and of annihilating their existence as a distinct people?

The Congress of the United States, in 1799, in an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes; and again, by a similar act in 1802, still in force, distinctly recognized every material stipulation contained in the numerous treaties with the Indians. In fact, Sir, these acts of legislation were passed expressly to effectuate our treaty stipulations.

These statutes refer to 'the boundaries as established by treaties, between the United States and the various Indian tribes;' they next direct such 'lines to be clearly ascertained, and distinctly marked' - prohibit any citizen of the United States from crossing these lines, to hunt or settle, and authorize the employment of the public and military force of the Government, to prevent intrusion, and to expel trespassers upon Indian lands. The twelfth section of this important law most wisely guards the great object of Indian title from all public and private imposition, by enacting 'that no purchase, grant, lease, or other conveyance of lands, or of any title or claim thereto, from any Indian or nation, or tribe of Indians, within the bounds of the United States, shall be of any validity in law or equity, unless the same be made by treaty or convention, entered into pursuant to the Constitution.'

I trust, Sir, that this brief exposition of our policy, in relation to Indian affairs, establishes beyond all controversy, the obligation of the United States to protect these tribes, in the exercise and enjoyment of their civil and political rights. Sir, the question has ceased to be - What are our duties? An inquiry much more embarrassing is forced upon us: how shall we most plausibly, and with the least possible violence, break our faith? Sir, we repel the inquiry--we reject such an issue-and point the guardians of public honor to the broad, plain faith of faithful performance, and to which they are equally urged by duty and by interest.

Here I might properly rest--as the United States are the only party that the Indians are bound to regard. But if further proofs be wanting to convince us of the unwarrantable pretensions of Georgia, in her late violent legislation, they are at hand, cogent, clear, and overwhelming.- This State, Sir, was not only a party to all these conventions with the General Government she made as solemn treaties with the Creeks and Cherokees for herself, when a colony, and after she became a State.- These form a part of her title- and are bound up with her public laws. On the first of June, A. D. 1773, she negotiated a treaty with these Indian nations, by the joint agency of the Governor of the Colony and the Superintendent of Indian Affairs; in which boundaries are established and cessions of land agreed upon.- Again, on the 31st May, A. D. 1783, after her Independence as a State, another treaty was concluded between the Governor of Georgia and five of her most distinguished citizens duly appointed by the Legislature of the State of the one part, and the Chiefs, Headmen, and Warriors of the hordes or tribes of the Cherokee Indians, 'in behalf of the said nation,  on the other part.' And in the first article of this convention, the distinct, independent existence of the Cherokees is acknowledged: for it provides, 'that all differences between the said parties, heretofore subsisting, shall cease and be forgotten.' It is not utterly fallacious to contend, in the face of this treaty, that the Cherokees are under the jurisdiction of a State, that finds it necessary to negotiate for peace with them by all the forms of a regular treaty? But more than this,- by the last article of this treaty, the Cherokees agree to cede,grant, release and quit claim to Georgia, all the lands up to a certain boundary line defined in the said document: And until since the extraordinary usurpation of this State, in extending her laws over this nation, these treaty lines were respected, and never disputed.

In the year 1777, the States of Georgia and South Carolina met the Creeks and Cherokee Nations at Dewitt's Corner, for the avowed purpose of making a treaty of peace with them. Sir, if the greatest potentate of Europe had been a party, the preliminaries could not have been more formal or solemn. First, are produced what are denominated 'the Georgia full powers' delegated to her commissioners, to meet 'the Indian Congress' to be held at Dewitt's Corner- next appear 'the South Carolina full powers,' for the like purpose- and lastly, the Creek and Cherokee 'full powers.' These powers are opened and exchanged at this Congress, and a treaty is agreed upon by the plenipotentiaries, establishing peace, and the future boundaries between their respective territories.

In many of the treaties made by the United States with the Cherokees and Creeks, large sections of land were relinquished to us, which by our compact with the State of Georgia, we received for her use.  She never questioned, at those times, our right to treat for those lands, nor the Indians right of granting them; but gladly availed herself of such rich accession to her domains, and proceeded very promptly to distribute them amongst her citizens. Now, it is a fundamental maxim in all codes of law which acknowledge the obligations of equity and good conscience, that if a party is silent when these old fashioned rules of upright dealing require him to speak, he shall forever thereafter hold his peace. The application of this sound and wholesome rule will instantly strike the moral apprehensions of every member of the Senate.

[To be concluded.]

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






DOCUMENTS

Relating to the boundary line between the Cherokees and Creeks.

[Continued]

HEAD OF COOSA, 21st Dec. 1829.

Capt. David M'Nair states that he has lived in the Cherokee Nation since the year 1800. When I first came to the country the Cherokee Indians were settled on the south side of Hightower and Coosa Rivers, and on all the waters thereof, from Turkey Town up to the head of that river. They were also then living at Sawanah Old Town on Chattahoochy. I was at the house of Col. Rhode Easly who lived at the High Shoals of the Apalachee, on the east side of the river, about the year 1803; he then informed me that he had a cow-pen on the west side of Apalachy, some 6 or 8 miles from where he lived, on the Cherokee lands, that they permitted him to keep them on their land,- I heard the Cherokees say the same, that they permitted Col. Easly and his cattle on their land- I never knew of any line between the two Nations until the line was made from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek. I never heard of the Creek Indian claiming any land on the waters of Hightower River, nor anywhere the Cherokees had settlements on the same. I have heard them speak of their boundary being south of all their settlements.

DAVID M'NAIR

Sworn to and subscribed before me, the same day above written.

JOHN RIDGE Clerk

National Council, Cherokee Nation.

_______

HEAD OF COOSA, 21st Dec. 1829.

Clem Van, aged eighty two year, says, he came into the Cherokee Nation about fifty years ago and has lived here ever since- he states that in the summer of the year 1806 there was a general council of the Creek Nation held at Tucbabachy Town on the Tallapoosa River. There were a number of Cherokees who attended, and I went with them. I do not know whether or not they were sent there by a council of the Nation, but there were several leading men of the Cherokees among them--there were at the Council Indians from the Choctaws and Chickasaws-all seemed to be there to hear what was done and said at the council. The Cherokees ' Creeks agreed upon a line to divide the lands of the two nations which was as follows as nearly as I can recollect.--To Begin at Vann's store on the Oakmalga, called the Alcovy, and to run westwardly to the mouth of a little river which runs into the Chatahoochy on the west side, thence up that stream to the forks, then to take a ridge that run on to the head of Tarrapin Creek, which runs into Coosa River above Turkey Town, and thence to the flat rock and long leaf pine. I never knew of any other line between the two nations, until I heard of the line from Buzzard Roost to Will's Creek, nor I never heard of the Creek Indians claiming any land on the Coosa or Hightower Rivers above the Turkeys Town, but the Cherokees have had quiet and peaceable possession of it ever since I knew the country, which has been fifty years.

his

CLEM x  VANN

mark

Sworn to and subscribed before me the same day above written.

JOHN RIDGE, Clerk

National Council, Cherokee Nation.

_________

The undersigned came into the Cherokee Nation in the year 1785-and opened a store at Stecoe in the Lookout Valley and there married the daughter of Mr. John M'Donald, and about the year 1788, he removed together with his father in-law and their families to Turkey Town, and continued trade with the Cherokees. The Little Turkey was the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation and resided in that town-and that the Cherokees had considerable settlements from the mouth of Will's Creek, up the Coosa River on both sides of said river, previous to that time also all along up the Etowah and on the Chattahoochy Rivers--and that the nearest Creek settlements to the Turkey Town was the Eufale Town, a distance of about sixty miles from Turkey Town; and that he has lived in the Cherokee Nation ever since--and that his father in-law Mr. M'Donald, and himself in past years have been as familiar with the affairs of the Cherokee Nation as any other white man living in it, having usually attended their treaties and General Councils; and at no time to his knowledge or belief, have the Cherokees ever acknowledged a boundary between them and the Creeks, north of the line established in 1821 between two nations, but that the Cherokees did claim to the south of that line under the impression, that a straight line drawn from their most southern corner boundary in Georgia, to the southwestern corner of their claim, would run considerably south of the line from Buzzard Roost to Coosa River opposite to the mouth of Will's Creek. It is understood and believed that in agreeing to this line, the Creeks did not loose any land but that the Cherokees did concede a part of what has always been considered their just claim.

Head of Coosa, Cherokee Nation, December 10th, 1829.

DANIEL ROSS.

_______

The statement made herewith that the Eufale Towns being the nearest Creek settlements to the Turkey Town when I removed to that place is in reference to the permanent settlements on Towns of the Creeks, there being hunting camps of Creeks on Tarrapin Creek, a branch of the Coosa River on the south side. The privilege of hunting on the lands of each other being mutually permitted by both nations--and that the Creek Villages which are now to be found at Fifes, Cedar Town 'c. have all been settled since I removed to Turkey Town.

DANIEL ROSS.

Head of Coosa Dec. 21, 1829.

The whole of this sworn to and subscribed before me, this 21st of Dec. 1829.

JOHN RIDGE, Clerk

N.C.C.Nation

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CONGRESS

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Tuesday May 25.

REMOVAL OF THE INDIANS.

The

House having, on motion of Mr. BELL, postponed the intervening orders, resumed the bill of the Senate, providing for the removal of the Indians west of the Mississippi when

Mr. HEMPHILL rose, and moved that the bill be recommitted to the Committee of the whole House, with instructions to amend the same in the manner proposed last evening by Mr. H.

Mr. BELL was decidedly opposed to the re-commitment, and deprecated re-opening the general discussion of the bill, which must grow out of the motion. Full opportunity had been given, he said, for debating the measure ' everyone must have come to the conclusion, that the adoption of the amendment would be rejection of the bill. He opposed the amendment on various grounds, asserting that no three living men could perform the duties proposed by the amendment, in twenty-four months, as was required- and was proceeding with his argument; when

A message was received from the Senate, announcing that it was now sitting as a Court of Impeachment, and was ready to receive the House of Representatives for the purpose of having the plea and answer of James H. Peck, in answer to the article of Impeachment preferred by the House.

On motion of Mr. STORRS of New York, the House then resolved itself into a Committee of the whole, Mr. P. P. BARBOUR being called to the Chair, and proceeded to the Senate Chamber, and, after being absent two hours and a half, returned, and

The SPEAKER having resumed the Chair, the House proceeded to the business which had been suspended.

Mr. BELL made a few additional remarks against the re-commitment of the bill, and concluded by moving the previous question, (the effect of which, if sustained, would be to put aside the motion to re-commit, and take the question of the passage of the bill.)

Mr. VINTON moved a call of the House, which was ordered- ayes 86, noes 76; and

The roll being accordingly called over, and 186 members answering,

A motion was made to suspend further proceedings in the call, on which the yeas were demanded and ordered, and being taken, the call was suspended. 110-85.

Mr. PEARCE then moved that the House adjourn; alledging (sic) as his reason, that a member was absent who was known to be in the City. On the motion for adjournment the yeas and nays were required and taken, and the motion was negatived. --Ayes, 19, Noes 177.

[While the yeas and nays were calling, the absent member returned to the House.]

Tellers were then appointed to count the House, with a view to ascertain whether the motion for the previous question was seconded, when reported 96 in favor of seconding the motion, and 96 against it.  The Chair voted with the affirmative, and the previous question was ordered.

Mr. SUTHERLAND inquired of the Chair whether it was competent for the presiding officer to give a casting vote on seconding a motion? which the SPEAKER replied to in the affirmative.

Mr. EVERETT of Massachusetts, inquired whether every member present was not bound by the rules to vote on every question, [it being obvious that all the members in the House had not voted on the division just taken.]

The previous question, 'Shall the main question be now put?' was then put, and decided in the negative--yeas 98--noes 99.

So the House decided that the main question should not  now be put, and the effect of this decision, according to the rules of the House, was, to remove the bill from before the House for the day.

_____________________________________________

Wednesday May 26

The House resumed the consideration of the bill to provide for the removal of the Indian tribes west of the Mississippi- the motion of Mr. HEMPHILL to re-commit the bill, still pending--

Mr. GILMORE of Pa. made a remark or two, expressive of his approbation of the bill, and read a letter from the late Mayor of Pittsburg (sic), commending the report of the Committee of this House on Indian Affairs. Mr. G. then moved the previous question.

Mr. CONDICT moved a call of the House, and the yeas and nays being required by Mr. BURGES, the motion for a call was carried 134 to 57.

The roll was accordingly called, and it appeared that two members, (Messrs. Ford and Ramsay) were absent from the House.

Mr. MILLER stated that his colleague, Mr. RAMSAY, was indisposed.

On motion of Mr. EVERETT, it was ordered that the Sergeant at Arms notify the absent members to attend, and that the House, in the meantime, suspend business.

In a short time, Mr. FORD came in, and after waiting nearly an hour Mr. STEREGERE stated that the messenger sent to Mr. RAMSAY's lodgings and returned, and brought word that he was not there.

Mr. LUMPKIN moved that Mr. RAMSAY be excused from attending, and that the House resume its proceedings.

Mr. BURGES demanded the yeas and nays on this motion.

Mr. MILLER then came in, and said he was obliged to state to the House, that Mr. RAMSAY could not be found.

Mr. WAYNE said it would be unprecedented, if a member who, it was stated, was sick, should not be excused. Ought the House to remain longer idle, after suspending its business nearly an hour, because of the anxiety of gentlemen to get an individual member here, who was said too  to be sick?- He thought if the member was sick as stated, tenderness to his family ought to prevent his friends from urging his attendance.

Mr. BELL hoped the friends of the bill would wait a short time longer for the arrival of the absent member, as gentlemen opposed to the bill desired it-so the question when decided by the full voice of the House. While Mr. B. was speaking

Mr. RAMSAY entered the Hall, and the House proceeded to business.

Tellers were then appointed to ascertain the sense of the House on seconding the previous question, and on counting the members, reported 98 for and 96 against it. So the motion was seconded.

The previous question, i.e. 'Shall the main question now be put?' was then put and decided in the affirmative- Yeas 101 Nays 97.

So the house determined that the main question should now be put.

The question, 'Shall the bill pass?' was accordingly put, and decided in the affirmative-yeas 102 and nays 97.

So the bill was passed and ordered to be returned to the Senate for concurrence in the amendments.

___________________________________________________

SENATE

Wednesday, May 26

The amendments from the House of Representatives to the bill 'to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories, and for their removal west of the river Mississippi' were received, and being read-

Mr. CLAYTON moved that they be postponed until to-morrow; which motion was rejected, Yeas 19, Nays 24.

Yeas- Messrs. Barnard, Barton, Bell, Burnet, Chambers, Chase, Clayton, Foot, Frelinghuysen, Johnston, Knight, Naudain, Robbins, Ruggles, Seymour, Silsbee, Sprague, Webster, Willey- 19.

NAYS- Messrs. Adams, Benton, Bibb, Brown, Dickerson, Dudley, Ellis, Forsyth, Grundy, Hayne, Hendricks, Iredell, Kane, King, Livingston, M'Kinley, Rowan, Sanford, Smith of Md. Smith of S. Carolina, Troup, Tyler, White, Woodbury--24

The first amendment being concurred in.

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN moved to amend the second amendment by inserting at the end thereof 'and that until they shall choose to remove, the said tribes be protected from all State encroachments according to the provisions of such treaties.'

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN moved to amend his motion, by striking out the word 'State' which was disagreed to be yeas 18, noes 25.

The question recurring on agreeing to the amendment as originally proposed by Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, was rejected. Yeas 17, Nays 26.

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN moved to insert at the end of the 2d amendment of the House of Representatives, 'and that all such Tribes be protected according to the provisions of said Treaties, until they shall choose to remove'- which was rejected--Yeas 18 Nays 24.

On motion of Mr. SPRAGUE, to insert at the end of the said second amendment,'but such treaties shall be executed and fulfilled according to the true intent and meaning thereof'--it was rejected Yeas 18, Nays 24.

On motion of Mr. CLAYTON to insert at the end of the said second amendment, 'Provide also, that the provisions of this act shall extend only to the Indians residing within the State of Georgia' it was rejected by the same vote.

Yeas--18--Nays 24.

So it was.

Resolved, that the Senate concur in the said amendments of the House of Representatives.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA; JUNE 19, 1830

The Governor of Georgia has issued two proclamations, one relating to the act extending the jurisdiction of the State over the Cherokees, the other relates to the gold mines. The Cherokees are to be expelled from their gold mines.  We had sent these documents to the printer for publication in this day's Phoenix, but for want of room are obliged to defer them till next week. We now merely refer to them that the Cherokee reader may be aware of their forth-coming.

_______________________________________

It is said that a general meeting will be called at this place soon after the return of the Delegation. They are expected every day.

________________________________________

In our last was given the proceedings of the House of Representatives on the Indian Bill, to the time when it was ordered to a third reading. In this day's paper will be found the final proceedings, and the adoption of the amendment by the Senate. We stated last week that if the amendment was adopted, or the bill failed, by the refusal of the Senate to adopt it, our fears would not be realized in their full extent. But since, upon mature reflection, and after reading the doings of the Senate which the reader can see for himself, we are constrained to say, the formal acknowledgment of the validity of treaties is but a mock show of justice. This is evident from the fact that the very men who have all along contended for the unconstitutionality of treaties with the Indians, were the first to agree to the amendment of the House, ' to reject the amendments offered by Messrs. Frelinghuysen, Sprague and Clayton. The bearing of the bill then on the interests of the Indians will be the same as if it had passed on its original shape.

We confess our ignorance, our utter ignorance, of the views of the majority of the members of Congress, so far as they have been developed, on the rights of the Indians, and the relation in which they stand to the United States, on the score of treaties, nor can we discern the consistency of contending for the unconstitutionality of these treaties, and yet at the same time, declaring that

they shall not be violated,  which a man of common sense would take to be the meaning of the amendment. If a treaty is unconstitutional, it is of course null and void, and cannot be violated. If a treaty may not be violated, it is taken for granted that it is binding; and if it is binding, the parties to it have a right to demand its enforcement. How are we then to understand the decision of the Senate on this important subject? What do they mean by adopting the proviso, and at the same breath deliberately refusing to enforce the provisions of the existing treaties? We can find no suitable answer but this, palpable injustice is meditated against the poor Indians!

It is somewhat surprising that many well meaning persons, who would never in other circumstances, lend their aid and influence to do injustice to the Indians, should be perfectly blinded by this bill.  They believe, as its advocates represent to them, that it is harmless, and that its operation cannot be otherwise than highly beneficial. But they are greatly deceived- the bill is not harmless, nor was it ever intended to be harmless. For the truth if this assertion, look at the decision of the Senate, rejecting the several amendments for the protection of the Indians? This 500,000 dollars is intended to co-operate with any other expedient, which will play at our backs like a flaming sword, while this sum will address itself to our fears ' avarice. Compulsion behind, while the means of escape are placed before. Go or perish. And this is said when treaties are declared to be binding, and in them ample provisions are made for the protection of the Indians. Who would trust his life and fortune to such a faithless nation? No Cherokee voluntarily would.

At this time of much distress and darkness, the Cherokees can have some consoling thoughts- they have been ably and most manfully defended to the last, and although self interest, and party and sectional feelings have triumphed over justice, yet it has been only by a pitiful majority, and against the known will and feelings of the good people of these United States. These worthy advocates of Indian rights of the Senate and House of Representatives will be  remembered while there is a living Cherokee- and notwithstanding oppression and power may crush us and utterly destroy us, yet their laudable efforts to save us, will be estimated in their proper light, and held in pleasing recollection by the Christian and philanthropist of future ages, and of all countries.

For the satisfaction of our readers, we subjoin a list of the votes taken in the House of Representatives, on ordering the bill to a third reading, arranged according to the representation of the States.

MAINE- Yeas- Anderson, McIntire, Nays- Butman, Evans, and Wingate.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.- Ayes- Brodhead, Harvey, Hammons, Hubbard, Chandler and Weeks.

MASSACHUSETTS.- Yeas- Dwight. Nays- Bailey, Bets, Crownshield, Everett, Davis, Gorham, Grinnell, Hodges, Red, Richardson, Varnum and Kendall.

RHODE ISLAND.- Nays- Burges and Pearce.

VERMONT:- Nays- Cahoon, Mallary, Hunt, Everett, and Swift.

CONNECTICUT.- Nays-- Barber, Ellsworth, Huntington, Ingersoll, Storrs and Young.

NEW YORK:- Yeas 16- Angell, Bockee, Borst, Cambreleng, Craig, Crocheron, Dewitt, Earl, Hoffman, King, Magee, Maxwell, Monell, Powers, Verplanek and White. Nays 15- Arnold, Beckman, Childs, Dowles, Dickinson, Finch, Hawkins, Martindale, Norton, Rose, Spencer, Storrs, Strong, Taylor, Tracy.--Messrs. Halsey and Lent absent.

NEW JERSEY.--Nays --all.

PENNSYLVANIA.-- Yeas 7--Crawford, Ford, Fry, Gilmore, Ramsey, Scott and Steriger. Nays 19--Denny, Evans, Forward, Green, Hemphill, Shire, Irwin, King, Leiper, McCreery, Miller, Muhlenberg, Sill, Smith, Stephens and Sutherland.

DELAWARE--Yea --Johns.

MARYLAND--Ayes--Howard, Spencer, Sprigg, Brown, Mitchell. Nays-- Dorsey, Semmes, Washington.

Volume 1, RGINIA:- Yeas 15- Alexander, Allen, Archer, P. P. Barbour, J. S. Barbour, Bouldin, Claiborne, Coke, Craig, Davenport, Gordon, Loyall, McCoy, Roane, Trezvant. Nays 5- Armstrong, Doddridge, Maxwell, Mercer, and Taliaferro.

NORTH CAROLINA:- Yeas-- 8-- Alston, Carion, Conner, Hall, Potter, Reacher, Shepard, Speight. Nays 5--Barringer, Deberry, Dudley, Sheppard and Williams.

SOUTH CAROLINA:- Yeas unanimous.

GEORGIA, ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI, AND MISSOURI--all yeas.

OHIO--Yeas-- Findlay, Shields. Nays 11- Bartley, Crane, Creighton, Irvin, Kennon, Russel, Stanberry, Thomson, Vance, Vinton, and Whittlesey.

KENTUCKY--Yeas 8- Johnson, Lecompte, Wickliffe, Lyon, Yancy, Coleman, Daniel, ' Gaither. Nays--Chilton, Clark, Kincaid and Letcher.

TENNESSEE--Yeas 8--Bell, Blair, Desha, Isacks, Johnson, Lea, Polk, and Standifer. Nay- Crockett.

LOUISIANA- Yea--Overton. Nay--White.

ILLINOIS--Nay--Duncan

INDIANA--Yeas-- Coon, Jennings. Nay--Test.

In the Senate the votes stood as follows:

MAINE.--Nays Sprague ' Holmes

NEW HAMPSHIRE--Yea- Woodbury-- Nay-- Bell.

MASSACHUSETTS--Nay--Webster and Silsbee.

RHODE ISLAND--Nays --Knight and Robbins

VERMONT-- Nays--Chase and Seymore.

CONNECTICUT--Nays --Foot and Willey

NEW YORK--Yeas--Dudley and Sanford.

NEW JERSEY--Yea--Dickerson--Nay-- Frelinghuysen

PENNSYLVANIA--Yea--Barnard [this gentleman voted for Mr. Frelinghuysen's amendments]--Nays--Marks.

DELAWARE--Nays Clayton and Naudain.

MARYLAND--Nay--Chambers

Volume 1, RGINIA--Yeas--Tyler ' Tazewell.

NORTH CAROLINA--Yeas--Brown and Iredell.

SOUTH CAROLINA--Yeas--Smith ' Haynes.

GEORGIA--Yeas--Troup and Forsythe

ALABAMA--Yeas--King and McKinley

MISSISSIPPI--Yeas-- Ellis ' Adams

MISSOURI--Yea--Benton Nay--Barton.

OHIO-- Nays --Burnet and Ruggles.

KENTUCKY--Yeas--Rowan and Bibb.

TENNESSEE--Yeas--White and Grundy

LOUISIANA-- Yeas--Livingston and Johnston

ILLINOIS--Yeas--Kane and McLane.

INDIANA-- Yeas--Noble and Hendricks.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The following persons are candidates for the General Council in Aquohee District.

For the Committee.

Spike Buck

Tho's M'Donold

Samuel Ward.

For the Council.

The Fire

John Wickliffe

Ball Town George

Whirlwind

Robin Muskrat

_________________

Mouse Town, 3d June 1830

Mr. John Martin,

Sir, We stood bound to you for a permit for Samuel M'Junkin, therefore this is to inform you, that we can no longer stand for him, as his conduct is such that we do not feel a willingness to be bound for his future behaviour (sic), therefore we will feel ourselves no longer bound for him.

Jesse Bushyhead

Thomas Foreman

James Foreman.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NOTICE

All persons indebted to the estate of The Crier late of Aquohee District deceased are requested to make immediate payment.  And those who have claims against said estate are requested to present them properly attested within twelve months from this date, agreeably to the laws of the Cherokee Nation.

John Timson

Robbin Musrat

Administrators

Aquohee District, June 2d, 1830

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














SPEECH

Of Mr. Frelinghuysen, of New Jersey, In Senate U. S.- April 6, 1830

[Concluded]

I am indebted to the State of Georgia for a clear and very satisfactory exposition of the nature of Indian treaties, and the obligations that arise from them. It is an authority for positions, which I have had the honor to maintain, of the greater weight, as it proceeds from the highest functionary of her Government. In February, 1825, the Creeks, by a treaty made with the United States ceded all their lands to us within the geographical limits of Georgia, for the use of that State. By an article in the treaty, it was provided that the United States should protect the Indians against the encroachments, hostilities and impositions of the whites, 'c. 'c. until the removal of the Indians should have been accomplished according to the terms of the treaty. The Governor of Georgia, on the 22d day of March, of the same year, issued his proclamation, as 'Governor and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the said State, and of the Militia thereof,' in which, after stating the conclusion of the treaty already mentioned, and the article in it for the protection of the Creeks, the Governor proceeds: 'I have therefore, thought proper to issue this, my proclamation, warning all persons, citizens of Georgia, or others, against trespassing or intruding upon lands occupied by the Indians within the limits of this State, either for the purpose of settlement or otherwise, as every such act will be in direct violation of the provisions of the treaty aforesaid, and will expose the aggressors to the most certain and summary punishment by the authorities of the State and of the United States. All good citizens, therefore, pursuing the dictates of good faith,  will unite in enforcing the obligations of the treaty as the supreme law.' 'c.

The Senate perceive that this executive injunction founds its requirements, explicitly, upon the faith and authority of the treaty, as the supreme law; and this a treaty made with Indians. Yes, Sir, a treaty with a part of the very Indians now asserted by Georgia to be below the reach of treaties-poor abjects (sic)! with whom it is declared to be ridiculous and idle to speak of treating!

Sir, she cannot recall her proclamation. Give these sacred doctrines their full operation here; let their influence prevail in the eventful issue now opened for our decision; and the Indians, who are involved in it, will be satisfied. They have approached us with no other plan; they urge no other or higher considerations. They point us to the faith of treaties, and implore us by the constitutional obligation of these national compacts, to raise around our ancient allies the effective defences (sic) which we have so often promised to maintain. Carry out these rules of public duty, and the Cherokee delegation, who have been waiting at your doors with anxious interest, will return to their home relieved from the burden that now sinks their spirits and with the grateful conviction that the successors of Washington are still true to his memory.

Mr. President: What could have wrought this entire revolution in opinions, and in three short years? Our relations with the Indians have not changed. Condition and circumstance, claim and obligation, remain precisely the same. And yet, now we hear that these Indians have been for all the time, since Georgia had existence, a component part of her population; within the full scope of her jurisdiction and sovereignty, and subject to the control of her laws!

The People of this country will never acquiesce in such violent constructions. They will read for themselves; and when they shall learn the history of all our intercourse with these nations when they shall perceive the guaranties so often renewed to them, and under what solemn sanctions, the American community will not seek the aids of artificial speculations on the requisite formalities to a technical treaty.- No, Sir. I repeat it: They will judge for themselves, and proclaim in language that the remotest limits of this Republic will understand- 'call these sacred pledges of a nation's faith by what name you please-our word has been given, and we should live and die by our word.'



In the State of Georgia is concluded, and morality bound to stay her hand from invading the lands or the government of the Indians, the State of Mississippi and Alabama are equally and more strongly obliged. They came into the Union after most of the treaties had been made. The former in 1816; These obligations were liens upon the confederacy, and they must take the benefits with the burdens of the Union.  They cannot complain of concealment or surprise. These conventions were all public and notorious; and the Indians under their daily view, in actual separate possession, exercising the rights of sovereignty and property.

Moreover, we have heard much of constitutional powers and disabilities in this debate. Sir, I proceed to demonstrate that both Mississippi and Alabama are, by a fundamental inhibition in the constitution of their government, prevented from extending their laws over the Indians.- When Georgia, in 1802, granted to the United States the territory that comprises the greater part of these two states, she made it an express condition of the cession, that the states to be formed of it should conform to all the articles of 'the ordinance for the Government of the territory northwest of the Ohio,' excepting one single article prohibiting involuntary servitude. When these States applied to the General Government to be formed into Territories, this eventful condition of the Georgia cession was remembered by all parties. Mississippi and Alabama in the most deliberate manner agreed to the condition, and assumed the articles of their political condition. Then they afterwards proposed to us to be received into the Federal Union, acts of Congress were duly passed authorizing them respectively to form a constitution and State government for the people within their territories, with this proviso- 'That the same, when formed, shall be republican, and not repugnant to the principles of the ordinance of the 18th July A.D. 1787,' for the territory northwest of the Ohio; and they were afterwards, upon duly certifying to Congress that they had conformed to these principles, and engrafted them into their constitution, admitted into the Republic. The third article of this ordinance I have already read and considered, and will only add, that human wisdom and skill could not have devised a more effectual safeguard for the Indian tribes, than are now incorporated into the laws and constitution of the States if Mississippi and Alabama. It would have been well in these States to have reviewed their own origin; to have examined the sources of their power before they, rashly, ' in disregard of principles that are essential to their political existence, usurped dominion over a community of men as perfectly independent of them as they are in Mexico. And shall we, Sir, quietly submit to the breach of conditions that we tendered as the indispensable terms of their admission; that were fairly propounded, and freely and fully accepted? Why, Sir, it appears to me that the fulfilment (sic) of solemn contracts, the good faith of public treaties, the fundamental provisions of State constitutions are to be regarded as matters of very trifling obligation, when they are all to be broken through to reach a feeble and unoffending ally. With a man of truth and honesty, such high considerations as address us, would supersede the occasion for argument; and how can we evade them without deep dishonor?

I have complained of the legislation of Georgia.  I will mow refer the Senate to the law of that State passed on the 19th December, A. D. 1829, that the complaint may be justified. The title of the law would suffice for such purpose without looking further into its sections. After stating its object of adding the territory in the occupancy of the Cherokee Nation of Indians to the adjacent counties of Georgia, another distinct office of this oppressive edict of arbitrary power is avowed to be, ' to annul all laws and ordinances made by the Cherokee Nation of Indians.'  And, Sir, the act does annul them effectually.  For the seventh section enacts, 'that after the first day of June next, all laws, ordinances, orders and regulation of any kind whatever, made, passed, or enacted by the Cherokee Indians, either in general Council, or in any other way whatever, or by any authority whatever, of said tribe, be, and the same is hereby declared to be null and void, and of no effect, as if the same had never existed.' Sir, here we find a whole people outlawed- laws, customs, rules, government, all, by one short clause, abrogated, and declared to be void as if they never had been. History furnishes no example of such high-handed usurpation- the dismemberment and partition of Poland was a deed of humane legislation, compared with this. The succeeding clauses are no less offensive-they provide that 'if any person shall prevent, by threats, menaces, or other means, or endeavor to prevent any Indian of said nation, from emigrating, or enrolling as emigrant, he shall be liable to indictment and confinement in the common goal, or at hard labor in the Penitentiary, not exceeding four years at the discretion of the Court; and if any person shall deter or offer to deter  any Indian, head man, chief, or warrior of said nation, from selling or ceding to the United States, for the use of Georgia, the whole or any part of said territory, or prevent, or offer to prevent, any such persons from meeting in council or treaty any commissioner or commissioners on the part of the United States, for any purpose whatever, 'he shall be guilty of a high misdemeanor,  and liable, on conviction, to confinement at hard labor in the Penitentiary for not less than

four, nor longer than six years, at the discretion of the Court.' It is a crime in Georgia for a man to prevent the sale of his country-a crime to warn a chief or head man, that the agents of the United States are instructed 'to move upon him in the line of his prejudices', that they are coming to bribe him to meet in treaty with the commissioner. By the way, Sir, it seems these treaties are very lawful, when made for the use of Georgia.

It is not surprising that our agents advertised the War Department, that if the General Government refused to interfere, and the Indians were left to the law of the States, they would soon exchange their land and remove. To compel by harsh and cruel penalties such exchange, is the broad purpose of this act of Georgia, and nothing is wanting to fill up the picture of a disgraceful system, but to permit the bill before us to pass, without amendment or proviso.  Then it will all seem fair on our statute books. It legislates for none but those who may choose to remove-while we know that grinding, heart breaking exactions are set in operation elsewhere to drive them to such a choice. By the modification I have submitted, I beg for the Indian the poor privilege of a free exercise of his own will. But the law of Georgia is not yet satisfied. The last section declares, 'that no Indian, or descendant of any Indian, residing within the Creek or Cherokee Nations of Indians, shall be deemed a competent witness  in any Court of this State, to which a white person may be a party,  except such white person resides within the said nation.' It did not suffice to rob these people of the last vestige of their own political rights and liberties- the work was not complete, until they were shut out of the protection of Georgia laws. For, Sir, after the first day of June next, a gang of lawless white men may break into the Cherokee country, plunder their habitation, murder the mother, with the children, and all in sight of the wretched husband and father-and no law of Georgia will reach the atrocity. It is vain to tell us, Sir, that murder may be traced by circumstantial probabilities. The  charge against this State is--you have by force and violence stripped these people of the protection of their government, and now refuse to cast over them the shield of your own. The outrage of the deed is, that you leave the poor Indian helpless and defenceless (sic), and in this cruel way hope to banish him from his home. Sir, if this law be enforced, I do religiously believe that it will awaken tones of feeling that will go up to God- and call down the thunders of his wrath.

The

end, however, is to justify the means. 'The removal of the Indian tribes to the west of the Mississippi is demanded by the dictates of humanity.' This is a word of conciliating import. But it often makes its way to the heart under very doubtful titles, and its present claims deserve to be rigidly questioned. Who urges this plea? They who covet the Indian lands--who wish to rid themselves of a neighbor that they despise, and whose State pride is enlisted in rounding off their territories. But another matter is worthy of a serious thought. Is there such a clause in our covenants with the Indian, that when we shall deem it best for him; on the whole, we may break our engagements and leave him to his persecutors? Notwithstanding our adversaries are not entitled to the use of such humane suggestions, yet we do not shrink from an investigation of this pretence. It will be found as void of support in fact, as the other assumptions are of principle.

It is alleged that the Indians cannot flourish in the neighborhood of a white population--that whole tribes have disappeared under the influence of his propinquity. As an abstract proposition, it implies reproach somewhere. Our virtues certainly have not such deadly and depopulating power. It must, then, be our vices that posseses (sic) these destructive energies-and shall we commit injustice, and put in as our plea for it, that our intercourse with the Indians has been so demoralizing that we must drive them from it, to save them?  True, Sir, many tribes have melted away-they have sunk lower and lower-and what people could rise from a condition to which policy, selfishness, and cupidity, conspired to depress them?

Sir, had we devoted the same care to elevate their moral condition, that we had to degrade them, the removal of the Indians would not now seek an apology in the suggestions of humanity. But I waive this, and as to the matter of fact, how stands the account? Wherever a fair experiment has been made, the Indians have readily yielded to the influences of moral cultivation. Yes, Sir, they flourish under this culture, and rise in the scale of being. They have shown themselves to be susceptible of improvement, and the ferocious feeling and habits of the savage are soothed and reformed by the mild charities of religion. They can very soon be taught to understand and appreciate the blessings of civilization and regular government. And I have the opinions of some of our most enlighted (sic) statesmen to sustain me. Mr. Jefferson, nearly thirty years ago, congratulates his fellow citizens upon the hopeful indications furnished by the laudable efforts of the government to meliorate the condition of those he was pleased to denominate 'our Indian neighbors.' In his message to Congress on the 8th of December, 1801, he states, 'among our Indian neighbors, also, a spirit of peace and friendship generally prevails; and I am happy to inform you that the continued efforts to introduce among them the implements and the practice of husbandry, and of the household arts, have not been without success. That they are becoming more and more sensible of the superiority of this dependence for clothing and subsistence over the precarious resources of hunting and fishing. And already are we able to announce that, instead of that constant diminution of numbers produced by their wants some of them begin to experience an increase of population.' Upon the authority of this great statesman, I can direct our government to a much more effective, as well as more just honorable remedy for the evils that afflict these tribes, than their proposed removal into the wild uncultivated regions of the western forests. In a message to Congress on the 17th of October, 1803, Mr. Jefferson remarks,'with many of the other tribes, improvements agriculture and household manufacture are advancing, and with all our peace and friendship are established on grounds much firmer than heretofore.' In his message of the 2d December, 1806, there is a paragraph devoted to this subject deserving of our most respectful consideration. The friends of Indian rights could not desire the aid of better sintiments (sic) than Mr. Jefferson inculcated in that part of the message where he says 'we continue to receive proofs of the growing attachment of our Indian neighbors; and of their disposition to place all their interests under the patronage of the United States. These dispositions are inspired by their confidence in our justice, and in the sincere concern we feel for their welfare. And as long as we discharge these high and honorable functions with the integrity and good faith which alone can entitle us to their continuance, we may expect to reap the just reward in their peace and friendship.'  Again, in November, 1808, he informs the Congress that 'with our Indian neighbors the public peace has been steadily maintained; and generally from a conviction that we consider them as a part of ourselves, and cherish with sincerity their rights and interests the attachment of the Indian tribes is gaining strength daily, is extending from the nearer to the more remote, and will amply requite us for the justice and friendship practised (sic) towards them. Husbandry and household manufacture are advancing among them--more rapidly with the Southern than the Northern tribes from circumstances of soil and climate.'

Mr. Madison in his message of November, 1809, likewise bears his public testimony to the gradual improvement of the Indians.  'With our Indian neighbors,' he remarks, 'the just and benevolent system continued toward them, has also preserved peace, and is more and more advancing habits favorable to their civilization and happiness.'  I will detain the Senate with but one more testimonial, from another venerable Chief Magistrate. Mr. Monroe, as lately as 1824, in his message, with great satisfaction informed the Congress that the Indians were 'making steady advances in civilization and the improvement of their condition.'  'Many of the tribes,' he continues, 'have already made great progress in the arts of civilized life. This desirable result has been brought about by the humane and persevering policy of the Government, and particularly by means of the appropriation for the civilization of the Indians. There have been established, under the provisions of this act, thirty two schools containing nine hundred and sixteen scholars, who are well instructed in several branches of literature, and likewise in agriculture and ordinary arts of life.'

Now, Sir, when we consider the large space which these illustrious men have filled in our councils, and the perfect confidence that is due to their official statements, is it not astonishing to hear it gravely maintained that the Indians are retrograding in their condition and character--that all our public anxieties and cares bestowed upon them have been utterly fruitless, and that for very pity's sake we must get rid of them, or they will perish on our hands? Sir, I believe that the confidence of the Senate has been abused by some of the letter writers who give us such sad accounts of Indian wretchedness. I rejoice that we may safely repose upon the statements contained in the letters of Messrs. J. L. Allen, R. M. Livingston. Rev. Cyrus Kingsbury, and the Rev. Samuel A. Worcester. The character of these witnesses is without reproach, and their satisfactory certificates of the improvement of the tribes continue and confirm the history furnished to us in the several messages from which I have just read extracts.

It is further maintained 'that one of the greatest evils to which the Indians are exposed, is that incessant pressure of population, that forces them from seat to seat, without allowing time for moral and intellectual improvement.' Sir, this is the very reason-the deep, cogent reason which I present to the Senate, now to raise the barrier against the pressure of population, and with all the authority of this nation, command the urging tide 'thus far and no farther.' Let us save them now, or we never shall. For is it not clear as the sunbeam, Sir, that a removal will aggravate their woes? If the tide is nearly irresistible at this time, when a few more years shall fill the regions beyond the Arkansas with many more millions of enterprising white men, will not an increase impulse be given, that shall sweep the red men away into the barren prairies, or the Pacific of the West?- Such; I fear, will be their doom.

If these constant removals are so affictive (sic), and allow no time for moral improvement-if this be the cause why the attempts at Indian reformation are alleged to have been so unavailing- do not the dictates of experience then plead most powerfully with us, to drive them no further--to grant them an abiding place, when these moral causes may have a fair and uninterrupted operation in moulding (sic) and refining the Indian character? And, Sir, weigh a moment the considerations that address us on behalf of the Cherokees, especially. Prompted and encouraged by our counsels, they have in good earnest resolved to become men, rational, educated, Christian men; and they have succeeded beyond our most sanguine hopes. They have established a regular constitution of civil government, republican in its principles. Wise and beneficent laws are enacted. The people acknowledge their authority, and feel their obligation. A printing press, conducted by one of the nation, circulates a weekly newspaper, printed partly in English, and partly in the Cherokee language. Schools flourish in many of the settlements. Christian temples, to the God of the Bible, are frequented by respectful, devout, and many sincere worshippers.  God, as we believe, has many people among them, whom he regards the 'apple of his eye.' They have become better neighbors to Georgia. She made no complaints during the lapse of fifty years, when the tribes were a horde of ruthless, licentious and drunken savages; when no law controlled them, when the only judge was their will, and their avenger the tomahawk.

Then Georgia could make treaties with them, and acknowledge them as nations; and in conventions trace boundary lines, and respect the land-marks of her neighbor; and now, when they begin to reap the fruits of all the paternal instructions, so repeatedly and earnestly delivered to them by Presidents- when the Cherokee has learned to respect the rights of the white man, and sacredly to regard the obligations of truth and conscience--is this the time, Sir, to break up this peaceful community, to put out their council fires, to annul their laws and customs, to crush the rising hopes of their youth, and to drive the desponding and discouraged Indian to despair? Let it be called a sickly humanity--every freeman in the land, that has one spark of spirit of his fa-fathers (sic), will feel and denounce it to be an unparalleled stretch of cruel injustice.  And if the deed be done, Sir, how it is regarded in Heaven, will, sooner or later, be known on Earth; for this is the judgment place of public sins. And all these ties are to be broken asunder, for a State that was silent and acquiesced in the relations of the Indians to our present government--that pretended to no right of direct interference whilst these tribes were really dangerous; when their ferocious incursions justly disturbed the tranquility of the fireside, and waked the 'sleep of the cradle;' for a State that seeks it now against an unoffending neighbor, which implores her by all that is dear in the graves of her fathers, in the traditions of by gone ages; that beseeches her by the ties of nature, of home and of country, to let her live unmolested, and die near the dust of her kindred!

Sir, our fears have been addressed in behalf of those States whose legislation we resist: and it is enquired with solicitude, would you urge us to arms with Georgia? No, Sir. This tremendous alternative will not be necessary. Let the General Government come out, as it should, with decided and temperate firmness, and officially announce to Georgia, and the other States, that if the Indian tribes choose to remain they will be protected against all interference and encroachment; and such is my confidence in the sense of justice, in the respect for law, prevailing in the great body of this portion of our fellow citizens, that I believe they would submit to the authority of the nation. I can expect no other issue. But if the General Government be urged to the crisis, never to be anticipated, of appealing to the last resort of her powers; and when reason, argument, and persuasion fail, to raise her strong arms to repress the violation of the supreme law of the land, I ask, is it not in her bond, Sir? Is her guaranty a rope of sand?--This effective weapon has often been employed to chastise the poor Indians, sometimes with dreadful vengeance I fear, and shall not their protection avail to draw it from the scabbard?  Permit me to refer the Senate to the views of Mr. Jefferson, directly connected with this delicate, yet sacred duty of protection. In 1791, when he was Secretary of State, there were some symptoms of collision on the Indian subject. This induced the letter from him to General Knox, then our Secretary of War, a part of which I will read. 'I am of opinion, that Government should firmly maintain this ground: that the Indians have a right to the occupation of their lands, independent of the States within whose chartered limits they happen to be; that until they cede them by treaty, or other transaction equivalent to a treaty, no act of a State can give a right to such lands: that neither under the present constitution, nor the ancient confederation, had any State or persons a right to treat with the Indians, without the consent of the General Government; that that consent has never been given by any treaty for the cession of the lands in question; that the Government is determined to exert all its energy for the patronage and protection of the rights of the Indians and the preservation of peace between the United States and them; and that if any settlements are made on lands not ceded by them, without the previous consent of the United States, the Government will think itself bound, not only to declare to the Indians that such settlements are without the authority or protection of the United States, but to remove them also by public force.'

Mr Jefferson seems to have been disturbed by no morbid sensibilities. He speak out as became a determined statesman. We can trace in this document the same spirit which shed its influence on a more eventful paper-the declaration of our rights, and of our purpose to maintain and defend them. He looked right onward, in the broad path of public duty; and if, in his way, he met the terrors of State collision and conflict, he was in no degree intimidated.  The faith of treaties was his guide; and he would not flinch in his purposes, nor surrender the Indians to State encroachments. Let such decided policy go forth in the majesty of our laws now, and Sir, Georgia will yield. She will never encounter the responsibilities or the horrors of a civil war. But if she should, no stains of blood will be on our skirts--on herself the guilt will abide forver (sic).

Mr. President, if we abandon these aboriginal proprietors of our soil--these early allies and adopted children of our forefathers, how shall we justify it to our country? to all the glory of the past, and the promise of the future? her good name is worth all else besides that contributes to her greatness. And, as I regard this crisis in her history, the time has come when this unbought treasure shall be plucked from dishonor, or abandoned to reproach.

How shall we justify this trespass to ourselves?  Sir, we may deride it, and laugh it to scorn now; but the occasion will meet every man, when he must look inward, and make honest inquisition there. Let us beware how, by oppressive encroachments upon the sacred privileges of our Indian neighbors, we minister to the agonies of future remorse.

I have in my humble measure, attempted to discharge a public and most solemn duty towards an interesting portion of my fellow men. Should it prove to have been as fruitless as I know it to be below the weight of their claims yet even then, Sir, it will have its consolations. Defeat in such a cause is far above the triumphs of unrighteous power and in the language of an eloquent writer-'I had rather receive the blessing of one poor Cherokee, as he casts his last look back upon his country, for having, though in vain attempted to prevent his banishment, than to sleep beneath the marble of all the Caesars.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






THE INDIAN QUESTION

By the report of the Congressional proceedings, we perceive that this important subject was finally disposed of in the House of Representatives on Monday last, by a vote of 102 to 97, and that so far as the government of this country is concerned, the fate of the Indians are determined. The President and both houses of Congress have now united in setting at nought the treaties which have been made with the Indians, and in disregarding the faith of our republic, which had been so frequently and so solemnly pledged to protect them in the enjoyment of their possessions forever.- We leave for others to determine in what light this policy will place us, in the estimation of the world and on the page of history. If the violation of plighted faith on the part of the Carthagenians has subject that people to the reproach of the world, and exposed their memory, as a mark for the finger of scorn forever, what may not be said of the government of the United States, which has in a single session of its Congress, overturned the policy which it had pursued for half a century, and trampled under foot the most solemn obligations imposed by treaties repeated and renewed with all the formalities and sanctions of law. In submitting to the decision of Congress upon this subject, the citizens of the United States who have opposed this iniquitous proceeding, have the consolation of knowing that they have done their duty.--They have petitioned and remonstrated, against the infraction of our treaties, with all the earnestness which the occasion demanded, and with all the eloquence and force which the truth and justice of the cause afforded; and if they have remonstrated in vain, they have notwithstanding, washed their hands of the sin which has now been committed, and thrown the burthen (sic) with all the obloquy attached to it upon the friends of the administration. In the course of the debate upon this bill, it was boldly avowed by Mr. Lewis, that the bill was known to be the leading measure of the present President, and that therefore, those who avowed themselves the friends of the  administration were bound to support it, and that if they did not, they would be faithless, and traitors to their party.--We have before said that this bill was to be considered as a party measure,- but we have seen no open avowal of the fact before. His declaration proves that in depriving the Indians of their right of property and security, in driving them from the lands which they have inherited from their ancestors, and from the homes which they have hitherto justly claimed as their own, justice has been sacrificed on the shrine of party, and principle and honesty have been permitted to share her fate. If the people of the United States are willing to sanction such a proceeding, adopted with such motives, the time is not remote when party will on all occasions triumph over principle, and when the institutions of our country will become the sport of artful and designing demagogues.--Ct. Mir.

CHEROKEE PHOENIX AND INDIANS' ADVOCATE

Saturday, June 26, 1830

Volume 3 No. 10

Page 2 Col. 1b.-2a

THE INDIANS--The bill provided for the removal of the Indians, has at last passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 102-97. The interest felt on the subject by the members, as well as the community at large, appears to have been intense. If a single member was absent, who was in town, or indisposed and unable to be present, it was made the ground of a motion to postpone the consideration of the subject. The votes on all the questions were very close, there being a majority only of two of three votes. The friends of the bill, however, were determined to crowd it through, and as far as possible without argument. They seemed to fear, as well they might,an exposition of the subject.  They did not vindicate their own course, nor did they seem willing that the opponents of the bill should have a full opportunity for its discussion. The previous question was moved and sustained in every stage of the business. All amendments were put down without discussion, by the weight of the majority.  The object with the Government and its supporters seems to have been, without any regard to the rights of the Indians or our obligations to them, or contracts with them, to drive them out from among us. It has been in vain that the demands of strict right have been urged, in addition to those of magnanimity, generosity towards those who have been greatly injured by us, ' unable to protection to those who are feeble ' protect themselves. The course taken bears strong marks of meanness and unfair dealing, and there is no wonder that its vindicators should blush at the measures adopted. The silent ' despotic course which has been adopted by the continued suppression of all discussion, is well worthy the arbitrary measures provided by the bill itself. It is in vain to say that the bill only provides for their voluntary removal. The real design and aim cannot be disguised. The whole tenure of the measure adopted, and the language of the President and of the supporters of the bill, shows that the design is that of forcible removal. We regret the inhumanity and deep disgrace attending this tranaction (sic). The only alleviating circumstance is the strenuous opposition which it has received from so many of our Representatives. Our own Representatives, to a man, voted against the bill.--Norwich Courier.

___________________

Page 2 Col. 2b.

From the Albany Christian Register.

Present State of the Indian Question.

--The law recently passed by Congress on this subject, is entitled, 'An act to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or territories ' for their final removal West of the river Mississippi.' It provides for the removal at the expense the United States, of such Indians of any of the tribes as shall desire to remove, and for an appropriation of lands in exchange for those they shall give up. True, none are to be removed who shall not request it; but then the rejection of two amendments proposed by Mr. Frelinghuysen in the Senate, and of others of like import in the House of Representatives, leaves those who do not choose to remove, exposed to the tyrannical laws of Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi.

The rejection of these amendments amounts to this:THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT WILL NOT PROTECT THE INDIANS FROM THE LAWS OF ANY STATE OR TERRITORY THAT SHALL SEE FIT TO EXTEND THEIR LAWS OVER THEM. And the United States Government WILL NO LONGER CARRY ON INTERCOURSE WITH THE INDIANS AS INDEPENDENT AND SOVEREIGN NATIONS.

Such is the actual state of things in relation to those much oppressed human beings. But it is to be remembered, that they cannot be removed without requesting the government to remove them. They have only to sit still and see whether these states will carry into execution the laws they have enacted against them. We cannot give up the hope, that, 'light will spring up in the midst of the darkness' that overshadows them. We cannot give up the hope, that Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi will pause before they execute their most oppressive and tyrannical laws against the Indians, until one more opportunity shall offer of bringing the subject before Congress. But if not, if they should push on in their infatuated course, and tread those defenceless (sic), peaceable, neighbors and allies down to the earth--it will be nothing strange, should the war-whoop resound in the ears of the white man, the scalping knife do its own hand the executions of justice, and the vindications of his wrongs in his wonted, though almost forgotten savage mode. It will then remain to be seen, whether the government of the United States will allow a single state to carry on war by itself: and if not, whether they will sustain Georgia; or redeem their violated faith to the Indians, by protecting them.

_________________________________

Page 2 Col 2b-3a

Voluntary emigration of the Indians.

It is easy to foresee that it will be rung from one end of the United States to the other, that no compulsion is to be exercised towards the Indians for their removal; that none will be removed who shall not desire to remove. This is not so. For, notwithstanding the plausible form of the law for their removal, this act of the general government is to be taken in connexion (sic) with the laws which they knew Georgia and other states had passed in relation to them, and with their own violated faith in refusing to protect them. These form one whole. This voluntary emigration is like the voluntary emigration of the Puritans to America, when they were driven from their homes by the fires of persecution, and compelled to seek a refuge n the howling wilderness.--It reminds us of Bonaparte's 'forced loans.' The capitalists were told you shall lend me money or go to prison.  But do not say you were compelled to go to prison: if you go, you go voluntarily.

This is in fact, the sum and substance of the whole Indian question: and it ought to be carefully laid up in the memory of every reader. Ibid.

______________________________________

Page 2. Col. 3a-4a

The Indian Bill passed.--The bill providing for the removal of the Indians to some territory beyond the Mississippi to be selected, surveyed and defined, has at length passed both houses of Congress; and as it is said to be a favourite (sic) executive measure, there is no doubt that it will promptly receive the President's signature. From what is called party national policies and executive questions we have desired and do wish carefully to abstain. But it ill becomes the conductor of a free and independent press to keep silent when silence would be criminal. It is only the servile and contemptible who ascribe infallibility to party, or who transmute that which is a violation of all laws, social, political and divine, into acts of merit, and justify them on the principle of policy and power. Our busi- (sic) should be applaud what is meritorious, and reprobate what is unjust.  It is our duty to obey the laws; but it is no less so, when we believe they are not made in conformity to the honour (sic) and interests of our country to exhibit their moral iniquity, and the men who made them, to the reprobation of the world. Never was an act recommended by any executive, or passed by any Congress of these United States, fraught with darker and deeper national disgrace, than the one we speak of. Our language is too feeble adequately to express our opinion of its character for obliquity ' injustice. Indeed this alone seems to be the only object it can certainly secure. We naturally ask what good can arise from it to the nation? What security is offered to the Indians by such a transfer of location?  Will the national faith, which had been pledged to protect them where they are, be so renovated and changed, that future safety and protection will be better secured? Will that nation which has sacrificed its honour (sic) to mammon

or party, be more scrupulous for the time to come? Such a supposition, entertained by the men who have thus sported with the scared honour (sic) of this nation, would only be fastening a stigma of infamy upon their own characters, as if they entertained the idea that a worse than themselves could not succeed them. They may hope for an approaching millenial (sic) of happiness and justice; but they take especial care, as far as this precedent is concerned, to throw obstacles in the way of its approach. Now the Indians are to be removed. But nothing is said of the bounds of their territory, or whether they are to have any more than a few acres each for the raising of corn, turnips, and other vegetables.  Nothing is said, while they are again thrown into nature's wildness and incivilization (sic), as to whether they are to have a like ample range for their hunting--no,no: their crime seems to be their aim at civilization, and this must be arrested. They are to have a location adjoining some of our states or Territories. Their neighbours (sic) will be the same as formerly. They will, in a short time be surrounded by men who will trespass upon there (sic) rights--envy them of their possessions--covet their improvements--and seek, through some quirk or quibble, to involve them in trouble that they may have them removed from their habitations. The guarantee of laws is no protection, when men, having the power, make laws to violate justice. Soon the minions of a popular executive will cut the knot they cannot unite--might will trample on right--former precedents will be acted upon, and law, justice and human rights will change their character as our elections change an administration. The intruders upon Indian rights will be encouraged to proceed--they will throw their toils over, create difficulties among, intrigue to circumvent, and then make laws to overpower them. An executive promise is no charter of rights.  New commentators and exponders (sic) of laws will arise, as we have seen them arise, utterly disregarding the most sacred treaties-men whose godhead is power, whose creed is policy, whose greatest virtue success, and who, for a trifling consideration of interest, which is neither needed or required, would shake the very pillars of our constitutional fabric and threaten the nation with blood and ruin! On this topic we dare not indulge our feelings. No predilections of party, or of party leaders, can influence or draw us off from what we owe to the cause of a righteous principle and of immutable justice.  When the character of our nation is wounded we should not be silent; nor will the hope that the supreme court may yet restore our nation to its wonted dignity, remove the opinion we entertain of those who have thus impaired it. --The Phil. Sun.

_________________________________________________

CHEROKEE PHOENIX AND INDIANS' ADVOCATE

Saturday, June 26, 1830

Volume 3 No. 10

Page 4 Col. 4a-4b

The Indian Bill.-- This bill has passed the House of Representatives, substantially as it came from the Senate, by a majority of five votes! We did hope that the representatives of the people would pause before they affixed the national seal to an instrument so obviously unjust and oppressive. It is, we believe, the first time that Congress has declared by an open act, that policy is paramount to justice; and we think the murmurs of the people will evince their disapprobation of the principle; and their indignation at its operation in this case. While the Indians were willing to acknowledge their right of possession to prior occupancy; and Gen. Washington made it an express stipulation that in treaties with them, they should be informed that the possession and jurisdiction of their territory could not be acquired by others without their own will and consent. Yet notwithstanding this, and the unanswerable arguments of the opponents of this bill, it has been coldly passed; and we are left to the conviction, that although justice, humanity, and liberal feeling be thrown into the constitutional scale, five votes may be suffered to outweigh all and become the means of oppression to a people, whose uncivilized kindness to our fathers should have averted this civilized ingratitude.

By the passage of this outrageous bill A HALF MILLION of dollars is at once put at the control of the executive, and that according to varying estimates, a further sum of from FIFTEEN to TWENTY MILLIONS of dollars will be necessary to carry the provisions of the act into effect. Sixteen of the members from this State voted in favor of the bill.-Will the people endure all this?  If they will we are greatly mistaken.

Hudson Republican.

____________________________________

The bill which has lately passed both Houses of Congress, to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians, appropriates the sum of five hundred thousand dollars for the purpose of carrying its provisions into effect. This, however, is but a drop in the bucket, of what will be required from the Treasury.  Instead of half a million of dollars, millions and millions will be required, before this unjust and barbarous act can be honorably and honestly carried into execution. Mr. Everett, in his remarks on the bill, while undergoing a discussion in the House of Representatives, estimated the expense  of this project to be not less that (sic) twenty-four millions of dollars. Were gentlemen, (said he) willing to tax their constituents to this amount, for the benefit of three States--to keep Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi in a good humor, or bind them to their allegiance! This was a home question, and gentlemen would find enough of the science of mathematics among their constituents to calculate to them the value of this sum of money!--N. Ark. Sen.

_____________________________________________

Pg. 4 col. 4b-5a

PARTY RESPONSIBILITY.-Strenuous efforts were made in Congress to give the Indian Bill a party aspect.- Its very existence was almost identified with that of the reigning party. Numbers appeared ready, as partisans, to imprecate the blood of the Cherokees upon themselves and upon their children. Many of that party voted against the bill, and thus evinced that they were men of conscience and of moral principle. Still there cannot be a doubt that the bill was ultimately carried on party grounds and that on any other it would have been signally defeated.  Heaven grant that the consequences of that bill may fall upon the party and not upon the country; and that the great constitutional bulwark wisely designed to stem the torrent of part violence may even yet avert the ruin of one nation, and the punishment and dishonor of another.--Amer. Spectator.

___________________

FROM WASHINGTON--It is stated to us by intelligent gentlemen of both Houses of Congress, with whom we have conversed during their stay in this city, that the signs of the times at Washington portend anything but peace and tranquility to our present ruling powers. We are credibly informed that the dissatisfaction with the Administration among the Western members was loud and violent, and that of the ten Jackson members who came to the federal city from Ohio, eight have returned with a determination never to be again found fighting in such ranks.

In relation to the Indian Bill, we have the best authority for saying that the bill would have been rejected by a considerable majority, if the members had received any premenition as to the stand the President would take upon the Maysville Road Bill. The decision was carefully concealed, lest it should endanger the passage of the Indian Bill; and in the meantime, all the machinery of party was put in motion to induce the friends of the administration to subserve the views of the Executive.- It was boldly avowed by some of the party that they would never have yielded their private judgments to the solicitations of their party friends could theyhave dreamed that the Presidenet would succumb to the South, and abandon his former established principles for the purpose of vainly endeavoring to pacify South Carolina and Virginia.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

New Echota June 26, 1830

We have received a short Cherokee communication, written by order of a town meeting in Coosewaytee, expressing the feelings entertained by the people of that place, in regard to the present state of affairs. They tell us they are still united and firm in their purpose to continue on the land of their fathers. It may be a matter of interest to our friends and foes to know the state of feeling in other parts of the nation, and whether there has been any discernable change in that feeling since the passage of the Indian Bill. We cannot as yet speak definitely. We apprehend, however, that the Cherokees will continue to be pretty stubborn. Those with whom we have conversed and from whom we have heard, are determined to stay and see whether there is not a remedy in the judiciary of the United States. When that is ascertained, it will be time enough, they say, to come to some other determination. Those therefore who think that the decision of Congress need only be made known to the Cherokees and they will go, are under a great mistake. We speak of the great body of the nation.

_____________________________________

Page 3 Col. 2a

A young Cherokee of our acquaintance has for some time been employed in teaching a School in one of the adjoining States, now in part represented in Congress, by a gentleman, who has, during the late session distinguished himself introducing our character and improvement as a people, and by portraying in lively colours (sic), our ignorance and wretchedness. It does seem therefore a novel thing that a Cherokee should be instructing the children of some of his constituents. This young friend of ours writes to us:

'My School will be out about the 15th day of September next, and I will have about ____ dollars for my year's wages. If I should undertake for another year, I shall get _____dollars. In one neighborhood in this county, the people have offered me _____dollars. If better offers are not thrown in my way, I shall accept of that. The people are backward about education here, and that is the reason I come such poor speed in getting subscribers for the Phoenix.'

It may be proper to observe, that the writer of the above was educated in the nation, and at one of the missionary stations.

________________________________

Page 3 Col. 2a

A few days ago the United States' troops stationed near the gold mines arrested nine citizens of Georgia who had come over to dig after they had been once removed. They were taken to Savannah, to be prosecuted according to the intercourse law of the United States. We are very glad to perceive that the national executive intend to give us some protection. The energy exhibited by the commanding officer in this instance is highly commendable, and cannot fail to gain the approbation of all honest and well meaning persons.

_______________________________________

Pagge 3 Col. 2b

Mr. Webster's speeches.--The National Intelligencer states, that the 'demand for copies of Mr. Webster's speeches in what has been called the great debate in the Senate, has been unprecedented. We are just completing an edition of twenty thousand copies which, added to former editions, will make an aggregate of very nearly forty thousand copies, that will have been printed, also, at other different places throughout the United States, perhaps twenty different editions of these speeches. It is hardly too much to say, that no speech in the English language has ever been so universally diffused, or so generally read.'

____________________________

Page 3 Col. 3a

Steam-Boat blown up by Powder.-- The Steam-boat Tigress on the Ohio, at Rockport 200 miles below Louisville, took fire on the cabin roof, and finding it could not be put out, she was run ashore, when from the fact of her having 300 kegs of gunpowder on board, the passengers fled, excepting one or two, who attempted to scuttle her. Not proving successful in due time, they evacuated to a man, and in two minutes she exploded, filling the air with a variety of hardware, which landed on the beach.  No lives were lost; all the baggage, books and papers, are gone. She was principally loaded for Cincinnati. Total loss supposed to be from $60,000 to $80,000.

________________________________________

Page 3 Col. 5b

Mouse Town, 3d June 1830

Mr. John Martin,

Sir-we stood bound to you for a permit for Samuel M'Junkin, therefore this is to inform you, that we can no longer stand for him, as his conduct is such that we do not feel a willingness to be bound for his future behaviour (sic), therefore we will feel ourselves no longer bound for him.

JESSE BUSHYHEAD,

THOMAS FOREMAN,

JAMES FOREMAN,

______________________________________

Page 4 Col 4b.

FROM WASHINGTON.- It is stated to us by intelligent gentlemen of both Houses of Congress, with whom we have conversed during their stay in this city, that the signs of the times at Washington portend anything but peace and tranquility to our present ruling powers. We are credibly informed that the dissatisfaction with the Administration among the Western members was loud and violent, and that the ten Jackson members who came to the federal city from Ohio, eight have returned with a determination never to be again found fighting in such ranks.

In relation to the Indian bill, we have the best authority for saying that the bill would have been rejected by a considerable majority, if the members had received any premonition as to the stand the President would take upon the Maysville Road Bill. The decision was carefully concealed, lest it should endanger the passage of the Indian bill; and in the mean time, all the machinery of party was put in motion to induce the friends of the Administration to subserve the views of the Executive.-It was boldly avowed by some of the party, that they would never have yielded their private judgments to the solicitations of their party friends, could they have dreamed that the President would succumb to the South, and abandon his former established principles, for the purpose of vanity endeavoring to pacify South Carolina and Virginia.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, JUNE 26, 1830

We have received a short Cherokee communication written by order of a town meeting in Coosewaytee, expressing the feelings entertained by the people of that place in regard to the present state of affairs.  They tell us they are still united and firm in their purpose to continue on the land of their fathers. It may be a matter of interest to our friends and foes to know the state of feeling in other parts of the nation, and whether there has been any discernable change in that feeling since the passage of the Indian Bill. We cannot as yet speak definitely. We apprehend, however, that the Cherokees will continue to be pretty stubborn. Those with whom we have conversed and from whom we have heard are determined to stay and see whether there is not a remedy in the judiciary of the United States.  When that is ascertained, it will be time enough, they say, to come to some other determination. Those therefore who think that the decision of Congress need only be made known to the Cherokees and they will go, are under a great mistake. We speak of the great body of the nation.

_____________

His Excellency, George R. Gilmer, Governor of Georgia, has lately issued two proclamations. The first relates to the act extending the jurisdiction of the State over the Cherokee country. As it has a particular relation to our readers, we shall publish it.

A PROCLAMATION.

GEORGIA--By His Excellency GEO. R. GILMER, Governor and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of this State, and of the Militia thereof.

Whereas the General Assembly of the State of Georgia did, on the 19th December, 1829, pass the following act to wit:

[Here the Governor recites the act.]

And whereas by the above recited act, all the laws of this State, both civil and criminal became extended over the territory described in said act, and in full operation upon all persons residing therein, on the first day of the present month--And whereas by the said act, all the laws, ordinances, orders and regulations which have been hitherto passed by said tribe of Indians or the Chief Men thereof, are rendered null and void, and all persons attempting to enforce the same, subjected to punishment therefor.

And whereas by the said act, it is also made highly penal to prevent or attempt to prevent any Indian residing within said territory from emigrating therefrom, or to use the means therein described to prevent a cession of said territory for the use of this State--And whereas said Cherokee Indians have for sometime past been attempting to establish a government independent of the authority of this State, and have since the passage of said recited act, violated the rights of the citizens of this State under highly aggravating circumstances, under pretence of executing the legal orders of the principal Chiefs of said tribe.

And whereas the rulers and head men of said tribe have continued since the passage of said act, to excite the Indians under their influence against submission to the operation of the laws of this State, and have attempted to prevent the enforcement of the same by appealing to the Congress of the United States to interpose the powers of the Union to protect them therefrom; and having by various other acts evinced a spirit of determined hostility against the government of this State--Now therefore, that the sovereign authority of this State over all the persons within its limits may be duly acknowledged and respected ' the rights of its citizens preserved, and that the Indian people occupying its territory under the protection of its laws, may be relieved from the oppression to which they have been hitherto subjected by the laws and customs of their tribe, or the arbitrary power of their Chiefs, I have thought proper to issue this my Proclamation, giving notice to all persons, that said recited act is now in force, and all Indians and others residing within said territory or elswhere (sic), are warned not to violate its enactments; and every officer, civil and military is hereby required, and every patriotic citizen of the State urged to aid in the enforcement thereof, and especially in causing the penalties for its violation to be certainly inflicted upon each and every Chief, Headman or other Cherokee Indian, or any other person residing in said territory who shall exercise or attempt to exercise any authority, under pretence or by virtue of any Cherokee law, ordinance; order, or regulation whatsoever, or who shall by virtue of any such pretended authority prevent, attempt to prevent any Indian from emigrating from said territory, or enrolling himself for that purpose, or who shall in like manner punish, molest, either the person or property, or abridge the rights or privileges on account of his or her enrolling as an emigrant or intending to emigrant or who shall be virtue of any such pretended authority, or by any arbitrary power prevent or offer to prevent or deter any Indian, Head-man, Chief or, Warrior residing within said territory from selling or ceding to the United States for the use of Georgia the whole or any part of said territory or prevent such persons so residing from meeting in council or treaty any commissioners or commissioners of the United States, for any purpose whatever, or who shall by virtue of any such pretended authority or by any arbitrary force put to death any Indian for enrolling as an emigrant or attempting to emigrate, ceding or attempting to cede, the whole or any part of said territory, or meeting or attempting to meet in council for the purpose.

Given under my hand, and the Great Seal of the State, at the State-house in Milledgeville, this third day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty, and of American Independence the fifty-fourth.

GEORGE R. GILMER.

By the Governor:

EVERARD HAMILTON, Sec'ry of State.

The 'Cherokee Indians,' says the governor, 'have for some time past been attempting to establish a Government independent of the authority of this State.' This is the common saying. Have they not always been independent? Were they not so before Georgia came into being? Has she not treated with them as such? The phrase implies that the Cherokee have not been independent of the authority of the State, but now they are attempting to be. If this is true, what is the use of extending, for the first time, the act in question? Does not the very act of subjecting them to her jurisdiction imply that they are independent of that jurisdiction? Besides, if the Cherokees are merely a part of the population of Geo. Their attempt must be considered in the light of treason. Is it necessary, therefore, in such a case, that you first subject them to your jurisdiction by a special act, before you can punish them? Why not enforce your old laws?

Who of you Cherokee people did think that you were to be relieved from oppression, by the laws of Georgia? It is even so, for the Governor says so. You are to be stript (sic) of those oppressive laws and native regulations, which allow you all your rights as freemen, your sacred rights of oath and elective franchise, and be introduced into Christian laws, placed before you in a language you cannot understand, and which withhold from you the last particle of right!  Indeed you have reason to rejoice, for the day of your emancipation is at hand!

As it is punishable for a chief to exercise authority in the nation, or for any man to attempt to prevent emigration 'c. we apprehand (sic) many will subject themselves to the penalties of the act. The Cherokees reason thus: We have always from time immemorial had a government of Chiefs of our own choosing-the right of those chiefs to assemble in council, to deliberate on the concerns of the nation, has been acknowledged by the United States and the State of Georgia-the right to meet in council to sell the land is acknowledged by Georgia in the very act which now threatens punishment. - We have never, say they, consented to come under any other government, and we acknowledge no right in a State to extend its laws over us-we will therefore, continue in our own regulations, until power shall demolish them. We believe these to be the prevailing sentiments of the nation.  We do not wish to resist by force-no, they have no such idea. We request all the good people of Georgia to bear this in mind- that would be rashness-if they had the power they would. But we will resist you with our principles-we will evince to you our love of liberty by suffering freely-we will show you our attachment to our institutions by going to your Penitentiary.

The other proclamation relates to the gold mines.  What now becomes of the old plea that force is not meditated? If Georgia can drive the Cherokees from their gold mines, she may with equal propriety drive them from their other possessions. Well, as we have no more a father to protect us, we can but look on and watch the progress of injustice and high-handed oppression.






Cherokee Phoenix

vol. 3, no. 10

Saturday, June 26, 1830

page 3, col. 1A

A PROCLAMATION,

GEORGIA---By His Excellency GEO. R. GILMER, Governor and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of this State and of the Militia thereof.

Whereas it has been discovered that the lands in the territory now occupied by the Cherokee Indians within the limits of this, abound with valuable minerals, and especially gold-- And whereas the State of Georgia has the fee simple title to said lands, and the entire and exclusive property in the gold and silver therein: And whereas numerous persons, citizens of this and other States, together with the Indian occupants of said territory, taking advantage of the law of this State, by which its jurisdiction over said territory was not assumed until the first day of June last past, have been engaged in digging for gold in said land, and taking therefrom great amounts in value, thereby appropriating riches to themselves when of right equally belonged to every other citizen of the State, and in violation of the rights of the State, ' to the injury of its public resources--And whereas the absence of legal restraint and the nature of their pursuit, have caused a state of society to exist among said persons, too disorderly to be permitted to continue--And whereas the by the act of the last Legislature to add the territory within the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, included in the limits of this State, to the counties of Carroll, DeKalb, Gwinnett, Hall and Habersham, and to render void and disannul all Cherokee laws, the jurisdiction of this State is now extended over said territory, and all persons therein made subject thereto:--Now for the purpose of removing all persons from the lands of this State in the territory aforesaid, except such as are permitted by the laws or assent of this State to occupy the same; to secure to the State its property n the minerals therein, and to put an end to the lawless state of society which has hitherto existed among the gold diggers in said territory, I have thought proper to issue this my Proclamation, notifying all persons whom it may concern, that the jurisdiction of this territory in the occupancy of the Cherokees, included within the limits of this State, and which was by an act passed by the last Legislature of this State, made a part of the counties of Carroll, Dekalb, Gwinnett, Hall or Habersham, and that all persons residing therein, are subject to the said jurisdiction; and to warn all persons whether citizens of this or other States, or Indian occupants, from all further trespass upon the property of this State, and especially from taking any gold or silver from the lands included within the territory occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and so as aforesaid added to the counties aforesaid, and to direct all persons to quit possession of said lands and depart from said territory without delay, except such as by law of the assent of the State are permitted to occupy the same, and to require all officers of the State within the counties aforesaid to be vigilant in enforcing the laws for the protection of public property, and especially to prevent any further trespass upon the lands of the State, or the taking any gold or silver therefrom.

Giver under my hand; and the Great Seal of the State-House in Milledgeville, this third day of June, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and thirty, and of American Independence the fifty-fourth.

GEORGE R. GILMER.

By the Governor:

Everard Hamilton, Sec'ry of State.

_________________

A young Cherokee of our acquaintance has for sometime been employed to teaching a school in one of the adjoining states, now in part represented in Congress by a gentleman who has, during the late session distinguished himself introducing our character and improvement as a people, and by portraying in lively colors our ignorance and wretchedness. It does seem therefore a novel thing that a Cherokee should be instructing the children of some of his constituents. This young friend of ours writes to us:

'My school will be out about the 15th day of September next,, and I will have about ___dollars for my year's wages. If I should undertake for another year, I shall get___ dollars. In one neighborhood in this county, the people have offered me ___dollars. If better offers are not thrown in my way, I shall accept of that.  The people are backward about education here, and that is the reason I come such poor speed in getting subscribers for the Phoenix.'

It may be proper to observe, that the writer of the above was educated in the nation, and at one of the missionary stations.

_______________

A few days ago the United States' troops stationed near the gold mines arrested nine citizens of Georgia who had come over to dig after they had been once removed. They were taken to Savannah, to be prosecuted according to the Intercourse Law of the United States. We are very glad to perceive that the national executive intend to give us some protection. The energy exhibited by the commanding officer in this instance is highly commendable, and cannot fail to gain the approbation of all honest and well meaning persons.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






His Excellency, George R. Gilmer, Governor of Georgia, has lately issued two proclamations. The first relates to the act extending the jurisdiction of the State over the Cherokee country. As it has a particular relation to our readers, we shall publish it.

A PROCLAMATION.

GEORGIA--By His Excellency GEO. R. GILMER, Governor and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of this State, and of the Militia thereof.

Whereas the General Assembly of the State of Georgia did, on the 19th December, 1829, pass the following act to wit:

[Here the Governor recites the act.]

And whereas by the above recited act, all the laws of this State, both civil and criminal became extended over the territory described in said act, and in full operation upon all persons residing therein, on the first day of the present month--And whereas by the said act, all the laws, ordinances, orders and rugulations (sic) which have been hitherto passed by said tribe of Indians or the Chief Men thereof, are rendered null and void, and all persons attempting to enforce the same, subjected to punishment therefor.

And whereas by the said act, it is also made highly penal to prevent or attempt to prevent any Indian residing within said territory from emigrating therefrom , or to use the means therein described to prevent a cession of said territory for the use of this State--And whereas said Cherokee Indians have for sometime past been attempting to establish a government independent of the authority of this State, and have since the passage of said recited act, violated the rights of the citizens of this State under highly aggravating circumstances, under pretence of executing the legal orders of the principal Chiefs of said tribe.

And whereas the rulers and head men of said tribe have continued since the passage of said act, to excite the Indians under their influence against submission to the operation of the laws of this State, and have attempted to prevent the enforcement of the same by appealing to the Congress of the United States to interpose the powers of the Union to protect them therefrom; and having by various other acts evinced a spirit of determined hostility against the government of this State--Now therefore, that the sovereign authority of this State over all the persons within its limits may be duly acknowledged and respected ' the rights of its citizens preserved, and that the Indian people occupying its territory under the protection of its laws, may be relieved from the oppression to which they have been hitherto subjected by the laws and customs of their tribe,or the arbitrary power of their Chiefs, I have thought proper to issue this my Proclamation, giving notice to all persons, that said recited act is now in force, and all Indians and others residing within said territory or elswhere (sic), are warned not to violate its enactments; and every officer, civil and military is hereby required, and every patriotic citizen of the State urged to aid in the enforcement thereof, and especially in causing the penalties for its violation to be certainly inflicted upon each and every Chief, Head man or other Cherokee Indian, or any other person residing in said territory who shall exercise or attempt to exercise any authority, under pretence or by virtue of any Cherokee law, ordinance; order, or regulation whatsoever, or who shall by virtue of any such pretended authority prevent, attempt to prevent any Indian from emigrating from said territory, or enrolling himself for that purpose, or who shall in like manner punish, molest, either the person or property, or abridge the rights or privileges on account of his or her enrolling as an emigrant or intending to emigrant or who shall be virtue of any such pretended authority, or by any arbitrary power prevent or offer to prevent or deter any Indian, Head-man, Chief or, Warrior residing within said territory from selling or ceding to the United States for the use of Georgia the whole or any part of said territory or prevent such persons so residing from meeting in council or treaty any commissioners or commissioners of the United States, for any purpose whatever, or who shall by virtue of any such pretended authority or by any arbitrary force but to death any Indian for enrolling as an emigrant or attempting to emigrate, ceding or attempting to cede, the whole or any part of said territory, or meeting or attempting to meet in council for the purpose.

Given under my hand, and the Great Seal of the State, at the State-house in Milledgeville, this third day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty, and of American Independence the fifty-fourth.

GEORGE R. GILMER.

By the Governor:

EVERARD HAMILTON,Sec'ry of State.

The `Cherokee Indians,' says the governor, 'have for some time past been attempting to establish a Government independent of the authority of this State.  This is the common saying.  'Have they not always been independent? Were they not so before Georgia came into being? Has she not treated with them as such? The phrase implies that the Cherokee have not been independent of the authority of the State, but now they are attempting to be. If this is true, what is the use of extending, for the first time, the act in question? Does not the very act of subjecting them to her jurisdiction imply that they are independent of that jurisdiction?  Besides, if the Cherokees are merely a part of the population of Geo. Their attempt must be considered in the light of treason. Is it necessary, therefore, in such a case, that you first subject them to your jurisdiction by a special act, before you can punish them? Why not enforce your old laws?

Who of you Cherokee people did think that you were to be relieved from oppression, by the laws of Georgia? It is even so, for the Governor says so. You are to be stript (sic) of those oppressive laws and native regulations, which allow you all your rights as freemen, your sacred rights of oath and elective franchise,and be introduced into Christian laws, placed before you in a language you cannot understand, and which withhold from you the last particle of right!  Indeed you have reason to rejoice, for the day of your emancipation is at hand!

As it is punishable for a chief to exercise authority in the nation, or for any man to attempt to prevent emigration 'c. we apprehand (sic) many will subject themselves to the penalties of the act. The Cherokees reason thus: We have always from time immemorial had a government of Chiefs of our own choosing-the right of those chiefs to assemble in council, to deliberate on the concerns of the nation, has been acknowledged by the United States and the State of Georgia-the right to meet in council to sell the land is acknowledged by Georgia in the very act which now threatens punishment. - We have never, say they, consented to come under any other government, and we acknowledge no right in a State to extend its laws over us-we will therefore, continue in our own regulations, until power shall demolish them.  We believe these to be the prevailing sentiments of the nation. We do not wish to resist by force-no,they have no such idea. We request all the good people of Georgia to bear this in mind- that would be rashness-if they had the power they would. But we will resist you with our principles-we will evince to you our love of liberty by suffering freely-we will show you our attachment to our institutions by going to your Penitentiary.

The other proclamation relates to the gold mines.  What now becomes of the old plea that force is not meditated? If Georgia can drive the Cherokees from their gold mines, she may with equal propriety drive them from their other possessions. Well, as we have no more a father to protect us, we can but look on and watch the progress of injustice and  high-handed oppression.

A PROCLAMATION,

GEORGIA---By His Excellency GEO. R. GILMER,Governor and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of this State and of the Militia thereof.

Whereas it has been discovered that the lands in the territory now occupied by the Cherokee Indians within the limits of this, abound with valuable minerals,and especially gold-- And whereas the State of Georgia has the fee simple title to said lands, and the entire and exclusive property in the gold and silver therein: And whereas numerous persons, citizens of this and other States, together with the Indian occupants of said territory, taking advantage of the law of this State, by which its jurisdiction over said territory was not assumed until the first day of June last past, have been engaged in digging for gold in said land, and taking therefrom great amounts in value, thereby appropriating riches to themselves when of right equally belonged to every other citizen of the State, and in violation of the rights of the State, ' to the injury of its public resources--And whereas the absence of legal restraint and the nature of their pursuit, have caused a state of society to exist among said persons, too disorderly to be permitted to continue--And whereas the by the act of the last Legislature to add the territory within the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, included in the limits of this State, to the counties of Carroll, DeKalb, Gwinnett, Hall and Habersham, and to render void and disannul all Cherokee laws, the jurisdiction of this State is now extended over said territory, and all persons therein made subject thereto:--Now for the purpose of removing all persons from the lands of this State in the territory aforesaid, except such as are permitted by the laws or assent of this State to occupy the same; to secure to the State its property n the minerals therein, and to put an end to the lawless state of society which has hitherto existed among the gold diggers in said territory, I have thought proper to issue this my Proclamation, notifying all persons whom it may concern, that the jurisdiction of this territory in the occupancy of the Cherokees, included within the limits of this State, and which was by an act passed by the last Legislature of this State, made a part of the counties of Carroll, Dekalb, Gwinnett, Hall or Habersham, and that all persons residing therein, are subject to the said jurisdiction; and to warn all persons whether citizens of this or other States, or Indian occupants, from all further trespass upon the property of this State, and especially from taking any gold or silver from the lands included within the territory occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and so as aforesaid added to the counties aforesaid, and to direct all persons to quit possession of said lands and depart from said territory without delay, except such as by law of the assent of the State are permitted to occupy the same, and to require all officers of the State within the counties aforesaid to be vigilant in enforcing the laws for the protection of public property, and especially to prevent any further trespass upon the lands of the State, or the taking any gold or silver therefrom.

Giver under my hand; and the Great Seal of the State-House in Milledgeville, this third day of June, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and thirty, and of American Independence the fifty-fourth.

GEORGE R. GILMER.

By the Governor:

Everard Hamilton, Sec'ry of State.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The 'Cherokee Indians,' says the Governor, 'have for some time past been attempting to establish a Government independent of the authority of this State.' This is the common saying. Have they not always been independent? Were they not so before Georgia came into being. Has she not treated with them as such. The phrase implies that the Cherokees have not been independent of the authority of the State, but now they are attempting to be. If this is true, what is the use of extending, for the first time, the act in question Does not the very act of subjecting them to her jurisdiction imply that they are independent of that jurisdiction? Besides, if the Cherokees, are merely a part of the population of Geo. their attempt to separate themselves from the population must be considered in the light of treason. Is it necessary, therefore, in such a case, that you first subject them to your jurisdiction by a special act, before you can punish them? Why not enforce your old laws?

Who of you Cherokee people did think that you were to be relieved from oppression, by the laws of Georgia? It is even so, for the Governor says so. You are to be stript (sic) of those oppressive laws and native regulations, which allow you all your rights as freemen, your sacred rights of oath and elective franchise, and be introduced into Christian laws, placed before you in a language you cannot understand, and which withhold from you the last particle of right!  Indeed you have reason to rejoice, for the day of your emancipation is at hand!

As it is punishable for a chief to exercise authority in the nation, or for any man to attempt to prevent emigration 'c. we apprehend many will subject themselves to the penalties of the act. The Cherokees reason thus: We have always from time immemorial had a government of Chiefs of our own choosing- the right of these chiefs to assemble in Council, to deliberate on the concerns of the nation, has been acknowledged by the United States and the State of Georgia-the rights to meet in council to sell

the land is acknowledged by Georgia in the very act, which now threatens punishment.- We have never, say they, consented to come under any other government, and we acknowledge no right in a State to extend its laws over us- we will therefore, continue in our own regulations, until power shall demolish them. We believe these to be the prevailing sentiments of the nation. We do not wish the public to understand, that they intend to resist by force-no, they have no such idea. We request all the good people of Georgia to bear this in mind- that would be rashness- if they had the power they would. But we will resist you with our principles-we will evince to you our love of liberty by suffering freely- we will show you our attachment to our institutions by going to your Penitentiary.

The other proclamation relates to the gold mines.  What now becomes of the old plea that force is not meditated? If Georgia can drive the Cherokees from their gold mines, she may with equal propriety drive them from their other possessions. Well, as we have no more a father to protect us, we can but look on and watch the progress of injustice and high-handed oppression.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






TAKEN UP

By Thomas Gann, a small sorrel poney with white spots on the legs and belly, about 12 years old. Also, two colts with her, one a year old, and the other young. Any person owning said mare and colts are required to come and prove property, pay charges and take them away.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






FROM WASHINGTON.- It is stated to us by intelligent gentlemen of both Houses of Congress with whom we have conversed during their stay in this city, that the signs of the times at Washington portend anything but peace and tranquility to our present ruling powers. We are credibly informed that the dissatisfaction with the Administration among the Western members was loud and violent, and that of the ten Jackson members who came to the federal city from Ohio, eight have returned with a determination never to be again found fighting in such ranks.

In relation to the Indian bill, we have the best authority for saying that the bill would have been rejected by a considerable majority, if the members had received any premonition as to the stand the President would take upon the Maysville Road Bill. The decision was carefully concealed, lest it should endanger the passage of the Indian bill; and in the mean time, all the machinery of party was put in motion to induce the friends of the Administration to subserve the views of the Executive.- It was boldly avowed by some of the party, that they would never have yielded their private judgments to the solicitations of their party friends, could they have dreamed that the President would succumb to the South, and abandon his former established principles, for the purpose of vainly endeavoring to pacify South Carolina and Virginia.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














SPEECH OF MR. SPRAGUE,

Of Maine.  In the Senate of the United States.- April 16, 1830

The following amendment, to the bill for the removal of the Indians, being under consideration:

'Provided always, That until the said tribes or nations shall choose to remove, as by this act is contemplated, they shall be protected in their present possessions, and in the enjoyment of all their rights of territory and government, as heretofore enjoyed, from all interruption and encroachments.'

Mr.Sprague addressed the Senate, as follows:

Mr. President.-The gentleman, who has just resumed his seat (Mr. Forsyth) has indulged in a wide range of remarks in defence of his State against imputations which he supposed to have been elsewhere cast upon her. This course may have been very proper in him; I fully appreciate the motives which induced it. But I have no occasion to follow him; I have no wish to derogate in the least from the character of Georgia, but rather that it should be as elevated as her most devoted sons can desire. I shall speak of her so far only as is necessary to the free discussion of the subject before us.

This bill and amendment, and the discussion, which they have produced, involve the question of the rights and duties of the United States with respect to the Indian tribes generally, but more especially with the Cherokees. With that people we have not less than fifteen treaties. The first made in the year 1785, and the last in 1819.

By several of these treaties, we have unequivocally guarantied to them that they shall forever enjoy--

1st. Their separate existence as a political community;

2d. Undisturbed possession and full enjoyment of their lands, within certain boundaries, which are fully defined and fully described;

3. The protection of the United States, against all interference with, or encroachments upon their rights by any people, state, or nation.

For these promises, on our part, we received ample consideration.

By the restoration and establishing of peace;

By large cessions of territory;

By the promise on their part to treat with no other state or nation, and other important stipulations.

These treaties were made with all the forms and solemnities (sic) which could give them force and energy; by commissioners duly appointed with full power; ratified by the Senate; confirmed by the President; and announced to the world by his proclamation as the binding compact of the nation, and the supreme law of the land.

The Cherokees now come to us, and say that their rights are in danger of invasion, from the States of Georgia and Alabama; and they ask if we will extend to them the protection we have promised, and perform the engagements we have made. This is the question they distinctly propound, and which we must unequivocally answer; and we are now discussing what our response shall be.

There is a broad line of distinction between the claims of Georgia and those of Alabama and Mississippi, which seems heretofore to have been unobserved, but which I shall endeavor to keep in view.

Let us first inquire what our duties are with respect to Georgia; for if her pretensions are unfounded, those of Alabama and Mississippi fall of course.

It is not necessary to determine whether the Indians have just grounds for their apprehensions or not, because the question is, whether if the rights secured to them by our treaties should, at some future day, be invaded we will perform our engagements?

But have they not cause for their present alarm?  In December, 1827, a Committee of the Legislature of Georgia, made a report accompanied by sundry resolutions, which were accepted by both branches; and the resolutions also received the approval of the Governor. In the report we find the following language respecting the territory of the Cherokees: 'The lands on question belong to Georgia-she must and she will have them.' And in the resolutions the following:

Resolved,- 'That all the lands appropriated and unappropriated, which lie within the conventional limits of Georgia, belong to her absolutely; that the title is in her; that the Indians are tenants at her will; that she may at amy time, she pleases, determine that tenancy by taking possession of the premises, and Georgia has the right to extend her own authority and laws over the whole territory.'

Resolved,  'That Georgia entertains for the General Government, so high a regard, and is so solicitous to do no act that can disturb the public tranquility, that she will not attempt to enforce her rights by violence--until all other means of redress fail.'

Resolve, 'That to avoid a catastrophe which none would more sincerely deplore than ourselves, we make this solemn appeal to the United States,' 'c.

It is thus asserted as the right and avowed as the determination of Georgia, to exercise absolute power over the Cherokees, ' to take their lands at all hazards-even by violence, if other means should fail.

The Gentleman from that State, (Mr. Forsyth,) observed, in the commencement of his speech, that he felt himself bound in conscience to relieve his friend from New Jersey, from all apprehensions of a violation of the faith of the nation; by demonstrating that the claims of Georgia were supported by treaties. And he proceeded to do so in language so strong, and tones so triumphant, as to make an evident impression upon members of the Senate. Let us deliberately examine this argument.

The first treaty referred to, was that of Galphinton, in 1785, by which certain concessions were made to Georgia. But that was by the Creeks, and by them only, and had no relation to the Cherokees,--[Mr. Forsyth explained, he had remarked upon that treaty in answer to the gentleman from New Jersey, (Mr. Frelinghuysen) and not as bearing upon the rights of the Cherokees.) Mr. Sprague resumed; he was glad to receive the gentleman's explanation: it precluded the necessity of any further remark upon that topic.

The treaty next cited was that of Dewitt's Corner, A.D. 1777, between South Carolina, Georgia, and the Cherokees, by which the latter acknowledge that a portion of their country extending as far as the Unacaye Mountain, had been conquered and they made a cession of the same by defined boundaries, to South Carolina, and to her only. The conquered and ceded territory lies wholly within that State; and it is not now, and has not been for at least one generation, either claimed or occupied by the Indians. What right can that confer on Georgia to lands now owned and possessed by the Cherokees?

The next position was that the right of his State was derived under the 9th article of the Treaty of Hopewell; made between the United States and the Cherokees, in November, 1783, by which they gave to the United States, the right of managing all their affairs. To this Georgia was no party. But the Gentleman contends that the United States transferred all their power and claims, under the treaty, to that State, by virtue of the compact of 1802; and that we now cannot interfere with her pretensions. The clause in the compact, which is relied upon, is this-the United States 'cede whatever claim right or title, they may have to the jurisdiction or soil of any lands lying' within the limits of Georgia.

Does this relinquishment of the right of the United States, to the soil and jurisdiction of the lands, purport to transfer a pre-existing treaty with the Indians? Was it intended?

And if it had been, is the power which the treaty confers to legislate for their benefit, in its nature transferable? The Article is in these words, 'For the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention of injuries and oppressions (sic) on the part of the citizens or Indians, the United States in Congress assembled shall have the sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and managing all their affairs in such manner as they think proper.' The power given is strictly personal and fiduciary; to be exercised according to our judgment upon future events, and for their benefit. Can even a guardian transfer his rights and duties at pleasure? By the Constitution-the fundamental compact--Georgia has given to the United States the right to legislate in certain cases over her citizens for their benefit, for example, to organize, arm, discipline and call forth her militia. Can the United States transfer this right to South Carolina, or any other Sovereign?

The express words of the article require this right to be exercised by the United States 'in Congress assembled.' Can we without the consent of the other party, strike out these and insert -the

Legislature of Georgia?

Again--in order to see that this power is properly exercised, the 13th article secures to the Cherokees, 'the right to send a deputy of their choice, whenever they think fit to Congress.' Shall he come here, to watch over the legislation at Milledgeville?

But, if this power was in its nature transferable, it must be so subject to the restrictions and limitations in the treaty contained. Among which are the following:-

1st That the Cherokees shall continue to exist as a distinct political community, under the protection of the United States.

2d. That they shall enjoy the undisturbed possession of their lands.

3d. That the power to manage 'their affairs' shall be exercised for the benefit and comfort of the Indians; and for the prevention of injuries and oppressions.'

Did this give to the United States the right to drive them from all their lands?--Or to destroy the Cherokee Nation, to strike it out of existence; and instead of managing for their 'benefit' to annihilate 'their affairs' as a body politic? Or could we convey a greater right than we ourselves possessed?

But this is not all. The Gentleman passed over in utter silence, a most important event which intervened between the Treaty of Hopewell and the compact of 1802.  It is the Treaty of Holston made in 1791; by which the United States again promised the Cherokees to protect them in their rights as a nation; and the 7th article holds the following language: 'THE UNITED STATES SOLEMNLY GUARANTEE TO THE CHEROKEE NATION, ALL THEIR LANDS NOT HEREBY CEDED.' If any right was transferred to Georgia, it would be such only as existed at the time, and subject of course to the stipulations of that pre-existing treaty.

There is still another view of this subject.  Are we not bound to see that our treaties are fulfilled? The Indians say that their very existence is threatened, and inquire of us whether we will perform our solemn promise of protection. What shall we answer? That we have conveyed that promise to another!-that we have transferred our obligation to Georgia!-have given her a license to violate our treaties! May they not reply, that the very purpose for which they purchased our guaranty, and the protection of the strong arm of our Government was to secure them against the encroachments of their white neighbors in that State?

The compact of 1802, which has been so much insisted upon, was made between the United States and Georgia. The Cherokees were not parties, nor even assented to it.  Of course it could not impair their rights, or confer upon others any claim against them. If I, Mr. President, should promise the gentleman that I would obtain your farm and convey it to him--Would that divest your title, or authorize either of us to wrest it from you by force? The compact itself expressly recognized 'Indian title,' and the United States were to extinguish it only when it could be done 'peaceably' and 'reasonable terms.'

The gentleman having, as he supposed, fully sustained the treaty claim of Georgia, by the arguments upon which I have remarked, triumphantly exclaimed, 'I will have my bond, I will have my pound of flesh.'- A most unfortunate allusion, Sir; and which I should not have been unkind enough to make. He will have his pound of quivering flesh taken from nearest the heart of the living man! But he will take it without one drop of blood.-

----'Aye---there's the rub'

For, in cutting off that pound of flesh

What human blood shall flow--'must

give us pause.'

The fiend-like Shylock himself could not take the penalty of his bond, because 'no jot of blood' was given.  And none is given here, but the express contrary-'peaceably'-'peaceably'--and 'upon reasonable terms' too, is the emphatic language.  But against whom, does the gentleman make his claim--the Indians? Does he hold their bond? No-they hold ours-they now present it to us and demand its performance-and, ''till he can rail the seal from off that bond' he cannot absolve us from its obligations.  He declares that he will have the terms of his compact fulfilled to 'the twentieth part of one poor scruple,' and to the division of a hair. So be it; and let the Indians too have their guarantied rights maintained with equal scrupulosity.

The Hon. Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs (Mr. White,) conceded that the United States had repeatedly pledged their faith to the Cherokees to interfere for their protection, but contended that we ought not to perform these stipulations of our treaties because of the conflicting claims of Georgia. He laid down his proposition, that if the United States had come into engagements 'inconsistent with each other, so that it was impossible to keep both, that that which was prior, in point of time should be specifically performed, and ample compensation be made for the breach of the other.

To this position I freely assent; and upon this basis will rest the argument.

It is incumbent upon the Hon. Chairman to show in the first place that our obligations to Georgia are incompatible with our treaties; and in the next place that they are of a prior date. This, he and two gentlemen who followed him in the debate (Messrs. M'Kinley and Forsyth) have attempted to do. Their argument is that before the Revolution, Great Britain had jurisdiction over the aborigines and the sole right of treating with them, and that this power was wrested from her by conquest during the war, and forever abandoned by the treaty of 1783.

I would first observe that, if it was obtained by conquest it belonged to the conquerers (sic). And who were the conquerers? The United States; who were also a party to the treaty of peace.  Upon this ground it was, that New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and other States so strongly insisted that the Crown lands, which had been acquired by the common arm and at the common expense, belonged of right to the common fund. Their demand to a great extent succeeded. The several States yielded to their pretensions by successive cessions; Virginia magnanimously taking the lead.

But, Mr. President, I shall not dwell upon this; for I mean, as far as possible, to avoid all debateable ground.

Concede then, for the present, that when Georgia became independent, in 1776, she at once succeeded to all the preexisting rights of Great Britain over the unmeasured forests within her chartered limits. What was that right? Gentlemen  say it was the right of discovery

Discovery, Sir, confers no claim or right against the natives-the persons discovered--but only as between discoverers. It is said that the rights derived from this source were established and defined in Europe, upon the discovery of this country. True; but it was by the mutual understanding and agreement of the nations of that continent only, in order to regulated their conduct among themselves.  To prevent conflict and collision, it was tacitly agreed that the Sovereign who should find a country, before unknown, should have the exclusive right to the benefits of the discovery, and should be permitted without interference to conduct towards the aboriginal inhabitants according to his conscience, and his ability. He had therefore, as against the discovering nations who had assented to the arrangement, a conventional right to wage war upon and conquer the natives and subject them to his sway. It is this right to which it is contended that Georgia succeeded upon the Declaration of Independence. Let it be so considered; and that in the war which she should wage to subjugate the Indians, no other state or nation could rightfully interfere. But the people attacked had a right to resist. They surely were under no obligation to acquiesce in the proposed subjugation. Suppose than they should happen to be too strong for their assailants; that they should roll back the tide of war- the hunters should be hunted-that those who came to conquer, should be in danger of being conquered; and, in such emergency, the people of Georgia should call upon another State, Virginia for example, for protection, and defence. Georgia would thus have waived her conventional right to exclude all others from her limits, and Virginia, at her request, become a party to the war.  Would not Virginia then have the right to make peace for the security of her own citizens, and must she not be bound by its terms? Was France bound by her treaty of alliance with us during the Revolution? Yet her interference was without the consent of Great Britain, the discoverer. Are the United States now bound by their treaties with the States of South America?

But further, what if Georgia, in order to induce her neighbors to come in for her defence, had expressly agreed beforehand that Virginia should have the sole power of conducting the war, and concluding the peace. Would not both States be bound by the treaty of peace thereupon made by Virginia? To proceed one step farther, suppose that this arrangement between the two States, instead of being occasional, should be established by a permanent compact; and that, in order to obtain the aid and protection of Virginia, at all times, against the attacks of the Indians, Georgia should agree that she never should herself provoke such attacks by making war upon them, and that if it should arise, her more powerful ally should have the entire management of the war, and the exclusive right of agreeing upon the terms of peace and making the treaty.- Would not such terms be obligatory?

Now, Sir, such a compact was actually made by Georgia with Virginia and eleven other States, by the Articles of Confederation.

By the third Article, the United States are bound to assist the several States, against all force offered to, or attacks made upon them, or any of them. And by the ninth Article, the United States have `the sole and exclusive right and power of determination on peace and war, except in the cases mentioned in the 6th article,' and also of `entering into treaties.'

Here is the express grant. What answer can be given to it? What reason can be assigned, why each State should not be bound by the stipulations of a treaty of peace? Will it be said we could not have the relations of war and peace with Indian tribes? Ask the relatives of Braddock and Butler, of Wayne, Harmer and St. Clair, if Indians can wage war? Consult the crimsoned pages of your history and they will answer you.  Nay to banish such a suggestion forever, that same 9th Article of Confederation expressly declares, that by war it means to include contests with Indians; for, by reference it incorporates into it the 6th Article, which is in those words.

'Art. 6. No State shall engage in any war without the consent of the United States, in Congress assembled, unless such State be actually invaded by enemies, or shall have received certain advice of resolution formed by some nation of Indians to invade such State; and the danger is so imminent, as not to admit of a delay, till the United States, in Congress assembled, can be consulted.' Here is also an unequivocal relinquishment by each State, of the right to make war upon the natives.

During the Revolution, war actually existed between the United States and the Cherokees; it continued to rage after the acknowledgement of our independence by Great Britain.- Georgia needed our aid, and received it. The Indians were then powerful and terrific. The United States were desirous of peace: they sought it, and it was established in 1785, by the Treaty of Hopewell, which has been already referred to. It secured to the Cherokees their previous right to exist as a community upon the territory in their previous possession. Such a treaty would have been obligatory upon any State, if the Articles of Confederation had never existed; but by that compact a right was expressly given by Georgia herself to make it, and the United States were in duty bound to exercise that power.

And now I ask, what prior incompatible obligations to Georgia absolve us from its stipulations, or render it impossible to fulfil (sic ) them?

Such was the power, and such the practice of the Confederation up to the time of the formation of our present Constitution, in September, 1777. No longer previous than the preceding month we find a Committee of Congress, in an able and elaborate report, declaring that the United States cannot interfere in behalf of a State against a tribe of Indians, `but on the principle that Congress shall have the full direction of the war, and the settling of all the terms of peace with such Indian tribe.' And this language was addressed particularly to Georgia by name, and with respect to the Indians within her limits. This was in August.

The Constitution was formed in the following September. The 6th article declares, that 'treaties

made or which shall be made under the authority of the United States shall be the supreme law of the land'--'anything in the constitution of laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.' This was an express confirmation of the Treaty of Hopewell; which had been made in November, 1785, less than two years before and was then in full force.

The State of Georgia with full knowledge that it had been so made, and that it was considered by the United States to be valid and obligatory, voluntarily adopted the Constitution, thereby herself most solemnly affirming and establishing that treaty: and what ever may have been said before, never since that time, until recently, when the present controversy arose, had she in any manner denied its validity, or objected to its being carried into effect.

Such is the argument in support of the Treaty of Hopewell. I shall leave it by adding but one other proof of its validity in the opinion of General Washington, and the Congress of 1778, and their determination to enforce it with scrupulous fidelity. It is the proclamation of Sept. 1, 1778, which declares it to be 'the firm determination of Congress to protect the said Cherokees in their rights, according to the true intent and meaning of the said treaty;' and a resolution was adopted to hold in readiness a sufficient number of troops to enforce that declaration.

Under our present Constitution many treaties have been regularly made with the Cherokees. The first was at Holsten (sic) in 1791. The reasons which have been adduced in support of the power to make the Treaty of Hopewell are applicable to this with increased force.

The Constitution was formed because the Confederation was too weak to answer the purpose of the Union. It substituted a government in place of a mere confederacy, conferring upon it additional powers, and further limiting those of the individual States. By the Articles of Confederation the power of Congress to regulated the trade and manage affairs with the Indians was subject to a proviso that 'the legislative right of any State within its own limits should not be infringed.'  This restriction is the only ground upon which doubts could ever have been suggested of the power of the Confederation to enter in to treaty stipulations; it gave no countenance, however, to such suggestions, because it was a limitation upon another grant of power, distinct from that of establishing peace and making treaties.- But even this restriction is omitted in the Constitution, and Congress are empowered to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes in unqualified terms.

The Constitution vests in the United States the sole and exclusive power of making war and concluding peace. It expressly provides 'that no State shall engage in war' or 'enter into any treaty.' Here is an unequivocal relinquishment of the rights of Georgia to make war upon or treat with the Indians. And what is the right which, it is said, devolved upon her as successor to the sovereignty of Great Britain? The right of a discoverer; that is, a right, as against others, and without their interposition, to attack, and by force subdue the natives; to make war for the purpose of conquest. But Georgia covenants by our fundamental compact not to engage in war for that or any other purpose, to attack no nation or political community.

The United States have the sole power of making peace,this can be done only by treaty. At Hopewell in 1785, we made a treaty of peace. Open war had raged between the United States and the Cherokees, up to that time. They had been the allies of Great Britain, but never had been ours, or in any manner contracted with us. Was not that treaty rightfully made and obligatory?

At Holston, in 1791, we made a treaty of peace and friendship - It is so denominated on the face of it. It was the termination of an actually existing war, of this there is no doubt. - The Chairman of the Committee of Indian Affairs, in his written opinion of 1824, states the fact, that war was raging.  The gentleman from Georgia says, that his State applied to the United States for aid and protection in that war.  The report of the Committee of Indian Affairs now before us declares that the Cherokees waged war against the citizens of the United States. At Holston we then undeniably made a treaty of peace to terminate an existing war.  The authority was express and exclusive.  Are not the United States bound-will they abide by it?

The 1st article is-'There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America, and all the the (sic) individuals composing the whole Cherokee Nation of Indians.'

'Article 7th--The United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation all their lands not hereby ceded.'

'Article 15th- all animosities for past grievances shall henceforth cease, and the constructing parties will carry the foregoing treaty into full execution, with all good faith and sincerity.'

The question now is, shall we carry these articles into effect with any good faith or sincerity?

Will it be pretended that the United States might make peace, but had no authority to insert such stipulations as these I have quoted. Sir, the substance of these articles are of the essence of a treaty of peace. In every contract each party recognizes the separate existence of the other; and a treaty of peace, not a truce, not an armistice, not a temporary cession of hostilities-but a treaty of peace, in its nature, a permanent, enduring contract, must bind each party to respect the existence of the other, and never to assail or attempt its destruction- must obligate each also to permit the other to continue that existence upon its own territory without attack or violence. To attempt to expel them by force, or subjugate or destroy their separate being, is a violation of the compact of peace, and a renewal of the war.   In terminating hostilities, therefore, by their undoubted constitutional power, the United States not only rightfully but of necessity, embraced such terms as these. Are they not obligatory? I am not contending, Mr. President, that the United States can cede away part of any State to a foreign nation, as France or Great Britain for example.  That question I do not mean to touch, it is wholly unnecessary. I only say they may agree that the other party may continue to exist upon the lands which they have always occupied, may retain that which has ever been their own.

But this is not all. The Constitution proceeds still further, ' gives to the United States the general right to make treaties, not merely of peace but all others. This power is not only clearly and positively conferred on the Union, but expressly inhibited to its several members. It has been repeatedly and continually exercised in relation to the Indian tribes within the United States, and that by the acquiescence and assent of Georgia Herself.

I know it is said Georgia protested; and insisted upon in every variety of form, as applicable to both the treaties and all the questions which have been presented. Let us examine.

The first alleged protest was in February, 1786, prior to the Treaty of Holston. It is the report of a committee, accepted by the House of Representatives only. The objections urged therein apply exclusively to the Treaty of Hopewell, and must have rested only on the ground of the reservation, before mentioned, in one of the Articles of Confederation, and which was omitted in the Constitution.

The next protest was in February 1797. It makes no objection whatever to the Treaty of Holston, and thereby impliedly approves and essents (sic) to it. It protests against two treaties with the Creeks made at New York and Colerain, and the Intercourse Law of the United States.  The grounds of objections insisted on are, that the Intercourse Law places the military above the civil authority, and prohibits pursuit and retaliation for Indian outrages. That the Creeks, by the Treaty of Galphinton in 1785, confirmed by a subsequent Treaty of Shoulderbone, had submitted themselves to Georgia and some members of the State, and ceded to her a tract of land which had been actually organized into a country, by the name of Tallahassee. And the State protests, 'because the treaty of New York, in 1790, after the said cession being acted on constitutionally erected and laid out a county and the lands appropriated, did sever out, and lop off the land so ceded before the power of the federal constitution existed, and EX POST FACTO declared they were vested in, and belong to, the Creek Nation of Indians; and because the said Intercourse Law and Treaty of Colerain have confirmed the same.'

Their complaint is, substantially, that the United States had taken from Georgia, lands which had 'been duly ceded, fairly paid for, and legally and constitutionally laid out out into a country.' In conclusion they 'most earnestly solicit a revision of the Intercourse Law and the New York and Colerain treaties, and requiring a confirmation of the country of Tallahassee to the State.' And 'they most earnestly solicit the assistance of the United States to attain the cession of land the Treaty of Coleraine they trust was intended to establish.' These protestations insist that the treaties of Galphinton and Shoulderbone were valid by reason of the before named reservation of Articles of Confederation, but no where deny, and by implication admit, the general right of the United States to make treaties with the Indian tribes, and guaranty to them the possession of their lands. They do not breathe a whisper of objection to the Treaty of Holston, of 1791, or to any of the powers involved in making it, but acquiesce therein.

In February, 1796, by an act of her Legislature, to which I shall hereafter recur, she expressly declared that the United States had the right to make treaties with the Indians; a right which they have continually exercised, and which she has never questioned, until this recent controversy arose.

No less than fourteen treaties have been entered into with this same Cherokee Nation since the adoption of the Constitution: in 1791, 1792, and 1794, by Gen. Washington; in 1798 by Mr. Adams; one in 1804, two in 1805, and one in 1806, and one in 1807, by Mr. Jefferson; three in 1816, by Mr. Madison; one in 1817 by Mr.Monroe, Gen. Jackson being the negotiator; ' one in 1819 by the same President, Mr. Calhoun being the negotiator.

By more than half these treaties, large sessions of land were obtained, boundaries defined, and the remaining territory, and the protection of the United States again and again guaranteed to the Indians.

Shall Georgia now be permitted to deny their validity? If a man, seeing another in the act of making a deed of his land, shall stand by in silence, until the conveyance is completed, and the grantee has parted with his money, paid the consideration, would any Chancellor, that ever sat in a Court of Equity, permit that man to reclaim his property, and thus consummate a fraud of the fair purchaser? But suppose that he shall not only thus witness the conveyance perfected and the money paid, but himself receive the consideration; can he with the fruits of the contract in his pocket, lay his hand upon the property and wrest it from the innocent grantee? Georgia not only acquiesced, but actually received all the lands ceded by the Indians, and for which they obtained our promise of protection. I have in my hand some of her laws disposing of the acquisitions.

The title of one is:--'An act to dispose of and distribute the cession of land obtained from the Creek and Cherokee nations of Indians by the United States, in the several treaties of 10 August, 1814, 8 July, 1817, and 22d January, 1818.

And of another, 'An Act to dispose of the territory lately acquired of the Cherokee Indians by a treaty held by the Honorable John C. Calhoun, at the City of Washington, on the 27th day of February, 1818.' There are others of similar tenor.

And now retaining their acquisitions, holding the proceeds of these treaties in her hands, she declares that they are invalid; thus at the same moment binding the Indians by their stipulations and denying them the benefit of ours.

She has not only thus declared the right of the United States to make treaties and assented to them when made, but has repeatedly urged that they should be entered into for the purpose of obtaining further acquisitions for her benefit; and even as late as the year 1825, contended that the Treaty of the Indian Springs with the Creeks was obligatory, and should be carried into effect.

And it was not until the Indians had firmly refused to assent to further cessions, and it was perceived that no more land could be acquired by negotiation, that the doctrine arose which denies to the United States their right to make these compacts.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






SPEECH of Mr. CROCKETT of Tennessee, in the House of Representatives, on the 20th inst. on the bill to provide for the removal of the Indians over the Mississippi.

Mr. CROCKETT said that considering his very humble abilities, it might be expected that he should content himself with a silent vote, but situated as he was in relation to his colleagues, he felt it to be a duty to himself, to explain the motives which governed him in the vote he should give on this bill. Gentlemen had already discussed the treaty-making power, and had done it much more ably than he could pretend to do. He should not therefore enter on that subject, but would merely make an explanation as to the reasons of his vote. He did not know a man within 500 miles of his residence that would give a similar vote; but he knew at the same time that he should give that vote with a clear conscience.- He had his constituents to settle with, he was aware; and should like to please them as well as other gentlemen; but he had also a settlement to make at the bar of his God; and what his conscience dictated to be just and right he would do, be the consequences what they might.  He believed that the people who had been kind enough to give him their suffrages supposed him to be an honest man, or they would not have chosen him. If so, they could not but expect that he should act in the way he thought honest and right. He had always viewed the native Indian tribes of this country as a sovereign people.  He believed they had been recognized as such from the very foundation of this Government, and the United States were bound by treaty to protect them; it was their duty to do so. And as to giving the money of the American people for the purpose of removing them in the manner proposed, he would not do it. He would do that only for which he could answer to his God. Whether he could answer it before the people was comparatively nothing, though it was a great satisfaction to him to have the approbation of his constituents.

Mr. C. said he had served for seven years in a legislative body. But from the first hour he had entered a legislative hall, he had never known what party was in legislation; and God forbid he ever should. He went for the good of the country, and for that only. What he did as a legislator he did conscientiously.  He should love to go with his colleagues, and with the West and the South generally, if he could; but he never would let party govern him in a question of this great weight.

He had many objections to the bill-some of them of very serious character. One was, that he did not like to put a half a million of money into the hands of the Executive, to be used in a manner which nobody could foresee, ' which Congress was not to control. Another objection was, he did not wish to depart from the rule which had been observed towards the Indian nations from the foundation of the Government. He considered the present application as the last alternative for these poor remnants of a once powerful people.  Their only chance of aid was at the hands of Congress. Should its members turn a deaf ear to their cries, misery must be their fate. That was his candid opinion.

Mr. C. said he was often forcibly reminded of the remark made by the famous Red Jacket, in the rotundo (sic) of this building, when he was shown the pannel (sic) which represented in sculpture the first landing of the pilgrims, with an Indian Chief presenting to them an ear of corn, in token of friendly welcome.  The aged Indian said 'that was good.' The Indian said, he knew that they came from the Great Spirit, and he was willing to share the soil with his brothers from over the great water. But when he turned round to another pannel representing Penn's treaty he said 'ah? all's gone now.' There was a great deal of truth in this short saying. And the present bill was a strong commentary upon it.

Mr. C. said that four counties of his district bordered on the Chickasaw Country. He knew many of their tribe-and nothing should ever induce him to vote to drive them west of the Mississippi. He did not know what sort of a country it was in which they were to be settled. He would willingly appropriate money in order to sent proper persons to examine the country. And when this had been done, and a fair and free treaty had been made with the tribes, if they were desirous of removing, he would vote an appropriation of any sum necessary; but till this had been done he would not vote one cent. He could not clearly understand the extent of this bill. It seemed to go to the removal of all the Indians, in any State east of the Mississippi River, in which the United States owned any land.  Now there was a considerable number of them still neglected- there was a considerable number of them in Tennessee, and the United States Government owned no land in that State, North and East of the Congressional reservation line.- No man could be more willing to see them remove than he was, if it could be done in a manner agreeable to themselves; but not otherwise. He knew personally that a part of the tribe of the Cherokees were unwilling to go.  When the proposal was made to them they said 'no: we will take death here at our homes. Let them come and tomahawk us here at home; we are willing to die, but never to remove.'  He had heard them use this language.  Many different constructions might be put upon this bill.- One of the first things which had set him against the bill, was the letter from the Secretary of War to Col. Montgomery-from which it appeared that the Indians had been intruded upon. Orders had been issued to turn them all off except the heads of the Indian families, or such as possessed improvements. Government had taken measures to purchase land from the Indians who had gone to Arkansas. If this bill should pass, the same plan would be carried further- they would send and buy them out, and put white men upon their land. It had never been known that white men and Indians could live together; and in this case the Indians were to have no privileges allowed them, while the white men were to have all. Now, if this was not oppression with a vengeance he did not know what was. It was the language of the bill, and of its friends, that the Indians were not to be driven off against their will. He knew the Indians were unwilling to go; and therefore he could not consent to place them in a situation where they would be obliged to go.-- He could not stand that. He knew that he stood alone, having perhaps none of his colleagues from his State agreeing in sentiment. He could not help that. He knew that he should return to his home glad and light in heart, if he voted against the bill.- He felt that it was his wish and purpose to serve his constituents honestly according to the light of his conscience. The moment he should exchange his conscience for mere party views, he hoped his Maker would no longer suffer him to exist. He spoke the truth in saying so. If he should stand alone amidst all the people of United States, he would not vote otherwise: and it would be matter of rejoicing to him till the day he died, that he had given the vote. He had been told that he should be prostrated; but if so, he would have the consolation of conscience. He would obey that power, and gloried in the deed. He cared not for popularity; unless it could be obtained by upright means.  He had been told that he did not understand English Grammar. That was very true. He had never been six months at school in his life, he had raised himself by the labor of his hands. But he did not on that account yield up his privilege as the representative of forty thousand freemen on this floor. Humble as he was, he meant to exercise his privilege. He had been charged with not representing his constituents: if the fact was so, the error, ( said Mr. C.) is here, (touching his head,) not here, (laying his hand upon his heart.) He never had possessed wealth or education, but he had ever been animated by an independent spirit, and he trusted to prove it on the present occasion.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We invite the special attention of the Cherokee reader to the following letter which we take from the New York Spectator: It is from an intelligent friend of the present executive and shows what the protection amounts to, which is promised to the emigrating Indians.

Extract of a Letter From 'Arkansas Territory, April 20th, 1830.

'Two years have passed since the treaty was made with the emigrating Indians and a pledge was then given by the Government to pay them $50,000 (sic) on their complying with the terms of the treaty.  This has been fully done on the part of the Indians, but the Government has not as yet paid the money. When we witness the professions of the Government on behalf of the poor Indians; their readiness to pay them for their improvements and to give them land equal in quality to that which they now occupy; their forwardness to hold out inducements of one sort and another to the Creeks and Cherokees to emigrate, and to abandon their present homes, where they enjoy very many of the comforts of civilized life, and where they have successfully cultivated many of its most useful arts-where, moreover, in a multitude of instances, the blessings of that religion which our Savour (sic) taught have been largely shed upon these poor red men; and all this to gratify the States of Alabama and Georgia, and to minister to the cupidity of some of their mean and baser spirits, without intending to comply with the terms of the act which Congress are importuned to pass: we turn from the spectacle with disgust and loathing.- A Nation's faith ought to be far, far above suspicion; but in these wild and inhospitable regions, we can furnish that which will more than fix suspicion on the character of the government for fair dealing and integrity  in all its transactions with the Indians.- It cannot be that hopes are held out only to delude -that pledges are given only to be broken, without inflicting a wound of great magnitude on the character of our country for honor ' good faith; and it is still more disgraceful to us that we, a free people, should perpetrate all the outrages on the unoffending Aborigines of our country. I speak now more particularly with reference to what I know to be the fact, so far as the Cherokee Indians within view of my dwelling are concerned, and I dread what is likely to be if the remainder of their nation with the Creeks are forcibly sent here! The poor Cherokees already here ask me and others, why the President has not placed funds in the hands of the Agents to pay them as originally promised; and beg us, earnestly and mourfully (sic), to let them have articles of clothing, and other little necessaries, such as hoes and axes, to enable them to provide sustenance for their families, and to keep their little ones from starvation.  This, I assure you, my friend, is no fiction: it is indeed too true; and would to God, for the honor of my country, it were otherwise! We have helped these poor men along until we are able to help them no longer. I have seen an Indian chief apply to the Agent for the use of a few dollars, and offer to give him as security his certificate for $1500, but the Agent was compelled to refuse the money, not having been furnished by the Government with a cent to pay these certificates!

*                 * *                   *

In common with all the friends of the Government, and as a warm friend of the President, I trust, for the honor of the one and the good name of the other, that this instance of mala futes will, ere long, be rectified; and I pray most devoutly, with an eloquent Senator, that 'the gorgeous ensign of the Republic, now known and honored throughout the earth, still full high advanced, its arms and trophies streaming in their original lustre, not a stripe erased or polluted, nor a single star obscured,' may 'in characters of living light, blazing on all its ample folds, as they float over the sea and over the land, and in every wind under the whole heavens, bear for its motto that other sentiment, dear to every American heart'-not alone 'Liberty and Union,' but National Honor and National Faith, untainted by meanness and fraud, 'now and forever!' There is not an American bosom but must respond to this glowing language.

_____________________________________

Page 2 Col. 3b-4a

From the Philadelphian

THE CHICKASAW INDIANS

We have received a letter from the Rev. Hugh Wilson, under date of April 17th, 1830, in which he says, concerning the Chickasaw Nation, 'During eight years residence among them, I have never seen nor heard of an individual who had not a home, and a house sufficient to afford the most complete shelter from both cold and wet, at which they reside eleven months in a year: and I do not believe that there is a family in the nation which does not derive nine tenths of their subsistence from the cultivation of the earth, and from their stock.

'There is no such thing as an Indian pretending to have a claim to the fruits of his neighbor's industry. He lays a claim to his generosity, when he is in need; and this claim is acknowledged and acted on. Riches have not yet destroyed this most excellent feeling of our nature in those who possess them among the Indians. The rich perhaps here give more in proportion to their ability than the poor.'

The same writer informs us, that the annuities paid to the Choctaws have NOT been appropriated to the private use of the chiefs. He need not have added, that the charge against the missionaries, of their having hired the natives to become communicants, by the presents of blankets and other gifts, are utterly false. No person acquainted with our missionaries among the Indians, would for a moment listen to such a slander.

Our brother is assured, that we give full credit to his statements, and have ever relied upon the veracity of his fellow labourers (sic). We did however suppose, and must still think, that the mass of the Indian tribes do not enjoy such advantages as the few who have been taught in missionary schools and have become Christian in their faith and habits of conduct.

________________________________

ANOTHER WITNESS

The Rev. Hugh Caldwell, in a letter dated Clarksville, Ten. May 12th, 1830, assures the Editor, that he has lived among the Choctaws 10 months; has travelled 2000 miles among them; has seen 1000 of them together; has not seen any whiskey in their possessions; has found them peaceable and friendly; and thinks they have in their own language no expressions of profane swearing.--Id.

_________________________

It is a curious fact that the success of the bill for removing the Indians beyond the Mississippi resulted entirely from the clause of the Constitution which recognizes the Sabbath or Sunday. A period of ten days is allowed to the President by the Constitution, in which to determine the question of signing or not signing any bill which may be presented to him. 'Sundays excepted.' It so happened that the ten days allowed him for the consideration of the Maysville Road Bill, included two Sundays; making twelve day in all.  This enabled him to withhold his decision until the final passage of the Indian Bill in the House; whereas; had he retained it but ten days, Sundays inclusive, he would have been obliged to return it before the decision of the Indian Question, in which case it is certain the latter bill would not have passed.

N. Y. Jour. of Com.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Page 3 Col. 1a

CHEROKEE PHOENIX

New Echota: July 3, 1830

In our last we published the proclamation of the Governor of Georgia, requiring the removal of all the Cherokees from their gold mines. We can now inform the reader how that proclamation was executed. Supposing the State of Georgia passes a law requiring the removal of the Cherokees from their farms? Will the United States' troops stand still? (Perhaps we may ask) will they co-operate with the State authorities in executing the law? The President has promised to defend the possessory right of the Cherokees to the lands, but how is that promise to be redeemed according to the arrangement of the troops with the state officers? Here are inconsistences through which we cannot see. The attentive reader can now see the true policy and intent of the Indian Bill which has lately passed the Congress of the United States. It is indirectly designed to co-operate with Georgia. While force is applied on the one part, money and other inducements are held out on the other, for we understand upon good authority, that the President has sent a notification to the Cherokees, to meet him at Nashville, Tennessee, next month, then and there to enter into a treaty. Query.  Where are all the former treaties?  We should like to know first, whether they are good for anything.

We need not enlarge on this subject. We invite the reader to peruse the following extracts of letters, and let him make what comments he pleases. One observation, however, we cannot forbear to make. The arms of the Union are to be employed in subjecting us to the jurisdiction of Georgia!! Did you know this, Christian readers, did you know that the arms of the republic of the United States were to cooperate with our oppressors? O tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Askelon!

_____________________________

GOLD MINES, June 24th, 1830

Mr. Boudinott:

Sir: When I left New Echota for the purpose of working the gold mines, I expected no interruption from any source whatever.  But I have been painfully disappointed, as well as the Cherokees at this place in search of Gold. A detachment of the United States troops have been stationed at this place. They a few days ago arrested nine gold diggers, citizens of Georgia, and delivered them over to the civil authority of Georgia, charged with the violation of the laws of the United States prohibiting intrusions on Indian lands.  But as the principles of abstract justice have been superceded (sic) by political expediency, these men have been discharged without any punishment.

On the 22d the authorities of Georgia, consisting of a Colonel, a Captain, and a Sheriff, and about thirty or forty men, made a charge on us, and made us nearly all prisoners under the laws of the State, for taking the gold of Georgia, and marched us over gold pits, logs and brushes, in a stile called Indian file, to be committed to goals and to be dealt with according to law and Georgia justice. As we marched with a guard before and behind I indulged in contrasting past scenes with my present condition, now in the custody of the Georgians, for no other cause than working the lands of my forefathers. But as the march was now hurried on, yet slow at that, for I had hurt both of my feet, and cannot walk fast, our conquerors came in contact with the troops of the United States, by whom they were all arrested, taken prisoners, their fire arms taken from them, and they taken to the commander's quarters twenty five miles from this place where two conflicting powers settled the controversy, viz.: That the state of Georgia had the right to enforce her laws over the Cherokees. Upon this decision of the two parties at collision, the Cherokees have been notified by the Commander of the United States' troops, that he cannot afford us any more protection in consequence of the Georgia laws being forced over us.  We are also notified by the officers of Georgia that they will arrest us all in the course of two or three days, for taking the gold of Georgia-but we are not yet intimidated. Being very conscious that we are not trespassors (sic) on the state rights we expect all to be taken to gaol according to notice.

From another letter dated June 27th we make the following extract.

On the 24 Inst. another military force of about one hundred Georgians made its appearance. They marched upon us when digging for gold and and (sic) peremptorily ordered us to desist. The charge of a warlike force upon us, in time of profound peace, and on a collection of defenceless (sic) Cherokees effected a shock that has completely paralized (sic) our operations. They committed some depredations that are common with lawless and unprincipled men.  After parading the troops among the numerous pits dug up for gold, they commenced to destroying machines. During the exposition of their hostile disposition they fired a platoon at a milk strainer of tin on a spring house, belonging to a poor Cherokee woman. This is the manner in which the uncontrolled movements of the Georgians have cast an indelible blot on the American character.

I inclose you an order of Lieut. Frainer Commanding United States troops, which places us in the most extraordinary situation.  These troops have made arrangements to assist the Georgians in forcing the laws of the state over us.

Today there will be another military movement.

To the foregoing, the following postscript was added:

ORDER

An arrangement has been entered into by which there will be mutual assistance between the United States Troops and the civil authority of Georgia in all civil processes the jurisdiction of the State of Georgia having been extended over the chartered limits, and all the natives are hereby advised to return to their homes and submit to the proclamation of the State authority. E. FRAINER.

P. S. They cannot be supported any longer in any thing inconsistent with the Laws of the State

___________________________

The last Nashville Banner contains editorial remarks on the Indian Bill. Although we widely differ from the editor in regard to the design and effects of the bill, yet we are pleased to notice his wonted liberality. We are also glad to find that the determination of the Cherokees to bring their case before the Supreme Court meets with his approbation.  We will merely say that if the highest judicial tribunal in the land will not sustain our rights and treaties, we will give up, and quit our murmurings.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














SPEECH OF MR. SPRAGUE OF MAINE

In the Senate of the United States.

April 16, 1830

Mr. President: what have the Senate heard to obviate the force of the arguments which I have adduced? what answers have been given? I will advert to them all.

And first, as to the acts and acquiescence of Georgia, we have the reply in the report of the Committee, that as she protested against the Treaty of Hopewell, made in 1785, 'no inference can be drawn to her disadvantage, from her silence or from anything she may have said in relation to any subsequent treaty, because in each of them a change was made, by which a portion of her territory ' jurisdiction was restored to her, thus her condition rendered beter (sic) 'c. Who does not perceive that, under this form of words of restoring- that she never possessed; but which belonged to the Cherokees, before she had a being-the substantial, real cause of her assent is alleged to be the benefits which she received! Yes, Sir, she did receive the fruits of these solemn contracts; by the establing (sic) of peace and additions to her territories, in 1791; by the cessions of 1798, 1804, 1805, 1806, 1807, 1816, 1817, ' 1819. And shall we be told that because it was her interest to be silent, because she was receiving the considerations, of the compacts, therefore she now; after twenty years assent, is under no obligation to abide by them?

The Hon Chairman, in his opening speech, assigned several reasons why the United States could not constitutionally form such treaties. The first was that 'the creature could not have power to destroy its creator.'   This expression is calculated to mislead the judgment, because it refers the mind at once to the relation, on which we frail and feeble mortals stand to our Omnipotent Maker; and it would seem to be just as true to say- the creature cannot diminish the power of its creator.  The gentleman applies it to the General Government, as the work of the several States. Is it true that it cannot- that it does not take any power from its several members? The argument is, that if the Union can secure to the Indians, any portion of their territory by treaty, they may cede away a whole State. This would indeed, as the gentleman must admit, be a gross and palpable abuse of the authority. His reasoning then must be, that the United States cannot possess any power which, by perversion, may be exerted to the destruction of one its members. Can they then treat with any foreign nation? If so, there is the same danger of wrongfully transferring a State. Can they make war? It would be the readiest means of lopping off a member by leaving it defenceless (sic).  Can they organize, discipline, and call forth the militia, ' control the whole physical strength? Sir, these are powers expressly inserted in the Constitution, and they are not to be argued out of it, by apprehensions of extravagant possible abuses.

The General Government was formed by the States-and the creature, says the gentleman, cannot have power to destroy any one of its creators. The State Governments, Sir, were formed by individuals. If any of these should be guilty of a capital offence, might he not say in the language of the Chairman, you cannot take my life-it is impossible in the nature of things that the creature can have power to destroy one of its creators.

It is argued that the existence of an Indian community, within the chartered limits of a State, is inconsistent with 'a Republican form of Government,' as guarantied, by the Constitution, to every State.

This argument has been much relied on. It was advanced by the Secretary of War, repeated by the Committee, and reiterated in the speech of the Chairman. If this be so, Mr. President, a most unexpected result follows; it is -that Georgia has never had a republican form of Government--for there has never been a moment, when such tribes did not exist within her borders. At the time of the adoption of the Constitution, this same Cherokee Nation was much more numerous, and held sway over a much wider region than at the present time. Nay the Constitution itself confirms the pre-existing Treaty of Hopewell, which recognized and guarantied the separate existence of the tribe; and which is now contended to be incompatible with the fundamental compact. Is the existence of a body politic, which the Legislature cannot destroy, necessarily incompatible with a Republican form of Government?  How it is with Dartmouth College, in New Hampshire, or the chartered cities of other States?

Another proposition derived from the same elevated source, and urged with equal vehemence here, is that these treaties cannot be valid, because the Constitution declare that 'no new state shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any other State, without the consent of the Legislature' thereof.

Sir, no one proposes to create a new State, but to continue an old tribe, or State, if you so please to denominate it.  It is to keep faith with a political community more ancient than Georgia herself; it is to preserve not form anew. Here again, I would observe that this nation of Cherokees was as much a State at the time of the adoption of the Constitution as now, and had much greater power, and more extensive domain; and that the Treaty of Hopewell, which, this argument insists, formed a  new State since  the Constitution, and in violation thereof, was made two years before its adoption, and was confirmed and sanctioned by it.

We are next told that the Constitution recognizes the right of the respective State Legislatures to pass their laws over, and annihilate these communities, by that clause in the first article, which provides that an enumeration of inhabitants as a basis of representation shall be made, 'excluding Indians not taxed.'

This provision undoubtedly implies that there could be individual Indians subject to taxation, and therefore to be counted; it also expressly declares that there might be those within a State, 'not taxed.'

There may have been, nay there were, in some of the States, individual natives voluntarily residing within the white settlements, separate from any tribe, and freely subjecting themselves to the local laws.  There were those too whose nation, as a body, had disappeared; and because these persons had, of their own accord, thus sought the State jurisdiction, does it follow that it could be extended over Indian nations, who had always resisted it, and with whom, at the moment this clause was written, and the Constitution formed, the United States had a treaty guarantying them against such taxation, and every other exercise of State authority over them? By what imaginable process could these words, 'Indians not taxed,' produce the magical effect of annulling the Treaty of Hopewell, then existing in full force?

Let us substitute the word, aliens, for Indians. The clause would then exclude, 'aliens not taxed.' Will it be contended that foreigners existing as a nation, with whom we had treaties, as such, would be subject to the laws of a State? Would it not apply exclusively to the aliens, who had separated themselves from their nation and mingled with our citizens?

As a last resort, and to me Mr. President, it seems a desperate one, it has been earnestly contended by the Gentleman from Tennessee, Alabama, and Georgia, (Messrs. White, M'Kinley and Forsyth,) that we cannot constitutionally make ANY TREATY, with any Indian nation within the United States- that the express power to make 'treaties ' does not embrace compacts or agreements with such communities.

Wherever, Sir, the relation of peace and war can exist, the United States must of necessity, possess the right to make a treaty of peace. That this relation may exist with those native tribes has never been doubted, and will not at this day be questioned.  No one will have the assurance, in the face of all history, in defiance of what is known by the whole world, to declare that our contests with the aboriginal nations are on their part insurrections, rebellions subjecting them to be tried and executed as traitors.  The Secretary of War will not say so, for he told the Cherokees, in April last, 'Your people were at enmity with the United States, and waged a war  upon our frontier settlements; a durable peace was not entered into with you until 1791' The Committee and its Chairman (Mr. White) will not tell us so, for their report, accompanying this bill, declares that the Cherokees waged 'a war against the citizens of these State (sic), prior to the treaty of Holsten (sic), in 1791,'-Rebellion!-by those who never owed allegiance, and with whom, ever since our national existence, we have either had open war or subsisting treaties!

But independent of this power of peace and war, why does not the general authority to make treaties embrace those with the Indians! Gentlemen content themselves with a positive and earnest denial.

The word treaties, say they, in the Constitution does not mean compacts or contracts with Indian tribes. Why not? Did not those who formed ' adopted the Constitution so understand it?  To answer the question we must ascertain how that word was used, and what were the ideas attached to it, at the time and anterior to its insertion in that instrument. This rule of construction is the foundation of all science. When any term is used by an author it is understood to carry with it the ideas which he has previously affixed to it; that he denotes by it what he always has done. Hence, in the science of law, when the student has ascertained what a writer means by the words fee simple, or larceny, if he subsequently finds those words used by the same author he attaches to them the same meaning.

These contracts with aboriginal communities have been denominated treaties from the settlement of this country. It has been their peculiar and appropriate name; without even an alias dictus. Great Britain made treaties with the Indians; the several colonies formed many, and gave them the same appellation. The Continental Congress from the time it first assembled, until it was merged in the present national Government, uniformly called them treaties. They did so in 1775, 1776, 1778, 1783, 1784, 1785, 1786, 1787, 1788, and even to the day of the formation and adoption of the Constitution. We find them repeatedly and particularly mentioned in July, August and October, 1787; the Constitution being formed in September of the same year.

Nor is this all. In the Articles of Confederation, power was given to make treaties. It had been repeatedly exercised in establishing our relations with Indian tribes; particularly the Delawares, the Six Nations, the Cherokees, the Choctaws, the Chickasaws, and the Shawnees; and on the first of September, 1778, was issued the proclamation of Congress and of General Washington to enforce the Treaty of Hopewell.

The word treaties, thus invariably known and used, and which had received a practical construction under the Confederation was inserted by the same great men in the Constitution of the United States. Could any one doubt its meaning? Did Georgia misunderstand it? She had herself made treaties with all the forms of negotiation, through commissioners fully empowered, in 1773, 1783 and 1785, they were so denominated by her at the time and ever afterwards. On the 3d of August 1787, a motion was made by Mr. Few, delegate in Congress, from Georgia, seconded by Mr. Blount from North Carolina, to take measures to 'explain and confirm all former treaties' with the Creek Indians.

There is as much evidence that this word was intended to embrace conventions with such communities as the Creeks or Cherokees, as these with transatlantic nations, such as France and Spain.

Contemporary exposition has always been deemed of great force in settling even the most difficult questions of constitutional law.  Practice and precedent too have often been considered as decisive authority. Mr. Madison, who has, with so much justice, been denominated the great constitutional lawyer of this country, declared in a message to Congress, that the question of the constitutionality of the Bank of the United States, had been so settled by the sanction of the different departments of the Government, that it was no longer to be agitated, and yet only one bank had then been chartered. If his argument had, in that instance, any force, it is here irresistable (sic).

From the organization of the Government, down to this very session of Congress, the practice has been unbroken and invariable.  We find these treaties made in 1789,1790,1791,1792,1794, 1795,1796,1797,1798, and almost, if not quite, every year since. I have counted no less than one hundred and twenty four Indian treaties formed under the present Constitution, being more than three for each year. If authority and practice can settle any question, this is at an end.

In 1790, General Washington delivered a speech to the Seneka (sic) Indians, some extracts from which I will now read.

' I, the President of the United States by my own mouth, and by a written speech signed with my own hand and sealed with the seal of the United States, Speak to the Seneka (sic) Nation.

The general Government only has the power to treat with the Indian nations, any treaty formed and held without its authority, will not be binding.

Here then is the security for the remainder of your lands. No state nor person can purchase your lands, unless at some public treaty held under the authority of the United States. The General Government will never consent to your being defrauded; but it will protect you in all your just rights.

Hear well, and let it be heard by every person in your nation, that the President of the United States declares, that the General Government considers itself bound to protect you in all the lands secured to you by Treaty of Fort Stanwix, the 22d of October, 1784, excepting such parts you may since have fairly sold to persons properly authorized to purchase of you.'

Again--

But your great object seems to be the security of your remaining lands, and I have therefore upon this point meant to be sufficiently strong and clear.

That in future you cannot be defrauded of your lands. That you possess the right to sell and the right of refusing to sell your lands.

That therefore the sale of your lands in future will depend entirely upon yourselves.

'But that when you shall find it for your interest, to sell any parts of your lands, the United States must be present by their Agent, and will be your security,  that you shall not be defrauded in the bargain you shall make.

You know that all the lands secured to you by the Treaty of Fort Stanwix, excepting such parts as you may since have fairly sold, are yours, and that only your own acts can convey them away. Speak therefore your wishes on the subject of tilling the ground. The United States will be happy to afford you every assistance in the only business which will add to your numbers and happiness.

The United States will be true and faithful to their engagements.

Given at Philadelphia, 29th December, 1790.

GEORGE WASHINGTON

By the President:

Thomas Jefferson.

By command of the President of the United States of America-

H. Knox- Secretary for the Department of War.'

'The United States will be true and faithful to their engagements' Such was the solemn declaration of the Father his Country  in the infancy of this Republic.  Heaven grant that his sacred promises may be kept and his confident prediction verified. The question is now before us. No sophistry can evade, no ingenuity can elude it. Will 'the United States be true and faithful to their engagements,' or false and treacherous?

The Cherokees present this solemn interrogatory, and we must return a deliberate response. It seems almost, as if their case had been formed for the purpose of determining whether it be possible to bind this nation by its plighted faith.

I have already referred to our repeated and reiterated engagements by the sages of the Revolution, in the Congress of 1785; by Washington and the constellation of brilliant names around him in 1791, 1792, and 1794; by the elder Adams and his Cabinet in 1798; by Mr. Jefferson, in four successive treaties, in 1804, 1805, 1806, 1807; by Mr. Madison, in several formed in 1816; by Mr. Monroe, in 1817, General Jackson himself subscribing it with his own hand as commissioner; and by another in 1819, to which Mr. Calhoun affixed his name, as negotiator. All these treaties were ratified by the Senate, and sanctioned by every department of the Government.

In 1794, that greatest and best of men, whose name we profess so much to venerate, ' which should be, of all others, the highest authority to this Senate and to the nation, delivered a speech to the Chiefs and Warriors of the CHEROKEE Nation in which speaking of the lands upon Cumberland, he says: 'These have been confirmed by two treaties of Hopewell, in 1785, and Holston in 1791.' Again- 'The treaties which have been made cannot be altered.  The boundaries which have been mentioned must be marked and established, so that no marked and established, so that no dispute shall happen or any white people cross over it.'

In 1795, the Governor of Tennessee, upon which State it is now asserted these treaties are not obligatory, wrote a letter to President Washington, in order to 'prevent infractions of them,' by encroachments upon the lands of Indians. And as late as 1824, the gentleman from Tennessee, who reported this bill. (Mr. White) gave an able and elaborate opinion in writing, in which he strenuously asserts and maintains their validity and the rights of Indians.  He says, 'the Cherokees are to be considered as a nation, a community having a country distinctly marked out, and set apart for their use; that their interest is a permanent and fixed in it, as the pledge and the faith of the United States can make it; in as much as they have solemnly guarantied it to them as a nation, without any limitation of time.' With reference to the Treaty of Holston, he says they are 'to be viewed as a nation possessing all the powers of other independent nations, which are not expressly or by necessary implication, surrendered up by that treaty.' And again, 'they have not surrendered the power of making municipal regulations for their own internal government.

But now that we, the United States, are called upon to 'be true and faithful to these engagements,' it is contended they are not obligatory; ' in order to sustain that position, it is insisted that the Constitution gives no power to make treaties with Indian nations, within the United States.--Although, every President of the U. S. and the members of his Cabinet, every Administration and all the great men by whom it was surrounded and sustained, have formed and established such Indian treaties.

Every Senate of the United States, and I believe, every member of every Senate have ratified and confirmed such Indian treaties.  Every House of Representatives of the United States, and I believe, every member thereof, have affirmed und (sic) sanctioned them, by passing laws for their due execution, paying them from year to year the annuities secured by them, and making appropriations to enable the President to hold others. At this very session, the Senate has ratified new treaties; and during the present month, we have made an appropriation to enable the president to form another, with the tribes in Indiana. While that bill was under discussion, an amendment was proposed, prohibiting the use of any part of the money therein granted, in secret presents to the Chiefs; and it was insisted by the gentlemen from Tennessee, Louisiana, and Illinois (Messrs. Grundy, Livingston, and Kane) that such a proviso, merely restricting the use of money which Congress was granting, would trench upon the high, independent, constitutional power of the President in negotiating treaties. Nay, the second section of the bill now under consideration, provides for the removal of 'any tribe of nation of Indians, now residing within the limits of the States or territories, and with which the United States have existing treaties,' - and now we are told, by the Chairman, that such treaties cannot exist-that they (sic) are no treaties.

It is in effect asserted, that every President and every Senate have been guilty of usurpation in extending the treaty-making power beyond its legitimate objects. For if these contracts are not treaties, within the true meaning of the Constitution, they could be made only by the authority of Congress. But the President and Senate alone-the treaty-making power have always negotiated them, ratified them, and by proclamation announced them to the nation, as the supreme law of the land. Every State legislature, and the whole people, have heard these annunciations, and looked on, during all these proceedings, in silent acquiescence.

Even in 1798, when all the acts of the General Government, and particularly those of the executive, were scrutinized with the utmost rigour (sic), it was never suggested even in Virginia, where the discussion, were most animated, that there had, in this respect, been any irregularity. But now, upon the pressure of an exigency, it is discovered for the first time, that all has been wrong. The present occasion has brought with it new and peculiar lights, by which gentlemen now perceive what was in the minds and intention of the framers of the Constitution, better than they did themselves. They were ignorant of their own work.- The venerated fathers of the Republic, and all the high and honored names, who have presided over its destinies, have been involved in deep darkness, and wandered in gross error!

I have thus, Mr. President, endeavoured (sic) to present my views with respect to the claims of the State of Georgia.  Whether we regard original principles of international law, as applicable to the right of discovery--or the express powers conferred by the Articles of Confederation--or the confirmation of pre-existing treaties by the adoption of the Constitution--or the authority vested by that instrument in the General Government; ' the renunciation of powers by respective States--the invariable practice and usage of the Union, and the acts, acquiescence, and assent of Georgia herself- it is manifest that we are bound to perform our engagements to the Indians, and are under no incompatible and paramount obligations to that State.

But let us now, for the sake of the argument, make the violent supposition, that the pretensions of Georgia are well founded, and that the United States cannot rightfully fulfil their stipulations as against her. In that case the States of Alabama and Mississippi, would stand on very different ground. Their claims have been mingled and blended with those of the elder sister, as if they were precisely the same, and hers have been put forward as the only subjects of discussion, when in truth there is a broad line of distinction, which ought to be marked and remembered. For the sake of distinctness and brevity, I shall speak of Alabama alone.

It is conceded on all hands, as a fundamental proposition, that the United States are bound to fulfil their engagements to the Cherokees specifically, except when prevented by incompatible obligations, prior in point of time.

Now, Sir, the State of Alabama did not exist until the year 1819; when she voluntarily came into the Union after the fifteen treaties with this nation, had been previously established and proclaimed as the supreme law of the land.

But it is said, that Alabama was formed from territory once belonging to Georgia, and succeeded to all her rights. Without stopping to examine the difficulties attending such a supposed transmission of a right to resist treaties; it is sufficient to say that by the compact of 1802, Georgia ceded to the United States all her 'right, title, and claim' 'to the jurisdiction and soil' of all the territory now constituting Alabama and Mississippi. The whole right of Georgia, whatever it was, thus became vested in the General Government, and so remained until 1819; during which time not less than eight of these treaties were made. Who could then contest their validity? Are our treaties valid with the nations in Florida, Arkansas and Michigan? Can we enter into engagements with any tribes within the boundaries of the United States-even beyond the Rocky Mountains, or anywhere upon this continent? Can we make the solemn guarantee proposed by this bill--if so, we are legally constrained by our promises to the Indians of Alabama made before the existence of that State.

But this is not all. Still another insurperable (sic) difficulty presents itself to her claims to legislate over and destroy the Indian nations.

The following Article is part of the fundamental law to which Alabama owes her being, and without which she cannot exist: 'The utmost good faith shall always be observed towards the Indians; their lands and property shall never be taken from them without their consent: and in their

property, rights, and liberty, they never shall be invaded or disturbed unless in just and lawful wars authorized by Congress; but laws founded in justice and humanity for preventing wrongs being done to them, and for preserving peace and friendship with them.' This was originally a part of the 4th Article of the Ordinance respecting the North Western Territory, and was by express reference incorporated into the 1st Article of The Compact of 1802, ' made a fundamental and perpetual condition in the Act of Congress which provided for the admission of Alabama.

What is the answer to all this? We have it from the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. M'Kinley).  The Compact of 1802, says he, was unconstitutional; Georgia could not transfer to the United States either soil or jurisdiction.

If this be so, the first consequence is, that the dispute between that State and the General Government, respecting the ownership of the crown lands obtained by conquest, which that compact was supposed to have happily put to rest forever, by mutual and reciprocal cessions--could never be settled!

In the next place-that the combined powers of the State and of the Union, cannot do that, under the constitution, which the members individually might have done without the constitution. It is an attribute of complete sovereignty to be able to convey and receive territory! It is insisted that this attribute, as between the States, is annihilated-although all powers not granted are reserved to the members. I will not say that such an effect could not be produced by the Constitution, but it is at least so extremely improbable, that those who contend for it, in any particular instance, should be required to show it clearly, which has not been done.

It is insisted by the gentleman that no State can be subject to the restraining condition of the Ordinance referred to, because it is inconsistent with her constitutional equality with the other members of the Union.

That Ordinance was established in July, 1787.  It declares that, 'The following articles shall be considered as articles of compact, between the original States, and the people and states of said territory, and forever remain unalterable, unless by common consent.' Then succeeds an article embracing the clause before read and which was incorporated into the Compact of 1802. The Ordinance subsequently declares that, 'The said Territory, and the States, which may be formed therein shall forever remain a part of this Confederacy.'

This Ordinance and all its provisions was affirmed and established by the adoption of the Constitution, and thus that instrument itself contemplated that all the States, to be thereafter formed northwest of the Ohio, should be forever subject to those conditions; by which it is now contended, no one could ever be constitutionally restrained!

It is insisted by the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. M'Kinley) that Georgia could not transfer soil and jurisdiction to the United States; that the Compact of 1802 attempting to do so was unconstitutional and void; and that the tract of country, which it was intended to convey, remained a part of that State until the year 1819.

If the Gentleman's doctrine is correct, it remains so still; she having never conveyed it.

Another consequence, Mr. President, would flow from this doctrine, which I should exceedingly deplore; it is, Sir, that Alabama is not a member of this Union! By the Constitution no new State can be formed or admitted into the Union within the limits of an old one, without the consent of the latter. Now, Sir, Georgia has never consented to the admission of Alabama, except by the transfer of soil and jurisdiction by virtue of the Compact of 1802. If that  conveyance was inoperative no consent has been given. If that compact was absolutely void, as the gentleman contends, it is a legal nullity, and he can hold no rights under it.

Congress, too, have never given their consent, except upon the basis of the binding efficacy of that compact, and upon the express condition that its requisitions should be the fundamental law of the new State.  But, says the gentleman, Congress had no power to pass such a law. If so, the Act respecting the admission of Alabama was unconstitutional and void, and neither created nor admitted any new State.

The ingenious gentleman has reasoned so profoundly upon constitutional law that he has argued himself and his colleague out of their seats in this Senate!- Now, Sir, against this, I most seriously protest-they cannot be spared--we need the aid of their talents and experience.

How will the gentleman escape from the consequences which I have deduced? Will he contend that the Compact and the law were valid and invalid at the same time?  That they conferred rights but could not impose obligations upon his State? Even if such an extraordinary position were assumed- how would it affect the present question? If he can infuse any degree of vitality into that which was dead before its birth, if he can make that compact efficacious as the consent of Georgia to Alabama's becoming a State, would it not also be effectual as her consent that the United States should exercise jurisdiction over the territory so far as to make treaties with the Indian tribes? If then the gentleman will admit that Georgia assented to anything, by virtue of that compact, she consented to the formation of these treaties, and thus they were valid by her authority before Alabama was brought into being.

As a dernier resort, the gentleman insists that the true construction of the language of the Ordinance gives all the right over the Indians for which his State contends, because the latter clhuse (sic) requires that 'laws'--'shall from time to time be made for preventing wrongs being done to them and for preserving peace and friendship with them.'

That is, laws restraining the whites, our own citizens, from encroaching upon the natives and thereby endangering the public tranquility. If Maine or New York scould (sic) pass laws for 'preventing wrongs being done to' the Canadians, 'and for preserving peace and friendship with them'--would that give jurisdiction over the British provinces? But let us read the whole clause, the true construction of which confers this unlimited power.

'The utmost good faith shall always be observed toward the Indians;' - which means that we may violate all our engagements (sic) at pleasure!--'their lands and property shall never be taken from them without their consent,'- that is, both may be taken by violence against their utmost resistance!- 'in their property, rights, and liberty they shall never be invaded or disturbed unless in just and lawful wars authorized by Congress.' There shall be laws for 'preventing wrongs being done to them and for preserving peace and friendship with them;'- the true construction of all which is-that a State may make war upon them at pleasure-=deprive them of their lands-and annihilate their nation! To such arguments are gentlemen of great ability compelled to resort!

The rights of natives, both natural and conventional have been strenuously denied. What right it is asked have the Indians to the lands they occupy? I ask, in reply, what right have the English or the French, the Spaniard or the Russian to the countries they inhabit?

But it is insisted that the original claim of the natives has been divested by the superior right of DISCOVERY.

I have already shown that this gives no ground of claim as against the discovered, that it is a mutual understanding or conventional arrangement entered into by the nations of Europe, amongst themselves to define and regulate their respective claims as discoverers in order to prevent interference and contests with each other, all agreeing that the sovereign who should first find a new country should be left without interference from them to deal with it and its inhabitants, according to his ability and his conscience.

But we are told, that grants from the king are the highest title, and have always been relied upon as such. True-as against other grantees from the crown, or against the government itself; but not as to the natives. If such a title gives any just claims as against them, then they are bound to yield to it; for to every right appertains a corresponding obligation.

Were the aborigines bound to yield to such pretensions? Suppose that, more than two centuries ago, when in unbroken strength they held resistless sway over this whole western world, a royal patentee, with his handful of followers, just landed on these shores, should have found himself in the midst of a powerful Indian nation- the council fire is lighted up, and sachems and warriors are assembled around it-he presents himself and says to them--

'This country is no longer yours. You must leave the forest where you hunt, and the valleys where you live. All the land which you can see from the highest mountain is mine. It has been given me by the king of the white men across the waters. Here is his grant-how can you resist so fair a title?'

If they deigned any other reply than the war-whoop, their chief might say--

' The GREAT SPIRIT, who causeth the trees to rise from the ground toward the Heavens, and maketh the rivers to descend from the mountains to the valleys-who created the earth itself, and made both the red man and the white man to dwell thereon-gave this land to us and to our ancestors. You say you have a grant from your king beyond the waters-we have a grant from the King of kings, who reigns in Heaven- by this title our fathers have held it for uncounted generations, and by this title their sons will defend it.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






RELIGION AMONG THE CHOCTAWS.

Extracts from the journal of Mr. Williams at Ai-ik-hun-na.

The characters of some of the converts in the neighborhood of Ai-ik-hun-na were described at (sic) p. 321, of the last volume.  Some of those persons are referred to in the extracts to be inserted here. In no manner can the friends of missions better acquire a knowledge of the character, extent, and results of the religious awakening in the Choctaw Nation, than by such descriptions as these, of the appearance of individuals and neighborhood.

'July 7, 1829. At a late meeting in Chickasaw Nation, Tahoka, from this place was present, and took a part in the public exhortation and prayer, as he was called upon.  He appeared to be very spiritual, and all took knowledge of him that he had been with Jesus. He told the people that he came not to them as a learned man, or as a good man, or as an angry man; nor in pride, or for money, no, not a penny: but he came to hunt for poor lost souls. He felt, and made others feel too, that Christ, and heaven, and hell, were not terms without signification.

21. Tahoka called this evening 'to beg' as he said, 'I am a beggar at any rate, and am now upon that business.  I want some instruction upon these words which I have heard, from the good book, `Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.' I have been meditating upon it today, while at work in my field; and though I hope I know what it is to be born of the Spirit, yet as I do not know what it is to be born of water, I came to ask you.' I trust that I was enabled to give him the sense of the passage, and the 'beggar' went away rejoicing to his work again.

27. Received a letter from A. H. one of our neighbors, who was once in Elliot school, but dismissed for improper conduct.  He has been much hardened in sin, and stoutly resisted conviction until of late. This letter is written in Choctaw, and expresses his full determination no longer to neglect the great salvation. Accompanying the letter was a request for me to call upon him if possible.  I accordingly did so, and found him under a peach tree, with his little stools, his Bible, and writing implements, employed in copying Choctaw hymns.- He appeared to be an earnest inquirer.*

Several cases have occurred within the last two years in which young men who had formerly been trained in the mission schools, and faithfully taught in the truths of the Bible, but who subsequently became hardened and immoral, and appeared likely to do hurt rather than good, with their knowledge-have apparently been savingly(sic) wrought upon by the truth, and promise, by their example and influence, to be of great use to their people.

31. Have conversed with a number of the awakened people this week, and find much reason to hope that there are indeed many who call upon the name of the Lord Jesus. Family prayer is generally observed in this part of the country.  Even children sometimes take their turn in prayer in the presence of their parents; so that in some families they have little prayer meetings of their own. Indeed it is astonishing to observe the change; how miraculous; how glorious how worthy of its Author. To him be the glory forever.'

Two years ago there was but one Choctaw in all the neighborhoods around Ai-ik-hun-na, who prayed to God. So great a change in the feelings and habits of individuals and of families, is the result of religious instruction, accompanied by the divine blessing.

'Nov. 3.- Tahoka called upon us, apparently full of faith and the Holy Ghost. The following are some of his remarks, made with every appearance of sincerity and deep feeling. 'I think much about what is called the new birth. Though I formerly heard about it, yet what I seemed to hear was soon gone from me. But now I think of it while I am at work and wherever I am. Have I been born again? Or have I not? I do not certainly know. But oh that I might know. If I am born of the Spirit I am but a very little child indeed.- Not one year old.  Oh that I might become a man in Christ.  But ah! I am indeed a very poor ignorant, sinful creature; a worm and no man.'- alluding to an appointment which he had received, as one of a committee for examining candidates, he remarked; 'Did they think I had any learning which qualified me for that office?  As to learning, I know nothing only to spell Chi-ho-wa, Chihowa.' (Jehovh. (sic)) Again he remarked, 'when I am troubled about anything, as children, business, and the like, my heart fall down, and I am obliged to pray frequently and earnestly before I can get relief, so that any affection may rise and take hold on things above. When Sabbath comes my thoughts are much upon my Father above and upon his Son, Jesus Christ, who died for me upon the cross and my heart cries after him so much, that though I be in the midst of an assembly, I do not imagine that any one sees me. I am, as it were, alone. Oh, that all my poor fellow Choctaws might feel the same!' He has of late said much about the works of nature, the things that are made; and notices, evidently with a contemplative mind, the great variety of objects which meet his eye: and the use he makes of all is to lead him to nature's God, whom he beholds with increasing delight in the workmanship of his hands; having with an eye of faith seen his glory, as revealed in the Gospel of his Son.

Sab. 8. Spent a part of the afternoon in inquiring into the minds of some individuals. Tahoka assisted me. He asked one man if the remembrance of his former sins was loathsome to him. The man not fully understanding the application of that word to his feelings, replied that when his sins came into his mind, it was as though some person came and told or showed them to him, which made him much ashamed and very sorry. 'That is it,' said T, 'that is what I meant by loathsome.'

There were but very few who professed to have found great joy in believing. But all declared their determination to seek till they die, and never to cease calling for mercy and trying to serve God.

March 3. Tahoka, in conversation, expressed an ardent wish that every one of the praying Choctaws would discontinue the use of ornaments. He then added, 'These tully hultah [silver ornaments] put me in mind of the tully hultah tushahta [pieces of silver] with which my Lord Jesus was betrayed; and I fear for that they are still a temptation to some professing the Christian name.

25 Lamantubbi, a church member, informed us that he had recently lost his little all, as it were by the burning of his house and its contents. He related the circumstances with cheerful countenance, until he came to speak of his Choctaw book, (worth ninepence perhaps,) when sorrow was deeply depicted in his countenance and tears stood in his eyes. 'That book' said he, 'which contained some of the word of life, was dearer to me than any other property I had. Indeed nothing would have tempted me to part with it. But now it is burned, and my heart weeps for sorrow.'-- This is a man who was formerly mentioned as an extraordinary example of perseverance in learning to read. Do all professing Christians thus value the 'word of life?'  Another church member once lost his little book, and in stating the fact to me, his tears flowed plenteously.-- 'Because,' said he, 'it contains some of my Heavenly Father's words.'

Admission to the Church.



 April 1. We have just closed a very interesting meeting at this place. On Saturday was an ordination service, and on the Sabbath a communion season which was enjoyed for the first time by seventeen of my dear Choctaw neighbors, who that day entered into a solemn covenant with God and his people. At night twenty seven of their offspring were dedicated to God in baptism. 'And it shall come to pass that in the place where it was said unto them. Ye are not my people, there it shall be said unto them. Ye are the sons of the living God.' The Lord is indeed still among this dear people. Good news recently from all the stations.'

Since the date of the communications from which the survey of this mission, contained in the January number of this work was composed, 51 Choctaws have been received to the church at the several stations; making the whole number, connected with the mission churches in that nation 153; of whom 135 are Choctaws.

*April 1st, 1830. I would here add respecting this young man that he has been for some months past a worthy member of our church.

Miss. Her.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA JULY 10, 1830

A letter from Col. M'Kenney is published in the last New York Spectator, in answer to the Arkansas letter published in our last. The Col. says, the government will not use powder and lead in removing the Cherokees.  Maybe so. But will not the military be employed? Read Lieut. Frainer's order which will be found in our last.

__________

We are happy to inform the public that the Cherokees have been thus far very prudent and forbearing. Those at the gold mines particularly. For the good of the nation they are willing to endure insult and oppression. The community at large may be assured that violence will not be resorted to by the Cherokee people. For what individuals do the nation cannot be responsible.

_____________

We give place to the following communication of the agent as we received it.- What will the Cherokees do Will they go to Nashville and add another treaty to the long list to be violated? No.  The great question, are treaties with Indians worth anything, must first be settled.- They are determined to stay until they receive a satisfactory answer; but the government must not suppose they agree to come under the laws of the states. The Council will meet at this place on Monday-we will not therefore anticipate the reply which will probably be given.

CHEROKEE AGENCY, 26, June 1830

Sir- I have just received a letter from the War Department the substance of which is contained in the following extracts and communicated to you for your information, reflections and that of the Cherokees generally, viz: 'The removal of the Cherokees and other advantages which would result to them from it, are so obvious, and have been so often explained, as to need no further efforts to make it better understood, at least in the way, in which it has been done in the past.  If they as a People think it for their interest to remain in the States within whose limits they are and be subject to the laws of those States, the consequences whatever they may be, following their own choice, will be chargeable to no body but themselves, but it is made your special duty to inform the Cherokees, not their chiefs only, but the people, and in such mode as you may think proper to adopt, which shall be most likely to make the information General, that the President having no power to interfere, and oppose the exercise of the sovereignty of any state, over, and upon all who may be within the limits of any State, they will prepare themselves to abide the issue of such new relations without any hope that he will interfere--

But assure them at the same time that such power as the laws give him for their protection, shall be executed for their benefit, and this will not fail to be exercised in keeping out intruders; beyond this he cannot go; it is important that there should be no misunderstanding on the subject--Intruders will be kept out, but the states will not be interfered with, by the President, in exercising their laws over them, such, therefore, as will be satisfied to remain under these state laws will if they choose, remain, others who prefer to remove can do so; ' these will be supported by the Government in their removal free of any expense to them, and have a full, and just value paid for such improvements as they amy leave, that add real value to the soil, and maintained for one year after their arrival in the West, by which time they will have prepared, by opening farms, and otherwise, for the support of themselves and families; you can further say to them, if they are disposed to treat with the General Government, that liberal terms will be extended to them, their limits beyond the Mississippi shall be enlarged, and all things done for their protection and guidance and improvement, which the President may have the power to do, their limits in the West shall be surveyed, and marked so as to avoid any difficulty arising out of a confusion of lines, between them and neighboring Tribe.'- He has directed a suspension for the present of enrolling and emigration business and says.- 'The suspension of present operations, is designed to afford the Cherokees an opportunity to ponder on their present situation and to deliberate, calmly as to what is best for them to do. The President is their friend; he seeks not to oppress, or drive them, he feels for them as a Father feels for his children; and is deeply solicitous for their welfare.' The President wishes the Cherokees to be fully informed upon all points connected with their pending and future relations; he will not deceive them; and he wishes that no misunderstanding should exist, as between them and you.  'If they stay, it will be of their own free will; if they remove it will be of their own free will also, there will be employed no force, anyway, but the force of reason and parental counsel, unless it shall be to protect them in removing.'--

He also directs me that when the Cherokees shall have finally determined what course they will pursue, to inform the Department, of which you will be so good as to apprise me so soon as such determination is agreed on.- He also states to me that the President and Secretary of War will probably be at Nashville by the 20th or 30th of July next and says, 'If the Chiefs or Principal men of the nation desire to see the President upon the important matters which concern them, he will gladly see them, and frankly, and parentally communicate with them, in person, there. But if they cannot go willingly, and prepared with full powers to make a Treaty for removal, it will not be necessary for them to go, since in that way, only, can he assist them, promote their welfare, and establish their future prosperity. If the Chiefs shall come with this determination all their necessary expenses will be borne.'-

You see that I am directed to make known the statements contained in the above extracts not only 'to the chiefs but the people.' You will therefore oblige me by having this letter published in the Phoenix at my expense:

Respectfully Your Obt. Servt.

H. MONTGOMERY.

John Ross

Principal Chief Cherokee Nation

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






LETTER

To a gentleman in the Cherokee Nation dated,

STATE OF OHIO, JUNE 1ST, 1830

As a fellow Christian and as a citizen of the United States, I feel deeply for the present situation of the Cherokee Nation.  May the Lord of Heaven and of earth take them as individuals, and as a nation under his special care and protection.

You have made your appeal to the Congress of the United States, and to the people. All this is well, and I hope you will continue these appeals. There was a time when the patriots of the than British colonies made similar appeals to the British Parliament, and to the British Nation.  The result in this case will, I hope, be different from what it was in that. The period I hope is still at a great distance when the mere recommendation of the Chief Magistrate or of his Minister at War will set at nought the good sense and the patriotism and the regard to public faith which pervades the understanding and the hearts of the great body of the American people.

But carry your appeal further. Go to the Court of Heaven. God be thanked, you have ready access there, and there is no adjournment of this court, and the number among you is increasing who know the way thither, and the mode of address. Let the praying Cherokees, as one man, be on their knees morning and evening; and through the whole of the day let their aspirations ascend to the Ruler of the Universe. Let them pray.

1. For wisdom to themselves, and to their chiefs, and to all their friends of every name, and in every place.

2. For absolute unconditional submission to the will of Heaven.

Let them in fact commit their whole cause without any reserve or condition to the disposal and management of their great Father who is in Heaven. It will be safe in his hands.

3. For those who may be their enemies, that the Lord, if it should be his will, would turn their hearts, as he changed the heart of Esau, in answer to the prayer of Jacob.

4. For the United States.- for the Government and the people.--that the Lord would be wisdom to all their wise men and strength and integrity to all their patriots.

The hearts and the plans of all men are under the control of the captain of our salvation, and prayer is the great weapon both offensive and defensive, which he hath put into the hands of his followers. This weapon has never yet been wielded in vain.

A DISTANT FRIEND.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE NATION, July 2d, 1830

Mr. Boudinott Editor Cherokee Phoenix.

Sir-- The scrap of extracts communicated to the Cherokees by the War Department through the United States Agent for their 'Information and reflections,' and requested by him to be published in your paper, I have perused. This document is stamped throughout with all the features of unyielding and grinding policy hitherto manifested by the present administration to our people. It refers to former documents from the Government, which have so obviously shown the advantages of Cherokee emigration, as 'to need no further efforts to make it better understood, at least in the way in which it has been done in the past.'

If these have been any eloquent arguments wasted by General Jackson upon our ears, they came but ill accompanied with facts to convince, and counteracted by his open withdrawal of all protection due our nation, guarantied to it by the laws and treaties, which were in wholesome operation at his inauguration. Now he tells us, if we choose to remain on our native land, the consequences of the operation of state laws will be chargeable to us, and to nobody else.

Sir, we disdain such language as the voice of friendship. At least I, as an individual disdain it.

When the states tyrannically and compulsively throw their withering laws into this nation without our consent, and blast the wealth of our people, and consign to ruin all the fruit of our labor for years past, at whose door does the sin of consequence lie? When states deny to us the liberty of speech and freedom of action in our own country, and point to jails and penitentiaries as the penalties of their exercise, are the Cherokees to blame for that also?-

The President must know but little of the responsibility of his office, when he is commanded by the law to keep out intruders, prevent surveys, and protect the Indians on their lands, if he can see the law openly violated, and declare himself VERY CLEAR of guilt and innocent of the 'consequences' of his withdrawal of that protection exercised by former Presidents towards our people. He tells us to prepare to abide the issue of such new relations 'without any hope that he will interfere.'- We are connected with the United States by treaty, in which we are bound to have no intercourse with any other sovereign whatever. I refer him to the Intercourse laws of the United States and the Cherokee Agency standing on the Banks of the Highwassee, a poor and palsied relic and monument of late Justice and intercourse of friendship with this people. The first are unrepealed; and the last is yet undemolished (sic) by Congress. Will they not present some obstacles to new, relations? But the Agent is directed further to say to the Cherokees, 'if they are disposed to treat with the General Government that liberal terms will be extended to them.  Their limits beyond the Mississippi shall be enlarged.' We have no country there, and how can our limits be enlarged? Impossible. And if we wish limits, they could only be enlarged on the barren mountains and vallies (sic) of the West, on which nature only intended rude beasts should wander and savage man pursue his game. The chiefs are told that on the 20th or 30th inst. the President and Secretary of War will be at Nashville, ' invite them, if they desire it, to come with full powers to enter into treaty. Sir, I know better of the desires of the chiefs. But I recollect to have seen a letter from their delegation at Washington, who were sent to ask for mercy a t the President's house, which stated they had not been honored with any answer to their communications. At Nashville the oracle may be more propitious, but I should expect were they to go, that Indian Dirt must be thrown on the altar and the sacricers (sic) turn their faces to the setting sun to extort good answers.- I believe the people will endure a seige (sic) of all this persecution, and continue to call on Congress for help.

SOCRATES

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We presume that all those persons who celebrated Mr. Jefferson's birthday at Washington last winter, and all others who consider him as the greatest patriot and statesman that this country has ever produced, will not hesitate to subscribe to his sentiments in the following passage, extracted from his works recently published.- Those sentiments were uttered by him as Secretary of State, in the year 1793, when General Washington held a consultation with his cabinet on some subjects of policy, among which one related to the Indians.

'I considered our right of pre-emption of the Indian lands not as amounting to any dominion, or jurisdiction, or paramountship (sic) whatever, but merely in the nature of a reminder, after the extinguishment of a present right, which gave us no present right whatever, but of preventing other nations from taking possession, and so defeating our expectancy; that the INDIANS HAD THE FULL UNDIVIDED, AND INDEPENDENT SOVEREIGNTY AS LONG AS THEY CHOSE TO KEEP IT, AND THAT THIS MIGHT BE FOREVER; that as fast as we extended our rights by purcase (sic) from them, so fast we extended the limits of our society, ' as soon as a new portion became encircled within our line, it became a fixed limit of our society.'

______________________

'It is humane and paternal in all its provisions.'- So says the Oneida Observer, in reference to the law which provides for the removal of the Indians; ' many an inconsiderate reader, no doubt, will credit the assertion.- But let us, for argument's sake, allow the assertion to be true; what follows?  A familiar illustration will enable us to see.

Suppose, in the first place, that the people of Oneida County were, like the Indians, located on lands guaranteed to them as their own absolute property by the United States; second, that the state of New York were determined to get the land on the strength of subsequent enganements (sic) on the part of the United States to purchase it for them, whenever the inhabitants of the county should be disposed to sell it; third, that the State had threatened the county with violence, in case of its refusal to sell out to the general government, and had actually resorted to foul means, for the purpose of inducing the head men of the county to comply with the unjust requisition; and fourthly, that in the midst of this oppression and distress, the injured inhabitants of the county had made their earnest and respectful appeal to the general government, for protection against their unrighteous oppressors.

Now, if the United States, instead of protecting the little community, whose existence and whose rights they had acknowledged by treaties innumerable, if instead of protecting them in the peaceable and quiet possession of their lands, they were forthwith to pass a law appropriating funds for the propose of purchasing the said lands, directly in opposition to the prayers, the petitions and the remonstrances of the rightful owners; who is there living, that would fail to see the injustice of the measure?  Here and there a partisan might still say perhaps, that the 'provisions of the law were humane and paternal.' But what would it signify, while the very existence of the law itself was injurious and oppressive, in view of the special circumstances of the case? The people of Oneida would never submit to such a law as this, while they had the power of successful resistance. No doubt, the editor of the Observer himself would be among the first to oppose the law; for after all the humanity of its provisions, it would deprive him of fat office, and a lucrative employment.  While feeding upon the paternal loaf, it is easy to imagine that every thing else is paternal; but a removal of the loaf would be likely to rectify the misapprehension.

The Baptist Register, also, seems to be satisfied with the decision of Congress, because 'the law, as it now stands, by the final enactment, sanctions no compulsory measures,' 'c. But what if it does not sanction any such measures? Its very existence, brought to light, it has been, against the earnest entreaties of the Indians, and in compliance with the unprincipled demands of their oppressors, give no small countenance to the continuance of compulsory measures; and no one, we should think, who would look candidly at the whole train of proceedings, could fail to perceive that it does so. Have the negotiations of Georgia been hitherto fair, and open, and conciliatory, and humane? Have her commissioners never tried to bribe the Indians against their interest, or to render their title void? Have the Indians never been threatened, abused, or treated with violence by the Georgians, for refusing to sell their lands? And is it a small thing that the latter have passed a law, which will prevent the former from seeking redress for injuries in the courts of justice of the state, by prohibiting Indian testimony in any controversy which may arise between the Indians and the white citizens of Georgia?  It is under such circumstances as these, that Congress have passed the law, which to say the least, indirectly encourages the efforts of Georgia, when it is perfectly well understood what will be the character of those efforts. And what, in the mean time does the law do for the Indians? Does it ensure them protection? Does it engage to respect the former treaties in the strictest sense? Nothing like it. No such provisos as these could be carried through the House. The law, with its fair face, will no doubt tend to the perpetuation

 of Indian wrongs; and tho' many will still say that it is for the good of the Indians to remove, we cannot but feel that in this respect, 'the tender mercies of the wicked and cruel.' Georgia has no compassion for the Indians; the general government have not listened to their prayer; and it is difficult to see how the Indians are to be benefited (sic) by being driven into their supposed privileges. At least, it might have been well for their oppressors to become just, before they affected to be generous. It may now, for aught we can tell, be necessary, for the Indians to remove; but who are they that have created the necessity? This is the question.- Utica Rec.



______________________________



We learn with much gratification that the Cherokees, over whom the legislative acts of Georgia have, before this time, been extended, have determined to take measures to bring the question of the constitutionality of these acts before the Supreme Court of the United States, and for this purpose counsel of the most distinguished character and talents has been employed by them. This will take from the executive magistrate the power of determining questions of constitutional law, over which he has no legitimate jurisdiction, and which if he had, he would be incompetent to decide.  Fortunately for the country, as well as for the Indians, the opinions of such great statesmen as General Jackson and Major Eaton, have not the authority of precedent in that tribunal. Of the result of their deliberations on this most interesting and important subject, we should have the fullest confidence; and if in favor of the Indians, and against the constitutionality of the acts of Georgia, the the (sic) President must see the provisions of the laws and treaties of the United States executed and enforced. It will not then be in the power of the states directly and indirectly interested, even with their servile adherents in those parts of the Union where better thigs (sic) might be expected, by an arbitrary vote of devoted, or unprincipled political partizans (sic), to plunder a dependent and defenceless (sic) tribe of men of their unquestionable property and rights. The State of Georgia can in the mean time, oppress and distress the Indians, and the banditti on their borders may rob them of their treasures; but if the Court uphold and establish their right and title to their property, and to their independence, the United States must support them, and afford them protection against injustice, oppression, and lawless violence.

We are glad to hear that measures are taking in this part of the country, to publish and disseminate the speeches delivered in Congress in opposition to the Indian Bill. The facts and the reasonings (sic) contained in them, cannot fail to produce a most important effect upon the public mind. As far as we have seen them, they are powerful and unaswerable (sic).

N. Y. Adv.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














SPEECH OF MR. SPRAGUE,

OF MAINE.

In the Senate of the United States.

April 16, 1930.

CONCLUDED

The right of the Aborigines, to the perpetual and exclusive occupancy of all their lands, has been always recognized and affirmed by the United States. It was respected by Great Britain before the Revolution; as appears by the Royal Proclamation of 1763, in which all persons are commanded 'forthwith to remove themselves' from lands, 'which not having been ceded to or purchased by us, are still reserved to the said Indians.' And after reciting that individuals had practiced fraud upon the natives, forbids private persons from making purchases, 'to the end that the Indians may be convinced of our justice' ' provides that if 'the said Indians should be inclined to dispose of the said lands the same shall be purchased only for us, in our name at some public meeting or assembly of the said Indians, to be held for that purpose.'

That right was recognized by the Confederation; as appears by the whole tenor of their proceedings; particularly their treaties, by which they purchased a part and guarantied the remainder; by the report of a Committee in August 1787, which declares that the Indians have ''just claims to all occupied by and not purchased of them'-and the proclamation of Congress in September 1788, which has been already referred to.

That, under our present Constitution, the rights of the natives ' the relation in which they stand to the United States are such as I have described, is clearly manifested- by the speech of President Washington to the Senekas (sic) in 1790 from which I have already presented some extracts-and by the following explicit and deliberate letter of Mr. Jefferson, written to the Secretary of War in 1784.- I am of the opinion that Government should firmly maintain this ground; that the Indians have a right to the occupation of their lands, independent of the States within whose chartered lines they happen to be; that until they cede them by treaty or other transactions equivalent to a treaty, no act of a State can give a right to such lands; that neither under the present Constitution, nor the ancient Confederation, had any State, or persons, a right to treat with the Indians, without the consent of the General Government; that the consent has never been given to any treaty for the cession of the lands in question; that the government is determined to exert all its energy for the patronage and protection of the rights of the Indians, and the preservation of peace between the United States and them; and that if any settlements are made on lands not ceded by them, without the previous consent of the United States, the government will think itself bound not only to declare to the Indians that such settlements are without the authority or protection of the United States, but to remove them also by the public force.' --Also, by the Intercourse Law of 1790--forbidding all encroachments by citizens of the United States, upon the territory belonging to any tribe or nation of Indians;--by many other statutes, particularly that of March, 1805--by all the treaties of purchase and cession--all the laws to carry them into effect and pay the consideration--and all the acts enabling the Executive to 'extinguish Indian titles.'

The Gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Forsyth) has referred to the correspondence at Ghent to sustain his denial of rights to the Indian tribes. He relied upon the views of the American commissioners in repelling the claims of the British. As it is sometimes more satisfactory to read for ourselves than to take the construction of others, permit me, Sir, to present to you an extract from that correspondence. 'Under  this system the Indians residing within the United States are so far independent that they live under their own customs, and not under the laws of the United States that their rights upon the lands they inhabit, or hunt are secured to them by boundaries defined in amicable treaties between the United States and themselves-- and when these boundaries are varied it is also by amicable and voluntary treaties by which they receive from the United States ample compensation for every right they have to the lands ceded.'  'Such is the relation between them and the United States: that relation is now created for the first time nor did it originate with the Treaty of Grenville.' And subsequently the Treaty of Grenville was merely declaratory of the public law--on principles previously and universally recognized.

To this, Sir, was subscribed the names of Adams and Gallatin, of Clay and Bayard and Russell.

The Gentleman from Alabama (Mr. M'Kinley,) to show that the natives had no title to the soil, cited the case of Johnson and McIntosh, decided by the Supreme Court of the United States, and reported in the 8th of Wheaton.

To see how precisely that case sustains my positions, let me read a few very short extracts from the opinion of the Court as delivered by Chief Justice Marshall. It declares that the right of the United States, or the several States, is 'subject to the Indian right of occupancy.' 'That, the original inhabitants are the rightful occupants of the soil, with a legal as well as a just claim to retain possession of it, and to use it according to their own discretion.' And again, 'it has never been contended  that the Indian title amounted to nothing. Their right of possession has never been questioned.'

Georgia herself has recognized these established rights of the natives, and the relation they bear to the General Government.

By a law passed in 1796, respecting the vacant lands within her chartered limits, she held the following language: 'the territory therein mentioned is hereby declared to be the sole property of the States, subject only to the right of treaty of the United States, to enable the State to purchase under its pre-emption right the Indian title to the same.'  A most pregnant act of legislation.  It expressly admits 'the Indian title'- that the claim of the State is only 'to purchase' under its pre-emption 'right'- that even this she could not do, unless 'enabled' by the United States- that the United States had 'the right of treaty' with the Indians; and that the claims of Georgia were 'subject to' that right.

In the Compact of 1802, she stipulated, by reference to an Article of the Ordinance before mentioned, for the inviolability of the lands, property, rights and liberty of the Indians upon the territory relinquished: and recognized their just claim to lands, in that which was retained, by the Article which binds the United States 'at their own expense' to extinguish the 'Indian title' thereto, as early as could be done 'peaceably and upon reasonable terms.'

The titles of the Acts which I read, and several others, speak of the lands therein disposed of as 'acquired', 'obtained' from the 'Creek and Cherokee Nations,' by the treaties held by the United States.

Even the Act of December last contains a plenary admission that the lands in question were never before subject to her jurisdiction. A part of the title is 'to extend the laws of this State over'--'the territory now occupied by the Cherokees.' The 6th section expressly extends the laws of the State over the same ' the inhabitants thereof. Sir, does not the legislation of every State of itself, operate all the country within its jurisdiction? The laws of Georgia were not before limited to any parts of the State; they were general-they covered the whole; and are now --extended over the residue!

We have heard a great deal in this debate of the rights of CONQUEST; ' are told that it is always recognized as valid by the judicial tribunals.

True, Sir, by those of the conquerer (sic). How can they do otherwise? Suppose that Congress, should now declare a war for the sole purpose of wresting Canada from Great Britain, and should succeed; could our own courts question this exercise of political power, and refuse to sustain our jurisdiction over the country, however iniquitous the acquisition? And if in this Government, where the political sovereign is under the restraints of the Constitution, the courts cannot interfere, how could they in Europe, where this doctrine had its origin? There the legislative and political powers are unlimited. Even in England the Parliament is equally omnipotent; and who ever heard of a judicial court undertaking to annul any of its enactments?

Whatever may be the acquiescence of other nations in the exercise of power by a conquerer, it is no ground of just claim as against the conquered. They surely are not bound to submit, if new means of resistance can be found.

To give to conquest--to mere force--the name of right, is to sanction all the enormities of avarice and ambition.  Alexander and Bonaparte are justified!--Britain has done no wrong, in sweeping India with the hand of rapine, and holding fifty millions of people in thraldom! All the cruelties of the Spaniards in South America--crimes of Pizarro and Cortez--tracking the fugitive natives in terror and dismay with blood hounds to the caves of the mountains; and stretching their wretched monarch upon burning coals to extort from him the secret of his treasures--are sanctified by the name of right! This right of conquest gentlemen contend is the legitimate offspring of the right of discovery. Sir, the pirates on the coast of Barbary and at Barataria exercise both.  They find a ship alone upon the ocean--this is discovery. They capture her and murder or enslave the crew--this is conquest. Both these rights are thus combined and consummated, and their validity will not, I presume, be questioned either by the courts of Barataria, or other bands of similar conquerers (sic).

But even this miserable argument of conquest is not applicable to the Cherokees. They were not subjugated. The Southern Indians had sixteen thousand warriors, with arms in their hands. They were powerful; their trade was war; they did not solicit peace. We sought for it as appears by the resolutions of Congress, of May, 1783--and March 1785. We obtained the Treaty of Hopewell in which gentlemen find the expressions, the 'United States give peace to the Indians and allot boundaries:' and, by philological criticism, upon the English terms, which we  used, they logically deduce the rights of conquest! What did the unlettered Indian understand by those expressions, but that there was to be an end of war; and that their territory was to be sacred?  The treaty contains many reciprocal stipulations of the 'contracting parties.' Will it be contended that we are not bound by them because the other party was conquered--in other words because we were the strongest? If the United States made terms of peace should they not abide by them? If a besieged town capitulates, are not the articles of capitulation obligatory?  When Bonaparte dictated treaties of peace in the capitols of the nations which he had overrun-was he not morally bound to observe them? They indeed might complain that the contract was made by constraint when they were not free agents; but who ever heard of the stronger party claiming to be absolved from his engagements, because the other was subject to his coercion?

It has been repeatedly asked, why not leave the Indians to the legislation of the State?

I answer, because they protest against it, and they alone have the right to judge. They demand of us the protection, which we solemnly promised.

Much has been said of their being untutored savages, as if that could dissolve our treaties! No one pretends, that they are less cultivated now than when these treaties were made. Indeed, it is certain that they have greatly advanced in civilization; we see it, in the very proofs introduced by the gentleman from Georgia, to show their barbarism. He produced to the Senate, a printed code of Cherokee laws; and a newspaper issued from a Cherokee press! Is there another instance of such productions from any Indian nation? I was surprised, that with all his scrutiny, he could find no more remnants of savage customs. I shall not dwell upon his selections from their laws. The first was; that if a horse should be stolen and the owner, finding the thief in possession, should immediately kill him, in the excess of passion--it should rest upon his own conscience. It is to be observed that the person slain must have been guilty; and for such offence life is now taken in England. But this provision inserted in the Cherokee code, more that twenty years ago, has yielded to further light and been since repealed. Time will not permit me to dwell upon their advances in the arts of civilized life.  It is known to have been great.  They till the ground, manufacture for themselves, have work shops, a printing press, schools, churches, and a regularly organized Government. Indeed, the gentleman from Tennessee, himself, told us some individuals of that nation were qualified for seats in this august assembly.

What danger, it is asked, have the Indians to apprehend from the laws of the State?

What danger? Is it not here avowed, that their presence is a nuisance, from which Georgia wishes to be relieved? Has not her legislature declared that she is determined to have their lands at all hazards, even by violence, in the last resort? And, if left to her unrestrained power, can it be doubted that she will find means of carrying that determination into effect? If the laws heretofore enacted, are not sufficient, may not others be resorted to? Let us, for a moment, look at the measures already adopted, and see if they have not some adaptation to the accomplishment of her wishes.

By the 9th section of the Act of 1828, no Indian in the Creek or Cherokee Nations, can be a party or a witness in any suit, to which a white man may be a party. It is said that this has been repealed by the statute of 1829. I think otherwise. The latter contains no repealing clause, nor any incompatible provisions. Both may well stand together, and both would be enforced according to the usual construction of statutes in parimateria (sic).  It is true, that a part of the title of the act is; to repeal that 9th section of the former. This is easily accounted for. The act, as first reported by the Committee, probably contained a repealing clause--which was stricken out by the more zealous majority--the original title remaining unchanged.

But suppose that only the law of 1829, is now in force. What is to be its effects? All the laws, usages, and customs of the Cherokees are abrogated, and severe punishments denounced against those who shall presume to act under them. Their Government is dissolved--their political existence is at an end--their nation is destroyed--it is dissolved into its original elements! We know that their lands are not holden by individual ownership; the title is in the nation. To annihilate the tribe, therefore, as a political community, is to destroy the owner; and the State is then to take the whole by her claim of succession.

By this statute; no Cherokee or descendant of a Cherokee can be a witness against any white man, who does not reside within the 'nation.' This devotes their property to the cupidity of their neighbors; it leaves them exposed to every outrage, which lawless passions can inflict. Even robbery and murder may be committed with impunity, at noon-day, if not in the presence of such white, as will become prosecutors or witnesses.

This, the gentleman from Georgia asserts, creates no new disability; that Indians are not competent to testify, by the common law, either in England or in this country. That I deny. They are good witnesses in both; and have been so, without question, ever since the case of the Gentoo, in the time of Lord Mansfield. Several were recently admitted by the Courts of New York, in a very important question of title to real estate near the falls of Nigara (sic); and I have myself seen a person, convicted of larceny, to a large amount, in the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, upon the testimony of an Indian.

But the Gentleman assigned, as a reason for his assertion, that a belief in a future state of rewards and punishments, was essential to their admissibility as witnesses. True, Sir, and so it is with respect to all others. The objection is as valid against a white as the red man. If this act creates no new disability, why was it passed? Why not leave them to the provisions of the common law? But Sir, we learn from an intelligent Missionary, that there are [ See 4th page] a there are a (sic) thousand members of Christian Churches. These, and all other true believers are excluded. Even those who are so distinguished for their knowledge, integrity and ability, that the Honorable Chairman would be willing himself, to be represented by them, in the Congress of the United States, are not permitted to testify in a court of justice.

Under these enactments, the Cherokees are aliens--in their native land; trespassers--upon their own soil; out laws--in the bosom of their own nation!

But why should I dwell upon the laws already passed, when the same power can, at will, produce others to effectuate their avowed determination. Who will pretend that the Indians can live under the legislation of the State? The Head of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, in a communication transmitted to Congress by the Secretary of War, declares that it will 'seal their destruction, as admitted by their Chiefs;' and the Honorable Chairman has frankly declared in this debate, that it will reduce them to the last degree of wretchedness;--his words were--'you cannot make a full blooded Indian more miserable' than by such subjection; and in his written opinion of 1824, he emphatically says, if 'the protection of the United States is withdrawn,' 'The Cherokee Nation cannot exist twelve months.'

The question now proposed, by this amendment, is, shall that protection be withdrawn; and the Indians be compelled to leave their country under the penalty of certain destruction, if they remain?

Again, Sir, I reply--our treaties--our treaties.  The Indians object, and the United States have solemnly promised to interpose at their request. In no other instances have they opposed State legislation, and demanded our interposition. This is a sufficient answer.

But this topic has been so much urged, and the  effort has been so great to find shelter under the precedents of other States, that I will bestow upon them a moment's attention. That principally relied upon, and the only one specified, is a law of New York passed four or five years ago--The occasion was this. In one of the little reduced tribes, within that State, a female had been executed as a witch. The executioner was indicted in the State Court before the Judge and convicted.  The question of jurisdiction was carried to the superior court, who never came to a decision, but advised a pardoning act; whereupon this law was passed, which punishes certain high crimes committed within the tribe. Its sole object was the protection of the Indians, and it seems to have been by their consent, they have never objected, much less claimed our interposition?  Does this bear any analogy to the  case of Georgia and the Cherokees?  When another tribe, the Oneidas, formed a constitution of Government similar to that of the Cherokees, did New York interfere to destroy it and dissolve the nation? Far otherwise, they protected them in its enjoyment. And such has been the general character of legislation of other States. I shall not go back to the early days of colonial vassalage, although it is surprising that so little colour (sic) of precedent is to be found, even when the weakness of infancy was struggling for existence against the power of the savages.  I speak of the States, since they became such, under the Confederation, or the Federal Constitution; and say that their general legislation has been--not over the Indians and acting upon the individuals within the territory of their tribe; but protecting and preserving them as a distinct community--operating upon the whites and restraining them from inflicting wrongs and injuries. The legislation of Georgia has thrown over them a net which binds every limb in fetters; but is no shield of defence (sic)against assaults; whilst that of other States has erected around them against encroachments.

This bill, Mr. President, provides for the removal of the Indians to distant regions, beyond the Mississippi; and it is proposed to place no less than half a million of dollars in the hands of the Secretary of War for that purpose. The amendment, now under consideration, declares that they shall be protected, in the enjoyment of their rights, until they shall choose to remove. The necessity of such a provision is apparent. Without it, they have no option. Without it, this bill will add to the pressure of the torrent that is sweeping them away.

Is it not known that Acts for holding Indian treaties have been used as instruments of coercion? When our commissioners have met the chiefs in council to obtain further acquisition of territory, have they not sometimes asked only what will you reserve? And when the answer has been, we have no lands to spare--we will cede nothing; the question is repeated--what will you reserve?--Congress have passed a law for the purpose of obtaining a portion of your soil--the United States are strong--their arms now sleep in peace--beware how you arouse them from their slumbers!

Not only has terror been inspired, but other means have been resorted to, to cause the women to influence their husbands; the children to beseech their parents; the warriors to urge the chiefs; until their firmness is overcome. It is related of a venerable chief, that yielding at last to this irresistible pressure, he signed the fatal parchment in tears--declaring at the time that it was the death warrant of his nation.

Apprehending that our object is to obtain further cessions, the Indians have met us in council with fear and trembling. In one instance, five or six tribes being assembled our commissioners announced to them that our only desire was to establish and preserve peace among themselves; that we asked for no lands; -they instantly rent the air with acclamations of joy. No difficulties, no delays intervened-the treaties were accomplished at once.

It is uncharitable to suppose that agents to be appointed under the direction of those who are most concerned in our Indian affairs, may resort to force or terror?

Sir, the officer now at the head of the Indian Bureau, in his official report of a treaty of cession, made by him with the Creeks, states the fact, that in two successive councils he met only a firm denial; and in the third, he says, one individual being most prominent in his opposition, it was not until he 'broke him upon the spot' that the treaty was obtained! Yes, sir, that officer avows that he 'broke' one of the prominent chiefs in their own council, as the only means of accomplishing his purposes!

And in an official communication sent to us by the Secretary of War at the commencement of this session, the same officer recommends that the government should send an 'armed force' to the Cherokee country, to further the objects of this bill--the removal of the natives. He says indeed, that he would make a solemn declaration that the military were not to be used to compel them to leave their country; but only to give security to those that were willing to go.--And would such a declaration, even if made, do away the effect of the presence of our bayonets? What is the avowed purpose? To protect, against their own government and people, the individuals who may choose to emigrate; but not to afford any aid or countenance to those that may choose to remain. The chiefs may inquire, 'will these soldiers give us protection against the power of Georgia, if she shall attempt to force her laws upon us?' The reply must be, 'Oh no--the PRESIDENT has decided that she has a right to govern you; and if you should resist, the United States are bound to assist her in the execution of her laws against all opposition--When the British minister remonstrated against the Emperor Alexander's annexing a part of Poland to his dominions he replied--I have three hundred thousand soldiers in that country.  The argument was conclusive. If the Cherokees should hesitate: they might in insignificant silence be pointed to our glittering bayonets!

It is recommended to send an armed force to enable the Cherokees to deliberate freely!

When the Roman orator appeared in defence of Milo; he found the forum surrounded by an armed force, accompanied no doubt by the declaration that it was only to preserve tranquillity.  But even the tongue of Cicero was palsied by the formidable array, and his friend and client was abandoned to his fate. We know; Sir, how the deliberations of the Parliament of Great Britain, and the National Conventions of France, have been aided by the presence of an armed force; and history abounds with similar examples.

I confess, Sir, that I cannot but indulge fears of the use which may be made by the War Department, of the half of million of dollars, to be appropriated by this bill. We do know, that, in making Indian treaties, there have been instances of valuable reservations of lands, and large sums of money, being secretly given to individual Chiefs, by confidential arrangements, to induce them to yield to our wishes and betray the confidence reposed in them by their nation. Is it uncharitable to apprehend that such things may happen under the directions of the present Secretary of War?

Toward that high officer I have no feeling of unkindness. I seek no imputation upon his motives; but his official acts I am bound, by the duties of my station, to examine. Look at the instructions given by him in May last, to General Carroll who was sent as an agent of the Government to induce the Cherokees to a removal. They express throughout much solicitude for the welfare of the Indians and profess to consult their best interests. But I am constrained to look at the acts to be done-the course of conduct prescribed. He is directed not to meet the Cherokees in 'general Council' for 'the consequence would be, what it has been, a firm refusal to acquiesce;' but to 'appeal to the Chiefs and influential men--not together, but apart at their own houses; and to make offers to them of extensive reservations in fee simple and other rewards' to obtain 'their acquiescence.' He is further told--'the more careful you are to secure from even the Chiefs the official character you bear the better'--and again, ~Go to them not as a negotiator,  but as friend.' 'Open to each a view of his danger'--again, 'enlarge upon the advantage of their condition in the West-- there the General Government would protect them--improve them by instruction.' They would become our equals  in privileges civil and religious, and that 'by refusing' to remove--'they must, necessarily, entail destruction upon their race.'

I cannot but remark the parallel between the course here prescribed and that which expelled our first parents from Paradise.

When the arch temper sought their removal, he assailed them 'not together;'  lest their joint 'council' should have baffled his arts; but found the feebler woman 'apart' from her husband, deprived of the aid of her natural adviser--and carefully concealing his `official character'--of Satanic majesty; assuming the guise of a 'friend;' a kind instructor he told her pursue the course which I advise, and the evils which have been predicted shall not follow!--'ye shall not surly 'die'--but you shall be enlightened and elevated--your eyes shall be opened and ye shall be as gods knowing good and evil.' She listened and yielded--

'Earth felt the wound, and nature from

her seat

Sighing through all her works gave

signs of woe

That all was lost.'

She was then made the instrument of seducing the man also- And both were driven from the Garden of Eden where their Creator had placed them to the unsubdued wilderness of the world-and a flaming sword forever barred their return,

The adoption of such measures is, in the language of the military Secretary to 'move upon them in the line of their prejudices.' And upon whom is it that we thus move? Those whom we have most solemnly promised to protect as faithful guardians; whom we have called brothers; whom we have taught to look up to the President, as their great father. Yes, we have endeavored to obtain over them the influence of a parent; but do we perform toward them the duties of that sacred relation?

It is said that we must resort to such measures; they are unavoidable. The plea of state necessity is advanced. And is this great country, with peace in all its borders, now controlled by an irresistible power, that knows no role and consults no law? Does this measure wear the garp (sic) of state necessity? That, Sir, is a high handed tyrant--not a smooth-tongued seducer. It is a lion, seizing its prey with open and resistless strength--not a serpent winding its sinuous way in secret to its victim.

Without the adoption of this amendment, the Cherokees have no choice, but between the miseries of emigration and destruction where they are.

It is contended that it is for their best interest to remove. Leave that, Sir, to their own decision. Our judgement may be too much guided by our own convenience. We undertook to judge for the Seminoles in Florida. We asked for their fertile lands; they objected, asserting that the residue would not support existence. We persisted; and found means at last to obtain a reluctant cession. They departed in the deepest sorrow from their homes of comfort and plenty, to encounter want and misery upon a barren waste. Nineteen-twentieths of the territory which we left to them, consisted of sands where no verdure quickened, and of swamps upon which human life could not be sustained. The dreary description officially given by Governor Duval can hardly be exceeded.  The consequence was, suffering, and starvation. The government was forthwith compelled to give twenty thousand dollars for food to preserve life, and to retrocede a portion of their territory.

Whither are the Cherokees to go? What are the benefits of the change? What system has been matured for their security? What laws for their government? These questions are answered only by gilded promises in general terms; they are to become enlightened ' civilized husbandmen.

They now live by the cultivation of the soil, and the mechanic arts. It is proposed to sent them from their cotton fields, their farms, and their gardens; to a distant and an unsubdued wilderness--to make them tillers of the earth!--to remove them from their looms, their work shops, their printing press, their schools, and churches near the white settlements; to frowning forests, surrounded with naked savages-that they may become enlightened and civilized! We have pledged to them our protection--and instead of shielding them where they now are, within our reach, under our own arm, we send these, natives of southern climes to northern regions, amongst fierce ' warlike barbarians. And what security do we propose to them?--a new guarantee!! who can look an Indian in the face; and say to him; we and our fathers, for more than 40 years have made to you the most solemn promises; we now violate and trample upon them all; but offer you to their stead--another guarantee!!

Will they be in no danger of attack, from the primitive inhabitants of the regions to which they emigrate? How can it be other wise? The official documents show us the fact, that some of the few, who have already gone, were involved in conflicts with the native tribes and compelled to a second removal.

How are they to subsist? Has not that country now, as great an Indian population, as it can sustain? What has become of the original occupants? Have we not already caused accessions to their numbers and been compressing them more and more? Is not the consequence inevitable that some must be stinted in the means of subsistence?  Here too we have the light of experience. By an official communication from Governor Clark, the Superintendent of Indian affairs; we learn that the most powerful tribes west of the Mississippi are, every year, so distressed by famine, that many die for want of food. The scenes of their suffering are hardly exceeded by the sieges of Jerusalem, asd (sic) Samaria. There might be seen the miserable mother, in all the tortures which hunger can inflict, giving her last morsel for the sustenance of child, and then fainting, sinking, and actually dying of starvation! And the orphan?--no one can spare it food--it is put alive into the grave of the parent, which thus closes over the quick and the dead! And this not in a solitary instance only, but repeatedly  and frequently. 'The living child is often buried with the dead mother.' *

Mr. President: I am aware that their white neighbors desire the absence of the Indians; and if they can find safety and subsistence beyond the Mississippi, I should rejoice exceedingly at their removal, because it would relieve the States of their presence. I would do much to effect a consummation so devoutly to be wished. But let it be by their own free choice, unawed by fear, unseduced by bribes. Let us not compel them by withdrawing the protection, which we have pledged. Theirs must be the pain of departure, and the hazard of the change. They are men, and have the feelings and attachments of men; and if all the ties which bind them to their country, and their homes are to be rent asunder; let it be by their own free hand. If they are to leave forever the streams, at which they have drank, and the trees under which they reclined: if the fires are never more to be lighted up in the council house of their chiefs; and must be quenched forever upon the domestic hearth by the tears of the inmates, who have there joined the nuptial feast, and the funeral wail; if they are to look to the last time upon the land of the birth-which drank up the blood of their fathers shed in its defence-and is mingled with the sacred dust of children and friends-to turn their aching vision to distant regions enveloped in darkness and surrounded by dangers-let it be by their own free choice, not by the coercion of a withdrawal of the protection of our plighted faith. They can best appreciate the dangers and difficulties which beset their path. It is their fate which is impending: and it is their right to judge; while we have no warrant to falsify our promise.

It is said that their existence cannot be preserved: that it is the doom of Providence, that they must perish. So indeed, must we all; but let it be in the course of nature not by the hand of violence. If in truth, they are now in the decrepitude of age; let us permit them to live out all their days and die in peace; not bring down their grey hairs in blood, to a foreign grave.

I know, Sir, to what I expose myself. To feel any solicitude for the fate of the Indians may be ridiculed as false philanthropy and morbid sensibility.  Others may boldly say 'their blood be upon us;' and sneer at scruples as a weakness, unbecoming the stern character of a politician.

If, Sir, in order to become such, it be necessary to divest the mind of the principles of good faith and moral obligation; and harden the heart against every touch of humanity; I confess that I am not, and by the blessing of Heaven, will never be--a politician.

Sir, we cannot wholly silence the monitor within.  It may not be heard amidst the clashing of the arena; in the tempest and convulsions of political contentions: but its 'still small voice' will speak to us-when we meditate alone at eventide;--in the silent watches of the night; when we lie down ' when we rise up from a solitary pillow;--and in that dread hour when--'not what we have done for ourselves, but what we have done for others' will be our joy and our strength; when- to have secured a  spot of earth upon which to rest his aching head-to have given him but a cup of cold water in charity: will be a greater treasure than to have been the conquerers of kingdoms and lived in luxury upon their spoils.

*Extracted from an official report of General Clark, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, dated March 1, 1826.



'The condition of many tribes west of the Mississippi is the most pitiable that can be imagined. During several seasons  in ever year they are distressed by famine in which many die for want of food, and during which the living child is often buried with the dead mother, because no one can spare as much as would sustain it through its helpless infancy. This description applies to Sioux, Osages, and many others, but I mention those, because they are powerful tribes, and live near our borders, and my official station enables me to know the exact truth. It is in vain to talk to people in this condition about learning and religion.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Arkansas Gazette

THE INDIANS-CHAPTER FIRST

There is a point of endurance in human suffering, beyond which submission is meanness, ' silence would be worse than base slavishness. To remedy trifling evils, requires some effort, how much greater, then, must be the exertion necessary to overcome vast evils, when a whole community experience the anguish of hope deferred, and promises violated or totally disregarded.

For any individual to undertake, singly, the achievement of any thing truly valuable to mankind, without the hope of a just and faithful co-operation of those in power, would be as vain as it would be ridiculous. But there is a polar star always existing in the moral, as well as the physical world, which should regulate the course of the mariner, sailing on either ocean. My course shall be directed to the genius, integrity, and intelligence, of the President of the United States, as the polar guides, which are to conduct the Philanthropist to that haven, which will secure to the Indians justice and stay the hand of their rapacious and cruel oppresors (sic).

The Indians were induced to emigrate to Arkansas-first, by the promises of Jefferson, supported by the treaties of Monroe, ' again renewed and strengthened by those of Adams. They confided in the pledges given, and to the acceptance of which they were invoked by the courtesies of the Government and the kind expressions of its officers-avowing as the object of the whites-the preservation of Indian tribes--the communication of civilization, intelligence, and morality--perfected into bliss, by the aids of Christ's holy religion.  These were exalted motives--such as would re-reflect real benefits on the Indians, and throw back upon the character of the United States, honor and the brightest sunshine of national glory.  It would associate well with the highest achievements of heroism and intelligence that have ever emblazoned the American character! It would sustain the integrity of the country, and comport, seemly, with its character at a distance. It would present the rare and beautiful spectacle, of a country, renowned in arms, vast in her resources, unconquerable by foreign enemies--reposing in the consciousness of her own power--at the same time cherishing a love of justice, maintaining the faith of treaties--redeeming her pledges solemnly, and voluntarily given to a people, from whom power, united with injustice, can only withhold their fulfilment (sic)!

Where stood the Indian of other days? He stood on the shore of the Atlantic, and beheld, each morning, the sun rolling from the bosom of its green waves. In that sun he beheld his God, and bowed in homage to the shrine. He felt that no intermediate creature, could usurp the favor of his Divinity. He was monarch of the wilds, and his buoyant step proclaimed him, 'every inch a king.' That age has long gone by--the aboriginal character is almost lost in the views of the white man, or by a series of impositions. A succession of injuries has broken his proud spirit, ' taught him to kiss the hand which inflicts upon him stripes--to cringe, and ask favors of the wretch, who violates his oath, by defrauding him out of his annuities, or refusing to pay him money promised by treaties--basely retaining it, for purpose of speculation--by becoming a partner in trade, with creatures selected for the purpose--or a secret partner, in all contracts for which the Government has selected him as its agent.

If this were the limit of injustice to, ' fraud upon, the Indians, ' spec-speculation (sic) upon the Government, it would be tolerable--but when, added to this, the introduction of ardent spirits, in vast quantities, by the agents-the quantity sold by their knowledge, and with their connivance, ensures to the Indians, a certain, if not a speedy destruction!

It would require much time, and attention to subject, to place it in a situation where the wisdom of the President would be brought to act fairly upon it. For that purpose, the writer of this article will pursue the subject, by chapters, in which he holds himself pledged to exhibit a scene of corruption in the agents of the United States, without a parallel--unless it is to be found in the conduct of Warren Hastings, while employed in the East Indies. At the same time that he regrets the necessity of exposing this delinquents deserved odium--he will nevertheless feel himself warranted, in so doing, by the facts and circumstances of the case. They were or are at this time, public functionaries, and as such they are amenable to public censure. They have betrayed and abused public trust, and therefore deserve public denunciation. And however earnest the writer of this article may be, in his wishes to see all the Indians, now residing East of the Mississippi, removed to Arkansas, he must confess, that, until the Government does appoint honest ' capable Agents, for the different tribes already here, it would be a hapless journey for those to undertake who are in search of peace of happiness. Were it not for the injustice of the Agents to the Indians, on the Arkansas, I should deem it the most appropriate abode of the Indian. He might indeed look to this as a land of happiness and contentment. But until suitable Agents are sent to them, they can only regard this as the of land (sic) promises! where fraud will supplant faith, and justice triumph over humanity! At this very moment many emigrants are destitute of provisions promised to them by Government, under the treaty of 1828, while hundreds are ready to furnish the accustomed nations of six or seven cents each. When will justice be done? Celenda est Carthage!

TAH-LOHN-TUS-KY

________________________________

From the Auburn, (N. Y. ) Free Press.

Where are the Indians to be driven? 'West of the Mississippi,' say the Georgians.  And does not humanity inquire, What is to be their condition there? By an official report of Gen. Clark, Superintendent of Indian Affairs, in March, 1826 he says 'the condition of the Indians west of the Mississippi is the most pitiable that can be imagined. During several seasons in each year they are distressed by famine, in which many die for want of food and the living child is often buried with the dead mother, because no one can spare it as much food as will sustain it through its helpless infancy.' Yet to this land of famine and death are the Cherokees to be driven-for this are they to exchange their cultivated farms and the enjoyment of civilization, and for no better reason than because Georgia has said 'she must and wil (sic) have their land.' Did not strict justice forbid the removal of the Indians as contemplated by this bill, humanity would interpose to prevent the exile of a once powerful race from the possession bequeathed to them by the Great Spirit, ' whose title, thereto are as strong and firmly established as the law and usages of civilized man can make them.

The page of human sufferings is black already with the records of the wrongs done to the Indians of this continent: the disgrace these wrongs have brought upon this land is enough, without enhancement.  From every hill and from every valley they have called upon the Great Spirit to look down upon these wrongs, they have been driven from their homes by the ruthless rapacious hand of war ' persecution-their blood has been poured out like water to fatten the soil which was their inheritance--they have been hunted like wild beasts of the forest-they have been dragged from their hiding places, and butchered in cold blood. And the hand of the destroyer is not staid. This is no exaggeration of facts--it is but a feeble picture of Indian wrongs. As yet their appeals to the Great Spirit, the God alike of the white man and the red, has brought down no visitings of wrath upon their persecutors: but may we not dread that these appeals have not passed unnoticed ' unheard--that they are written in the book of eternal remembrance, and that the day of vengeance and redress will not be withheld.

HOWARD

__________________________________

.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NATIONAL COUNCIL.

The special Council of the Cherokee Nation convened on last Monday. On Tuesday at 10 O'clock, the members of the Committee and Council assembled, and after the reading of a portion of Scripture by the Rev. S. A. Worcester, and a prayer to Almighty God, the following communication from the Principal Chief was read. On Wednesday Thursday and Friday, the Council were employed in reading various documents.

______________________________________

Page 2 Col. 3a-4b

MESSAGE

Of the Principal Chief in the General Council of the Cherokee Nation.

To the Committee and Council,

In Genl. Council convened.

Friends and Fellow Citizens--The constituted authorities of Georgia having assumed the power to exercise sovereign jurisdiction over a large portion of our territory, and our political Father, the Chief Magistrate of the United States, having declared that he possesses no power to oppose, or interfere with Georgia in this matter, our relations with the United States are placed in a strange dilemma. The grave aspect of this picture calls for your calm and serious reflections. I have therefore deemed it my incumbent duty, on this extraordinary occasion, to convene the General Council of the Cherokee Nation.

The prayers of our memorials before the Congress of the United States have not been answered. But it is gratifying to know that numerous similar petitions from various sections of the United States have been presented in favour (sic) of our cause by a large portion of the most respectable class of the community, and that our rights have been ably vindicated in Congress by some of the most distinguished statesmen. But notwithstanding the unanswerable arguments which have been advanced, under these appeals, there seems to have been a settled determination, by a small majority in Congress, to make further efforts to bring about a removal of all the Indians east of the Mississippi, beyond that great river, by making the question a general one, and acting upon the principles of policy and expediency--the respective claims and rights of each tribe under existing treaties with the United States were viewed only as a secondary consideration-consequently, an act has been passed 'To provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the states or territories, and for their removal west of the river Mississippi.' The House of Representatives, however, by a very large majority, adopted this amendment which has been accepted by the Senate, 'Provided that nothing in this act shall be construed as authorizing or directing the violation of any existing treaty between the United States and any of the Indian tribes.'

It is much to be regretted that we find in the reports of some of the acting Agents of the General Government and other designing and interested individuals, that our true motives, disposition and condition have been grossly perverted and misrepresented.--This may in part be attributed to a want of correct and full information upon the points of which they pretend to speak, and in some respects to an inclination to deceive the public with the view of effecting certain political ends.

The fee simple title to our soil has been vainly asserted to be in the people of Georgia; and that state has arrogated to herself the power to exercise sovereign jurisdiction over us, and by legislative enactments, has declared all our laws, ordinances, orders, regulations and usages to be null and void, and peremptorily demands submission to her proscriptive and oppressive laws, under the most degrading circumstances. She has pointed to her jails, penitentiary and gallows for practising (sic) obedience to our own laws; and independent of all our treaties with the United States, and the acts of Congress which have been passed for the protection of our individual and national rights, the Chief Magistrate of the Union has warned us against any hope of interference on his part, with Georgia, in the exercise of this power, -yet, he says that such power as the laws give him for our protection, shall be executed for our benefit, and this will not fail to be exercised in keeping out intruders; beyond this he cannot go. An officer commanding a detachment of U. S. Troops, who has been ordered into the nation, as it is said, for the purpose of removing intruders, has communicated to the Cherokees at the Gold mines the following notice.

'That an arrangement has been entered into by which there will be mutual assistance between the United States Troops and the civil authority of Georgia in all civil processes, the jurisdiction of Georgia having been extended over the chartered limits, and all the natives are hereby advised to return to their homes and submit to the proclamation of the State authority.

[Signed] E. TRAINER

Lieut. Com'g.

'P.S. They cannot be supported any longer in any thing inconsistent with the laws of the State.'

Thus you will see that the rights and liberties of the Cherokee people are most grievously assailed.

Our delegation were authorized, if it should become necessary, to consult and employ counsel to defend our cause before the Supreme Court of the United States, in which tribunal, as the conservatory of the Constitution, Treaties, and laws of the Union, we can yet hope for justice, and to which we should fearlessly and firmly appeal.--I would therefore, recommend the expediency of passing a law, authorizing some person to assert the rights of the Cherokee Nation in all Courts of law and equity in the United States; also to address the President of the United States frankly, openly and respectfully, on the subject of our unhappy situation, and request his parental interference in all points as far as the treaties and laws of the United States acknowledge and secure to us our rights; until the controversy at issue with Georgia be decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.

I would further submit for your consideration the necessity of adoption some suitable and proper regulation for the observance of our citizens in working the Gold mines of the nation and other valuable minerals, such as the public inters and the peace and good order of society may seem to require.

Confiding in the superintending care of a kind Providence, we should not despair, even should we for a season be plunged into the cells of Georgia's prisons--means for our deliverance may yet be found.  Let us not forget the circumstance related in Holy writ, of the safe passage of the children of Israel through the chrystal (sic) walls of the Red Sea and the fate of their wicked pursuers; let our faith in the unsearchable mysteries of an Omnipotent and all-wise Being be unshaken, for in the appearance of impossibilities, there is still hope. JNO. ROSS.

 New Echota, C.N. July 1830

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

New Echota: July 17, 1830

The agent of this nation has lately received two letters from the War Department, one informing him that orders have been forwarded to the Commander of the U. S. Troops for the removal of all persons from the Gold mines, the other directing him to pay the annuity, which has been for several years paid to the treasurer, to the individuals of the Cherokee Nation. These are extraordinary documents-we shall lay them before our readers next week. They will reveal a course of policy on the part of the government towards the Indians by no means anticipated by the public.

____________________________

We had intended to give our readers some account of the conduct of the State of Georgia towards these Cherokees who are engaged in digging Gold in their own country- but we cannot at this time. The account lately given in this paper may be relied upon as perfectly correct. We will, however, state, in order that the public may be constantly apprized of the principal facts as they occur, that on the 9th inst. writs of Injunction were served by the Sheriff of Hall County, on eleven of our citizens for the crime of working their own mines. They are told, if this injunction is not obeyed, imprisonment without bail will be the consequence. So the next thing the reader will learn will, probably be, that some of the Cherokees are in the jail of Hall County. The editor of this paper was present when the writs were served.

_______________________________

Among the documents attached to the speech of Mr. Forsyth, in the Senate of the United States, on the Indian Bill, is a letter from Maj. F. W. Armstrong of Alabama, to the Hon. Hugh L. White. He describes the condition of the Cherokees in a bold manner indeed, and with very little regard to truth. A few extracts will suffice.

He says,

From 1809 to 1812, I was in the habit of being often in the country, having in the early part of 1812, kept a store at Highwassee Garrison, where a daily intercourse took place between us. It is, therefore, with feelings of deep regret, that, after twenty years have rolled away, I am forced, from my own observation to believe, that a large proportion of the natives are no better off that they were when I first knew them; nor are they more civilized.

Major Armstrong did come into this Nation in 1828 but what advantages did he enjoy  to become correctly informed of the true situation of the Cherokees? Did he travel extensively in the nation? Did he visit the different parts of the Country and minutely examine the State of the inhabitants? No. He passed on one of the public roads as another traveller would, and of course could by no means tell, if he was disposed to do justly, what was the present condition of the people.

He says also,

I have witnessed, with some degree of mortification, a disposition evinced on the part of some who know better, a willingness to encourage the ignorant in their superstitious habits and customs.

Does

Major  Armstrong know whom he implicates? When he kept a store at Highwassee Garrison, who was foremost in encouraging the ignorant in their superstitious habits and customs? Was it not Francis W. Armstrong? Let him deny it if he will. Certainly he ought to be the last man to moralize on the superstition of the Cherokees.

In going from the agency to Newtown, he passed but two good farms.- Capt M'Nairs' and Joseph Vann's. What of that? In some parts of the United States, we have travelled one hundred miles without passing a single farm as respectable as either of the two which Major Armstrong has thought proper to notice. To be fair and honest he ought to have stated the distance between the Agency and Newtown, and told frankly the quality of the soil and the number of other farms. It ought to be recollected that the population of this nation is not very dense, ' that a Cherokee hardly ever settles except of good land.

But the climax of all misrepresentations and barefaced falsehoods is contained in the following paragraph!

The leading men of the nation have a great desire to get rich. The fondness for wealth is as great as any people I have met with---missionaries always excepted---who make it a business, as far as my knowledge extends, to select a cite for their establishments on the side of a road, where they can keep entertainment, ready at all times to shelter the weary and benighted traveller, with a determination to make him pay double as much as is customary--taking care, at the same time, to get their work (as is generally understood) done by the poor native for little or nothing. All this may perhaps, come under the head of civilization; if so, their object is attained.

Making remarks on such slanders would be only giving importance to them.

The object which he had in view in the above quotations is developed in the following sentence:

From any knowledge of the Indian character (and my visits have not been confined alone to the Cherokees) I am convinced that it would be an act of the greatest charity to induce these people to emigrate West of the Mississippi.

Did you not think also that it would be charity to you to induce these people to emigrate? For were you not one of the bidders, at the time when your letter was written, for removing these immoral and superstitious  Indians beyond the great river? Did you not offer to drive  them over at eight or nine dollars per head. Yes, at eight or nine dollars PER HEAD!!

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

Address of the 'Committee and Council of the Cherokee Nation in General Council convened' to the people of the United States.



Some months ago a delegation was appointed by the constituted authorities of the Cherokee Nation, to repair to the City of Washington, and, in behalf of this Nation to lay before the Government of the United States such representations as should seem most likely to secure to us as a people that protection, aid, and good neighborhood, which had been so often promised to us, and of which we stand in great need. Soon after their arrival in the City they presented to Congress a petition from our National Council, asking for the interposition of that body in our behalf, especially with reference to the laws of Georgia, which were suspended in a most terrifying manner over a large part of our population, and protesting in the most decided terms against the operation of these laws. In the course of the winter they presented petitions to Congress signed by more than four thousand of our citizens, including probably more than nineteen twentieths, and for ought we can tell ninety nine hundredths of the adult males of the nation (our whole population being about sixteen thousand,) pleading with the assembled representatives of the American people, that the solemn engagements between their fathers and our fathers may be preserved, as they have been till recently in full force and continued operation; asking, in a word, for protection against threatened usurpation, and for a faithful execution of a guaranty, which is perfectly plain in its meaning has been repeatedly and rigidly enforced in our favor, and has received the sanction of the government of the United States for nearly forty years.

More than a year ago we were officially given to understand by the Secretary of War that the President could not protect us against the laws of Georgia. This information was entirely unexpected; as it went upon the principle that treaties made between the United States and the Cherokee Nation have no power to withstand the legislation of separate States; and of course that they have not efficacy whatever, but leave our people to the mercy of the neighboring whites, whose supposed interests would be promoted by our expulsion or extermination. It would be impossible to describe the sorrow which effected our minds on learning that the Chief magistrate of the United States had come to this conclusion, that all his illustrious predecessors had held intercourse with us on principles which could not be sustained; that they had made promises of vital importance to us, which could not be fulfilled- promises made hundreds of times, in almost every conceivable manner- often in the form of solemn treaties, sometimes in letters written by the Chief magistrate with his own hand, very often in letters written by the Secretary of War under his direction, sometimes orally by the President and the Secretary to our chiefs, and frequently, and always both orally and in writing for the Agent of the United States residing among us, whose most important business it was to see the guaranty of the United States faithfully executed.

Soon after the War of the Revolution, as we have learned from our fathers, the Cherokees looked upon the promises of the whites with great distrust and suspicion; but the frank and magnanimous conduct of General Washington did much to allay these feelings. The perseverance of successive Presidents, and especially of Mr. Jefferson in the same course of policy, and in the constant assurance that our country should remain inviolate, except so far as we voluntarily ceded it nearly perished anxiety in regard to encroachments from the whites. To this result the aid which we received from the United States in the attempts of our people to become civilized, and the kind efforts of benevolent societies have greatly contributed. Of late years, however, much solicitude was occasioned among our people by the claims of Georgia. This solicitude arose from an apprehension that by extreme importunity, threats, and other undue influence, a treaty would be made, which should cede the territory and thus compel the inhabitants to remove. But it never occurred to us for a moment, that without any new treaty, without any assent of our rulers and people, without even a pretended compact, and against our vehement and unanimous protestations, we should be delivered over to the discretion of those, who had declared by a legislative act, that they wanted the Cherokee lands and would have them.

Finding that relief could not be obtained from the Chief Magistrate, and not doubting that our claim to protection was just, we made our application to Congress. During four long months our delegation waited at the doors of the National Legislature of the United States, and the people at home, in the most painful suspense, to learn in what manner our application would be answered; ' now that Congress has adjourned, on the very day before the date fixed by Georgia for the extension of her oppressive laws over the greater part of our country, the distressing intelligence has been received that we have received no answer at all; and no department of the Government has assured us, that we are to receive the desired protection. But just at the close of the session, an act was passed, by which half a million of dollars was appropriated towards effecting a removal of Indians; and we have great reason to fear that the influence of this act, will be brought to bear most injuriously upon us. The passage of this act is certainly understood by the representatives of Georgia as abandoning us to the oppressive and cruel measures of the State, and is sustaining the opinion that treaties with Indians do not restrain State Legislation.  We are informed by those who are competent to judge that the resent act does not admit of such construction; but that the passage of it under the actual circumstances of the controversy, will be considered as sanctioning the pretensions of Georgia, there is too much reason to fear.

Thus have we realized with heavy hearts, that our supplication has not been heard; that the protection heretofore experienced is now to be withheld; that the guaranty in consequence of which our fathers laid aside their arms and ceded the best portion of our country means nothing and that was must either emigrate to an unknown region and leave the pleasant land to which we have the strongest attachments, or submit to the legislation of a State, which has already made our people outlaws and enacted that any Cherokee, who shall endeavor to prevent the selling of his country shall be imprisoned in the Penitentiary of Georgia not less than four years. To our countrymen, this has been melancholy intelligence and with the most bitter disappointment has it been received.

But in the midst of our sorrows, we do not forget our obligations to our friends ' benefactors. It was with sensations of inexpressionable joy, that we have learned that the voice of thousands in many parts of the United States has been raised in our behalf, and the numerous memorials offered in our favor, in both houses of Congress. To these numerous friends, who have thus sympathized with us in our low estate, we tender our grateful acknowledgements. In pleading our cause, they have pleaded the cause of the poor and defenseless throughout the world. Our special thanks are due however, to those honorable men, who so ably, and eloquently asserted our rights, in both branches of the national legislature. Their efforts will be appreciated wherever the merits of this question shall be known; and we cannot but think that they have secured for themselves a permanent reputation among the disinterested advocates of humanity, equal rights, justice, and good faith. We even cherish the hope, that these efforts seconded and followed by others of a similar character, will yet be available, so far as to mitigate our sufferings, if not to effect our entire deliverance.

Before we close this address, permit us to state what we conceive to be our relations with the United States. After the peace of 1785, the Cherokees were an independent people; absolutely so, so much as any people on earth. They had been allies to Great Britain, and as a faithful ally, took a part in the colonial war on her side. They had placed themselves under her protection, and had they, without cause declared hostility against their protector, and had the colonies been subdued, what might not have been their fate? But her power on this continent was broken. She acknowledged the independence of the United States, and made peace. The Cherokees therefore stood alone; and in these circumstances continued the war.  They were then under no obligations to the United States any more than to Great Britain, France or Spain. The United States never subjugated the Cherokees; on the contrary, our fathers remained in possession of their country, and with arms in their hands.

The people of the United States sought a peace; and, in 1785, the Treaty of Hopewell was formed, by which the Cherokees came under the protection of the United States, and submitted to such limitation of sovereignty as are mentioned in that instrument. None of these limitations however, effected in the slightest degree their rights of self government and inviolate territory. The citizens of the United States had no right of passage through the Cherokee country till the year 1791, and then only in one direction, and by an express treaty stipulation. When the Federal Constitution was adopted the Treaty of Hopewell was contained, with all other treaties, as the Supreme law of the land. In 1791, the Treaty of Holston was made, by which the sovereignty of the Cherokees was qualified as follows: The Cherokees acknowledged themselves to be under the protection of the United States, and of no other sovereign. They engaged that they would not hold any treaty with a foreign power, with any separate state of the Union, or with individuals. They agreed that the United States should have the exclusive right of regulating their trade; that the citizens of the United States have a right of way in one direction through the Cherokee country; and that if an Indian should do injury to a citizen of the United States, he should be delivered up to be tried and punished. A cession lands was also made to the United States.  On the other hand, the United States paid a sum of money; offered protection; engaged to punish citizens of the United States who should do any injury to the Cherokees; abandoned white settlers on Cherokee lands to the discretion of the Cherokees, stipulated that white men should not hunt on these lands, nor even enter the country without a passport; and gave a solemn guaranty of all Cherokees lands not ceded. This treaty is the basis of all subsequent compacts; and in none of them are the relations of the parties at all changed.

The Cherokees have always fulfilled their engagements. They have never reclaimed those portions of sovereignty, which they surrendered by the treaties of Hopewell and Holston. These portions were surrendered for the purpose of obtaining the guaranty which was recommended to them as the great equivalent. Had they refused to comply with their engagements, there is no doubt the United States would have enforced a compliance. Is the duty of fulfilling engagements on the other side less binding than it would be, if the Cherokees had the power of entering their just claims?

The people of the United States will have the fairness to reflect; that all the treaties between them and the Cherokees were made at the sole invitation and for the benefit of the whites; that valuable considerations were given for every stipulation, on the part of the United States; that it is impossible to reinstate the parties in their former situation; that there are now hundreds of thousands of citizens of the United States residing upon lands ceded by the Cherokees in these very treaties, and that our people have trusted their country to the guaranty of the United States.  If this guaranty fails them, in what can they trust, and where can they look for protection?

We are aware, that some persons suppose it will be for our advantage to remove beyond the Mississippi. We think otherwise. Our people universally think otherwise. Thinking that it would be fatal to their interests, they have almost to a man sent their memorial to Congress, deprecating the necessity of a removal. This question was distinctly before their minds when they signed their memorial. Not an adult person can be found, who has not an opinion on the subject, and if the people were to understand distinctly, that they could be protected against the laws of the neighboring States, there is probably not an adult person in the nation who would think it best to remove; though possibly a few might emigrate individually. There are doubtless many, who would flee to an unknown country, however, beset with dangers, privations and sufferings, rather than be sentenced to spend six years in a Georgia prison for advising one of their neighbors not to betray his country. And there are others who could not think of living as outlaws in their native land, exposed to numberless vexations, and excluded from being parties of witnesses in a court of justice. It is incredible that Georgia should ever have enacted the oppressive laws, to which reference is here made, unless she had supposed that something extremely terrific in its character was necessary in order to make the Cherokees willing to remove.  We are not willing to remove; and if we could be brought to this extremity, it would be not by argument, not because our judgment was satisfied, not because our condition will be improved; but only because we cannot endure to be deprived of our national and individual rights and subjected to a process of intolerable oppression.

We wish to remain on the land of our fathers.  We have a perfect ' original right to claim without interruption or molestation. The treaties with us, and laws of the United States made in pursuance of treaties, guaranty our residence, and our privileges and secure us against intruders. Our only request is, that these treaties may be fulfilled, and these laws executed.

But if we are compelled to leave our country, we see nothing but ruin before us. The country west of the Arkansas territory is unknown to us. From what we can learn of it, we have no prepossessions in its favor. All the inviting parts of it, as we believe, are preoccupied by various Indian nations, to which it has become assigned. They would regard us as intruders, and look upon us with an evil eye.  The far greater part of that region is, beyond all controversy, badly supplied with wood and water; and no Indian tribe can live as agriculturists with these articles. All our neighbors in case of our removal though crowded into our near vicinity, would speak a language totally different from ours and practice different customs The original possessors of that region are now wandering savages, lurking for prey in the neighborhood. They have always been at war, and would be easily tempted to turn their arms against peaceful emigrants. Were the country to which we are urged much better than it is represented to be, and were it free from objections which we have made to it, still it is not the land of our birth, nor of our affections. It contains neither the scenes of our childhood, nor the graves of our fathers.

The removal of families to a new country, even under the most favorable auspices, and when the spirits are sustained by pleasing visions of the future, is attended with much depression of mind and sinking of heart. This is the case, when the removal is a matter of decided preference, and when the persons concerned are in early youth or vigorous manhood. Judge, then, what must be the circumstances of a removal, when a whole community, embracing persons of all classes and every description, from the infant to the man of extreme old age, the sick, the blind, the lame,- the improvident, the reckless, the desperate, as well as the prudent- the considerate, the industrious, are compelled to remove by odious and intolerable vexations and persecutions, brought upon them in the forms of law, when all will agree only in this, that they have been cruelly robbed of their country, in violation of the most solemn compacts which it is possible for communities to form with each other; and that if they should make themselves comfortable in their residence, they have nothing to expect hereafter but to be the victims of a future legalized robbery!

Such we deem, and are absolutely certain, will be the feelings of the whole Cherokee people, if they are forcibly compelled by the laws of Georgia to remove; and with these feelings, how is it possible that we should pursue our present course of improvement, or avoid sinking into utter despondency? We have been called a poor, ignorant, and degraded people. We certainly are not rich; nor have we ever boosted of our knowledge of our moral or intellectual elevation. But there is not a man within our limits so ignorant as not to know that he has a right to live on the land of his fathers, in the possession of his immemorial privileges, and that this right has been acknowledged and guaranteed by the United States; nor is there a man so degraded as not to feel a keen sense of injury, on being deprived of this right and driven into exile.

It is under a sense of the most pungent feelings that we make this, perhaps our last appeal to the good people of the United States. It cannot be that the community we are addressing, remarkable for its intelligence and religious sensibilities, and prominent for its devotion to the rights of man, will lay aside this appeal, without considering that we stand in need of its sympathy and commiseration. We know that to the Christian and Philanthropist the voice of our multiplied sorrows and fiery trials will not appear as an idle tale in our own land, on our own soil, and in our own dwellings, which were reared for our wives, and for our little ones when there was peace on our mountains and in our valleys, we are encountering troubles which cannot but try our very souls. But shall we on account of these troubles, forsake our beloved country? Shall we, be compelled by a civilized and Christian people, with whom we have lived in perfect peace for the last forty years, and for whom we have willingly bled in war, to bid a final adieu to our homes, our farms, our streams, and our beautiful forests? No. We are still firm. We intend still to cling with our wonted affection to the land which gave us birth and which every day of our lives brings to us new and stronger ties of attachment. We appeal to the judge of all the earth who will fairly award us justice, and to the good sense of the American people, whether we are intruding upon the land of others. Our consciences bear us witness that we are the invaders of no man's rights-we have robbed no man of his territory-we have usurped no man's authority, nor have we deprived anyone of his unalienable privileges. How then shall we indirectly confess the right of another people to our land by leaving it forever? On the soil which contains the ashes of our beloved men we wish to live--on this soil we wish to die.

We entreat those to whom the preceding paragraphs are addressed to remember the great law of love, 'Do to others as ye would that others should do to you'- Let them remember that of all nations on the earth, they are under the greatest obligations to obey this law.  We pray them to remember that, for the sake of our people, their forefathers were compelled to leave, therefore driven from the old world, and that the winds of persecution wafted them over the great waters and landed them on the shores of the new world, when the Indian was the sole lord and proprietor of these extensive domains.- Let them remember in what way they were received by the savage of America, when power was in his hand, and his ferocity could not be restrained by any human arm.  We urge them to bear in mind, that those who would now ask of them a cup of cold water, and a spot of earth, a portion of their own patrimonial possessions on which to live and die in peace, are the descendants of those, whose origin as inhabitants of North America history and tradition are alike insufficient to reveal. Let them bring to remembrance all these facts, and they cannot, and we are sure they will not, fail to remember, and sympathize with us in these our trials and sufferings.

LEWIS ROSS,

Pres't Committee.

JAMES DANIEL

JOS. VANN

DAVID VANN

EDWARD GUNTER

RICHARD TAYLOR

JOHN BALDRIDGE

SAMUEL WARD

GEORGE SANDERS

DANIEL GRIFFIN, Jun.

JAMES HAMILTON

ALEX M. DANIEL

THOS. FOREMAN

JOHN TIMSON

W. S. COODEY, Clerk

GOING SNAKE, Speaker of the Council

JAMES BIGBEY

DEER-IN-THE-WATER

CHARLES REESE

SLEEPING RABBIT

CHU-NU-GEE

BARK

LAUGH-AT-MUSH

CHULEOWAH

TURTLE

WALKING STICK

MOSES PARRIS

J. R. DANIEL

SLIM FELLOW

DE-GAH-LE-LU-GE

ROBBIN

TAH-LAH-DOO

NAH-HOO-LAH

WHITE PATH

NE GAH-WE

DAH-YE-SKE

JOHN RIDGE

Clerk of the council.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the National Intelligencer

THE CHOCTAW INDIANS

The following letters concerning these Indians have been handed to us for publication.

Choctaw Agency, 7th May 1830

Rev. C. Kingsbury:

Dear Sir: Your note requesting someone to give you a statement of the improvement of the Choctaws since I have been acquainted in the nation, has been duly received.

I have been the Agent for this Tribe since the year 1829 and have been most of the time since in the nation-- I have no hesitation in saying that the improvements in their general habits of life have far exceeded expectations, particularly within the last two or three years.

The nation began to live like white people, and they dress quite decently at public collections. They begin to raise plenty of stock of all kinds and have generally supplied in part their neighboring Whites with pork and beef. Much has been done for this nation by preventing Ardent Spirits from being brought into the nation, as most of the natives have strong propensity for drinking. It was common when I first became acquainted with them to have a drinking frolic at all public gatherings, but of late two or three thousand will be collected, and not one to be seen drunk.

I am respectfully,

Your obedient servant.

W. WARD

U. S. Agent for the Choctaws

___________

I have lived in the Choctaw Nation of Indians five or six years and have travelled in the nation a good deal during that time. I see a very great change in the people for the better. Their condition is improving rapidly; they are spinning and weaving, and making their own clothing of good homespun cloth. I have myself brought many yards of cloth from full blooded Indians of their own make. Many of them raise plenty of cotton for their own use.

A great many of the full blooded Indians raise more corn than they use in their own families, and sell it to those who live on the great mail road to New Orleans. I have myself bought many hundred bushels of corn from full blooded Indians. These people have stocks of horses, cattle, hogs, 'c. Some of them have large stocks, and appear to live plentifully.

Last Sunday I was at a Camp Meeting near the Agency, and saw a great many of these people. They appeared to pay great attention to the preaching, and as good order was observed among them, as among the whites, on similar occasions. I noticed the people much, and can say with truth they have improved more than could be expected. They were dressed many of them in cloth of their own making, some in calico, all clean and decent. Nearly all the men I saw at the meeting wore pantaloons. There was a large collection of red people, and many of them rode good horses.-

All this I have seen with my eyes.

STEPHEN WARD. Sub Agent.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA JULY 24, 1830

We recommend to the attentive reader, the address of the 'committee and council' to the people of the United States, which he will find in our first page. After carefully perusing it, let him hand it to his neighbors. It is very desirable that it should be circulated as extensively as possible-and we see nothing in it which ought to check its circulation. The language is mild and respectful. It cannot even offend our opposers (sic). Our friends with whom we have the honor of exchanging will also do the Cherokee people a great favor by inserting it in their papers.

That a document of the nature of the one now presented to the american public was called for, by the peculiar circumstances of the times, no one will doubt. Every man must know who has watched the progress of the Indian question during the last six months, ' who has been familiar with the doings of the Congress of the United States respecting the Cherokees and other tribes, and the proceedings of the state of Georgia, that, by the refusals of the former to protect, and the extension of the jurisdiction of the latter over them, they are placed under new and very trying circumstances,and that their views, feelings,and the course they have determined to pursue should be speedily made known to the world. This is fully expressed in the address, which after a most attentive observation, we can freely testify, contains the sentiments of the nation at large.  Indeed, we have never known the people so firm and united as at the present time.-Their eyes are turned, not to the western country, but to that period when, by the judicial decision of the Courts of the United States, they must be either satisfied that they have rights, or that they have none. They intend to wait for that time. It is therefore considered by them perfectly idle to talk about exchanging countries, or entering into treaties while the great question remains unsettled. If we are removed, say they, by the United States from our land and possessions, we wish to leave in the record of her judicial tribunals, for future generations to read, when we are gone, ample testimony that she acted justly or unjustly. The reasonableness of this determination must appear evident to every mind.

The Cherokees think they have rights, secured to them under their various treaties, and the laws of the United States.- This opinion has never been shaken by all that the general Government has done, and the proceedings and oppressive laws of the state of Georgia. Their views in regard to their rights, for which they have so strenuously contended are supported by some of the ablest lawyers of the United States. Of this we have the most ample evidence. And now that protection is withheld, and license given for the abrogation of those laws and treaties by State legislation, what must be done? Surely the Supreme Court of the United States is the proper tribunal where the great question at issue must be settled. To this tribunal the Cherokees will freely refer their case.

_________________________

Some time ago, we said, in reference to a remark of the editors of the Chataugue Phoenix, 'Can the editors point to a single act of the Cherokees towards the intruders which was cruel and deserved severe punishment?' To this question we have received the following answer.

We believe it was admitted by the Cherokee Phoenix at the time that the Indians did drive the intruders from their dwellings and burn their houses, and that some of these were women in child-bed; and at a season of very inclement weather. Perhaps this is what the Cherokee Editor calls justice-but it is savage justice! We supposed even an Indian would oppose such justice, after having been instructed in the customs of civilized life. We ask Mr. Boudinott if the Indians did not drive the Whites, who had intruded upon their promises from their homes, in an inclement season, and burn their dwellings? Did not the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix approve of this conduct at that time?

If these questions can be answered in the affirmative, we ask the world to name a punishment too severe for those who could be guilty of such deeds. Our blood boil within our veins, when we think of deeds like these.

We have been the advocates of the Cherokees and are yet; but we shall not justify their evil deeds; neither shall we always be the advocates of their rights, if they claim the right of torturing these helpless Whites that may fall into their hands. If the Whites intrude upon them, let them take a civilized course to redress their wrongs, and not come upon the helpless women and children with the yell of the war whoop.

Now we do not wish to be justified if we do evil, nor do we ask that our rights should be defended, if we torture our 'helpless' white brethren; but we are far from pleading guilty to the charges alleged against us. We will respectfully inform the editors of the Chataugue Phoenix, as they appear to have founded their first remarks upon our authority, what we have not admitted, and what we have admitted. We have not admitted, and we challenge any person to point out such admission in the columns of the Cherokee Phoenix, that some of the Intruders who were removed by the Cherokees were women in child-bed. This slander upon the humanity of the Cherokees was got up by our enemies-we have never admitted it, and the editors will so find it, by recurring to the past numbers of our paper. If they believe everything that is laid to our charge, their blood within their veins will not only

boil, but it will boil over. In the account we gave of the affair, we said nothing of the inclemency of the weather.  We knew not what sort of weather it was.  We never admitted that the intruders were driven out of their houses-we expressly said these houses were the property of the Cherokees, having been abandoned by emigrants, sometimes by force.

We admitted,and we wish our worthy friends to bear in mind, that a company of Cherokees of about 30 in number, did remove,in the most forbearing manner,some families of intruders, and after taking out with safety all their household property, burnt the house in which they lived. Thus far are admitted, and we refer our friends for the truth of what we stated to the official report of Col. Williams, who was despatched to the scene of trouble to ascertain the true state of things. that report we have already published, and if it does not bear us out, when we will make acknowledgments. But is it savage justice to remove intruders in this manner?  The editors of the Phoenix are too hasty. We have never known intruders removed in any other way. Time after time have the Cherokees removed them in this manner with the approbation of the Government. If the thirty Cherokees exhibited savage justice, then the editors ought severely to castigate the United States troops, who are now employed in burning the houses of these 'helpless white.' Speaking of the gold diggers and their removal, the Augusta Courier says:

'By a gentleman just from the scene, we are informed that the gold-hunter in the Cherokee Territory were all removed last week by the United States troops. He say the smoke of their wigwams and shanties ascending to Heaven on Thursday last in all directions. They were too numerous all over the country, that the conflagration resembled a world on fire.'

Is not this cruel? Is it not savage justice? We approve of it, and if we are called savages for it, we cannot help it.

Perhaps it will be said, the Cherokees had no right to remove them even in this manner. That is a matter of opinion only. The Cherokees thought they had perfect right, and they acted conscientiously.

______________________

The United States Telegraph, the organ of the administration, as thought proper to notice us and our paper thus:

We have understood that the paper [The Cherokee Phoenix] is edited ostensibly by an educated Indian who bears the name of a late respectable and truly philanthropic citizen of New Jersey, and that the principal writers and managers of it are white men, who have recently gone among the Indians, and who are interested in preventing them from selling their lands and joining their brethren west of the Miss. It was established, as we have been informed, by contributions of charitable societies, ' by appropriations from the contingent fund of the United States Indian Department,and from the annuities of the Indians. An alphabet was invented for them, and a considerable expense incurred in procuring dies and casting types to give it the appearance of an Indian Newspaper which plain is now nearly or quite abandoned.

We might content ourselves by simply declaring the above  utterly false from the first to last. Mr. Green may have been told to and so in regard to the Cherokee Phoenix,but we can tell him he has been imposed upon-no white man has anything to do in the management of our paper. No other person, whether white or red, besides the  extensible editor, has written from the commencement of the Phoenix, half a column of matter which has appeared under the editorial head.

Col. M'Kenney can tell whether a single cent has been appropriated out of the contingent fund of the Indian department towards the support of our establishment. We request the editor of the Telegraph to call at his office if he wishes to know the truth. That a part of the annuity has been expended is true, but it was by those who had a right so to expend it. Is it intended to cripple the Phoenix by giving this annuity a different direction   It is surprising how low some persons will descend in order to obtain a certain object-falsehood, forms no barrier with such characters.

We here copy the remarks of the Journal of Commerce, which we can assure the reader, as being perfectly correct.

If all this were true, it would not prove what the Telegraph is so anxious to make out, viz. that the said paper is not the 'organ of the tribe.'- But we have reason to believe that every sentence of the paragraph is false,--we hope not wilfully so. The 'ostensible Editor' of the Phoenix is the real Editor as much says the U. S. Telegraph, and probably more. It was not established by the 'contributions of charitable societies,' but by the Cherokee government, aided by individual donations in this, Boston, and other places. We have before us a list of donations in this city, together with various other donations received by Mr. Boudinott, [the editor] and be it remembered these donations were made before anybody dreamed of the system of persecution which has since been instituted against the Cherokees by the state of Georgia and the General Government. The alphabet was not invented for them,, by them, i.e. by one of their number, Mr. Guess. The particulars of this invention were stated in a lecture delivered at Washington, by S.L. Knapp, Esq. and have since been published in a volume, and republished in various newspapers, throughout the country. Not only was the invention made without the assistance of white man, but the inventor was totally unacquainted with any language but the Cherokee. The use of the Indian character in said paper is not 'nearly or quite abandoned.'  We have seen about avery number since the publication was commenced, and have perceived no diminution in the quantity of Indian character used. The sheet which came to hand yesterday contains between two and three columns of this description of typography.

Will the Telegraph inform us who are the white men referred to as 'interested in preventing the Cherokees from selling their lands,' and in what respect they are interested?

________________

We are obliged to insert but little Cherokee matter this week on account of the length of the English Documents.

A Georgian shall have a place in our next.

The account related by An Observer is no fiction.  Such facts are now becoming every day occurrence.

___________________

We now present to our readers the documents to which allusion was made in our last, with the reply of the council in the form of an act. Document first referred to in the reply have already been published. the letter of the Principal Chief to the Agent, and by him to be transmitted to the President of the United States at Nashville, is unavoidably deferred until our next.

We had intended to comment upon the two letters of the Secretary of War, but we are obliged, for want of room, to send them to the public without a word from us. Our readers will sufficiently understand them without our assistance-all that they will need, is the resolution which accompanies them.

__________________

To the Committee and Council,

GENTLEMEN:-

I submit herewith letters from Col. Montgomery, the United State's Agent in this Nation, enclosing instruction from the War Department under the direction of the President of the United States, which calls for your deliberate consideration.

Very Respectfully Your Obedient Servant,

JNO. ROSS.

New Echota, N. C. July 15th 1830

__________________

CHEROKEE AGENCY.

10th July, 1830

SIR:_ Understanding that there is to be a special meeting of the General Council of this nation; on next week; I have enclosed you a copy of an order which I have just received from the War Department on the subject of the distribution of annuities, and request that the necessary arrangements be made by the Nation, for its future reception,so that each Indian ma get his share agreeably to that order.

I have also enclosed you a copy of a letter from the War Department on the subject of the gold mines by which you will see that all persons are ordered to be kept from digging for gold until further order; and have to request that you will, in such way as you think best, make it known to the Indians, and also that you will advise them to desist,for the present,as I am very desirous that no difficulties should take place between the United States troops and them on that subject.

Very respectfully your obedient Servant,

H. MONTGOMERY

John Ross

Principal Chief Cherokee Nation

____________

WAR DEPARTMENT

26th June, 1830

SIR:- An order has been this day been issued to the Officer Commanding the United States Troops in the Cherokee Nation directing him, until further orders, to prevent all persons from working the mines, or searching for, or carrying way gold, or silver, or either metal from the Cherokee Nation. In accordance with the above order, you will aid the Commanding Officer in the execution of the task assigned him, by any means which may appear advisable too promote the object desired.

In this delicate Crisis, it is imperiously necessary that you should exercise a sound discretion, and that the most pacific and conciliatory measures should be first appealed to; and i\under no circumstances to resort to coercive measures, until that resort can no longer be avoided

You will advise the Secretary of War at Nashville, Tennessee, of the steps taken in the execution of the duty assigned to you.

I am very respectfully your most obedient servant.

P. C.RANDOLPH

Acting Sec. of War.

To Col. Hugh Montgomery

' Cherokee Agent, Calhoun Ten.

_______________

DEPARTMENT OF WAR

June 18th 1830

TO COL. HUGH MONTGOMERY, Cherokee agent, Calhoun, Tennessee.

SIR:_ The President directs that the practice of paying annuities to the Treasurer of the Cherokee Nation shall from henceforth be discontinued, and with a view to secure to the mass of the nation their proportion of such annuities, shall be hereafter paid in every case to the individuals respectively entitled, that is to say, to the Chiefs, Warriors, and common Indians, and their families in the nation in which these several classes are entitled when there are Indians within families,the payments are to be made to them personally,and not to their Chiefs. This mode of distribution is not under any circumstance to be departed from.

I am very respectfully your ob't serv't

J. G. RANDOLPH, acting Sec'y of War.

____________________

New Echota, C. N. 17th July, 183-

WHEREAS, certain extraordinary ' unexpected documents have been received by the Principal Chief and by him communicated to the Committee and Council in General Council convened, for their information, it is deemed proper to express firmly but respectfully the sense of the Representatives of all the People of this Nation in regard to the following documents.

1st. Extracts of a communication from the War Department to the agent of the United States for this nation in which the citizens of this Nation are told, 'if they choose to remain' {in their own country,} the consequences whatever they may be, will be chargeable to nobody but themselves.' Again,' if the chiefs or principal men of the Nation desire to see the President he will gladly see them, but is they cannot go willingly and prepared for full powers to make a treaty for removal it will not be necessary for them to go, since in that way only can he assist them.' To this we answer that we never had any disposition to leave our country ' we have seen no reason to effect a change in this disposition. We have faithfully adhered to the faith of Treaties with the United States of which Georgia is a component part, and at all times, since the establishment of peace have continued faithful friends to the Union.  The neighborhood of the whites, has not, been of our seeking, but we ave heretofore viewed this neighborhood as a blessing, from which, the rays of civilization and religion were copiously shed to enlighten this, once happy, but now oppressed nation. We have no desire to see the President on the business of entering into Treaty for exchange of lands, and regret there is no other way left open for interview with our great Father-but we still ask of him to protect us agreeably to treaties or according to the spirit of the laws of the United States provided for our protection which stand yet unrepealed by Congress.  Inclination to remove from this land has no abiding place in our hearts, and when we move we shall move by the course of nature, to sleep under this ground, which the Great Spirit gave to our ancestors and which now covers them in their undisturbed repose.

Document 2d dated Department of War, June 18, 1830.  'The President directs that the practice of paying annuities to the Treasurer of the C. N. shall from henceforth be discontinued, and with a view to secure to the mass of the Nation their property proportions of such annuities 'c.' To this we answer, that the obligation under which money is due to this Nation ever year,arises from Treaties made by the Chiefs of the Nation with the United States, the later of which has value received in land and Stands bound to pay the money to the Nation,' and not to the Individuals of the Nation. A letter, accompanying this order, by the agent, 'requests the necessary arrangements be made by the Nation for its future reception.' This Nation has already made the arrangement in its constitution and laws,and to them the Agent is referred; and we do hereby enter our solemn protest against the distribution of said annuities in the way contemplated by the Government, as a violation of the letter and spirit of the Treaties subsisting between the United States and this Nation.

As some individuals and some officers of the United States have attempted to prejudice the minds of the people of the United States against the constituted authorities of this Nation on the subject of this money,we inform the public, that our population amounts to about sixteen thousand inhabitants, and the sum of six thousand six hundred and sixty dollars and sixty six cents is payable to this Nation for annuities; the proportionate share of the 'mass of the Indians,' as they are called, would be less than forty two cents,and the place for distributing this money is to be at the agency, of the frontiers of this Nation, compelling individuals to travel 50, 100, or 150 or 180 miles to receive it. This order of the President must have originated from false impressions, from some quarter. If the President was not known to this Nation as a high legal and constitutional Chief Magistrate, and in the magnanimity and honor of his station ample security and guarantee, in our rights were not to be found, we should almost be persuaded to judge unkindly. This Nation has a printing press to maintain through which they can make known their misfortunes. They are also struggling for life and freedom, and have appealed to the highest Judicial Tribunal for justice; the maintenance of these requires expenditures of money, and if this determination of the President is carried into effect, we can only show our love of country by individual contributions and the payment of Taxes.

From document 3d dated Depart. of War. 26 June, 183-, we learn that an order has been forwarded to the commander of the U. States Troops to prevent all persons from working the mines or searching for or carrying away gold or silver or either metal from the Cherokee Nation. To this we certainly could have no objection, if it was intended to prevent all persons not inhabitants of this Nation--But that our people are included we learn from the following passage of Col. Montgomery's letter. 'I have to request that you will in such way as you think best, make it known to the Indians and also that you will advise them to desist, for the present, as I am very desirous that no difficulties should take place between the United States Troops and them on the subject.' To this we can only express our surprise and astonishment.- On the same principle, orders may arrive to prevent us from working in our fields, planting Orchards, or putting down wood t make our fires. In consideration of all these, be it therefore,

Resolved by the Committee and Council in General Council Convened, that the Principal Chief of this Nation be, and he is hereby authorized to reply to the said documents,at his leisure, and furnish this act to the President of the U. States; through the Agent as containing the sentiments of this Nation-And also to call upon the Government of the United States to protect us according to Treaties and laws in existence and to prevent the expulsion of our people by force, by the state of Georgia, which we have now reason to believe will be in some way attempted,- And to state that this Nation cannot believe, and will not believe the United States capable of abandoning them to destruction until they are cast from promised protection and until they fall never more to rise or to express the voice of supplication to their Great Father the President of the United States.

GOING SNAKE

Speak. of Council

Concurred by the Committee.

LEWIS ROSS, Prest.

Approved-JNO Ross.

JNO RIDGE. C. Con,

W. S. Coodey, Clk. Com.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For the Cherokee Phoenix

THE CHEROKEES AND GEORGIA

The law of the state of Georgia, which extends its jurisdiction over that portion of the Cherokee nation, said to lie within its limits, prohibiting Indian testimony in the state courts, has been exercised and executed to the signal success and exultation of the Georgians.  When the first day of June arrived, the day fixed for the operation of this law over the Cherokees, and officer of Habersham County (whether he was a Sheriff or Constable is not known) made his appearance in Tahquohee District, and served a bail writ on James M'Gray, a Sheriff of said District, who was owing a small sum of money to a Georgia citizen. The officer ascertaining that the property of M'Gray could not be obtained to secure the amount set forth in the writ, the Indian Sheriff was abandoned. The laws of Georgia recurring to the officer, that no Indian in any case could obtain redress under the statute, he found an Indian possessed of some cattle, who was as innocent of the affair as a Chinese in Tartary, to answer to Georgian's claim. On him the officer fell with his official power. This was done by driving off the poor Indian's cattle to Georgia, and a return was made to the magistrates court.--In the meantime the rightful owner, Bear's Paw by name, was on close pursuit and arrived in time to see the court dispose of his rights. He made known to the magistrate that he was the proper owner; protested against the sale, but as the statute of Georgia over the Indians is the only title of justice, the honorable distributor of the rights of persons informed the Indian that the law of Georgia could not hear his prayer. The cattle were accordingly sold, notwithstanding his entreaties and cries for the restoration of his property.

These are the calamities under which we have fallen by the policy of the present administration and the laws of Georgia; and for what end has this mighty work of desolation commenced? To call things by their right names, it is to expel the Cherokees west of the Mississippi; to take possession of our gold mines and our country. The secret moving principle is to obtain our country. What country? The very clod Sir, which covers our forefathers,-the very country, the title of which is derived from a higher source than the authority of men; it is derived from the first cause of all things, the GREAT SPIRIT. This is the country too that President Jackson's plighted faith is pledged to support in our occupancy. But all these paramount claims, once the respect of the great men of the United States are attempted to be overruled by the complicated relations of necessity and expediency.

If the leaders of the American people obtain their objects of pursuit by departure from their plighted faith on this side of the Mississippi, what proofs will be left us of their honesty, humanity,and integrity towards us when they will have expelled us west of the Mississippi. The alternative is left us to flee or breast the storm,' patiently wait for a political change before we can see redemption come. Let this our motto be, 'no sell the land.' One political existence is menaced, but our ship is still sailing,and if our political father withdraws his protecting care, which we have good reasons to believe he is about doing, and suffers the Cherokees, his subjects in war, his friends in peace, to sink in destruction, our departed spirits will cry aloud to our father in the chancery of Heaven.

AN OBSERVER.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The following ar extracts from the Speech of Mr. Lumpkins, of Georgia, on the Indian question, which we submit to our readers without comment. This Speech was published with evident approbation, by the Rev. William T. Brantly, editor of the Columbian Star. Mr. Lumpkin is himself a professor of Religion.

Georgia, Sir, is one of the good old thirteen States; she entered the Union upon an equal footing with any of her sisters.  She claims no superiority, but contends for equality. That sovereignty which she concedes to all the rest, and would at any time unite with them in defending from all encroachment, she will maintain for herself.  Our social compact upon which we stand as a State, gives you the metes and bounds of our sovereignty; and within the limits therein defined and pointed out, our State authorities claim entire and complete jurisdiction over soil and population, regardless of complexion.

* *                   * *

I feel disposed to pity those who make the weak and false plea of inability, founded on the 'reasonable and peaceable.' whenever I hear it made.  ____ the pettifogging quibbles deserve the contempt of a statesman. No man is fit to be a Congressman who does no know that the General Government might many years ago, upon both reasonable and peaceable terms, have removed every Indian from Georgia.

But, Sir, upon this a subject, this Government has been wa___ing in good faith to Georgia. It has, by its own acts and policy , forced the Indians to remain in Georgia, by the purchase of their lands in the adjoining States and by holding out to the Indians strong inducements to remain where they are by the expenditure of vast sums of money,in changing the habits of the savage for those of civilized life. All this was in itself right and proper; it has my hearty approbation: but it should not have been done at the expense of Georgia. The Government, long after it was bound to extinguish the title of the Indians to all the lands in Georgia, has actually forced the Cherokees from their lands in other States, settled them upon Georgia lands, and aided in furnishing the means to create the Cherokee aristocracy.

Sir, I blame not the Indians: I commiserate their case. I have considerable acquaintance with the Cherokees and amongst them I have seen much to admire. To me, they are in many respects an interesting people. If the wicked influence of designing men, veiled in the garb of philanthropy and Christian benevolence, should excite the Cherokees to a course that will end in their speedy destruction, I now call upon this Congress, and the whole American people, not to charge the Georgians with this sin; but let it be remembered, that it is the fruit of mistaken zeal, emanating from the land of steady habits; from the boasted progeny of the pilgrims and puritans.

Sir, my State stands charged before this House, before the nation, and before the whole world, with cruelty and oppression towards the Indians. I deny the charge, and demand proof of those who make it.

I have labored, as one of your committee, day and night, in examining every thing which has any connection with the history of this subject. Amongst other duties, we have examined all the various laws of the colonial and state governments in relation to the Indians. The selection made and submitted, has long since been in the hands of every gentleman of this House. Let the laws of other State be compared with those which are the subject of complaint,and it must then be admitted by every candid man, that the state's complained of stand pre-eminent in humanity, mildness, and generosity towards the Indians.*   * *  *   * *   * *  *

Compare the pictures drawn by these pamphlet writers and memorialists of the concert schools in which they have painted Georgia on the one side and the Cherokee sovereignty on the other. From these publications not only the stranger in a foreign land but the honest laboring people of New England, who stay at home, and would mind their own business if let alone, by these canting fanatics, verily believe that the Georgians are the worst of all savages; that they can neither read nor write; that they are infidels deists,and atheists; and that they never hear a gospel sermon except from a New England missionary. Upon theother hand they are taught to believe that the Cherokee Indians are the most prosperous enlightened, and religious nation of people on earth--except indeed the nation of New England. These Boston writers are not a people who work for nothing and f__d themselves.  No, Sir, I entertain no doubt but they are well paid for all 'their labors of love' in the cause of Cherokee sovereignty.

The Cherokees receive large annuities from this Government; they have a rich treasury, and their Northern allies understand giving a saving direction to their financial disbursements. These Northern intruders are numerous and influential amongst the Cherokees. One religious Board at the North, (of whom 'William Penn' is Chief Secretary) furnishes the Southern tribes of Indians with upwards of twenty stationary missionaries besides superintendents, mechanics, 'c. 'c. chiefly composed of our Northern friends. No doubt Sir, but President Ross himself, with all his official subordinates has long since found it expedient to yield the chief control of the purse  and the press (which you know are said to be the strength of nations) to his more skilful and eagle eyed friends and allies. But for those annuities, we should not have been encumbered, throughout the session, with memorials from Maine to Stubenville in Ohio. These self-interested reporters of the state and condition of the Cherokee Indians, tell you they are already a civilized and Christianized people. I admit we do find in the Cherokee country many families enjoying all the common comforts of civil and domestic life, and pressing the necessary means to secure these enjoyments. Moreover, we find a number of schools and houses built for religious worship. Many of these comfortable families too, are composed of natives born in the Cherokee country. But the principal part of these enjoyments is confined to the blood of the white man, either in the whole or in part. But few, very few of the real Indians participate largely in these blessings. A large portion of the full blooded Cherokees still remain a poor degraded race of human beings. As to the proportion that are comfortable, or otherwise. I cannot speak from my own personal knowledge wit any degree of certainty; but, from what I have seen I can readily conclude that Indians are in a state of improvement, whilst their lords and rulers are white men, and the descendants of white men, enjoying exclusively the Government annuities, upon which they foster, feed, and clothe the most violent and dangerous enemies of our civil institutions.

While the smallest intrusion (as it is called) by the frontier citizens of Georgia, on the lands occupied by the Cherokees excites the fiery indignation of the fanatics, and tone end of the chain of concert and coalition to the other, do we not find an annual increase of intruders, from these philanthropic ranks, flocking in upon the poor Cherokees, like caterpillars and locusts of Egypt, leaving a barren waste behind them? Yes, Sir, these are the intruders who devour the substance which of right belongs to the poor perishing part of the Cherokees. They divide the spoil with the Cherokee rulers, and leave the common Indians to struggle with want and misery, without hope of bettering their condition by any change but that of joining their brethren west of the Mississippi. +   + +                  + + +++ +++++++

The practice of buying Indian lands is nothing more than the substitute of humanity and benevolence, and has been resorted to in preference to the sword, as the best means for agricultural and civilized communities entering into the enjoyments of their natural and just right to the benefits of the earth evidently designed by Him who formed it for purposes more useful than Indian hunting grounds.

Sir, much has been said and written, with a view of maintaining the doctrine of Indian sovereignty, and I admit many of the acts of the General and State Governments may be selected, apart from their general policy, which would seem to afford support to this position. Yet when we take the whole policy and history of these Governments, as exhibiting an entire system, it must be admitted they have never hesitated to extend their sovereignty over the Indians in their respective spheres when it was deemed expedient to bring them under their laws and jurisdiction; unless indeed we find this hesitancy in the absence of physical power. Here I will remark, Mr. Chairman, that the only reason why any State in this Union has permitted the interference or sought the aid of the General Government, to take any part in the management and control of the Indian tribes residing within their respective boundaries, has been on account of their physical weakness; and they have, therefore, looked to this Government for that aid and success, to which afford which it was established by the several States of the Union. Yes, Sir, this Government was formed to protect, and not to destroy the State Governments. In all the states we find so soon as the Indians were reduced to a condition that no danger was to be apprehended from their power and hostility, the States have invariably taken their Indian affairs into their own hands, and no longer looked to the Federal arm for aid,

Upon every branch of this subject it is necessary constantly to keep in view the distinction between privileges and immunities.  The States have privileged the General Government to assume the management of very important matters, connected with their Indian relations. Yes, Sir, the aid of this Government has often been sought in these matters nevertheless while the States thus sought and assented to this exercise of power on the art of the General Government, it was from motives of prudent policy and interest. No State of this Union ever saw the time they would have yielded to this exercise of power, when claimed as a right and attempted to be enforced contrary to the State. It is the same case in regard to the Indians residing in a State. They are privileged in very many respects, far beyond their rights or immunities. While the population of a State is small and its territories extensive, large tracts of country are permitted to remain for the use and privilege of the Indians to hunt and roam from place to place. They are according to their own customs with out any interference on the part of the State. But when this state of things becomes changed as it now has in Georgia, the State is of necessity compelled to assert and maintain her rights of sovereignty and jurisdiction.* *   *

But, Sir, I will not dwell upon the wrongs of Georgia. It is the province of weakness to complain. We have sought from this Government our rights, in the fulfillment of her engagements with us. They have long been withheld; upon frivolous excuses. We had lost confidence in any appeals which we could make to this Government; that confidence has been restored to the Executive branch of the Government, by the course which has been marked our and pursued by our Chief Magistrate. He has spread his opinion before the nation, in relation to the claims and rights of Georgia, upon the India subject. Georgia is now waiting to hear the response of this branch of the General Government.  A disposition manifested on your part to make reparation to Georgia,for the multiplied wrongs which she has endured, will be grateful to the feelings of every Georgian.

But, Sir, arraigned as we are at your bar, we have no supplication to make. We deny your right of jurisdiction. Upon the subject of your sovereignty we fear nothing from y our sentence. Our right of sovereignty will not be yielded. If you do no perform your duty, by withholding your opposition too long delayed justice, and fulfil the conditions of your contract of twenty-eight years standing, I would then advise you to let us alone, and leave us to manage our own affairs in our own way.

_______

*Mr. L here alludes to the Essays of 'William Penn,' and an article in the American Monthly Magazine, when he erroneously imputes to the same author. Those who publish Mr. Lumpkin's Speech should inform their readers of this error.

Jour. of Humanity

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the New York Observer

HISTORY OF THE INDIAN BILL

No. 1

At the close of the last session of Congress, an act passed for the removal of the Indians, which was deemed, by nearly half the representatives of the people in the national legislature, to be not only unwise and impolitic, but in a high degree oppressive to the Indians, and disgraceful to our country. In its words, it was fair and specious; but, in its known tendency and designed effected, it was a deliberate forfeiture of the most solemn engagements, a surrender of the weak to the will of the strong, a refusal to redeem pledges of protection, which had been given in the most explicit manner, for a valuable consideration, and which had been constantly repeated for more than half a century.

Volume 1, ewed in this light, the act in question is one of the most important and one of the most injurious measures, which have ever been adopted by the government of the United States. It is thus regarded by many of our best informed and most judicious citizens; and, in the opinion of the writer of these paragraphs, that it would be thus regarded by ninety-nine in a hundred of the whole American people, if party spirit and private interest could be excluded for all connection with the subject.

While the measure was in agitation, during the whole of last winter and spring, the public was alive to all the discussions respecting it; but so imperfectly were the debates and proceedings of Congress reported in the papers, that little more than the final result is known by the great body of intelligent men, in all parts of the United States. All who were at Washington during the debates on the Indian Bill, and for some time before, must be aware, that persons at a distance can have but a very imperfect conception of the progress of the measure, and of the strenuous efforts which were made on both sides. It has seemed to me of considerable importance, that a brief history should be given of the preparations for the question of the removal of the Indians, the debates upon that question, and of other things, which had an intimate connection with the decision of it. Having been in circumstances, which enabled me to observe what was passing, I have concluded to attempt such a history, and to send it for publication to the editors of the New York Observer.

For several years past, it has been evident, that the affairs of the Southern Indians were approaching to a crisis.  The increase of white population in the vicinity of the Indian territories would of itself lead to efforts to acquire more Indian lands. But the rapid improvement of the Cherokees in civilization, and their taking measures to render their civil government more stable, caused the people of Georgia to apprehend that the Indians would so thoroughly understand their rights and their interests, as that it would soon be impossible to purchase their country.  Hence from 1820 to 1827, efforts were constantly made by the authorities of Georgia to obtain all the remaining lands of the Creeks and Cherokees, which lay within what are called the chartered limits of that State. The lands of the Creeks were obtained though with difficulty, and by, a process of bribery, fraud, ungenerous importunity, and unmanly threats, an impartial history of which would confer no credit on our country. The Cherokees positively refused to cede another foot of land. With them the business hung in suspense, during the period above mentioned.  Lands had been obtained from the Indians, in time of peace, by treaty only. The general government alone was authorized to treat, being invested with that exclusive power by the federal constitution. These principles were perfectly well established, and had been implicitly acknowledged by Georgia in her public acts, times almost innumerable.

In December, 1827, the legislature of Georgia asserted the claims of that state to the Cherokee country, in a different manner, and placed it on different grounds from any thing which had been previously attempted. It was now discovered, that the Cherokees had no title to their lands; that they were mere tenants at will; and that Georgia might take possession of it whenever she pleased. A long report containing these doctrines, was adopted by both branches of the legislature, approved by the Governor, and by him officially communicated, to the President of the United States.

Nothing material was done on this subject, during the last year of Mr. Adams' administration; but, on the 18th of April 1829 the Secretary of War addressed a letter to the Cherokee Deputation, in which he told them, that Indian nations residing within the chartered limits of any state were subject to the legislation of that state; and that the President had no power to protect them from it.  This annunciation was entirely new to the Cherokees. It was, moreover, entirely inconsistent with the whole intercourse between the Cherokees and the United States; during a period of more than half a century.

As the last session of Congress approached, a petition was prepared by the Cherokee Council, in which the justice of the United States was invoked, and protection was claimed against the encroachments of Georgia. In December, 1828, the legislature of that state had passed an act to extend the laws of Georgia over the Cherokees residing in that portion of their own country, which is comprehended within the chartered limits of Georgia. The act was to take effect on the first day of June, 1830, and was doubtless intended to convince the Indians, that it would be impossible for them to live on the land of their fathers. No measures like this had ever been adopted by any legislature, from the first settlement of this continent by the English to the present day. It has recently been said, and most impudently repeated, that all the old states of the Union have passed laws of a similar character. The assertion is groundless. There is no authority for saying that Massachusetts, or Virginia, or any other state previously to this act of Georgia, ever extended its laws over a tribe of Indians residing on lands derived from their ancestors, and never forfeited nor sold. Nor is there any instance of a state, previously to the act of Georgia, having claimed the right of driving peaceable Indians from their hereditary possessions, and dividing these possessions among the whites. Since the act of Georgia, the states of Alabama and Mississippi have adopted the same principles, and with a view to the same result.  In December last, the legislature of Georgia passed another law, containing several most obnoxious provisions, which was also to take effect on the first day of the following June, a day which is now past.

The petition of the Cherokee Council was presented to Congress at the commencement of the session; and, soon after, the petitions of the Cherokee people, subscribed by them as individuals, were forwarded, till more that nine-tenths of the adult males (four thousand out of a population of sixteen thousand) had actually signed their names, written in their own character, to these petitions; though it is but a very few years since their language was reduced to writing. Besides protesting against the claims of Georgia, they expressed the utmost unwillingness to leave the lands which they had inherited from their fathers, and which had been so often guaranteed to them by the United States.

During the latter part of last year, the newspapers very extensively admitted discussions respecting the rights of the Indians. A considerable portion of the public began to feel alarmed, lest the government and people of the United States should be guilty of gross oppression, and of a palpable violation of the national faith. In New-York, Philadelphia, Boston, and many other places, public meetings of citizens were held, at which resolutions and petitions to Congress were adopted.  These petitions defended the rights of the Indians, and interceded with the government in their behalf. In some of them strong and urgent language was used.

The memorial from a most respectable meeting in New York was objected to by the representatives of Georgia, as not sufficiently decorous toward the State. The petitioners were assailed with opprobrious epithets; and an attempt was made to brow-beat all, who should appear as friends of the Indians. A similar attempt was made in the Senate; but in both instances, it signally failed.

The Constitution of the Committees on Indian affairs was such, as to give a great advantage to those states in which efforts were making to remove the Indians. In each committee, a majority of members were from states directly interested in the acquisition of Indian lands. Georgia had a member in each committee; and one of her Senators who held this highly responsible station, had been the Governor of that State, during all the controversy respecting the Creek treaty; and had manifested the most violent temper in his intercourse with the general government, on that subject. Yet to him was assigned the duty of devising measures in which Georgia was directly interested, and which could not but affect the rights and interests of numerous tribes of our dependent allies.

About the middle of the session, these committees mad elaborate reports. The most remarkable trait in both documents is, that no question was fairly met. It was known by the writers, that the Indians were supposed to have certain well defined claims; that these claims were alleged to be supported by numerous treaty stipulations, and to rest on the most obvious principles of immutable justice. Yet no fair and full quotation is made of articles of treaties, on which the Cherokees rely. The impartial reader is forced to the conclusion, that the question of Indian rights could not be fairly met without abandoning the position taken by the government. The question was not met at all. The reports of the committees contain much sophistical reasoning, hard to understood and difficult to be analyzed, which was intended to lead to the following conclusions, viz. that civilized men, have a better right to a country occupied by uncivilized men, than the occupants themselves have; that therefore the potentates of Europe had a right to apportion this continent among their subjects without any regard to the possession of the natives; that the treaties with the natives were a sort of legislation of the whites over them; that the treaties of the United States with the Cherokees were incompatible with previous obligations of the United States to Georgia; that therefore the Cherokees have no right to their country; and that our guaranty of their country to them is fulfilled fairly and honorable if we help them to remove from it.

The reports represented also, that, the removal of the Indians would be greatly for their benefit; that their condition is extremely wretched, and daily becoming more so; that a country could be guaranteed to them beyond the Mississippi, from which they would never be driven, and where they would not be crowded by the whites; and that, in their new country, it would be easy to carry on the system of improvements, which some of the tribes had commenced.  It is difficult to say, whether the error is greater in the reasoning, or in the statement of pretended facts.  The whole case was wretchedly perverted and distorted, and it is truly a melancholy consideration that so much art, sophistry, and perverse ingenuity should have been used to get the advantage of weak and dependent tribes, who had no accredited agent to speak for them in our national halls, and whose dearest rights were about to be taken from them without witnesses, and without a hearing.

It was expected all winter that the debate on this subject would be of a most interesting character. A great number of members of the House of Representatives prepared themselves, with more than ordinary labor, to speak upon the question.  Yet the discussion did not commence till the 6th day of April, when the bill reported to the Senate was taken up in that body for consideration.

By some friends of the Indians it was thought unhappy, that the discussion had not begun in the House of Representatives.  Human power are not competent to decide, in such a case as the present, which of two courses would have been attended with fewest difficulties. Numerous events, connected with the passing of the Indian Bill, are well suited to teach a reflecting mind how dependent we often are, upon things entirely beyond human control.

I propose, in future communication, to describe the debates on the Indian Bill, and to mention several interesting particulars connected with its final passage.

VERITATIS AMANS.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Arkansas Gazette

THE CREEK INDIANS.

Chapter Second.

The son of Gen. McIntosh, with the McIntosh party, held a treaty with the Government, and were induced, by promises, to remove to Arkansas. They were promised 'a home forever,' if they would select one, and that bounds should be marked off to them. This has not been done. They were assured, that they should draw a proportionable part of the annuity due to the Creek Nation every year. They have planted corn three seasons-yet they have never drawn one cent of any annuity coming to them! Why is this?  They were promised blankets, guns, ammunition, traps, kettles, and a wheelright (sic)--They have drawn some few of each class of articles, and only a few--they have no wheelright (sic). They were poor-but above this, they were promised pay for the improvements abandoned by them in the old nation. This they have not received. They were farther assured that they should receive, upon their arrival on Arkansas thirty dollars  per head, for each emigrant.--This they have not received.  But the Acting Sub-Agent, in the Spring of 1829 finding their wants very pressing, (indeed many of them were in a famishing condition,) gave to each one his due bill, in the name of the Agent, for the amount of bounty due them, and took their receipts for the amount, as vouchers for the Agent to settle his accounts by with the Government. The consequence was, that the Indians, not regarding paper as of any real value, would go to the traders, and sell the  due bills at what they could get for them. And the traders, having no confidence in the promises of the Government through its Agents united with the hazard of delay at all events would not give the real value of the amount promised by the due bills. If the Indians attempted to trade them to the whites for cattle; or any thing which they stood in need of, the consequence was, that they were compelled to make a discount upon them. Not finding them worth as many dollars as they purported to be for, they were willing to let them go upon any terms, rather than keep them in their possession.  The due bills amounted in all, to about twenty-one thousand dollars, which due bills are now in the hands of the original holders, or the purchasers, but not lifted by the Agent, according to his promise. (Is not the Government bound by the acts of its Agent or Attorney?) It is but fair to estimate the loss of the Indians at one-third of the sum above stated, and this loss owing entirely to the Government, by its Agents, withholding the fulfilment (sic) of its contract with the McIntosh party.

Last summer, a party of emigrating Creeks came over to unite with the McIntosh party on Arkansas. The government of the United States had promised to furnish them transportation and food on their way. On the route generally, it is not material how they were supplied or treated; but those to whom the care of them was confided, left a party, consisting of several families, on Illinois River, in the Cherokee Nation, as they were passing through it, destitute of provisions--sick, and in a miserable condition.  They were dependent for subsistence on the few fish which they could catch in the river, and a field of corn belonging to Major Flowers, of the Cherokees, and such assistance as he, through humanity was induced to offer to them. They remained there some weeks-their sick in some instances not able to turn upon their blankets without assistance exposed to the weather, in a most unhealthy season. At the same time there were public wagons and teams not employed, within thirty miles distance, by which provisions could have been sent-relieved their sufferings and transported them to their friends. This party has been sent under the care of Mr. Thomas Crowell (a broker and merchant to the Creek Agent of the old nation) and Mr. Blake, at the rate of five dollars each per diem; nor are these the only persons engaged in the business of emigration. A gentleman in the old nation-a merchant-holding a large mail carrying contract has been, and now is, receiving five dollars per diem from the Government, for attending to his own business- for common sense and every day's experience will convince us, that, to attend to mercantile business and the management of a mail contract, by one individual, is as much as he can well get along with. But no matter-the Government has the money to pay, and a fat goose stands picking the best!  It may have been an object with merchants in the old nation, to look out for mercantile prospects on Arkansas, and for one of the family to visit the country, when Government was to pay the expense. Mr. Blake was sent to the Agency on Arkansas, by the appointment of Col. Crowell; he had been employed by the family, in the old nation; a Maj. Love also belonged to the retinue; and remained in this country. Mr. Jos. Brearley was left here by his father, the Agent, in charge of his affairs, and being apprised of a party of emigrants about to arrive, was making preparations to obtain the provisions necessary to subsist them for one year; and for that purpose, had advertised to receive bids to supply six thousand bushels of corn.-The day came for closing the contract when Col. Arbuckle, commanding Cantonment Gibson, handed in a bid, in the name of the Creek Nation, to furnish the amount of corn required, at one dollar and twelve cents per bushel; the next lowest bid to his, was one dollar and fifty cents; so that Col. Arbuckle saved the Government $2,280. At the same time that he did not benefit himself one cent, he placed it in the power of the Creek Indians, to fill the contract, and obtain a liberal price for their corn. The surplus of their corn crops was all sufficient, and if any individual had but five bushels to deposit in the state house, he was entitled to his certificate for that amount of corn, amounting in value to five dollars and sixty cents. Col Arbuckle had encouraged the Creeks in industry, and noted their progress and success in agriculture. He knew, and daily saw and heard, their wants. Their necessities were pitiable--they had no credit, nor had they any money, for they had received none since they reached Arkansas, and the Agent had regarded them, as so many beasts of the field, only as they might furnish them means of speculation on a pretext of fraud upon the Government. This is susceptible of proof!!! The man of common calculation would suppose that, as the Indians had furnished the corn agreeable to contract the money appropriated by Congress to meet such contingencies would be paid to the Indians if other moneys due to them were withheld. This supposition is far from being correct. Mr. Blake, the Sub-Agent went by Col. Crowell, had superseded Mr. Brearley, and was engaged in giving his receipts for the corn delivered under the contract.  A speculation was presented, and, as the poor Indians were to be the victims of rapacity, why, it was all very well. The aforesaid Maj. Love 'to secure the speculation, repaired to St. Louis, with letters of credit from Mr. Blake', the Sub-Agent of Col. Crowell, and purchased several thousand dollars worth of merchandize, and, so soon as he could reach the Creek Agency, commenced purchasing the corn receipts issued by the Sub-agent. It is reasonable to suppose, that the good were sold, on an average, at two hundred per centum (sic) above cost and carriage; and by this means the Indians would get about one-third of the value of their corn, at the contract price! They offered to let the receipts go at twenty-five per cent, discount, if they could only obtain cash for them.

Now I do not charge the Sub-Agent with being in copartnership with Maj. Love, in the purchase of the goods, and the speculation consequent thereupon; but it seems strange that he would give letters of credit to a man (who came with him to this country, without capital,) to purchase goods, and retail them out, with his permission, to the Indians, without taking some pains to guard against the risk of loss, or, as an indemnity against suspecion (sic).

The United States owe the Creeks money.- They have paid them none in three years.-- The money has been appropriated by Congress.  It is withheld by the Agents. The Indians are destitute of almost every comfort for the want of what is due to them. If it is longer withheld from them, it can only be so, upon the grounds, that the poor Indian, who is unable to compel the United States to a compliance with solemn treaties, must linger out a miserable degraded existence, while those who have power to extend to him the measure of justice, will be left in the full

possession of all the complacency arising from the solemn assurance that they are either the stupid or guilty authors of his degradation and misery.

TAH-LOHN-TUS-KY.

P. S. The Creeks have sent frequent memorials, praying relief from the War Department; also a delegation, but can obtain no relief!!

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






REMOVAL OF THE CHEROKEES.

We believe there is no subject connected with the policy of our country which has, for the last six months, more strongly invoked the public attention, than the act providing for the removal of the Cherokees.  It is a subject, upon the discussion of which we cannot enter with any degree of moderation, believing as we do, the provisions of that act, not only cruel, unjust, and oppressive, but likewise calculated to cast on immovable, and palpable shade, over the hitherto brilliant, and untarnished fame of our free republic. If that act should be carried into effect, it will be an indelible stain on the national character of happy America, and like pefidious (sic) Carthage, her name will become a bye word among the nations. What! in defiance of treaties most solemnly entered into between the United States government and the Indians --in contempt of the clearest maxims of truth, justice, and humanity-and in the dishonor of those principles upon which our republican institutions are professed to be framed-will the Government compel the Cherokees to emigrate beyond the Mississippi or submit to Georgia legislation.

We maintain that to compel the Cherokees to remove West of the Mississippi-or submit to the laws of Georgia; to submit to the laws framed by their most inveterate enemies, in the making of which, they had not the slightest participation, and which are to be the offspring of the most untiring spirit of extermination, is substantially, and in practical effect the same, as an unconditional and unqualified expulsion of the Cherokees, from their homes, their native scenery in which every association of their earliest recollections is entwined- their improvements- the tombs of their ancestry- and in a word their native soil. This is substantially the purport of the act. By that act the Cherokees are compelled to leave their lands in Georgia. They are to be driven from their native haunts. It is true there is an alternative. An alternative, which we think is offering insult to injury-an alternative to which Indian pride will never submit-an alternative, which is tampering with, and turning it to scoff and ridicule the principles, upon which the war of our independence was justified-- an alternative fabricated as a cloak to hide the insidious, inhuman and faithless purposes of a government which looks alone to the end, to justify the means from the honest scrutiny of indignant freemen.

The title of the Cherokees to the lands which they now occupy, and which by this act, they are called upon to surrender; those lands where sleep the ashes of their ancestors, more dear to an Indian than his very existence, has been acknowledged by this government, and the archives of the National Legislature, exhibit no fewer than sixteen distinct and solemn treaties, between the government of the United States and the Cherokee Indians, who are now asserting their rights, against the claims of Georgia. Some of these treaties were entered into by the Cherokees, at a time when they were sufficiently formidable to support their rights by the sword; if such a resort had been necessary; others of them were entered into at a time, when our nation had increased in power, ' the Cherokees were weak, ' without the means of defence. All, however, acknowledge to their fullest extent, the rights of the Cherokees, and concede to them, exclusive sovereignty over the territory they occupy. Georgia has herself recognized their independent national character by entering into treaties with them, before the treaty making power was exclusively vested in the General Government, by the Constitution.  It is true, that the National Government stand pledged to Georgia, to put that State in possession of the Indian country, within its prescribed limits, and 'to extinguish the Cherokee title as soon as it can be done peaceable, and on reasonable terms.' Georgia claims five millions of acres of lands lying in the Cherokee Nation, and now calls upon the National Government to fulfil this conditionall (sic) agreement.  But is has been recently asserted that the United States transcended their powers in this negotiation with Georgia.  Be that as it may, in accordance with the immutable principles of justice, the title of the Cherokees to the soil they claim and possess, which has descended to them from their fathers by immemorial inheritance- the very best of all titles-cannot be denied.-- Under such circumstances, what right had our government to compel them to emigrate.  It has indeed been advocated as a measure of expediency but no state of affairs could exist that would render it expedient to be unjust. Let it not, however, be supposed that the Cherokees are going to submit tamely to such despotism which is so much at variance with the laws of nature, nations, justice, and humanity. They are not the same race of savage beings which they were a century age (sic)--they have advanced to a degree of civilization, unknown in many parts of this country-they have men amongst them well fitted by education and intelligence to represent their wrongs, and defend their rights; and they are determined to submit the justice of their claims to the consideration of the Supreme Court of the United States.--Va. Pat.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

New Echota: July 31, 1830

We have always been sensible that among the people of Georgia there are many who feel for the condition of the Cherokees and condemn the authorities of the state in their arbitrary course towards them.- This we know from personal acquaintance with many of the worthy citizens and the reader will be satisfied that it is at least the case with one when he peruses the communication of A GEORGIAN. For these men we entertain the highest respect.- They are indeed true to their principles as republicans and friends of equal rights-they are worthy of the American name, and are an honor to the state and the nation. Happy would it be for the Unites States and the poor Indians if the leading men of Georgia partook largely of their feelings.

__________________________

We have struck off additional copies of the address of the Committee and Council to the people of the United States, for general distribution. We again request those, to whom the sheet containing the address has been sent, to have it as extensively read as possible.

_______________________________

The following letter was unavoidably deferred last week. We now lay it before our readers.

HEAD OF COOSA, CHER. NA.

July 20th 1830.

To H. MONTGOMERY, U.S. Agent.

Sir,- In pursuance of the accompanying Resolution of the General Council of this Nation-I avail myself of the earliest opportunity to submit through you to the President of the United States, the sentiments of the Cherokee people as expressed by their immediate Representatives; and in compliance with the aforesaid Resolution I would beg leave further to add in reply to your communications of the 26th ult. and of the 10th inst. that it is pleasing to be informed that 'the President seeks not to oppress or drive us, and that he feels for us as a Father feels for his children, and is deeply solicitous for our welfare'- but on the other hand we are grieved to hear him say that he has no power to interfere and oppose the exercise of the sovereignty of any State, over, and upon all who may be within the limits of any state, and that we will prepare ourselves to abide the issue of such new relations without any hope that he will interfere, because it is by this understood, that he considers our territory to be within the ordinary jurisdiction of individual States, and that the Cherokees must consequently submit to the State laws; -whereas by the treaty of peace between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, the latter is acknowledged to be under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign whosoever, and it is stipulated that the Cherokee Nation will not hold treaty with any foreign Power, individual State or with individuals of any State; and in the preamble of the same Treaty (of Holston) the inhabitants of this nation are called citizens of the Cherokee Nation, and in the 11th article thereof it is irresistibly implied that the Cherokee country is not 'within the jurisdiction of any state' nor 'within the jurisdiction of any of the Territorial Districts of the United States.' And by the 7th article 'the United States solemnly Guarantee to the Cherokee Nation all their lands not ceded.' And by the 6th article of the Treaty of Tellico, 1798, this Guarantee is pledged by the United States to be continued 'forever.' The Cherokee Nation have no desire to change the relations established between them and the United States by the subsisting treaties, and as it is believed that they are perfectly consistent with the principles of the constitution and laws of the United States. We cannot believe that the General Government will withdraw their protection and abandon us to the power of an individual State, when at the same time the faith of the Cherokee Nation is pledged to the United States by treaty that they will acknowledge the protection of the United States exclusively, and that they will not hold any treaty with any other sovereign whosever. It is the received opinion of some among the ablest Jurists, that the Cherokees are a sovereign nation; and their having placed themselves under the protection of the United States, does not at all impair their sovereignty and independence as a nation. 'One community may be bound to another by a very unequal alliance, and still be a sovereign State. Though a weak State, in order to provide for its safety, should place itself under the protection of a more powerful one, yet according to Vatell (B 1 ch. 1 paragraph 5 ' 6) 'if it reserves to itself, the right of governing its own body it ought to be considered an Independent State.' 20 Johnson's Report 711, 712 Goodell vs. Jackson.

That the territory of the Cherokees is not within the jurisdiction of Georgia, but within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the Cherokee Nation.

'That consequently the State of Georgia has no right to extend her laws over this territory - that the law of Georgia extending jurisdiction is unconstitutional and void.

1st. Because it is repugnant to the Treaties between the United States and the Cherokee Nation.

2d. Because it is repugnant to a law of the United States passed in 1802, entitled 'an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on the frontiers.'

3rd. Because it is repugnant to the Constitution, in as much as it impairs the obligation of all the contracts arising under the treaties with the Cherokees; and effects moreover to regulate intercourse with an Indian tribe power which belongs, exclusively, to Congress.'

The unhappy difference of opinion which seems now to exist under the claim set forth by the State of Georgia to exercise the power of sovereign jurisdiction over the Cherokee Territory, involves a delicate question touching the powers of the General Government, which for the sake of good neighborhood the constituted authorities of this action have determined to refer to the Supreme Court of the United States for a Judicial decision- and it is to be hoped that this appeal will meet the approbation of the President, as it evinces a pacific disposition on the part of the Cherokees, and shows that they do not desire to grasp at any extravagant pretensions of power, more than can be awarded to them by the laws of the land.-I would therefore humbly beg that the Executive authority of the United States will be extended to protect the Cherokee Nation against the oppression and violence of Georgia, as far as the Constitution, treaties and laws of the United States will authorize him to go, until a final decision upon this important controversy is had from the Judicial Tribunal of the Union-the Supreme Court of the United States.

In reply to the other points embraced in your communications. I refer you to the accompanying Resolution of the General Council.  And in conclusion permit me to say that I can see no just cause for any difficulties to take place between the United States Troops and the Cherokees; and that no provocation will be given or sanctioned on the part of the constituted authorities of the Nation.  Understanding that the United States Troops were ordered into the nation for the purpose of removing intruders from the Cherokee lands, which has not as yet been effectually done-it is with feelings of deep regret we have heard it announced that an arrangement has been made between the United States troops and the civil authority of Georgia for executing all civil processes in the Cherokee Nation under the laws of Georgia-and also that the Cherokees are ordered to desist from digging gold in their own country, and consequently are viewed as intruders upon the own soil no reason being assigned nor explanation given why it became necessary in the present unhappy state of our affairs, that such measures should be taken- we cannot but view such orders with astonishment and feel them grievously oppressive, and hope that they will be reconsidered and countermanded by the President together with that directing the distribution of annuities.

The people of this nation having established a constitutional form of Government and the annuities due the nation by the United States having been applied for the support of this Government, it cannot be expected that the constituted authorities will, by their act, and with their own hands, demolish the fabric reared by the voice of the people for the Government of the Cherokee Nation.- You will please to lose no time in laying this communication and the accompanying document before the President of the United States at Nashville.

I am, Sir, Respectfully

Your ob't Serv't

JNO. ROSS.

__________________________________

Page 2 Col 5b.

The editor  Cherokee Phoenix

Dear Sir,

It must, at all times, be extremely painful to a patriotic citizen to feel himself constrained to disapprove or censure any of the public measures of his native state. But whenever the leading men of the Government pursue an oppressive and cruel policy towards individuals or communities, silence on his part would justly subject him to the charge of 'particips criminis.' He should then fearlessly and loudly raise his voice against the oppression though the power he may attempt to oppose threatens to crush him with its thousands of victims. It is under such a sense of duty that I now throw myself before that torrent of prejudice and persecution which is every day beating stronger and stronger and roaring louder and louder against the rights of the Cherokees.  It would be unnecessary in me to go into a detail of all the numerous treaties and compacts guaranteeing unto our red brethren and possession of their soil and various immunities. They  are familiar to everyone. I shall only give a rapid recital of those stipulations, long admitted and acquiesced in by the State of Georgia, and then notice in what manner they have been respected by that state.

The first stand taken by Georgia, was, that the Cherokees were entitled to the permanent occupancy of the land, being privileged to alienate alone to the United States for her use. Thus the controversy rested for many years, the state in the meantime acquiring several valuable cessions of land; at each of which cessions, the General Government guaranteeing, and the state by her reception of the land on those terms, ratifying the stipulation, that the Indians were to be protected, as heretofore, in their remaining territory.  But another acquisition of land is desired, which would entirely remove the Indians beyond the chartered limits of the State, and by what step is this essayed? An effort to purchase was attempted by commissioners. The Indians feeling an increased attachment to their hereditary homes, from their progress in civilization, refused to sell and move to a new and distant country. But the Indians must be ejected in some way-their fruitful land must be possessed-' for the first time that strange and monstrous doctrine is advanced, that all the ancient rights and usages, customs, laws and tribunal of these primitive settlers of the soil must be abolished-swept away at one fell swoop-and they brought under a totally different, and to them entirely strange jurisdiction. And for this sore bereavement, have the Indians the consolation of knowing that they are to participate in all the blessing of that jurisdiction? Not so-such an arrangement would not perfect the great scheme of oppression; this turn of the screw would only give them the rheumatism; one turn more and they will receive such a severe gout as to be compelled to seek another clime.  The same statute extending the civil authority of the State, declares 'that no Indian or descendant of any Indian residing within the Creek or Cherokee Nation of Indians shall be deemed a competent witness in any court of this state to which white person resides within the said nation.' Is not this like burying a man to his neck in the ground, with the means of subsistence placed before him, but beyond his reach? The Indians have consequence enough to be subjected to all the penalties of our civil and criminal code, but are too worthless and insignificant to participate in its advantages. What a mournful presage of the downfall of a nation bloating with corruption and from an overgrown pride and prosperity. By this statue a wide door is thrown open for dishonesty to practice every species of fraud upon the Indians-by it all the bulwarks of their lives, liberties, and prosperity are torn away, exposing them naked and defenceless (sic) to the mercenary whites, who are rushing over treaties, justice, and humanity to get possession of the coveted land. And by whom, and for what purpose has this unholy deed been committed? by an enlightened and civilized legislature, hoping thereby so to fetter and embarrass the Indians that, rather than continue under such a state of things they will consent to sell their birthright. Yet even this merciless law does not drive the men of the forest from the graves of their fathers. They still cling to the land they have so often 'seen from their mountains, and passed over in the chase.' Something else must be done to increase the difficulties of the Indians, and detach these tenacious affections of theirs. Accordingly we hear another paradox proclaimed at Washington City, that the claim of the Indians to the land not yet ceded by them is confined to that portion they actually occupy, or have enclosed. A doctrine so glaringly absurd and despotic, that even some of the most strenuous advocates of the Georgia policy are ashamed of it. But it may perhaps accomplish the favorite object in view. The Cherokees are a bold and haughty people-extremely impatient of confinement.  Coop them up then-restrict them within narrow bounds, and they will become so tame and tractable as to be easily led or coaxed off to Arkansaw (sic). Pursuant to this new fangled doctrine, a blazing proclamation is issued by the Governor of Georgia forbidding the Indians to dig any gold within the Cherokee boundaries. Where is the authority for this prohibition? Shew (sic) the bond, and you shall have not only the pound of flesh, but all the blood that streams from the incision. From what source is this restraining power derived? Is it from the expulsion of the British dominion over this country, and a consequent assumption by us of all the control which government claimed over the Indians? Now, granting, and for argument sake alone, that the English King received the allegiance of the Indians to the extent contended for by some-to which of the two sovereignties did that allegiance rightly attach by the issue of the Revolution- the State or Federal government? Certainly to the latter as the paramount and most appropriate power.  Should, however, there be any one so hardy as to withhold this rational admission, let him refer to the constitution  of the United States, and he will there find that in the right to regulate commerce with the Indians, Congress has, with the sanction of Georgia, the superintending care of the Cherokees, and from them entitled to whatever obedience is due from a dependent to the protecting power. If the stickler for state rights still disputes my position, I would cite him to the compact of eighteen hundred and two between the State of Georgia, and the United States. In that agreement the right to treat with and extinguish the Indian title to lands is conceded by the State to the United States. And here let me ask, if the State of Georgia believed she possessed the exclusive right to treat with the Cherokees for their lands, would she have given an immense territory to the general government to do that, which she herself could have done?

Having clearly established, as I conceived that the  jurisdiction of the Cherokee Nation is vested, if vested any where, in the General Government-let us next enquire whether the whole or any part of that jurisdiction has been transferred to the state of Georgia. In an act of Congress, passed in eighteen hundred and two, and never repealed, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and which act was approved by the vote of the Georgia delegation, after defining the boundary line, established by treaty between the United States and various Indian tribes, including the Cherokees, it is declared, 'If any citizen or other person shall go into any town, settlement, or territory belonging, or secured by treaty with the United States, to any nation or tribe of Indians, and shall there commit 'c. such offender shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, and be imprisoned not exceeding twelve months. And it shall moreover be lawful for the President of the United States to take such measures and to employ such military force, as he may judge necessary, to remove from lands, belonging, or secured by treaty as aforesaid, to any Indian tribe, any such citizen, or other person, who has made, or shall hereafter make, or attempt to make a settlement thereon.' Here we perceive not only a retention of the jurisdiction by the General Government, but a rebuttal of the novel doctrine, that the claim of the Indians is confined to the land they actually occupy: for if I understand the word 'territory' it means as well that part of the land, forest or wilderness, not ceded, as that which may be enclosed or under cultivation. It is further asserted in the same act that 'No purchase, grant, lease or other conveyance of land or of any title or claim thereto from any Indian, or nation, or tribe of Indians, within the United States shall be of any validity in law or equity unless the same be made by treaty or convention, entered into pursuant to the constitution.'  'No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation 'c.' 'The President shall have power, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate to make treaties' 'c. and in the memorial of the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia, addressed to the President as late as the year 1819, it is declared, 'The State of Georgia claims a right to the jurisdiction and soil of the territory within her limits. 

She admits however, that the right is inchoate, remaining to be perfected by the United States in the extinction of the Indian title: the United States, pro hac vice, acting as our agent.' It is sufficient here to ask, has the Cherokee title been extinguished? If not, then the State of Georgia has no jurisdiction-for agreeably to her own admission, her jurisdiction cannot commence until after the extinction. Thus it is evident from the Constitution- the compact of 1802-the act of Congress-the memorial of Georgia-and a long acquiescence by Georgia, that she cannot properly exercise any kind of jurisdiction, over the Cherokee Nation, until its territory is acquired by the treaty making power- and in extending her laws and restraining the Indians from digging gold, she undertakes to nullify the provisions of the constitution, and to set up her own provisions as substitute therefor. I am aware that I have omitted various important views of which the question is susceptible; but it appears to me that they would all have led to the same conclusion.

A GEORGIAN.

___________________________________________

Page 2 Col. 2b.

The following extract of a communication written from the neighborhood where the transaction took place, will give our readers further light on the justice and humanity of some civilized and republican people.

A company of whites was in this neighbourhood (sic) with forged notes and false accounts to a very considerable amount upon the Indians, and forcibly drove off the property of several families. This, sir, is the cause of our misery, poverty, and degradation, for which we have been so much reproached. This is what makes us poor devils; if we fail to make good crops some of the white neighbors must starve, for many of them are dependant upon us for a support, either by fair or foul means. Some of the poor creatures are now travelling among us almost starved, begging for something to eat--they are actually worse than Indians. If they cant (sic) get by begging, they steal. To make us clear of these evils, and make us happy forever, the unabating avarice of some of the Georgians, by their repeated acts of cruelty, point us to homes in the west--but as long as we have a poney (sic) or a hog to spare them we will never go, and not then. This land is heaven's gift to us, it is the birth right of our Fathers; and as long as these mountains lift their lofty summits to heaven, and these beautiful rivers roll their tides to the mighty Ocean, so long we will remain. May heaven pity and save our distressed country.

VALLEY TOWNS.

____________________________________

Page 3 Col. 3b

PUBLIC MEETING AT LEXINGTON, KY.

A meeting said, in the Kentucky Reporter, to have been a very large one, was held in Lexington on the 21st of June at which, after a discussion that lasted six hours, a series of resolutions were passed, strongly disapproving of the President's rejection of the bills passed at the close of the session for certain internal improvements, and of the bill for removing the Indians in the State of Georgia, which, the resolution says, if carried into execution 'will involve a wasteful and extravagant expenditure of public treasure-a gross violation of the faith of the nation'-and expressing, their disapprobation of the conduct of their senators, Messrs. Rowan and Bibb. N. Y. D. Adv.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NATIONAL COMMITTEE

On motion of Mr. David Vann, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted.

Resolved, That the authorities of the Cherokee Nation to highly approve of the measures pursued by their delegation during the last session of the Congress of the U. S.

Resolved, That the Delegation deserves the thanks of this Council and of the people of the Cherokee Nation for their integrity, perseverance and faithfulness in the cause of their injured country.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolution be presented to each of the delegates.

New Echota, C. N. 17th July, 1830.

JAS. DANIEL, Pt. pro.tem.

Jno. TIMSON, CPk., pro. tem.

Concurred GOING SNAKE,

Spkr. Council.

Jno. RIDGE, CPk.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






A Camp meeting will be held at Rocky Spring, Conasauga, commencing on the 9th Sept. next.

Also a camp meeting will be held at Mount Wesley, Oougillogee, on Thursday the 16th September.

Another will be held at Chattooga camp ground on Thursday the 23d of September.

_______________

The annual examination of the School at Creekpath will take place on the second Friday in August.

William Potter

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NOTICE

I hereby forewarn all persons from harboring and trading with SELAH BLACKWELL, on my account, as she has never been legally my wife. I have sufficient evidence to prove that the said Selah Blackwell is the lawful wife of one Mr. Young. I therefore solemnly protest against any proceedings either in law, or in any other way, against me on her account.

Alexander McDonald.

July 31, 1830

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Dutchess Intelligencer.

Whenever it happens, in a question of disputed right, that the pretensions of one of the parties violate the plainest principles of equity, honest men are seldom at a loss with which of the two to side. It is thus with the Indian nations. An ingenuous mind is fulled with wonder to learn that the question is, whether Georgia has the right to drive the Indians (for her laws are nothing less than force) from their lands. Not content with that domain which a century of conquest and purchase has added to her territory, she is uneasy, and feels herself 'cribbed and cabined in' so long as one of the ancient possessors remains to be seen. There are those among us who yet indulge the hope, that the American people are not insensible to the united claims of justice and humanity, and will not yield up the national character a prey to the insatiable rapacity of the land jobbers of Georgia.

The primary source of title to land is occupation.  Whenever that occupation has been long continued it becomes prescription: and where that acknowledged, there is not wanting any one of the evidences of the most complete and perfect title. The Cherokee Nation, with whom our business is, can produce all these evidences in favor of their humble and unpretending claim to live and die in the land of their fathers. But the Indian title as a thing distinct and peculiar; it differs very widely from the nature of that ownership, which nations completely independent, exercise over their national domain. For all their purposes, however, it is complete; it consists in right to perpetual occupation according to their own customs: these customs vest the whole land in the whole tribe, and except by special license, do not admit a several ownership, in any single individual.

At a very early period of the colonial governments, there arose a distraction, since well established, between the ultimate right to the fee of the land, and the immediate right of occupancy; to which was superadded another principle of great importance, naturally flowing from that distinction, that none but the owner of the ultimate right to the fee, could become the possessor by purchase or conquest of the intermediate occupation.  This power was accordingly vested in the crown of Great Britain. This state of Indian relations was familiar to every well informed man in our country, when the colonial tie severed, and the United States concluded the peace of 1783.

The parties of that treaty were George III, on the one part, and on the other, not the individual states in a several capacity, but the 'United States of America,' that new sovereignty which was alone known to foreign nations. Hence the state of Georgia did not succeed to the prerogatives of the crown in relation to the Indian nations, adjoining or within the limits of that state, but the same became vested in the United States, and ever since have, in point of fact been exercised by them, to the express exclusion of the states. Now we are well aware that it is the rash and presumptuous disposition of some, to disregard the authority of old examples and the practical expositions of former times, yet we suppose that even by the most fastidious, we will be deemed to have proved enough, if we can shew (sic) that the United States claimed this power, and that Georgia admitted the claim.

In the interval which clasped between 1785 and 1802, the United States concluded four treaties with the Cherokee Indians by all of which very large cessions of land were made to the former. These treaties were negotiated in South Carolina, at Philadelphia, and in the Indian country, as the treaty has it, 'near Tellico on Cherokee ground.' They were public and notorious acts of State, ratified by the Presidents and Senate, and their provisions were all known to the senators of Georgia, and to the government of that state. It is material to remember this, because the last of the four treaties was concluded in 1798, and the compact with Georgia was made in 1802, in which the government agreed to buy for her the Indian lands as soon as it 'could be done peaceable ' upon reasonable terms.' Hence in Georgia, all the preceding acts were known when the contract was made, and of course the powers exercised for thirteen years by the general government, were known; to this may be added the whole scope and tenor of the compact itself- for why should Georgia have solemnly stipulated for the extinguishment of the Indian title by the United States, if she had been competent to extinguish it herself?

The following articles of the treaties concluded previous to 1802, are those which apply directly to the argument.

'The said Indians, for themselves and their respective tribes and towns, do acknowledge all the Cherokees to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whatsoever.' (1785, Article 3.)

'If any citizen of the United States, or other person not being an Indian, shall attempt to settle on any of the lands which are hereby allotted to the Indians for their hunting grounds, or having already settled and will not remove from the same 'c. such person shall forfeit the protection of the United States and the Indians may punish him or not as they please.



 (1785 Art. 5. 1791 art. 8)

 'For the benefit and comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention of injuries or oppressions on the part of the citizens or Indians, the United States in Congress assembled  shall have the sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and managing all their affairs  in such a manner as they shall think proper.'

(1785 Art. 9)

The right of Congress to manage the affairs of the Indians, contained in the last article, is not conferred by the Indians in any subsequent treaty.

Treaty of 1792, Art. 2. 'The undersigned Chiefs and warriors, for themselves and all parts of the Cherokee Nation will not hold any treaty with any foreign power, individual state, or with individuals of any state.'



 Art. 7, of the same treaty. 'The United States SOLEMNLY GUARANTY to the Cherokee Nation all their lands not hereby ceded.'



 Art. 9 of the same. 'No citizen or inhabitant of the United States shall attempt to hunt or destroy the game of the land of the Cherokees; nor shall any citizen or inhabitant go into the Cherokee country, without a passport.' 'c. 'c.

Art. 2, of the treaty of 1794- 'The treaties subsisting between the present contracting parties, are acknowledged to be of full and operative force, together with the construction and usage  under their respective articles and so to continue.'

One of the negotiators of this last mentioned treaty, on the part of the United States, was George Walton, and eminent citizen of Georgia. If George Clinton, John Jay, Daniel D. Tompkins, DeWitt Clinton, or Thomas J. Oakley, had transacted an affair of this kind is it reasonable to suppose that the people of this state or their representatives could be ignorant of the whole matter?

Such are the terms used by a civilized and powerful protector, to those who repose under the shadow of her wings. It is plain that the force and perspicuity of language can do no more than is here done, to recognize and secure the rights and possessions of the Cherokees from the aggressions of the whites. The state of Georgia was as much a party to all these treaties, as any other state in the Union. Her Executive, her Legislature, and her Judiciary, were all bound by their force and legal effect. They preceded the compact between her and the United States in 1802, so that when that compact was made, there could be not pretence of ignorance or surprize (sic).  After the compact the tenor of the treaties was not altered; the very first article of the treaty of 1805 is as follows:

'All former treaties which provide for the maintenance of peace, and preventing of crimes are on this occasion to be recognised (sic) and continued in force.'

The conclusions to be drawn from all these facts and treaties are,

1. That the Indians being the original owners of the land, have a natural and legal right to retain their possession.

2. That the United States have alone authority to transact  affairs of any kind  with the Indians-and in the exercise of that authority have prohibited individuals and states from purchasing Indian lands or entering their territory.

3. That four treaties had been made with the Cherokee Indians anterior to the compact between the United States and Georgia, and that by these treaties the United States guaranty the Indian lands to the possessors.

4. That these treaties were will known to the Government of Georgia when the compact was made.

5. That by the compact, the government 'of Georgia plainly acknowledged  the rights of the Indians, and the exclusive authority of the General Government to negotiate with the Indians, and regulate all intercourse with them.

6. That the law of Georgia for extending her jurisdiction over the Indians is a direct violation of the provisions of all these treaties.

____________________________________

Page 4 Col. 3a

'Let us count the cost' - It has been stated in the public papers, on the authority of Mr. EVERETT, a member of Congress from Massachusetts, that the expenses attending the contemplated removal of the Indians from their present peaceful habitations within the borders of Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi, to the wilderness assigned them by Congress west of the Mississippi River, would cost the national government the enormous sum of TWENTY-FOUR MILLIONS OF DOLLARS!- When this statement first appeared, we considered it incredible that so large a waste of public money could be contemplated for an object which if it cost nothing should never compel the Indians to emigrate. The declaration we considered extravagant, and if made by a member so intelligent, and candid as Mr. Everett, must have been the accidental expression of a man in earnest debate, warmed with a glowing sense of accumulated wrongs about to fall upon the unhappy aborigines of the west. But the fact is otherwise. This honorable and eloquent member of Congress had looked coolly into the subject. He has not hastily given an opinion; but made it a matter of research, ' minutely investigated item by item, before he ventured on the national floor of Congress, in the face of friends and foes, to proclaim to the people that they were to be taxed twenty four millions of dollars  to gratify the inhumanity of two or three States that covet the Indian inheritance. Within a few days past, Mr. Everett's speech, in which he adverts to the overwhelming expense to be incurred by the removal of the Indians, has appeared in print.  We have read it; and are surprised to find that his argument is sustained by facts so many ' plausible.  His estimates are minute and particular--every man, the least acquainted with arithmetic, has facts presented from which he can calculate and draw his own conclusions. These calculations and inferences must make an impression on the dispassionate reader, and clearly show that Mr. Everett's estimate is not so wild and visionary as might at first have been imagined- twenty four millions  of the national treasure thrown to the winds to aid Georgia, 'c. in oppressing their Indian neighbors-and the President of the United States giving his cordial sanction thereto. Had Congress appropriated this sum to aid the Colonization Society to emancipate and send to the soil of their fathers the enslaved Africa-had they vested it in stock of useful canals or public turnpikes, to strengthen the bonds of the Union and facilitate commerce and internal communication, the amount of good resulting therefrom would have been incalculable.  But to devote such an enormous sum to an object which, in its effect, is to further the oppression of a race of men who are emphatically the 'lords of the soil' is what justice and humanity cannot but loudly and imperiously condemn. With great propriety therefore was Congress invited to 'count the cost' before it passed the bill; and the same appeal is applicable to the people before they sanction what a majority of their representatives have done.

Sen. of Freedom

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














(Note- this issue formatted in 3 large columns per page.)

OPINION

On the right of the State of Georgia to extend her laws over the Cherokee Nation, by William Wirt, Esq.

THE Cherokee Nation of Indians have submitted, for my opinion, the following:

CASE

LONG before the arrival of the Europeans on this continent, and from time immemorial, they have been a sovereign nation, rightfully under the sole and exclusive government of their own laws, usages and customs, within their own dominions, of which dominions, except so far as altered by treaty, they have ever been and still are the absolute lords and masters, acknowledging no earthly superior. The arrival of the Europeans on this continent produced no change in their political condition. They were never conquered. They have had various wars with the white people, which have been followed by treaties of peace, of which the white people were, always, as desirous as themselves. They have, also, made various cessions of their lands to the white people, by voluntary treaty. But they have, always, been respected and treated with, by the British Government, by the State Governments, by that of the United States, under their Articles of Confederation, and lastly, by that of the present United States, under their Federal Constitution, as a sovereign people, to be governed, exclusively, by their own laws, usages and customs, and owing no allegiance either to the State Governments, or to the Government of the United States, nor amenable to their laws, except so far as they have engaged by their own voluntary treaties, to respect these of the United States, made to give effect to those treaties. If the United States declare war against a foreign country, the Cherokees are not bound to take a part in that war, unless they choose to do so of their own accord.  If a civil war take place among the States, the Cherokees are not involved in that war, nor responsible for its consequences. They have nothing to do, either with the State Governments, or the General Government; had no voice in the formation of their respective constitutions, are not represented in their councils, are not called upon to contribute to the expense of these governments, which are, to them, foreign governments, and have never, heretofore, been required, or expected to obey the laws of these governments, nor in any manner to intermeddle with them, or to be affected by them. By various cessions of their lands, made, from time to time, by treaties and for valuable considerations, their once extensive domain has been much reduced, but is still sufficiently large for all their purposes. This domain lies within what are called the chartered limits of four of the States of the Union, the States of Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Alabama. Within this domain, they are still sovereign, and governed, exclusively, by their own laws; having never been considered or treated as citizens of these States or of the United States, having none of the rights of such citizens, but, on the contrary, in all their treaties with the United States, being continually spoken of as contra-distinguished from citizens of the United States. They have had wars with the United States which have been terminated by treaties of peace; they have never been regarded as traitors in such wars, which they must have been, if they were citizens of the United States; but, on the contrary, the treaties of peace which have followed such wars have borne all the characters and have contained all the stipulations which are usual in such treaties when made between two sovereign nations who have been engaged in war. Their first treaty with the United States was that made at Hopewell in 1785. The preamble to this treaty, as it stands in the English language, in which it was reduced to writing, states that the Commissioners of the United States 'give peace to all the Cherokees, and receive them into the favor and protection of the United States on the following conditions.' The Cherokee have understood that a certain description of men, whose trade it is to deal in

words, and who therefore, think more of words than things, have caught at the expression 'give peace' as an admission on the part of the Cherokees, that they were a conquered people and were suing for peace, at the feet of their conquerors, on such terms as they should be pleased to dictate; but these word mongers can know very little of the history of that time and that transaction, or must suppose themselves addressing other equally ignorant upon this subject, when they venture to draw such an inference from those words. To those who know the truth of the case, this inference is mere smoke. Every white man decently acquainted with the history of his own country, knows that the United States came out of the War of the Revolution in a state of extreme exhaustion, and were the first to sue for peace from the Indians, who had been engaged in that war on the British side. The United States asked peace of the Cherokees, and after having refused it for some time, the Cherokees, at length, acceded to it, and it was established by this treaty. As to the words employed in the preamble, it is idle to attempt to draw an inference of fact from them, so directly opposed to the well known historical truth of the case. In making this treaty, the Cherokees, according to their habit, looked to the substance of the thing not to the form. The expression in the preamble, on which this quibble is raised against the known fact, is in a language not then understood by the Cherokees. The treaty was arranged by interpreters; and the thing understood was that there was to be peace by mutual consent, and this was the only thing understood. The Cherokees well knew that they were inferior to their white brethren, in the arts of peace as well as the science of war. Aware of this, they were willing to profit by their protection. Before the Revolution, they had declared themselves under the protection of the British, and the King of England was called their 'great father.' And the United States having now become an independent nation, they were, willing to place themselves, in like manner, under the protection of the United States. But protection is one thing and subjection another. The first they were willing to receive; if the last had been demanded, as a condition of the treaty, the hatchet would not have been buried at Hopewell, in 1785. But the question whether they were a conquered people or not, who were thenceforth to lose their separate national existence, to renounce the rights of self-government, to become citizens of the United States, and to be governed, in common with their other citizens by the laws of the United States or of the individual states, is not to be answered by a reference to those few words only, thus foisted into the preamble in a language unknown to the Cherokees. This question is to be answered by an appeal to the stipulations of the treaty themselves. This is substance,

not form. And to these the Cherokees fearlessly appeal in proof of the fact that they were treated with, and acknowledged as, a separate sovereign nation, who were to have the exclusive possession of their own territory designated in that treaty by metes and bounds, free from any interruption by the citizens of the United States, from whom the treaty clearly distinguishes them; and they are regarded by that very treaty as clothed with that preeminent badge of sovereignty, the right of making war; even, of making war upon the United States.

The first and second articles in the treaty are in these words: 'The head men and warriors of all the Cherokees, shall restore all the prisoners, citizens of the United States, or subjects of their allies, to their entire liberty; they shall, also restore all the negroes and all other property taken during the late war from the citizens to such person and at such time and place, as the Commissioners shall appoint.'

2d. 'The Commissioners of the United States in Congress assembled, shall restore all the prisoners taken from the Indians, during the late war, to the head men and warriors of the Cherokees, as early as is practicable.'

Does this mutual exchange of prisoners import a conquered people, who had lost their national sovereignty by right of conquest?  On the contrary, it is the stipulation of equal sovereigns who had been engaged in lawful war, and finds a place in all treaties of peace among the sovereigns of Europe.

Again, the 8th article is in these words: 'It is understood that the punishment of the innocent under the idea of retaliation, is unjust, and shall not be practiced on either side, except where there is a manifest violation of this treaty; and then it shall be preceded first by a demand of justice; and if refused, then by a declaration of hostilities.' Is it possible to reconcile this right of declaring regular war against the United States with the ides that the Cherokees were a conquered people, who had surrendered their national sovereignty, and had agreed to become amalgamated with the citizens of the United States? What right could citizens of the United States have to levy war against the United States? Such an act would be treason, not regular war.

The 4th article begins thus: 'The boundary line allotted to the Cherokees for their hunting grounds, between the said Indians and the citizens of the United States within the limits of the United States of America is and shall be the following: ' in this striking manner distinguishing between the Indians and the citizens of the United States, and separating them by a marked boundary.

The 4th article having designated the boundary, the 5th provides 'that if any citizen of the United States shall attempt to settle on any of the lands within that boundary, he shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the Indians may punish him or not, as they please.' Thus again recognizing the distinction between the Indians and citizens of the United States and recognizing,

at the same time the sovereign right of the Indians to give the law and to inflict punishment within their own boundaries.  The 6th article provides for the delivering up, by the Indians of any Indian or other person residing among them, or who shall take refuge in their nation, who shall have committed robbery or murder, or other capital crime on any citizen of the United States. The 7th article contains a correspondent provision for the punishment of any citizen of the United States or person under their protection, who shall have committed the same sort of crimes on the

Indians. The 10th article gives liberty to all traders, citizens of the United States to go to any of the tribes, or towns of the Cherokees

to trade with them, and stipulates that they shall be protected in their persons and property and kindly treated.  The 11th stipulates that the said Indians shall give notice to the citizens of the United States of any hostile design of the neighboring tribes against them. Thus, the distinction between the Indians and the citizens of the United States pervades the whole treaty. The Cherokees are, in every part of this national compact, treated as a separate and sovereign nation, clothed with the right of self-government within their own territory, and the high and solemn right of making peace and war with the United States, with an express stipulation that the citizens of the United States who intrude upon them shall be entirely at their mercy. Some of the officers of the United States claim this treaty as a still subsisting treaty, and insist on all its stipulations in their favor; while another high officer of the United States on the occasion of a recent punishment inflicted by the Indians under the 5th article, has denied the authority of the treaty, on the ground that it was 'made more than forty years ago.' The Cherokees presume that the treaty is either in force or not in force; it cannot be in force as against them and at the same time obsolete where it works in their favor. As to its having been made more than forty years ago, they have not been favored with a reference to that work on the law of nations, from which the very enlightened officer in question has derived the principle that a treaty unlimited in its terms, becomes obsolete, after forty years: more especially when, as in this case, the treaty has been recognized by the parties as a subsisting treaty, down to the present time. The language with which the 4th article opens--' the boundary allotted to the Cherokees for their hunting grounds'-- has given occasion to farther quibbles on words which scarcely deserve notice. The word allotted is, again, supposed to imply and admit a conquest of the Cherokees and that the United States as their sovereigns, were making them a gracious and temporary loan of these lands, for the mere purpose of hunting on them, until the United States should be pleased to resume them.  The criticism either means this, or it means nothing of any account or value. But it is a mere hyper-criticism on words which is refuted by every provision of the treaty, by the practical construction under it, by every subsequent treaty and its practical construction,and lastly, by the courts of the United States themselves, whenever they have been called to consider the character of the Indian title to their lands. How would these phrases, which are deemed so significant in the English language, have been interpreted to the Cherokees, who from their ignorance of the language, could have been negotiated with, only, through an interpreter?  What other idea could have been conveyed to them, by any interpreter, than that the boundary about to be described was to be the boundary between them and the citizens of the United States. As the boundary, itself, the only material thing in question, accorded with their own notions of their rights, was it to have been expected of them to take exception to the niceties of expression in a language which they did not understand, in order to guard against the future possibility of quibbles which they as little understood? Quibbles, too, in a treaty, whose object and essence is plain and honest good faith, and a treaty with unenlightened Indians, who were invited to place themselves under the protection of the United States? As to their grounds being called hunting grounds the designation was proper: the Cherokees were, then, in the hunting state and at that time, had no other use for these grounds but for the support and chase of their game. They have since, on the solicitation and under the tuition and assistance of the United States, become agriculturists: and their right to use their ground for agriculture has been acknowledged in solemn treaties: yet on this phrase 'hunting grounds,' 'in a treaty made more than forty years ago,' an argument is attempted to be raised that their only right to these grounds is for the purpose of hunting on them. After this Treaty of Hopewell, another war broke out between the United States and the Cherokee Indians, and this terminated by the Treaty of Holston in 1791. The Federal Constitution of the United States had, then, been adopted; and this treaty was negotiated by commissioners appointed and instructed by President Washington, by and with the previous advice and concurrence of the Senate of the United States. In the message of consultation which he sent to the Senate on that occasion, he states that the white people had intruded on the Indian lands, as bounded by the Treaty of Hopewell; declares his determination to execute the power entrusted to him by the Constitution, to carry that treaty into faithful execution, unless a new boundary should be arranged with the Cherokees, embracing the intrusive settlement, and compensating the Cherokees therefore;

And he puts to the Senate, among others, this question:

'3.

Shall the United States stipulate solemnly to guaranty the new boundary which shall be arranged?'

The Senate answer:

'Resolved, that in case a new, or other boundary, than that stipulated by the Treaty of Hopewell, shall be concluded with the Cherokee Indians, that the Senate do advise and consent solemnly to guaranty the same.' This consultation took place in August 1790; and, in consequence of it, the Treaty of Holston was made on the 2d July 1791.  It is a treaty between the Cherokee Nation on the one side, and the United States on the other, treating as sovereigns. The obnoxious words 'the United States give peace' do not occur here. The first article is: 'There shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United States of America and all the individuals composing the Cherokee Nation of Indians. Here we have the same distinction again presented, between all the citizens of the United States and all the individuals composing the Cherokee Nation of Indians.

By the 2d article the Cherokees acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whosoever; and stipulated that they 'will not hold any treaty with any foreign power, individual State, or with individuals of any State.'

They, thus, placed themselves exclusively under the protection of the United States, and not of any one state, and their political capacity to treat with foreign powers is admitted, by the stipulation required of them, that they will not exercise this right. Is not this an additional admission on the part of the United States of the sovereignty of the Cherokee Nation? The third article again stipulated a mutual exchange of prisoners, in the style constantly in use among equal sovereigns who are concluding a war by a treaty of peace.

'Article 4th. The boundary between the citizens of the United States and the Cherokee Nation is and shall be as follows' the article then proceeds to designate the boundary-provides for the marking of it- and 'in order to extinguish forever all claims the Cherokee Nation  or any part thereof,' to the lands lying out of this boundary, the compensation is fixed, and the lands are ceded by the Cherokees. The 5th Article stipulates that the citizens and inhabitants of the United States shall have a free and unmolested use of a road through the Cherokee Territory. The Cherokee Territory is then acknowledged to have been, so exclusively theirs, that the citizens of the United States would have no right even of passage through it, unless the Cherokees had conceded this right by treaty. The 7th article contains the guaranty which President Washington had proposed to the Senate and which the Senate had advised. The article is in these words:

'Article 7th. The United States solemnly guaranty to the Cherokee Nation, all their lands, not hereby ceded.'

'Article 8th. If any citizen of the United States or other person, not being an Indian, shall settle on any of the Cherokee lands, such person shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the Cherokees may punish him or not, as they please.'

'Article 9th No citizen or inhabitant of the United States, shall [see 4th page.] attempt to hunt or destroy the game on the lands of the Cherokees; nor shall

any citizen or inhabitant go into the Cherokee country without a passport first obtained from the Governor of some one of the United States or Territorial Districts, or such other person as the President of the United States may, from time to time authorize to grant the same.' By the 10th Article the Cherokees bind themselves to deliver up any of their own people, or others, fugitives from justice, who shall have committed crimes against citizens of the United States, and have taken refuge in the Nation. Why was this necessary, if their Territory belonged to the jurisdiction of Georgia?

By the 11th Article it is provided that 'if any citizen or inhabitant of the United States of either of the territorial districts of the United States shall go into any town, settlement or territory belonging to the Cherokees, and shall,there, commit any crime upon, or trespass against the person or property of any peaceable and friendly Indian, which, if committed within the jurisdiction of any state, or within the jurisdiction of either of the said districts against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof, would be punished by the laws of such state or district, such offenders shall be subject to the same punishment, and shall be proceeded against in the same manner, as if the offence had been committed within the jurisdiction of the state or district to which he or they may belong, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof.' Here is a distinct and decisive admission, by the United States that 'the towns settlements and territory belonging to the Cherokees,' are not within the jurisdiction of any state or territory of the United States, nor subject to the laws of those states or territories; and that but for this consent on the part of the Cherokees by treaty, that citizens of the United States committing crimes within their jurisdiction might be punished by the laws of their own states or territories, these citizens would have been regularly punishable for such crimes only by the jurisdiction of the Cherokees, against which they had offended. The 12th Article of the treaty stipulated that in case of violence on the persons or property of the individuals of either party, neither retaliation or reprisal shall be committed by the other; until satisfaction shall have been demanded of the party of which the aggressor, is and shall have been refused. Here is the right of war by the Cherokees against the United States again admitted. The 13th Article, again, stipulated that the Cherokees shall give notice to the citizens of the United States of any hostile designs which may have been formed against them. 'Art. 14th That the Cherokee Nation may be led to a greater degree of civilization, and to become herdsmen and cultivators instead of remaining in a state of hunters, the United States will from time to time, furnish, gratuitously, the said Nation with useful implements of husbandry; and further to assist the said Nation in so desirable a pursuit and at the same time to establish a certain mode of communication the United States will send such, and so many persons to reside in said nation, as they may judge proper, not exceeding four, in numbers who shall qualify themselves to act as interpreters. These persons shall have lands assigned them by the Cherokees for cultivation for themselves, and their successors in office; but they shall be precluded exercising any kind of traffic.' In this manner the United States have continued to treat with the Cherokee Nation, as a sovereign Nation, down to the present time. The year 1808, the Cherokee Nation expressed to the United States their inclination to divide themselves into two Nations. Part of them, about one third, were disposed to continue the hunter state, and, with this view, to remove to the West, where game was more abundant, on lands to be assigned to them by the United States in exchange for their proportion of the lands East of the Mississippi; the other part were disposed to remain 'to engage in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life in the Country they then occupied.'-- Where, 'they proposed to begin the establishment of fixed laws, and regular Government.' Their wishes were communicated to the President of the United States who favored the scheme. Under his permission, and sanction, part of them removed, in the year 1809, to the Arkansas, and the separation was carried into complete effect by the treaties of 1817, 1819; it being perfectly understood, agreed, and encouraged by the United States that those who should remain would 'engage in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life.' under the protection of fixed laws and a regular Government to be established by themselves.

These admissions of their separate sovereignty as a nation, of their exclusive right to govern themselves within their own territory, and the inviolability of that territory, thus distinctly made by all their treaties with the United States, have been no less distinctly made in practice, and this distinction has been made throughout all past time. Neither the King of England, nor his colonial Governors, nor the several States, nor the United States have ever pretended a right to extend their laws over the Cherokee people within their own territory, until 19th December 1829.  On that day, the state of Georgia passed a law entitled 'an act to add the territory lying within the chartered limits of Georgia, now in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians in the counties of Carroll, Dekalb, Gwinnett, Hall and Habersham,and to extend the laws of this state over the same, and to annul all laws and ordinances made by the 'Cherokee Nation of Indians, and to provide for the compensation of officers, serving legal process in said territory, and to regulate the testimony of Indians  and to repeal the 9th section of the act of 1820 on this subject.' The first five sections of the act are employed in distributing the Cherokee territory among the five Counties named in the title. The 6th section, extends all the laws of Georgia, both civil and criminal, over the portions of the Cherokee territory so annexed to those Counties.- The 7th abolishes the Cherokee laws, and declares that in all cases of indictment or civil suits, it shall not be lawful for the defendant to justify  under any of those laws and forbids the Courts of the state to permit those laws to be given in evidence. The 8th made it unlawful for the Cherokees to attempt to p`revent the individuals of their own nation from enrolling for emigration: and the 9th subjects them to indictment and punishment before the state Courts for the offence described in the former section. The 10th makes it unlawful in the Cherokee Nation to prevent the [See second page.] individuals of that nation from selling or ceding their lands to the United States for the use of the state of Georgia; (there being no such thing as individual title to lands in the Cherokee Nation; but the whole of those lands according to their laws belonging to the entire nation as a nation.) The 11th annexes the punishment of imprisonment for four years to the foregoing offence. The 12th and 13th make it murder in the Executive, ministerial, or Judicial officers of the Cherokee Nation to inflict sentence of death, though in conformity with their own laws; declaring all those officers so concerned in carrying their own laws into effect principals; and subjects them all to indictment and death by hanging.

The 14th extends the jurisdiction of the Georgia magistrates into the Cherokee Territory, and authorizes the officers who shall carry the process for service to call out the militia of the state to overcome resistance.

And the 15th section declares 'that no Indian or descendant of any Indian residing within the Creek or Cherokee Nations of Indians, shall be deemed a competent witness in any Court of this state, to which a white person may be a party, except such white person resides within the said Nation.' On this case I am asked the following

QUESTION:

Has the State of Georgia a right the extend her laws over the Cherokees, within the Cherokee Territory?

OPINION.

The answer to this question depends on the political relation which the Cherokees hold to the State of Georgia. If they are citizens of that State, residing within her jurisdiction, they are unquestionably subject to her laws; if not, it is just as clear that the state of Georgia has no authority to extend her laws over them. How is the question of the political condition of these people to be settled?  I know of no other mode of doing it than by an appeal to their history. Looking to this history, we find that they composed a part of the aboriginal inhabitants of this country, and, in their origin, they were unquestionably, a sovereign people, owing allegiance to no other earthly potentate. Has this condition been altered by anything that has since occurred? We are not informed, by history, of any such alteration.

The European held that the title of the Indians to their lands underwent a change by force of that discovery; that is to say, that the particular power of Europe which made the first discovery acquired the right to purchase these lands of the Indians, in preference to and in exclusion of all other discoverers.  But this change of the Indian title to their lands  was not considered by the powers of Europe as altering the political condition of these people. With regard to their lands, 'they were admitted' says Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of Johnson and McIntosh, 'to be rightful occupants of the soil, with a legal as well as just claim to retain the possession of it, and to use it according to their own discretion:' and with regard to their political condition, Great Britain, the prior discoverer of this part of the continent, continually treated with these people, as a sovereign people and acknowledged, in practice as well as theory, their exclusive right to govern themselves by their own laws, usages, customs, upon the territory of which they held the present right of possession, and which they and their heirs forever were entitled to hold exclusively until they chose to surrender it by treaty. The same right which had been held by Great Britain and no other, passed to the United States by the Revolution; and the same rights and no others have been uniformly asserted by the United States. The various treaties which have been set forth and referred to in the case stated, and to which the State of Georgia as one of the United States was a party, contains the most unequivocal admissions that these people are not citizens of the United States, and therefore cannot be citizens of any one of the States; that the territory within which they dwell belongs to them as a separate people; that, within this territory, they are the sovereign and only law-givers, and these treaties exhibit them as clothed and attributes of Sovereignty utterly irreconcilable with the ideas of their being citizens of the United States or of any one of the states. Such, for example, as the right of declaring war against the United States on a demand and refusal of a redress of injuries.

The State of Georgia, it has been said, has a right to legislate over all people within her territory. But the Cherokee Indians are not people with her territory. The territory which they occupy is not, at present a part of the territory of Georgia. Her title is that only of the ultimate domain, after it shall have been relinquished by the Indians. At present,it is the territory of the Indians. 'They are the rightful occupants of the soil, with a legal as well as just claim to retain the possession, and to use it according to their discretion.'  And although their right is lightly spoken of because it is a mere right of occupancy, yet it is to be remembered that it is an exclusive right of occupancy, a right which stands solemnly guarantied to them by the United States, a right which belongs to them and their heirs forever, a right which they may alienate, or not, at their pleasure, subject to no other restriction than this, that they can alienate only to the United States of America.



The Territory which the Cherokees occupy is not, at present therefore the territory of Georgia considered as property. But the material question with reference to the enquiry before us, is, whether the territory be within the jurisdiction of Georgia. If it be not, it is clearly not subject to her laws. And this question is directly answered by the whole scope and term of the treaties which have been cited and quoted in the case prior to this Opinion. The 14th article of the Treaty of Holston contains an express and decisive admission of the principle implied in all these treaties, throughout all their provisions: to wit, that the territory of the Cherokees is not within the jurisdiction of the States, nor subject to their laws. This treaty is recognized as in full force by all the subsequent treaties. Georgia, as one of the United States, is a party to it, and is estopped to deny what she has thus solemnly admitted. The fact that the territory occupied by the Cherokees lies within the chartered limits of Georgia establishes nothing with regard to the question under consideration. That charter granted the title of the monarch who gave it, and nothing more; and neither himself if nor his grantees considered it as conferring any right to take from the Indians their lands by force, much less to abolish their laws usages and customs, and to extend the British laws compulsively over them. The impressions of the British monarch, or rather the several British monarchs in succession since the discovery by Cabot, including the particular monarch who gave the charter of Georgia, George III, with regard to their relation to these people and their lands, has been already stated. They considered the Indians as the present owners of the land, and that these lands could be rightfully acquired in no other way than by voluntary surrender by treaty, made by the whole nation in full Council. They treated with them as sovereigns possessed of the exclusive right of self Government. They styled them their Indian allies and Friends; and never, in any age, was an attempt made, or a right insinuated, by any British monarch, to abolish their own laws, and to substitute by compulsion, those of Great Britain. So much for the understanding of the monarch who gave the Charter of Georgia, and of all his predecessors and his successors, with regard to the rights and authorities of the British Crown, over the Indians and their lands. Now let us look to the understanding of the original grantees of that charter, on this same subject. Governor Oglethorpe led the first colony into Georgia under that charter. He arrived at the present site of Savannah in 1733, and how did he proceed Did he consider his charter as conferring a right to expel the Indians from their possessions by force, or to abolish their own laws among themselves and enforce the British Laws upon them? Far from them it. 'A treaty was held with the Creek Indians, to whom the lands were admitted to belong, and the cession of a considerable tract was obtained from them.' 1st. Vol. Marshall's life of Washington Ch.IX.  Thus the very first step under this charter, by the original grantee was an admission that these lands belonged to the Indians and were to be gained only by cession; and was a practical admission of the sovereignty of the Indians, by the act of treating with them as sovereigns; and, of necessity, was an admission of their exclusive right of self government, for they could act as sovereign, without such right. Will it be said that these admissions were wrung from the infant Colony by their want of physical strength to assert their rights against the vis Major of the Indians? But the same admissions continued to be made after the Colony had acquired maturity and power to assert all their rights. The British Colonial Government, under this charter, had some respect for their own character, and for the opinion of the world.  So anxious were they to avoid every appearance of taming an unfair advantage of the ignorance of their Indian allies and friends, that, in a treaty of cession, made shortly before the American Revolution, they take care to declare on the face of the treaty, that it was made in consequence of the solicitations of the Indians, defenseless, who wished to raise money for the payment of their debts. Such was the practical construction of the British monarch who gave this charter, and of the grantees under it, prior to the American Revolution, and the same, as has been shown, has been the practical construction by the United States (Georgia included) since the Revolution.

The charter it is presumed, has not experienced a new vegetation, and put forth new rights, within the last few years. The position of Georgia, herself is that she took all the rights of British colonists, under that charter, with regard to these people; granted, and it has been shown by the concession of the British colonists themselves, that they had no right to dispossess the Indians, by force, or to interfere with their right of self government.

Although this territory, then does lie within the chartered limits of Georgia, I am of the opinion that the people of Georgia have no right to disturb the Indian possession of these lands nor to interfere with their government. The United States, lands pledged by they solemn guaranty of a subsisting treaty, twice sanctioned by the Senate of the United States, to protect the possessions of the Indians.

By the same treaty, it is stipulated that no citizen of the United States shall even cross the Indian Boundary without a passport first obtained from the governor of some one of the states or territorial districts, or such other person as the President shall appoint. Is a writ from a court, or a warrant from a magistrate of Georgia such a passport from the Governor as the treaty contemplates? Or is the service of such process upon the Indians within their own territory, under the authority of the state of Georgia such a visit, under a passport: as the parties to this trety manifestly contemplated? Shall the inviolabilty of the Indian territory have been consecrated by the treaty against even a peaceable visit without a passport; and can it be believed to have been within the contemplation of the parties, that the state of Georgia should be at liberty to dismember the whole territory, at her pleasure to amalgamate it with her Counties, and to spread her officers over it, in every direction, for the apprehension and punishment of these Indians, for obedience to her laws? This can scarcely be believed by any man, who is not blinded by prejudice or passion to have been the intention of the parties to this treaty. And if so, it must be manifest that every officer in the state of Georgia, who crosses the Indian boundary in execution of her law, violates that guaranty which the faith and honor of the United States stand pledged to make good.

It is said, that to permit them to govern themselves on these lands, would be to permit a Government within a Government, which is represented as a monster in politics, never heard of before. But, the objection is not true in point of fact: it is not a government within a Government in the sense of the political axiom to which the objection alludes. The absurdity which the axiom repels is that of two distinct and equal sovereignties affecting to operate, at the same time, upon the same portion of territory. But that is not the case, here; for the Cherokees do not pretend to any right of government beyond the limits of the territory whose exclusive possession they hold, under the guaranty of the United States; and as long as the neighboring States respect the guaranty they have no Government within the Indian limits; for they cannot exercise the powers of Government there, without a direct and continued violation of the Indian right of possession. It is only by begging the question and assuming the right of the neighboring states to govern the Indians by state laws, within the Indian possessions, that the political solecism of a government within a government is produced. Instead of proving the right of the states to overleap the guaranty of the treaty, this right is assumed; and having thus gained foothold within the Indian limits, the exclusive right of government on the part of the States is then maintained on account of a political solecism created solely by this unwarranted assumption. For it is manifest that so long as the Indians confine their government within their own limits, and the states operate only on the territory exterior to those limits, there is no conflict of laws, no political paradox, no imperium in imperio: each moves in its own separate sphere, without the slightest collision with the other.

If by a government within a government, it be meant that the territory all around the Indians, is under the government of several of the States, this is no political paradox, and is not at all the meaning of the axiom in question. It is a thing of every day's occurrence for a small state to be surrounded by the territories of another sovereignty. It was the condition of all the small republics in Europe, of Venice, of Florence, of the House Towns of Switzerland and is, now the condition of every district, arsenal dockyard, fort, and hospital under the exclusive government of the United States, within the bosom of the States.  I see not why the government of Congress, within the D. of Columbia should not as well be considered a government within a government because surrounded by the State authorities of Maryland and Virginia, as that the self-government of the Cherokees within their limits, should be considered a government within a government, because surrounded by the State authorities of Georgia, Alabama and Tennessee. In both cases, it is matter of compact; and so long as the compact is respected there is no collision of authorities, but the political relations of the parties are as separate and distinct, and their action as harmonious, as if they were parted by oceans. The mutual annoyance resulting from the neighborhood of the parties is a consideration of mere expediency and does not touch the question of right, it is to the last, alone, that any opinion is confined. But on this objection of expediency, it may be observed that, in our own society, the inconveniences of bad neighbors are often severely felt; yet they are not considered as authorizing the stronger of the two to expel his neighbor, or to strip him of his legal rights in order to get rid of his vicinity.

If the right of the States to govern the Cherokees within their borders be rested on the position that the ultimate dominion of the lands, now possessed by the Cherokees, belongs to these States, and that, as soon as these lands shall be evacuated by the Indians, the possession will fall to the States, the same is equally true of the District of Columbia; for if that district shall ever be evacuated by Congress, there is no doubt that the several portions of it will revert, respectively, to the States of Maryland and Virginia. But this future contingent consequences does not at all impair the presenet authorityof Congress to govern the DIsstrict while it remains in their occupancy, nor does it, in the meantime incommode in the slightest degree the action of the state governments around them.

If this right be rested on the position assumed by the Supreme Court, in the cases of Fletcher and Peck and M'Intosh and Johnson that the States own the present fee in the lands occupied by the Indians, and may grant those lands, subject to the Indian occupancy: it is to be remembered that, according to the same decision it is only subject to the Indian occupancy that the States can grant these lands, and that the grantees of the States, though they take the whole title of the States,  cannot interfere with the Indian possession until the title shall be extinguished by the voluntary cession on their part.

By these cases, therefore, the principle is established that these States, themselves, cannot interfere with the possessions of the latter without their consent. How, then, can they parcel out the Indian lands among the coterminous counties and incorporate them with these counties for the purpose of government?  How can they tax the Indian lands in common with their own and sell them for nonpayment of taxes? How can they enter and sell them for debts? How can they regulate the conveyances of these lands? and, above all, how can they send their constables, bailiffs, sheriffs, inquests, posse comitatus, and military officers into the Indian lands, for the service of process and the enforcement of their government, without a continual invasion of the Indian possession?  According to the cases on which the opposite argument lies, the States have no right to divest or to disturb the Indian possession against their consent, and the case of Johnson and McIntosh goes farther: for in that case, the Supreme Court contemplate not only an exclusive passion  of their lands by the Indians, and 'a legal as well as a just claim to retain that possession and to use it according to their own discretion.' but they contemplate also the exclusive action of the Indian laws within the Indian territory, free from any power to control by the courts of the United States.

In resisting the right of an individual to acquire a title to these lands by a purchase from the Indians, they say- 'If  an individual might extinguish the Indian title for his own benefit, or in other words might purchase it, still he could acquire only that title.' Admitting their power to change their laws or usages, 'so far as to allow an individual to separate a portion of their lands from the common stock, and hold it in severalty, still it is a part of their territory and is held under them  by a title dependent on their own laws. The grant derives its efficacy from their will; and if they chose to resume it, and make a different disposition of the land the courts of the United States cannot interfere for the protection of the title.'



'The person who purchases land from the Indians, within their territory,  incorporates himself with them, so far as respects the property purchased; holds their title under their protection subject to their laws. If they annul the grant, we know of no tribunal which can revise and set aside the proceeding.'

If the right of the neighboring States to extend their laws into the 'Cherokee Nation be defended upon the notion that they are a conquered people, in the first place the fact of such a conquest either by Great Britain or by those States cannot be maintained; and the fact of such a conquest by the United States is denied. If there ever was a conquest of them at all, it was by the latter. But suppose for argument that there was such a conquest by the United States; it is for the conqueror alone to say how far he will extend the rights and powers of conquest. Conquered nations have often been left in the undisturbed possession of their lands and of their own laws; and if the conqueror chooses so to leave them, what other power shall dispute his will? This has been done in the present instance. It was done by the Treaty of Hopewell in 1785, and by that of Holston in 1791. The provisions of these treaties have been already detailed, and it has been shown by that detail that the United States acknowledge the Cherokees to be a sovereign nation, clothed with attributes of sovereignty too unequivocal and decisive to be mistaken; that they not only acknowledge the territory in their possession to belong to them; but have bound the faith and honor of the United States to guaranty that possession against the world: and that they have acknowledged that territory to lie without the jurisdiction of any State or District of the United States. If, therefore, the United States be the conquerors of these people, they have set limits to their own rights of conquest by the treaty of peace: by that treaty, they have left these people a sovereign people, in the exclusive possession of their lands and their laws and have guarantied that possession to them.  And since the conqueror himself, the sole arbiter on the occasion, has set these limits to his own rights of conquest, what other power can break through those limits in right of that conquest?  Can Georgia do it? But she was one of the United States, by whom the supposed conquest was made, and of necessity a party of the very treaty which limited those rights of conquest. Her claim therefore, is inconsistent with her own acts: and the very moment that she exhibits these treaties as evidence of conquest, she furnishes the proof which destroys her right to legislate over these people by right of conquest.

It is understood as having been urged, among other things, opposition to this course of reasoning, that these treaties are, in fact, not treaties in the sense of the law of Nations: Why?  because treaties are compacts between sovereigns, and it is said that the Cherokee Nation is not a sovereignty. But this is begging the question.  Before the invasion of this country by Great Britain, they were unquestionably sovereign, for they had no earthly superior. When and by what causes are they divested of this character By discovery?  But this was a principle agreed on only by the discoverers themselves, the nations of Europe, for the adjustment of their own respective rights. As against the aborigines it was nothing; it gave no right. It has never been pretended as giving the discoverer any right as against the Indians: unless the exclusive right to acquire the title of the aborigines in preference to and in exclusion of all other discoverers, be a right against the Indians themselves. Did they lose their sovereignty by conquest? Great Britain never maintained such a pretension.  On the contrary, she treated with them as sovereigns and left them in the undisturbed possession of their lands and their laws, and the right of self government. But under our constitution, who is to judge of the sovereignty of a Nation, with regard to its capacity to enter into a treaty The treaty making power is lodged with the President and Senate of the United States. The power of treating involves, of necessity, the power of deciding on the sovereign capacity of the other to enter into such a compact. But, in the present instance, this has been decided again and again by the President and Senate of the United States, the only tribunal to which our Constitution refers the decision of this question. They have decided it by making and confirming many treaties with these people: treaties of peace at the close of their wars--treaties of cession-treaties regulating the intercourse between the contracting parties--treaties on the faith of which, those States who were parties to them through their regularly constituted organs, have derived vast and most valuable acquisitions of territory.  If these compacts be not treaties what are they? What name can be given to them which will authorize either the United States, or the States individually to violate them at pleasure, consistently with the faith, justice and honor of this country?

But if the right of conquest be still the ground of this pretension, is this the time to assert it, or is one state of the Union the party to assert it? All pretensions of conquest have been long since closed by treaties of peace and amity. On the faith of these treaties the Cherokee Nation is now in profound peace with the United States, the only war making power under our constitution: and by these treaties they are left and guarantied in the possession of their remaining lands and their self government. What new right of conquest has arisen?  Has there been a fresh war? None is pretended. What ground is there, then, for the pretensions of any new right of conquest? What offence has been given by the Cherokee people, to call up such a question?   They have, it seems framed a Constitution modeled a form of Government, and made laws for themselves. But what offence is there in this? Their right of self government was never before disputed: their mode of doing it, is, consequently a question for themselves alone.  Why is it more offensive in them to have a written, rational constitution and laws, than to have them unwritten, barbarous and resting in tradition, which they have had heretofore, and which they have constantly enforced without any objection from the state of Georgia? But there is something even yet more unjust and inhuman in this objection. We have been laboring, ever since the adoption of our Constitution to civilize these people. All the states, represented in the federal government, have pushed this object of civilization with all their power and at great expense. We have sought to civilize and to Christianize them on the avowed motives of humanity to them and safety  to the neighboring whites. With the Cherokees, we have so far succeeded that they have adopted our manners, our dress, our agriculture and mechanical pursuits: they have imitated our form of Government and our laws, and Christianity it is said has made considerable progress among them. And the result now is, that we have quarrelled with our own success, and fallen out with this people for yielding to our solicitations. For how was the civilization which, which we have been so long and so strenuously urging forward, to shew itself otherwise than by the very fruits it has borne, and at which we now take offence? Is it a crime or offence in them to have yielded to our own exertions to civilize them? If it be a crime or offence in them, and furnish even a pretext to strip them of their rights, who is to blame for it? would it not be most perfidious and an offence on our part that would 'smell to Heaven' to have sought and labored at the civilization of these people for the last forty years, and this, too, under the fair guise of humanity and religion and the moment that we have accomplished this purpose, to make that very civilization, which is our own work, a ground of offence in these people, and an excuse for driving them from their possessions or enslaving them on their own territory? What treaty have they violated by their constitution and laws? No treaty had prohibited them from making a government for themselves. On the direct contrary, the treaty of 1817 founded on the previous conferences between the President and their nation in 1808-09 leaves them in possession of their lands for the express purpose of engaging in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life' and 'beginning the establishment of fixed laws and a regular government.' And again the treaty of 1819 in allusion to these same measures, waves the delay of the census for the express purpose that the Cherokees may the sooner 'commence those measures which they deem necessary to the civilization and preservation of their tribe.' In having established a government and fixed laws, then, they have done no more than the United States have, by their late treaties, acknowledged their authority to do: and shall one of these states, itself a party to these treaties, affect to take offence at proceedings which they sanctioned by their own treaties?

But these treaties furnish a still more weighty argument against the authority of the states to interfere with the Cherokee laws, or to displace them by the laws of Georgia. The right of the Cherokees to establish a government and laws of their own is here sanctioned and authorized by two treaties made with the whole United States, the state of Georgia being one of them. With these treaties still in force, is it competent to the state of Georgia, alone, to destroy a work which all the states have sanctioned and authorized by solemn treaties? Can one state revoke or violate a treaty made by the whole?  These treaties admit the right of the Cherokees to establish a government and laws for themselves within their own territory.- Georgia alone (herself one of the parties to these treaties) now denies this right and makes it highly penal on the Cherokees to either to obey or to enforce their own laws. Thus, these treaties and the law of Georgia are directly repugnant. Which shall stand? The Constitution of the United States answers this question.  Treaties are declared to form a part of the supreme law of the land, and the Constitution commands that the 'Judges in every state shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding.'

But, if their constitution and laws could be justly considered as offensive, who, under our constitution has the right to complain and to punish these people for this transgression?

To Congress alone belong the right to declare war, as well as to regulate commerce with the Indian Tribes. Is this consistent with a right in the neighboring states to extinguish these tribes on the lands which they occupy?

For the law which has been placed before me amounts to an extinguishment of them as a tribe of Indians. Not only are their own laws abolished by it, it being made highly penal in them either to enforce or obey them, but the laws of the state exclusively, are extended over them, and what is still worse, by the same law these oppressed people are stripped even of the right of giving evidence in a court of Justice against their oppressors, which is the common privilege of every citizen of Georgia, however humble, unprincipled, or despicable. While, then, the constitution, laws and treaties of the United States acknowledge this tribe as a sovereign Nation, while Congress alone has the power to declare war against them and to regulate commerce with them, and the President and Senate, alone, have the power to treat with them, while, by the second article of the Treaty of Holston, they are placed expressly 'under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign.' and while they are yet holding their lands under the pledged faith of the United States given by that treaty, here is one of these same states which claims the right of entering their territory by force of extinguishing the political existence of the whole tribe at once and forever, and at the same time, of disfranchising them even of one of the poorest, and commonest privileges of the humblest citizens of Georgia, that of giving evidence in a court of Justice against their oppressors!

If these things are to be permitted what becomes of the stipulations of protection and guaranty under the second and seventh articles of the Treaty of Holston?

Again: One of the conditions on which the State of Georgia ceded her western lands to the United States in 1802, was that the latter would extinguish the Indian title to the lands within her remaining limits, 'as soon as it could be done peaceably and on reasonable terms.' Here is an admission of the existing title of these Indians, and an agreement that it is to be extinguished by the United States: when and how? As soon as it can be done peaceably and on reasonable terms: that is to say, that no force is to be employed in the case: the Indians are, therefore, to be at liberty to cede these lands or not, at their pleasure; and if they choose to cede them, the terms shall be such as shall receive their assent. The United States have gone on to redeem this pledge as fast as the Indians have been disposed to cede. These people are now disposed to cede no more of their lands, but to retain such as are yet left to them. Can the State of Georgia require the United States to compel those Indians to relinquish their lands?  Certainly not: for the express stipulation is, that the extinguishment of title shall be peaceably made, and on reasonable terms. Does it consist with the title of the Indians, thus admitted, that the State of Georgia, herself, shall enter forcibly on their possessions and drive them out, at the point of the bayonet, or what is the same thing, politically, that she shall put it to their option either to remove or to remain and live in subjection and slavery to Georgia, on so much of their own lands as she shall be pleased to assign them? This question can admit of but one answer.

It has been said that several other States of the Union have legislated over the tribes of Indians within their chartered limits, and it is insisted that the State of Georgia and the other States within whose boundaries the Cherokees dwell, have the same right of legislation with regard to them.

Before the authority of these precedents can be allowed to establish the right of legislation in the present instance, it will be necessary to inquire:

1. Whether the tribes over which the other States have thus legislated were, at the time, acknowledged by the United States to be sovereign nations, and were under the protection of the United States by treaty, with a solemn guaranty by treaty of the exclusive possession of their lands.

2. Whether such tribes were in full force and strength, as a nation, as the Cherokees now are, or whether they had melted away to a few individuals, who had no fixed habitation, but wandered about in the white settlements, begging a subsistence from the charity of the whites?

3. To what extent the legislation of the States was extended over them? Whether it went to annihilate their own laws, usages, and institutions altogether, and to subject them to the whole mass of State laws, civil and criminal to extinguish their existence as a separate nation, and to blend them, by force, completely with the whites, under the degrading disability of giving evidence in a court of justice? In the State of New York, one of the States whose example has been quoted, all this has been disavowed. In a recent case in that State, (Goodell vs. Jackson 20. Johnson's reports 693- decided in 1822) the highest court of that State have, with one accord pronounced the Indian tribes within the State to be a separate people, alien and sovereign tribes, and not citizens of the United States not born within the allegiance of the State, nor owing it allegiance; but owing allegiance only to their own tribes.



4. But, what is more important than all, it must be enquired whether the question of the right of these States to legislate over the tribes within their chartered limits, has been ever raised and decided by a competent tribunal, in favor of that right; or whether these ignorant and comparatively impotent people (the Indians) have silently submitted to this legislation because unable to resist it by force, and too poor and ignorant of their rights to submit it for discussion to an impartial and enlightened court of Judicature? The fact of the exercise of a power is no proof of its right.  Instances of usurpation, by the strong over the weak, have abounded in every age and every nation: but they have never been considered as establishing the right of the usurper, or justifying, by the precedent, a right of usurpation in others. Augustus, at the close of those wars which made him the Emperor of Rome, turned out the peaceable land holders of Italy, from their possessions, and gave them to his victorious legions: but the precedent has never been considered as establishing the right and justice of the procedure, or as worthy of imitation by any just Prince of State.

On every ground of argument on which I have been enabled by my own reflections or the suggestions of others to consider this question I am of the opinion.

1. That the Cherokees are a sovereign nation: and that their having placed themselves under the protection of the United States does not at all impair their sovereignty and independence as a nation.  ' One community may be bound to another by a very unequal alliance, and still be a sovereign state.' Though 'a weak State, in order to provide for its safety, should place itself under the protection of a more powerful one,' yet according to Vatell, B Ch 1'5 and 6) 'if it reserves to itself the right of governing own body it ought to be considered as an independent state.' 20 Johnson's Report 711, 712 Goodell vs Johnson.

2. That the territory of the Cherokees is not within the jurisdiction of the State of Georgia, but within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the Cherokee Nation.

3. That consequently, the State of Georgia has no right to extend her laws over that territory.

4. That the law of Georgia, which has been placed before me, is unconstitutional and void. 1. because it is repugnant to the treaties between the United States and the Cherokee Nation. 2. because it is repugnant to a law of the United States passed in 1802, entitled 'an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on the frontiers.' 3. because it is repugnant to the constitution inasmuch as it impairs the obligations of all the contracts arising under the treaties with the Cherokees and affects moreover to regulate intercourse with an Indian tribe a power which belongs exclusively to Congress.

WM. WIRT

Baltimore June 20th 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NEW ECHOTA, AUGUST 14th 1830

The publication of the Phoenix was suspended for the last week, by order of the authorities of the Nation, for the purpose of printing in pamphlet form the opinion of Mr. Wirt on the right of the State of Georgia to extend her laws over the Cherokee people.

________

If any of our readers should think that the opinion of Mr. Wirt occupies too large a portion of the present number, we hope they will change their opinion on a patient perusal of the article. It will be found to be a very able and lucid discussion of the interesting subject on which it treats.

________

The Cherokees have been forcibly prevented from digging gold in their own country by the United States' troops in pursuance of the order from the War Department which has been mentioned before.  Particulars will hereafter be given.

________

The Communication of 'A Choctaw' and an interesting document forwarded from the Choctaw Nation are necessarily deferred.

___________________

DIED -- In this town on the 5th inst. Mr. WILLIAM WHEELER (brother of the printer of the Phoenix) aged 17.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For (sic) the New York Observer

HISTORY OF THE INDIAN BILL.-No. II

It ought to be stated, that special efforts were made, several weeks before the debate on the Indian bill commenced, to get friends of the administration to pledge themselves to its support, as a party measure. A member of Congress, also is chairman of one of the most important committees, said to a gentleman of undoubted character, 'Sir, we have succeeded in making the Indian subject a party measure.  There may be some chicken-hearted fellows at the North who will not stand by the party; but we shall carry the measure in both houses; and, in the lower house, by a majority of perhaps seventeen or twenty.'

Though this prophecy did not prove circumstantially correct, it is absolute proof of what was to be expected, and of the means which were employed. What should we think of a juryman, who should predict that a plaintiff would lose his farm, because the jury were resolved to decide the suit, not on the merits of the title proved in court, but solely with a view to t e effect of the decision upon a certain political party? But the present case is incomparably stronger. Here are 75,000 souls in 15,000 families, whose farms, property, residence, attachments, country, government, laws, habits, customs, everything earthly, were to be torn from them, or confirmed to them, by the decision of Congress. The same decision would ultimately touch the interests of two or three hundred thousand other human beings, descendants of the original possessors of this continent. The decision could be properly made only by a regard to what is right and just in itself, and to the engagements, by which the United States had bound themselves in the most solemn manner. The subject was not a new one. The government had acted upon it in hundreds of instances. The current of precedents had been perfectly uniform.  All our great men, how much soever they differed on other points, had thought alike upon this. The reputation of the country abroad, and with posterity, was thought to be deeply implicated. Yet all these considerations are disregarded. The whole matter is to be settled by the simple fact: 'We have succeeded in making it a party question.' Who could have imagined, that a member of the American Congress, a man of some influence, and who supposes himself to have a great deal, would descend to the avowal of such baseness? And how deplorable is the fact, if the declaration which he made was substantially true.

The friends of the Indians did in all their power to prevent the question of Indian rights being made a party question.  There was no possible inducement to make it one. They regretted extremely that the administration had expressed any opinion upon it, and had not left it for the unbiased decision of Congress. That, in the actual circumstances of the case, there should be some party influence, seemed inevitable; but that a direct attempt should be made to set aside all the precedents of fifty years, and withdraw the guaranty solemnly given to dependent tribes; that all this should be attempted, without any regard to law or conscience, treaty, or honesty, ought not to have been to expected. It should have been morally impossible.

It seems desirable, that the discussion of this subject should commence in the House of Representatives. The friends of the Indians desired it; and probably many on the other side desired it also. Mr. Bell, chairman of the committee on Indian affairs, made repeated efforts to take it up; but without success. A bill to protect the revenue, which opened a long debate on the tariff question, was taken up first; and the Indian subject was crowded to the last weeks of the session.

On the 6th of April, Mr. White, one of the Senators from Tennessee, and chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs, rose in support of the bill, which he had reported six weeks before. His speech occupied two hours and a half. His manner was cool and dispassionate; his language temperate, and he exhibited a general appearance of great candor. He is neither an eloquent nor a powerful speaker.  Yet he is generally quite intelligible, and would leave upon most assemblies the impression, that he is a man of extraordinary honesty.

There was nothing in his speech so far it partook of the nature of an argument, which was not perfectly familiar to those who have examined the subject. The scope of his observation was as follows. Great Britain gave portions of this continent to colonists by charter. She did not consider the Indians as having any right to their soil, which Great Britain had before. This right belonged to the states separately and not to the general government. The Treaty of Hopewell, made between the United States and the Cherokees, in 1785, was an encroachment upon the rights of the States of Georgia and North Carolina.  They protested against it. The Constitution is a compact, by which the United States guaranty to each state all the territory within the chartered limits.  This guaranty to each state is anterior to any guaranty to the southern Indians, and is inconsistent with it.

He urged, also that the Treaty of Holston, which contains a guaranty of the Cherokee territory, transcended the power of the general government. A treaty is a compact between sovereign states; between communities foreign to each other. But the Indians are not foreigners. They were justly amenable to the laws of the several states so far as the states should see fit to make laws for them.

The present bill makes provision for the removal of the Indians. It will facilitate their removal, though it will not constrain them to remove. Some of the Cherokees are capable of making good citizens of any State of the Union. But the majority cannot live under the laws of a civilized people. They cannot remain with the whites; and the provisions of the bill are intended for their benefit.

Though Mr. White gave a very dark account of the present condition of the Cherokees generally, yet he said there were among them (and perhaps some within the hearing of his voice, men whom he considered capable, both as it respects intelligence and integrity, of representing a state on the floor of either house of Congress; and whom he should be willing, if they were citizens of Tennessee, to see either house as representing and his fellow citizens.

He admitted that it was the policy and the manifest intention of the federal government, from 1791 to 1791 (sic) to 1819, to secure the Cherokees the permanent possession of their country; that this was the obvious meaning of all the treaties; and that they mere made wholly upon this basis. The design was, that the Cherokees should become a civilized people, first herdsmen, then agriculturists. But these engagements were incompatible with previous engagements to Georgia. The general government must therefore do the best that can be done: which is, to give the Cherokees an equivalent for that country, which we cannot secure to them. He could easily conceive how honest men, both in and out of Congress should differ on this subject; for he had himself been formerly of a very different opinion from the one which he now expressed. It was a consideration of the rights of sovereign states, that wrought this change in his mind.

It must not be understood, that, in giving the positions and statements of the speakers without comment. I admit that they were just or even plausible. Most of the statements of facts, made by the advocates of the bill were erroneous in all the material points, and their positions and arguments were altogether untenable. Mr. White admitted, that he had lately changed his opinion. It should be known, therefore, that in the year 1824, he was applied to, in behalf of the Cherokee Nation, for professional advice. He gave a deliberate and written opinion, which has been published in one of the documents of Congress. He considered the Cherokee Nation as being sovereign in every respect, except so far as its sovereignty had been restricted by treaties with the United States.  These treaties he considered as fully binding. Indeed their validity had not hen been questioned by a single human being.  Georgia did not begin to question it till three years afterwards. This deliberate opinion of Mr. White, which completely defended all the rights now claimed by Cherokees, and which he established by the most conclusive reasoning, he was himself totally unable to refute in the speech here described. He did not even venture to attempt a formal refutation. The mere reading of his opinion would have left an impression, which neither he, nor those who voted with him, could have ever effaced.

The statements of Mr. White, in regard to the present condition of the Cherokees, had the more weight, on account of his living in their vicinity; that is, within fifty or sixty miles of their present nearest limits. Yet, he said, he had not been within their limits for a number of years--I think it was thirteen. Mr. Worcester's letter, written in the heart of Cherokee country only three weeks before this speech was delivered, by a man of unquestionable character, whose employment made it his duty to become acquainted with the real state of the Cherokees, and who had personally seen them in almost every part of their territory; such a letter was thought, by the advocated of the bill worthy of very little consideration.

When Mr. White concluded the usual hour of adjournment had nearly arrived. Mr. Frelinghuysen arose and expressed a wish to offer his thoughts on the subject. As he was unwell he moved that the Senate adjourn.

During this debate, the Senate met at eleven.  About two hours were usually occupied in the ordinary business of receiving reports, reading bills, 'c. 'c. Then two or three hours were spent on the Indian Bill, which was regarded as the principal matter before the Senate.

The next day, Wednesday, April 8th, and on the two following days, Mr. Frelinghuysen delivered his sentiments, in opposition to the bill, occupying, in the whole about six hours. He was heard with profound attention by the Senate, ' especially by those members who were preparing to take part in the debate.

He moved an amendment to the bill, embraced in two provisions, to the following effect; that till the Indians should choose to remove, they should be protected against all encroachments; and, that their rights, in regard to any new country, which they should consent to receive, should be secured to them by treaty as heretofore.

He began by expressing his sincere regret, that the President had not followed the example of General Washington, who in any case of difficulty or delicacy with respect to our public relations was accustomed to consult the Senate as his constitutional advisors. There was a memorable case of this kind, early in his administration, which related to this very tribe- the Cherokees. But in the case now before the Senate, the question has been decided by the President to a summary manner, and as if to forestall public opinion, and to reader deliberation useless on the part of Congress.

Against such an assumption of executive prerogative, Mr. Frelinghuysen firmly protested.

He then proceeded to examine certain directions given by the Secretary of War to Generals Carrol and Coffee, in reference to the manner of treaties with the Cherokees, which embraced and sanctioned the two means of terror and bribery.

Entering upon the main discussion, he asserted the original right of the Indians to their own country, and utterly denied the right of white men to drive Indians from their lands, as a consequence of discovery. He showed that this right of the Indians was plainly acknowledged by the British Crown, especially by the royal proclamation of 1763. The doings of the revolutionary Congress were all upon the basis, that the Indians were distinct nations; that they could make war or peace; that they could remain neutral in that they were to remain in unmolested possession of their lands.

The United States, under the confederation, and under the present constitution, have hitherto- proceeded upon the same principles which principles were thoroughly established and reduced to a system under the administration of Washington. The treaties all stand upon the same foundation. The guaranty of the Treaty of Holston is perfectly explicit. The opinion of Mr. Jefferson, when Secretary of State, and when President, is in perfect agreement with all our preceding history.

Georgia herself, when a colony, afterwards as a separate state, and since joining the Union, has acted upon the same principles.  So late as 1825, her governor issued his proclamation, asserting the binding force of treaties with Indians, as the supreme law of the land.

Alabama and Mississippi are bound by their own constitutional provisions not to encroach upon the Indians.

As to the present condition of the Indians, Mr. Frelinghuysen read extracts from messages of Mr. Jefferson, Mr. Madison, and Mr. Monroe, all testifying to the fact that certain tribes of Indians were in a course of improvement. He then adverted to the decisive testimonials printed among the documents of the Senate, as to the present improved condition of these tribes.-The outrageous laws of Georgia were examined, and their probable effects described.

At the close, Mr. Frelinghuysen pressed the inquiry: how shall we justify this trespass to our consciences, and to the world? this disregard of solemn treaties? this violation of fundamental rights? this trampling upon the weak ' the defenseless?

The whole speech was enlivened with passages of genuine eloquence. Spectators in the back seats, and in the gallery, were delighted with the feeling manner in which the claims of the weak and injured were supported. Among the spectators were members of the Cherokee delegation, who attended with most intense interest.

In the more solemn parts of the discussion, the countenance of the Georgia Senators gave plain indications, that they felt the urgency of the case. When the proclamation of Governor Troup was under examination and was shown to contain all the principles for which the Cherokees now contend, though no intimation was given that he was a member of the Senate, he evidently turned pale. On all other occasions, he preserved a remarkable sameness of countenance.

In my next number, this account of the debate in the Senate will be continued.

VERITATIS AMANS

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














(Pages 1 and 4 are in large 3 column format. Pages 2 and 3 in 5 column format)

AN OPINION ON THE CLAIMS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, BY THE STATE OF GEORGIA ON THE CHEROKEE NATION UNDER THE TREATIES OF 1817 AND 1828

BY WILLIAM WIRT, ESQ.

CASE.

It appears by the preamble to the treaty between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, of the 8th July 1817, that; in the autumn of the year 1808, a deputation from the upper and lower Cherokee towns, duly authorized by their nation, went on to the city of Washington, the first named to declare to the President of the United States their anxious desire to engage in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life in the country they then occupied, and to make known to the President of the United States the impracticability of inducing the nation at large to do this, and to request the establishment of a division line between the upper and lower towns so as to include all the waters of the Highwassee River to the upper towns, that by thus contracting their society within narrow limits they proposed to begin the establishment of fixed laws and a regular government: the deputies from the lower towns to make known their desire to continue the hunter life, and also the scarcity of game where they then lived, and under these circumstances their wish to remove across the Mississippi River on some vacant lands of the United States; and that the President of the United States, after maturely considering the petitions of both parties, on the ninth day of January, A.D. one thousand eight hundred and nine including other subjects answered those petitions as follows: 'The United States; my children, are the friends of both parties and as far as can be reasonably asked, they are willing to satisfy the wishes of both. Those who remain may be assured of our patronage, our aid and good neighborhood.  Those who wish to remove are permitted to send an exploring party to reconnoiter the country on the waters of the Arkansas and White Rivers, and the higher up the better, as they will be the longer unapproached by our settlements which will begin at the mouth of the rivers. The regular Districts of the Government of St. Louis are already laid off to the St. Francis.'

'When the party shall have found a tract of country suiting the emigrants, and not claimed by other Indians, we will  arrange, with them and you the exchange of that for a just portion of the country they leave, and in a part of which proportioned to their members they have a right. Every aid toward their removal, and what will be necessary for them there, will then be freely administered to them and when established in their new settlements, we shall still consider them as our children, give them the benefit of exchanging their petitions for what they will want at our factories and always hold them firmly by the hand.'

It appears further by preamble that the Cherokees, relying on the promises of the President of the United States as above recited, did explore the country on the west side of the Mississippi, and make choice of the country on the Arkansas and White Rivers, and settled themselves down upon the United States' lands to which no other tribe of Indians had any just claim, and duly notified the President of the United States thereof and for the anxious desire for the full and complete ratification of his promises and to that end as notified by the President of the United States had sent on their agents with full powers to execute a treaty relinquishing to the United States all right, title, and inters to all lands, of right to them as a part of the Cherokee Nation which they had left and which they were about to leave, proportioned to their numbers, including with those on the Arkansas, those who were about to remove thither, and to a portion of which they have an equal right agreeably to their numbers.

To give effect to those objects, as it concerned both that part of the nation which was about to remain, as well as that part which had removed or were about to remove, the treaty of the 8th of July 1817 was made between the United States and the whole of the Cherokee Nation including as well the emigrant as the remaining portion of that people. By the first two articles the whole Cherokee Nation unite in making a cession of a portion of their territory by certain metes and bounds to the United States 'in part of the proportion of lands in the Cherokee Nation east of the Mississippi, to which these now on the Arkansas and those about to remove there are justly entitled.' And for the completion of the exchange, it was stipulated, by the third article of that treaty, that a census should be taken of the whole Cherokee Nation during the month of June 1818 in the following manner, viz: 'that the census of those on the east side of the Mississippi River, who declare their intention of removing shall be taken by a commissioner appointed by the President of the United States and a commissioner appointed by the Cherokees on the Arkansas River and those removing there, and who at that time, declare their intention of removing there, shall be taken by a commissioner appointed by the President of the United States and one appointed by the Cherokees east of the Mississippi River.' By the fourth article it was stipulated that the annuity due from the United States to the whole Cherokee Nation for the year 1818 shall be divided between the two parts of the nation in proportion to their numbers agreeably to the stipulation contained in the third article of the treaty: and to be continued to be divided, thereafter, in proportion to their numbers: and the lands to be apportioned and surrendered to the United States agreeably to the aforesaid enumeration as the proportionate part agreeably to their numbers to which those who have removed and those who declare their intention to remove have a just right including those with the lands ceded in the first and second articles of that treaty.'

By the 5th article, the United States in exchange for the lands specifically ceded by the first and second articles of the treaty, and to be thereafter ceded as soon as the proportion should be ascertained by the census, give to that part of the Cherokee Nation on the Arkansas, an equal quantity, acre for acre, on the Arkansas River, beginning on a base line therein described, and running up the river for quantity.

By the same article it was further stipulated that the treaties theretofore existing between the Cherokee nation and the United States should  continue in full force with both parts of the nation, and both parts thereof entitled to all the immunities and privileges which the old nation enjoyed under the aforesaid treaties.

By the 6th article the United States bind themselves to give to all the poor warriors who may remove to the western side of the Mississippi one rifle gun and ammunition, one blanket, and one brass kettle, or, in lieu of the brass kettle, a beaver trap, which is to be considered as a full compensation for the improvements they may leave: and to those emigrants whose improvements add real value to the lands, the United States agree to pay a full valuation for the same, which is to be ascertained by a commissioner appointed by the President of the United States for that purpose, and paid for as soon after the ratification of the treaty as practicable.

By the 7th article, it is further stipulated that for all improvements which add real value to the lands lying within the boundaries ceded to the United States by the first and second article of the treaty, the United States do agree to pay at the time and to be valued in the same manner as stipulated in the 6th article, or in lieu thereof to give in exchange improvements of equal value which the emigrants may leave, and for which they are to receive pay. And by the same article it is further stipulated that all those improvements left by the emigrants within the bounds of the Cherokee Nation, east of the Mississippi River, which add real value to the lands, and for which the United States shall give a consideration, and not so exchanged shall be rented to the Indians by the agent, year after year, for the benefit of the poor and decrepit, of that part of the nation east of the Mississippi River until surrendered by the nation or to the nation. And it was further agreed thereby that the said Cherokee Nation should not be called upon for any part of the consideration paid for said improvements at any future period.

It is stated that under this treaty several Indians of the Cherokee Nation did remove and join their brethren on the Arkansas, leaving within the territory of that nation, nor exchanged by that treaty, improvements for which the United States did pay, and which the United States did rent: not to the Indians, in conformity with the provisions of the latter clause of the seventh article for the benefit of the poor and decrepit part of the nation, but to white persons, in direct violation of the treaty. To this palpable violation the Cherokees for the time submitted, looking to the treaty which was to follow for the ratification of the wrong.

It is further stated that the census contemplated by the third article of the treaty, in order to ascertain the number of the emigrants, and consequently what further portion of the Cherokee territory was to be surrendered by that nation to the United States as being the proportion of that territory which might be considered as belonging to these emigrants was never taken.

In this posture of things the Treaty of Washington 27th February 1819, was made between the United States and the Cherokee Nation. The preamble of this treaty recites that 'Whereas a greater part of the Cherokee Nation have expressed an earnest desire to remain on this side of the Mississippi, and being desirous to commence these measures which they deem necessary to the civilization and preservation of their nation, that the treaty between the United States and them signed the 8th of July 1817, might without any further delay or expense of taking the census as stipulated in the said treaty, be finally adjusted, have offered to cede to the United States a tract of country at least as extensive as that which they are probably entitled to under its provisions, the contracting parties have agreed to and conclude the following articles.'

By the first article of this treaty the Cherokee Nation make a cession of their lands to the United States by certain metes and boundaries which as been estimated as containing 738,558 acres: the article concludes with these words---'and it is further understood and agreed by the said parties that the lands hereby ceded by the Cherokee Nation are in full satisfaction of all claims which the United States have on them on account of the cession to a part of the nation who have or may hereafter emigrate to the Arkansas and this treaty is a final adjustment of that of the 8th July 1817.'



By the second article the United States agree to pay according to the stipulations contained in the treaty of the 8th July 1817, for all improvements on the lands being within the country ceded by the Cherokees which add real value to the land.

By the 5th article it is stipulated that the boundaries designated by the first article as the lands ceded to the United States should be run be commissioners appointed by the President and the Cherokee Nation and the leases which have been made under the treaty of the 8th July 1817 of land being within the portion of country reserved to the Cherokees to be void.'

By the 6th article of the treaty it was stipulated that the annuity due to the Cherokee Nation should be paid two thirds to the Cherokees east of the Mississippi and one third to the Cherokees west of that river: and if the Cherokees west of the river should object to that distribution within a given term the census originally contemplated was still to be taken with reference to that object alone.

This is the last treaty between the United States and the Cherokee Nation to which the Cherokees east of the Mississippi were parties.

On the 6th of May 1828 a treaty was made between the United States and the Cherokee Nation west of the Mississippi which the Cherokees east of the Mississippi were not parties, the object of which was to remove the Arkansas Cherokees farther westward, and to give them lands, beyond the territory or State of Arkansas, in exchange for those they were about to evacuate on the Arkansas. In this treaty the following article occurs: The Cherokee Nation west of the Mississippi, having by this agreement freed themselves from the harassing and ruinous effects consequent upon a location amidst a white population, and secured to themselves and to their posterity, under the solemn sanction of a guaranty of the United States, as contained in this agreement, a large extent of unembarrassed country; and that their brothers yet remaining in the States may be induced to join them and enjoy the repose and blessings of such a state in the future, it is further agreed on the part of the United States that to each head of a Cherokee family, now residing within the chartered limits of Georgia, or other of the States, east of the Mississippi, who may desire to remove west, shall be given, on enrolling himself for emigration, a good rifle, a blanket, and kettle, and five pounds of tobacco: (and to each member of his family one blanket,) also, a just compensation for the property he may abandon, to be assessed by persons to be appointed by the President of the United States. The cost of the emigration of all such shall also be borne by the United States, and good, and suitable ways opened, and provisions procured for their conduct, accommodations, and support, by the way, and provisions for twelve months after their arrival at the Agency and to each person, or head of a family, if he take along with him four persons, shall be paid immediately on his arriving at the Agency and reporting himself and his family, or followers, as emigrants and permanent settlers, in addition to the above provided he and they shall have emigrated from within the chartered limits of the State of Georgia, the sum of fifty dollars, and this sum in proportion to any greater or less number that may accompany him from within the aforesaid chartered limits of the State of Georgia.'

This treaty was never submitted to the Cherokees east of the Mississippi for their ratification or approval, and never in any mode received the sanction of that nation. But it is also stated that subsequent to its ratification by the Arkansas Indians several individuals of the nation east of the Mississippi have removed from their territory lying within the chartered limits of Georgia leaving improvements on the lands which they had occupied in their territory, which improvements have been valued by persons appointed by the United States and have been paid for, or are to be paid for by the United States.

It is farther stated that according to the laws and usages of the Cherokee Nation, no individual holds separate property in the lands: but the whole of the lands belongs to the nation, as a nation, and the title can be granted only by the whole nation in their national character.

It is further stated by the same laws and usages, when an individual of that nation wishes to appropriate any portion of their lands to their exclusive use, he may do so by erecting improvements thereon, and that he acquires thereby, the exclusive right of occupancy in the lands within a quarter of a mile of his improvements on every side. By these laws and usages he may sell the right thus acquired to any one of the Cherokee Nation, but to no other. If he abandons them, for twelve months without such a disposition, the improvements belong to the nation, or to the next occupant of that nation.

On this case I am asked the following:

QUESTIONS.

1. Has the State of Georgia any and what rights to the improvements or the lands therewith connected, in right of occupancy which had been evacuated by individuals of the Cherokee Nation under the last clause of the 7th article of the Treaty of the 8th of July 1817, and which had been rented by the Agent of the United States as aforesaid, but the leases on which had been made void by the 5th article of the Treaty of 27th February 1819. These improvements and lands lying within the territory reserved by the Cherokees under the latter treaty?

II. Has the State of Georgia any and what right to the improvements and the lands therewith connected, by occupancy being within the limits of the Cherokee Nation east of the Mississippi, which were evacuated by individuals of the nation, under and in consequence of the invitation held out to them by the 8th article of the Treaty of the 6th May 1828 between the United States and the Cherokees west of the Mississippi?

OPINION.

I. To the first question I answer that the State of Georgia acquired no right whatever either to improvements, or the lands occupied with them under the last clause of the 7th article of the Treaty of 1817, and this opinion I found on the following considerations.

1. The stipulation in question is confined to the improvements, in contradistinction to the lands. The term improvements must mean the same thing in every part of the treaty. It occurs repeatedly in the different articles of the treaty; and it cannot be believed by any candid mind, that the parties to the instrument meant to convey different ideas by the use of precisely the same term in different parts of the same instrument. Now, in several of the articles it is manifest beyond doubt, that the term improvements is used in its strictly natural sense, meaning only the artificial structures erected on the land, and not including, at all, the land itself. Thus, in the first clause of the same 7th article, the United States stipulate to pay for all improvements which the Indians may leave on the lands previously ceded to the United States and which add real value to these lands, or to give them, in exchange improvements of equal value on the lands on the Arkansas which [SEE 4TH PAGE] had been granted to them by a previous article.  Here it is palpable that the improvements alone  are in the contemplation of the parties; the lands themselves having been ceded, reciprocally,  by the preceding articles. Lands on the Arkansas having been give, by the previous articles, in exchange for the lands ceded and to be ceded by the Cherokees on the east of the Mississippi, acre for acre, the account of the lands was thus settled. But, as the emigrant Cherokees were about to leave behind them improvements for which the United States had none to offer in exchange on the Arkansas, the subject of the  improvements per se, is taken up, as a separate consideration: and the provisions on this subject clearly look to these improvements, as a separate consideration.

Thus, in the 6th article, the poor warriors, who had or might emigrate are to receive from the United States a rifle gun and ammunition, a blanket, a brass kettle, or, in lieu of it, a beaver trap, which is to be considered 'as a full compensation for the improvements they may leave:' this they (the poor warriors) were to receive for their improvements, whether they added value to the lands or not.  Can any man doubt that this compensation, from it character and value, was confined to the improvements, merely as such? can it be believed that the land entered into the value of that compensation, when the lands had been already compensated by the lands given in exchange on the Arkansas?  Having made this provision for the improvements left by the poor warriors, the sixth article proceeds to the other emigrants thus: 'and to other emigrants whose improvements add real value to their lands, the United States agree to pay a full valuation for the same. Now in making this valuation what would be the question? Surely not the inherent value of the lands themselves, which had been already paid for under the 5th article; but the question would be what value the improvements themselves had added to the inherent value of the lands; and this additional value, alone, is to be paid for.

And under the first clause of the 7th article, what is to be paid for these improvements? either the value in money, or, improvements, of equal value on the lands to which they were about to remove.  Now, in making these new improvements of equal value on the Arkansas, what subjects would be compared in order to ascertain whether the contract had been complied with? Surely the land would not be compared with the land; but improvements relinquished  and the new improvements made in exchange, would, alone be the subjects of comparison. Thus under the 6th article of the treaty and under the first clause of the 7th article, it is manifest that the term improvements is used in its natural sense, and in clear contradistinction to the lands on which they stand. The very expression improvements which add value to the lands must force the distinction on the understanding of every disinterested reader. Now what reason is there for believing that the word improvements is used in a different sense in the last clause of the 7th article on which the question arises?  The language is the same. It is this: 'and it is further stipulated that all these improvements, left by the emigrants within the bounds of the Cherokee Nation east of the Mississippi River, which add real value to the lands, and for which the United States shall give a consideration, and not so exchanged, shall be rented to the Indians of the agent, year after year, for the benefit of the poor and decrepit of that part of the nation east of the Mississippi River, until surrendered by the Nation or to the Nation. And it is further agreed that the said Cherokee Nation shall not be called upon for any part of the consideration paid for said improvements, at any future period.' It is to my mind perfectly clear that the improvements here spoken of are the same sort of improvements spoken of before; that is the mere improvements  which add value to the lands,  and that all the right which the United States take under this article, is a right to rent the use of these improvements to the Indians for the benefit of the poor and decrepit of that nation, until these improvements shall be surrendered by the nation or to the nation; and that the United States acquire, thereby, no right or interest whatever in the lands themselves;  on the contrary, that all the lands, not ceded by that treaty, are reserved to the Indians.



2. But let it be admitted for the sake of the argument, that the treaty intended by the use of the term, improvements, to include also, the lands which the emigrants had occupied with them, and, upon this admission, let us inquire what was the character of the right which the treaty gave to the United States in these improvements and lands.

(1.) It gave to the United States the right to rent these improvements and lands to the Indians: for such is the express stipulation. It gave, therefore, no right to introduce any white person into the nation, as the tenant of the United States.

(2.) The rent was not to enure to the benefit of the United States but to the benefit of the poor and decrepit of the Indian nation.

(3.) It was not a perpetual right to rent: but a right to endure only, until these improvements and appurtenant land 'should be surrendered to the nation or by the nation.' If surrendered to the nation, the right of the United States was at an end: if surrendered by the nation to the United States-the United States would acquire a new, different, larger, and perfect title by such surrender.

Thus the United States took no beneficial interest in the subject under the stipulation: but merely a temporary authority as trustee, for the benefit of the poor and decrepit of the Indian nation, and this authority strictly confined to the power of renting these improvements to the Indians themselves.

What possible interest could the state of Georgia acquire under this stipulation, in these improvements and appurtenant lands?

It is said that these Indians are the mere occupants of lands, the fee simple and ultimate domain of which belongs to the state of Georgia; that, as soon as the United States extinguish the Indian title to any portion of these lands, the extinguishment enures to the benefit of Georgia, under the compact of 1802, between that state and the United States and that the right to rent these lands by the United States under this stipulation, destroys the Indian occupancy, pro tanto, and is an extinguishment of their title to so much of their lands.

Now, it is admitted. 1. That according to the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States the state of Georgia does own the fee simple and ultimate domain of all the lands within her chartered limits. 2. That, under the same decisions, the Indian title is a mere title by possession. 3. And it is also, admitted, that as soon as this title is extinguished by the United States the extinguishment will enure to the benefit of the state of Georgia .

But it is denied that this stipulation does extinguish the Indian title to the lands in question. What is meant by an extinguishment of the Indian title is perfectly understood. It is a final and permanent cession of their lands by treaty.  But is this such a cession? a mere authority in trust, to rent to the Indians themselves, and to no one else, for the benefit of the poor and decrepit of their own nation, and this, too, only for a limited time: is this a final and permanent extinguishment of the Indian title?  Is occupancy gone by it? Can any one but Indians occupy the lands? Can the United States place a white tenant there? If not, the United States have not acquired the right of occupancy. None but Indians are to occupy these lands; and the only right acquired by the United States is, at best, a right to designate the Indian tenant, and to receive the rent for the benefit of the Indians themselves-and this, only, until it shall be ascertained whether the improvements are to be surrendered  by the nation or to the nation.  Hence it is clear that they are not considered as having been yet surrendered, by the mere force of this stipulation.

The utmost that can, with any shew of reason, be contended for, under this article is that it modifies the Indian right of occupancy, so far as that the United States instead of the Indian nation is to designate the Indian tenant; to adjust with him the amount of rent, to receive that rent and to apply it to the benefit of the poor and decrepit of the Indian nation, and this, only, until a farther arrangement shall be made on the subject of these improvements. Thus, it is in the United States a mere naked authority, not coupled with an interest, and must be strictly pursued. All the beneficial interest is still retained by the Indians. The United States are merely their agents to rent their lands and apply the rents to their use. But the state of Georgia acquires no right until the Indian title is absolutely extinguished. Any authority, short of an actual extinguishment of the title, may be held by the United States without impacting any title, whatever, to the state of Georgia. But the right of the United States to enter upon the possession of these lands for the mere purpose of renting them to Indians for the benefit of the Indian nation, is no more an extinguishment of the Indian title than the right of the United States to enter upon that possession for the purpose of expelling intruders is an extinguishment of that title. In both cases, the act is done for the benefit of the Indians. The United States acquire a mere transitory right of entry for a specific purpose and that a purpose beneficial solely to the Indians. That such a mere right of entry, for such a purpose for a limited time should be converted into an immediate and absolute extinguishment of the Indian title, to all intents and purposes whatever, so as to cast upon the state of Georgia the final and exclusive ownership of the possession for her own benefit is a species of legal legerdemain on which passes my power of comprehension and for which, so far as I am informed, there is no precedent nor principle, nor color of law or equity in any book of authority among jurists.

Some obscure intimation has been thrown out importing that the Indian right of occupancy in these lands is confined to the mere purpose of hunting on them. But his notion is clearly repudiated by the preamble to this very treaty as well as by its particular provisions. In the preamble the treaty is avowedly bottomed on the fact that a part of the Cherokee Nation (those occupying the lower towns) wished to continue the hunter state, and as game became scarce they were willing to remove to other lands to be provided by the United States where it might be found in greater abundance: while the other part of the nation, who were a great majority (occupying the upper towns) wished to remain in consequence of their anxious desire to engage in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life in the country they then occupied.' It is for the express purpose of giving effect to both these objects that the treaty is made. And the correspondence between the Indians and the President of the United States which forms the preamble of this treaty, took place as far back as the years 1808-1809. This fact presented to us, in such bold relief, and forming the very basis of this treaty; how can it be advanced or even insinuated that the Indians who should remain in the country they then occupied were to continue in the hunter state? Again, what is the meaning of all these articles of this treaty which relate to improvements and distinguish between those improvements which do and those which do not add value to the lands? Is this language applicable to a people who were to continue in the hunter state? This language is perfectly familiar not only in our books of chancery reports, but in common conversation; and every lawyer, and every man of  ordinary intelligence knows that it relates only to that value which improvements add to lands destined to agricultural purposes. In addition to this evidence furnished by the treaty itself, that there was no intention to confine the Indians who should remain, to a continuance in the hunter state, but on the direct contrary, that they remained for the very purpose, approved and sanctioned by the United States of engaging 'in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life.' and, consequently, of necessity, were to use these lands for the purpose of agriculture, it may be observed that the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of McIntosh and Johnson (8. Wheaton 574) in discussing the rights of the Indians in relation to the European discoveries of this country, presented it as an admission on the part of these discoverers that the Indians still continued to be the right occupants of the soil, with a legal as well as a just claim to retain the possession of it, 'and to use it according to their own discretion.'

For the reasons given I am of the opinion that the state of Georgia acquired no title to lands within the Indian territory by force of the 7th article of the Treaty of 1817.

3. But the stipulation is that the United States shall continue to rent these improvements in the manner aforesaid 'until surrendered by the nation or to the nation.' What is the meaning of these words? To my mind that meaning is perfectly apparent, and I think, it will become equally so to every man who will consider impartially, the character of this treaty and the objects which it proposed to accomplish.

The Cherokee Nation had divided. A part of them had already gone to the Arkansas, under the permission of the President in 1809 and others were disposed to follow them.  How many would follow them was at the date of this treaty, uncertain. The plan was to give to the emigrants lands on the Arkansas in exchange for their proportion of the territory east of the Mississippi, which proportion was to be fixed by their relative numbers. But, as these numbers could not be ascertained without a census which the third article proposes, it was unknown at the date of the treaty what proportion of their lands the Cherokees would finally have to surrender and consequently, what quantity the United States would have to cede on the Arkansas, which was to be in the language of the treaty, acre for acre.

Hence, the Treaty of 1817, does not propose, of itself, to accomplish all the objects which the parties had in view, it was merely a partial  engagement, for the present, avowedly looking to ulterior and final arrangements, when the proportion should be ascertained; and the ultimate time fixed for this ascertainment, by the 3d article, was the month of June 1818.

In the mean time, the United States take, by the 1st and 2d articles of this treaty, a present cession by metes and bounds, in part of that proportion: and they give, in exchange by the 5th article, lands on the Arkansas, of which the lower and side lines only were fixed, the western boundary being left open, in order that the lands might run up between the Arkansas and White Rivers, for quantity, whenever that quantity should be ascertained by the census.

The probability, nay, the certainty was that this census, when taken, would call for a farther cession from the Cherokees, hence the language of the 4th article--the lands were 'to be apportioned and surrendered to the U. States agreeably to the aforesaid enumeration.' This word, surrendered, here applied to the cession of lands, demands attention. It occurs, again, in the 8th article-'and to each and every head of any Indian family residing on the east side of the Mississippi River on the lands that are now or may, hereafter be, surrendered to the United States by the 1st and 2d articles of the Treaty of 1817, they belonged, of course to the United States, and it was unnecessary to say more of them than that the United States should pay for them. But with regard to these improvements which stood within the Indian boundary and which had not yet been surrendered to the United States by the Treaty of 1817, in exchange for lands on the Arkansas, they are left in a state of suspense as to the ultimate title: why? manifestly because it was yet uncertain where the line of ultimate cession by the Cherokee Nation would run, and on which side of that line these improvements would fall; and because it was clear that they would belong to whichsoever of the parties the land on which they stood should be finally surrendered by that ultimate cession. This is the manifest meaning of these words applied to these improvements, 'until they should be surrendered by the nation or to the Nation' for they would be surrendered by them or to them by the surrender by or to them of the lands on which they stood. And while this is to my own mind a perfectly satisfactory reason for keeping the ultimate title to the improvements in suspense, I am incapable of conceiving any other to which common candor can give its assent.

[TO BE CONTINUED]

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA SEPT. 4, 1830

In this day's paper we present our readers some further accounts of the progress of oppression and usurpation. We had intended ourselves to relate some more facts, but all being of the same nature with those related by our correspondents, we have concluded to be silent.

_____________

The reader will have noticed many typographical errors in Mr. Wirt's opinion published in our last--The editor was absent when it was put to press, and the printers were obliged to use, in many cases, for want of suitable letter, Roman, instead of Italics.

This week we publish a part of another opinion of Mr. Wirt, on a very interesting subject. Such a document needs no recommendation from us, it will speak for itself. We can only say, the reader will be fully paid for the trouble of perusing it.

_____________

It would seem that the Government has entirely failed in its attempts to remove the intruders. There are now as many at the mines as there ever were before.  Many of those on the line who have been burnt out declare their intention of remaining and rebuilding.  We have, however, another declaration--The intruders will be kept out! [See Mr. Eaton's letter to Col. Montgomery.] And another--the President never speaks with a forked tongue. These two declarations, made in the face of the world ought certainly to make us rest contented and assured of deliverance.

___________

The following from an absent friend.

July 24th 1830

Mr. EDITOR.- I read with pain and deep interest the contents of the Phoenix of the 10th inst. which arrived here yesterday--especially that part of it, which contained the letter from the War Department. The President, it seems, still thinks it for our good to leave our homes and sacred lands of our forefathers, and steer westward.- There, he tells us, his arm will be sufficiently long ' powerful to afford protection to us; but here, situated as we are, it cannot But Sir, if the President has not the power to protect us where we now are, tell me, where under the sun, is he to obtain power to protect us in the West.  The fact is, he has the power now to protect us, but will not; and if we should go West, how would the case be?--a thousand times worse!

He still tells us, he loves and feels for us as a father for does (sic) his children, but is it so? I am inclined to doubt it. For, 'what man is there, whom if his ask bread, will he give him a stone? or if he ask a fish will he give him a serpent?' We have simply asked of the President, that existing treaties might be regarded, that we might be let alone to peaceably enjoy our rights--and has he as an affectionate, tender, and merciful father hearkened to our request? Yes, he has, by pointing to the West, at the only place where we can become Christian and civilized people. But I ask, why cannot we where we are? According to the reasoning of those who wish us removed we are too far advanced in civilization, we have too much  religion among us, we are too much engaged in manufacture--It will not answer, (they say) for if we pursue this course any longer, we shall, without doubt, become extinct for some of us now (because we have turned our attention to farming and manufacturing) are more than half naked, and subsist on birds, fish, and fruit,  and not only that, but are growing poorer and poorer every year. If that is really the case, why do they not let us alone; why not wait with patience for the land until we become extinct? Because they know and we know,  that what they have said is false.

I say, we are at home, on the land which our Creator gave to us, and here let us remain. And if it is to add honor to this Christian republican and magnanimous people, to exterminate an innocent and defenseless group of human beings, let it be done here, where lie in dust the relics of our forefathers. Let this be our language, 'But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord.'  Yes, if we do this happy are we.  What if we should lose our country-can we not say, my all is not there? Yes, I hope we can. And I hope also, we look upon this earth with all its treasures as nothing compared with that inheritance, which is incorruptible undefiled and that fadeth not away. Although we are troubled on every side, yet we are not distressed; we are perplexed, but not despair, persecuted, but not forsaken cast down, but not destroyed.

________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

A few day ago, the Sheriff of Gwinnett Country arrived at this place, with an old Cherokee Lady in his custody under close guard, whom he was taking to jail for debt. The Officer and his guard had another writ for one of our inhabitants.  When they attempted to serve the writ, he made a retreat for some distance and then stopped.--In the meantime the Sheriff got his saddle bags from off his horse, and took from thence a pistol--he ran to get ahead of the criminal (for so it must be considered these republican days) who was then standing.  The officer then came within a short distance and presented the pistol, and declared he would shoot him down if he attempted to escape. The next day they took him to jail for the enormous crime of being in debt. The old lady gave security and returned home.

This is as fair a statement of the affair as I can give, being an eye witness to a greater part of the transaction.

I should like Mr. Editor, if you or some of your readers, who are better acquainted with the laws of the State of Georgia than I am, would inform me through the medium of your paper, whether the officer of that state have the right, by law, to present a pistol or gun, and threaten to kill, in serving a civil writ, especially when there is no resistance.

RED BIRD.

We are sorry we cannot satisfactorily answer the question of our correspondent. We know not what are, and what are not the laws of Georgia, having never sworn allegiance to them. We believe in other Governments it would have been unlawful for this Sheriff of Gwinnett County to do as he has done. We should hardly think that an officer was obliged to expose his life by threatening to kill, with a pistol in his hand, in every case of civil process. Be that as it may, everything is lawful with tyranny and despotism.

________________

CHEROKEE NATION, 24th Aug. 1830

Mr. Boundinot, Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix

Sir- I avail myself of the opportunity informing the public, through the column of the Cherokee Phoenix, of the conduct of the Creek Agent, Col. Crowell, towards the Creek Indians and myself.

At the invitation of the Creek Chief, I attended their Council at Wetumpka on the 1st inst. On the 2d I understood Col. Crowell had arrived with a company of United States Troops. I saw a white man that had been arrested by the troops, by the Agent's order, for opposing emigration, he had been a citizen of the Nation 40 years and carried over the line into Alabama. I also saw Mr. Smith, a half breed Creek, who has also been arrested, as he told me, on a charge of opposing emigration, solely by persuasion, and placed under guard by the United States Troops, from whom, not wishing to be a prisoner, he attempted to escape by flight in which attempt the military fired on him, but fortunately missed him.

In a short time after the arrival of Col. Crowell, received the following unprecedented note.

WETUMPKA 2d. Aug. 1830.

Sir,- I learn since my arrival at this place that you are on the ground and intermeddling in the affairs of this Nation. You were told on a former occasion that such an interference would not in future be suffered under the eyes of the Government Agent. You are therefore hereby notified to leave the encampment by eight o'clock tomorrow, or it will be my painful duty to resort to coercive measures which is not desirable.

I am 'c. 'c.

JOHN CROWELL.

Agent of Id. affir.

Whether these coercive measures, were to be by United States military bullets or bayonets, or otherwise, I did not understand. The pledge, given, on the passage of the Indian Bill, that force was not contemplated, became into my revelation by what I saw and felt. It is possible that Indians are not allowed to visit each other?  An Indian Agent of Government is surrounded by 'all the circumstance and pomp of War' to induce poor defenseless Indians to emigrate to unknown regions! If anyone has the courage to speak against it, he is placed in durance vile, and if he runs he is shot at by the troops of a great Republic!! Are these things agreeable to orders from Jackson's Administration? 'Hail Columbia happy land!' Yes, happy to aspiring states, unrestrained by law, and who will have the Indian lands free of cost and at the sacrifice of Indian tears. Where, compulsion is the practice of the day, by those who advocate Indian emigration. We and our people are under the screw, and one turn has already forced tears from our eye.  If the Indian Bill is not repealed by next Congress, the second turn will draw from our agonized bodies, life preserving blood. But let us remain still innocent, and pray, the Lord to change the hearts of the Rulers of these United States. Perhaps we may yet be spared the exclamation. 'Who is there to weep for Logan? Not one!'

Yours Respectfully,

DAVID VANN.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHOCTAWS.

The following was sent to us, for publication, by a gentleman residing in the Choctaw Nation. In a letter accompanying it he says- 'The above was written some time in March last, with a view of having it read to the nation in Council, ' by them forwarded to the President. The plan failed.- In May last it came to my hands, with the following note, and with an address also to the House of Representatives.

'Dear Friend.- You will perceive by these papers that I and you, that my people are in great trouble. I was knowing pretty much the sentiment of the nation. I called on the educated Choctaws to make out a talk to the President of the United States, and to the House of Representatives in Congress. Accordingly, I had an understanding with the officers of this district. But when I came on the Council ground, I found the Council indisposed, and thought it better to bow before the oppressor, and that opinion rose so high, that they finally made proposal to Government.'  This note is from Col. David Folsom.

To Andrew Jackson, President of the United States.



The Choctaws assembled in Council have listened with attention to the talk which you had authorized Mr. David W. Haley to deliver to them, and their heart is filled with sorrow at what you tell them.

You say we must submit to the laws of the State of Mississippi, or move to the west of the Mississippi River. This is a painful alternative; and when we look at the confusion, the distress, the ruin which we are fearful will result from the issue of either, our minds are bewildered, and we know not what to do.

Father, Is not the country in which we live, ours?  Has it not hitherto been uniformly admitted that we were the rightful and only true owners of the soil which we have inherited from our forefathers? And have we done any act to forfeit our title?

Father, If this land be ours, why should we leave it, and if we are a free people, why should laws be forced upon us, which we do not understand, which we have never assisted to frame, and which will involve us in confusion,-ruin?

Father, Do not deem these questions disrespectful, they are the natural expression of feelings.- We respect you. We know your power. Many of us have seen you in the battle, have fought by your side, and have bled that you may triumph.--Bear this in remembrance, and do not deem our expostulation disrespectful. We are weak and ignorant, you are wise and powerful.  Bear with us therefore, while with sorrowful feelings we speak a few words.

Father, How shall we understand the treaties which have been made with us? In the Treaty of October 1820, it was stipulated that the line then established should continue without alteration until the Choctaws should become civilized.  That then they should be citizens of the United States, and brought under the law of the whites. Being apprehensive however, that our white brothers might declare us civilized before we are so in reality and bring us under laws which we would not understand, and which of course it would be impossible for us to observe, we had that article modified in the treaty of 1825 so as that we never should become  subject to the laws of the United States, without previously having given our willing consent,

This treaty was ratified by our good Father James Monroe, and the Senate of the United States. We then had every reason to believe that we should continue unmolested in the enjoyment of our own laws and customs, until we should become sufficiently  enlightened in understanding the laws of the whites, and that even then, we should act from choice, not upon compulsion.  Actuated by the prospect then before us, we gave fresh encouragement in our schools,- we applied additional funds for the purpose of education, we sent many of our children abroad among the whites; and we encouraged ministers of religions to come among us. But the scene is suddenly changed. The day is overcast and a dreaded storm seems ready to burst upon us.

Father, How have we merited this? Have we broken faith, violated any treaty, or committed any act of hostility against the whites? Surely nothing such can be alleged against us. We appeal to you, to testify, that our friendship to the whites has been constant and uniform.

Father, The laws of the State of Mississippi have been extended over us, but contrary to our wishes, and without our consent, we protest against the attempt on the part of the State of Mississippi, to abolish our laws and customs for they were adapted to our present condition, and better calculated to further the ends of peace and justice among ourselves, than any multifarious code of laws prevailing among the whites. And we protest against the assumption of jurisdiction over us, on the part of the State of Mississippi, or of any other State, as contrary to the faith of treaties, and utterly subversive of our rights as a free people.

Father, May not our white brothers of Mississippi have overlooked the Treaty of January 1825, and that clause, which secures us against the imposition of any laws upon us except with our consent? Perhaps they did not sufficiently deliberate, and in time will retrace their steps, or are we to understand that a law of a State legislature is paramount to the obligations of a treaty.

Father, you know that we have long been a peaceful people and that our friendship toward the whites has become a second nature.  You will give us credit for sincerity, therefore, when we say, that although deeply grieved, we permit no sentiment of hostility to enter our bosoms.- we still rely upon your protection.  We still rely upon the justice and forbearance of our white brothers of the State of Mississippi. Father, you have seen many of us tried in battle, you know that we are not cowards, and that we fear not death. But we shall make no forcible resistance. If any men tell you otherwise believe them not. We know that we are weak, we know that you are strong. We shall submit to whatever fate awaits us, with calmness and resignation. If we have mistaken our ancient rights, if we have misunderstood treaties, if we have built our hopes on sand, when we thought they were founded on a rock, then we must yield. But we claim the privilege of this solemn protest, that it is no choice, but necessity to which we shall yield.

Father, The State of Mississippi in extending her laws over us, has placed us upon the footing of white men. For this we are grateful: it alleviates the bitterness of the draught, which is held to our lips and it by the same act she would have given us the education and intelligence of civilized white men, so far from complaining, we should have rejoiced, we should have viewed Mississippi as a benefactor, and no time would have been lost in erecting a suitable monument to perpetuate our gratitude. But in our present incipient stage of civilization, we view the act as the harbinger of ruin and desolation. The laws of Mississippi are complicated and voluminous. They are above our comprehension. Their number and weight would overwhelm us.

Father, Give us time to reflect and deliberate, for we are greatly troubled. It is hard that we should be compelled to leave our country and go to a country we know nothing of. A single individual may leave his home, he may travel into distant lands; but he still has a hope of return, to cheer him.  But with us, if we leave our country, there is no hope of return. It is like death. Our  feeble old men, bowed down with the weight of years ' sorrow, would die in the wilderness. Our children would die with disease.

Father, Do not abandon us. Our earnest and last request is, that you would not forsake us ' we pray the Great Father above to have you and us in his holy keeping.

__________________

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For the Cherokee Phoenix.

MR. EDITOR- Having made our residence this summer with many other Cherokees at the great gold mines in the nation on the Chestatee River, the present boundary line between the Cherokees and the State of Georgia, we have been enabled to experience the edicts of President Jackson's policy, and the operation of the laws of Georgia over the Cherokee Nation, which have been executed with the utmost rigor on the already disquited Cherokees. It will be recollected by the public, that a number of us, citizens of the Cherokee Nation who were digging for gold at the above place, were served with writs of injunction to stay waste, issued by a justice of the state of Georgia. The exercise of this power as a right by the authorities of Georgia was certainly very questionable with us, the Cherokees never having conceded to Georgia or any other power to govern us. We considered that the writ could have no binding force on us.- We were under the conviction, we had at least as good right to gold in our own country as the Georgians, thousands of whom were digging without the least molestation. Consequently, the writ of injunction was considered invalid by us. A mandate by a Judge from the state of Georgia, we presumed could not bind an Indian in the Cherokee Nation. Influenced by these considerations, the injunction was not complied with. The processes were under the directon of Mr. King, Agent, appointed by Governor Gilmor to superintend gold mines, notwithstanding the law of intercese  enacted by Congress of March 1802, and incorporated into our treaties, which prohibits all citizens of the United States from crossing the Indian boundary without a passport, given by some agent appointed by the President for that purpose. The Governor of Georgia has exercised a power to supersede this international law, by appointing agents, surveyors, 'c in the Cherokee Nation.

Another writ was obtained by Mr. King, called in Georgia ATTACHMENT to bind and take our persons, on the alleged ground of not complying with the injunction. The pages of this mandate was unfolded to us by a company of Georgians armed with guns and pistols. A few minutes before we were employed in an occupation that we always considered unfettered by any treaties of the Cherokee Nation. It appeared now the faith of the U. States had vegetated into guns and pistols, by which we were arrested and carried into Georgia, before his honor Judge Clayton, to shew cause for violating the bill of injunction.

The Cherokees, for ages past, had been as free as the air that blows over the foliage of their beautiful forests. We had always appreciated liberty more than any people on earth, and in the year of our Lord 1830, the political sons of GEORGE WASHINGTON arresting our persons, in our own country, without ever having violated the first sentence of the municipal law of Georgia, was viewed by us as the most flagrant violation of our rights, and the most palpable infringement on the laws of the federal union.

Submission to our oppressors we considered was advisable, and dictated by prudence, and also that it might enable us to see what laws of Georgia could find jurisdiction of this case.- We were ordered to march n the midst of a guard of Georgians, and as we marched across the once respected boundary line, we were still enabled as we reached the summit of the Georgia hills to catch a glimpse of the towering landscapes of our forefathers, the scenes of their youthful days, the quiet homes of our wives, and the peaceful firesides of our beloved children. These reflections produced feelings on us that our pen fails to relate.  But our fortitude was not yet extinguished- we were still animated to bear up under the bondage of one of the best governments on earth-we had sacred rights to be sustained--we were the interested individuals for the salvation of the Cherokees--we possessed a country, the value of which could not be reached even by counted millions of the white man's money. In the meantime we passed many improvements of the Georgians, but they were not of the flourishing class. We thought they were inferior to those of the Cherokees. The epithet of Senator Forsyth, which had its birth in the August Senate of 'Columbia, happy land' appeared to have been congenial with his constituents. It was applied as we passed some companies- 'sheriff, where are you taking these poor devils!'- We really had reasons to think that the Cherokees could be safer in the deminions of the Sultan.

We reached Wadkinsville the third day, where there were many people attending court. We were marched by the guard to a tavern, which attracted the attention of a numerous company, to see the Cherokee prisoners and the cause of arrest, which amounted to digging gold in the Cherokee Nation ' a formidable guard was necessary to bring the prisoners safe to that place. The writ was returned to his honor as executed; who fixed on the next day to try the case.- Accordingly we were notified to appear before his honor for which we were anxiously looking in order to see what this judge could do with a case that was wholly Cherokee. Two lawyers appeared at the bar by our authority, and the case was opened for trial. His honor looked upon the case as not governed by law, but altogether as governed by his discretion. No jury had a right to hear this case, the white bench of justice was alone competent. A bill of costs for contempt of court was handed us amounting to ninety three dollars ' we held committed until its liquidation. This verdict against us we apprehended to be final, no tribunal being known to us from which we could seek redress. The alternative of submitting with a view to a restoration of our personal liberty, had to be adopted. But this was not all. His honor posessing new light on the sovereignty of states, and not disposed as we think, to adhere to the science of strict law, bound us in a bond to appear before him at his court at Gainsville, on the third Monday in September next, to answer the bill of injunction, when and where its merits will be tried.

Another case transpired a short time previous to our being captivated in Choitoe, on the sources of the Hightower River, which has made some progress towards accomplishing the secret moving principle, to expel the Cherokees by a powerful effort of oppression. The highhanded treatment of Bear's Paw by the Georgia officers in taking his property to pay another man's debts, as related in the Phoenix some time ago, was substantially true. The poor Indian has taken shelter now on the Tennessee side of the line. The case to which reference is now made is as follows: a constable, Crow of Habersham County, brought out one or two writs against Cherokees living in the above village, consisting of about eight families.  These poor Indians were aware of the visit by the officers- they locked their houses and fled for shelter to the great mountains to avoid persecution and secure their little all, the hard earnings of poverty, for the subsistence of their families. The officers arrived in the absence of the occupants, found the houses locked, and no property to secure the claim.--but they destroyed the lock of one house without any warrant for that purpose, and made a forcible entry.  The goods and chattels which he found subject to his levy were a blow gun, a brass kettle, which was partly worn out by the ravages of time, and a padlock on all which he laid the mandate of Georgia with an unwielding hand. These Indians are now seeking shelter on the Tennessee side of the line.

It is also necessary that the public should be informed of the effects and fate of the orders from the Department of War, which were transmitted by the Agent of the nation to the special council of last month, in which the agent was ordered to co-operate with the commanding officer of the United States for the removal of all gold diggers. These orders were construed by the agent and Capt. Brady as including the Cherokees.  They repaired to the gold mines, with a detachment of troops, and removed the gold diggers; the Cherokees being included they also were ordered to desist forthwith. This of course had to be complied with, while in the presence of the glittering bayonets of the American Republic, which were once the succor of the unfortunate Cherokee. The troops returned, and so did the gold diggers, and we calculated there were about four thousand persons digging Cherokee gold when we left the mines.

ELIJAH HICKS

JOHNSON ROGERS

B.F.THOMPSON

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






A correspondent has forwarded us the following letter which he informs us was in reply to one signed by some of the Cherokees, very civilly requesting these 'Citizens of the State of Georgia' to desist from digging gold.

Lower Gold Works. near Sixes 10 August, 1830

Gentlemen: We received your Notice making known to us your wish for us to stop Digging. Now be it known to you, as Citizens of the Cherokee Nation That We are Citizens of the state of Georgia, and consider ourselves at home and under the Protection of its sovereign Laws, in any part of its Charter. As to your SUFFERING us to dig for Gold We do not consider that matter comes before you at all, Because the Governor Has by proclamation ordered us ALL to cease digging, and if we act peaceably and SUFFER you to dig for Gold you may afford to let us alone in peace for if we are driven by force from here you may Rest assured, that you Go from here in Short order, for there are men here Who Would Spare no pains To have it done and if The number here cannot stand their their (sic) hand, Ten Thousand men can. We therefore Wish to receive no more notices from you on this subject, The Place We are digging has been left by you, and We have come in peace and have not molested any of your People Where you are digging.  Therefore, We recommend you to be friendly. We are Gentlemen your Friends 'c.

MICAJAH GOODWIN

WM. FORTNER

JOHN JENNIGS

DAVID COTTON

NEALY GOODWIN

JAMES GOODWIN

WARNER CUPP

FARDINAND SETTS

WILLIAM CONN

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE NATION, Sept. 1830

Mr. Elias Boudinott, Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix

Sir:- On a late visit to Tennessee, I was informed by persons of unquestionable veracity, that there have been upwards of one thousand steers driven across the Highwassee River recently, on their way to the Eastern markets, which have been purchased from the citizens of this nation--from these poor starving wretches who subsist on fishes, roots etc. Is not this evidence sufficient to prove to the good people of the United States, that some of the members of Congress did most grossly misrepresent the true situation of the Cherokee people?

Upwards of four hundred of the above cattle were purchased by Maj. John White, who resides immediately on the Cherokee line, and who is a neighbor of Caleb Starr and August Heard. It is well known these two individuals made the most reprehensible statements, respecting the condition of the Cherokees, in reply to certain queries proposed to them by the Honorable Prior Lea.

It is reasonable to suppose that a people so blessed with stocks of cattle, hogs, 'c. as the Cherokees are, in every section of the country , would walk 20 or 40 miles to beg a peck of meat? A man that would misrepresent, in the face of such convincing facts, as many have done and are yet doing, must possess uncommon hardihood. We may suppose that nearly the same number of cattle have been purchased and driven from this nation to Georgia, Alabama, and North Carolina.

A SPECTATOR.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






MARRIED

At Brainerd, on the 14th ult. by Rev. S. A. Worcester, DOCTOR ELIZUR BUTLER, principal of the mission of the American Board at Haweis, to Miss LUCY AMES, late teacher of the female school at Brainerd.

Near New Echota, on the 26th ult. by the Rev. G. M. Rogers, Mr. BENJAMIN PATON to Miss ELMIRA MILLER.

_________________

DIED- at his residence in Chickamauga District, on the 23d ult. Mr. JAMES FIELDS. He was educated at the Foreign Mission School at Cornwall, Con., and was a member of the church at Brainerd.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














N.B. This issue printed in three columns only

AN OPINION ON THE CLAIMS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, BY THE STATE Of GEORGIA ON THE CHEROKEE NATION UNDER THE TREATIES OF 1817 AND 1828

BY WILLIAM WIRT, ESQ.

[Concluded]

In the state of things, came the treaty of 1819, which is declared on its face, to be a final adjustment of the treaty of 1817. By this treaty, the proposed census is waived by mutual consent; and the United States accept, from the Cherokees, a new cession of lands, by metes and bounds, (represented by the officers of the United States as amounting to 733,550 acres) which is declared to be in full satisfaction of all claims which the United States have on that nation, on account of the cession on Arkansas. By the 8th article, it is agreed that the boundary line, designated by the first article, shall be run by commissioners to be mutually appointed by the parties---and that the laws which have been made under the treaty of the 8th July 1817, of land lying within the portion of country reserved to the Cherokees to be void.' Here is the surrender to the nation, contemplated by the treaty of 1817. For, the running of the line of this new cession would ascertain on which side of it the improvements would lie, and the lands surrendered to the Cherokees by that line, would carry with it the surrender of the improvements which stood upon them.  The uncertainty as to this line, existing at the date of the treaty of 1817, which, alone, had been the cause that kept the ultimate title to these improvements in suspense, would be at an end, and the cause ceasing, the effect would cease with it. For why declare these leases void, if they might be immediately renewed? What conceivable motive could there be for declaring them void, except to disclaim any continuing authority in the United States to renew them? Of what possible service could their vacation be, either to the Cherokees or to the United States, if they might be reinstated by the United States the next instant?

And again, upon the supposition, how could this treaty be a of all claims under the treaty of 1817? How could the United States relinquish all claims on the Cherokees, and continue to lease out their lands? It must, I think, be manifest, to every impartial enquirer, that this is a clear surrender to the nation of all the improvements which should be found to lie within the lands reserved to them.

This conclusion is, again, fortified by a further consideration arising from the treaty of 1817. The United States were to continue to rent out these improvements, until they should be surrendered by the nation or to the nation. Is there anything in the treaty of 1819 which looks like a surrender by the nation to the United States of the improvements within the reserved lands? Not one syllable. And yet, this treaty, of 1819 is solemnly declared to be a final adjustment, if it still left the title to these improvements in the suspense in which they were placed by the treaty of 1817? But, if it were possible for human reason to answer this question in the affirmative, all that would be gained by it would be to continue that state of suspense; and it has been already shown that, in that condition, the state of Georgia had acquired no title to the possession of the lands: because there had been no extinguishment

 of the Indian title, to the universally received sense of such an extinguishment.

To me, it is perfectly clear that the treaty of 1819 is a surrender to the nation of all the improvements within their boundaries as established by that treaty; and, according to the express language of the 7th article of the treaty of 1817--'the Cherokee Nation are not to be called upon for any part of the consideration paid for said improvements at any future period.'

It is true that the concluding stipulation of the 5th article of the treaty of 1819, 'that all white people who have intruded, or may hereafter intrude on the lands reserved for the Cherokees shall be removed by the United States,' has nothing to do with this question; not because the lessees of these improvements under the United States or the State of Georgia by the treaty of 1817 cannot be regarded as intruders; (though in truth if they were white persons they were intruders because they were there without title) but because the under that treaty, white people cannot be lessees of these improvements; the power being expressly confined to renting them 'to the Indians.' And since the power is derived solely from the treaty, it can be executed, only, according to the treaty. The provision with regard to the removal of intruders, related to a totally distinct subject, and is only the repetition of an engagement found in all the old treaties, as well as the new, and provided for by the act of 30th March, 1802, 'to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on the frontiers' to which this provision of the 6th article of the treaty of 1819 expressly refers. It is blending subjects of a different nature, which only tends to confound, to bring the provision with regard to white intruders to bear upon the question of renting improvements to the Indians themselves. Upon the whole if the determination be formed to take away their lands from these people, per fasaut nefas, all reasoning upon the subject becomes folly and mockery. But if the object be to ascertain fairly and candidly, the rights of the parties, and to claim only those rights, I think it will be manifest to every disinterested inquirer, that, whether considered under the treaty of 1817 or that of 1819, the State of Georgia has no right either to lands or improvements, within the territory reserved to the Indians by the latter treaty.

II. The second question arises under the 8th article of the treaty of 1808. this is a treaty between the United States and the Arkansas Cherokees. The Cherokees east of the Mississippi are not parties to it. This nation, originally one, had separated, as we have seen, by mutual consent in 1808--9; one part wishing to continue the hunter state and go west, in quest of game; and the other part 'to engage in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life, in the country they then occupied.' This separation had been sanctioned and promoted by the President in 1809 and had been solemnly ratified by the treaties of 1817, and 1819.  The two parts of these people thus became separate and distinct tribes and nations; as much so as if they had been distinguished by different names. Now the treaty of 1828 is, upon its face, expressly a treaty between the United States and 'the Cherokee Nation of Indians west of the Mississippi.' The object of the treaty was to induce these people to make another removal from their settlements on the Arkansas, and take in exchange, a grant of lands beyond the limits of the Unites States' territory of Arkansas. With subject the Cherokees east of the Mississippi, had nothing to do and the nation to the west had no more right to interfere with their lands than they had to interfere with the lands of their brethren on the Arkansas.  But, in this treaty, there occurs an article (the 8th) in which the western Cherokees are made to present a plausible picture of the great advantages they were about to reap from this, their second migration, and then it is added-'that their brothers yet remaining in the States may be induced to join them and enjoy the repose and blessings of such a state in the future it is further agreed on the past of the U. States that to each head of a Cherokee family now residing within the chartered limits of Georgia, or either of the States east of the Mississippi, who may desire to remove west, shall be given, on enrolling himself for emigration, a good rifle, a blanket, and kettle, and five pounds of tobacco; and to each member of his family one blanket) also a just compensation for the property he may abandon to be assessed by persons to be appointed by the President of the United States.' Other facilities for emigration are then added and finally a premium of fifty dollars for each person or head of a family he may take along with him provided he and they shall have emigrated from within the chartered limits of Georgia, and the opinion is maintained that by force of this article the United States acquired, by purchase, for the use of Georgia, all the land and improvements which the emigrants from the east had there abandoned, under the inducements held out by this article.

1. Now, the first reflection which presents itself on reading this article, is that it does not import a purchase at all. A series of inducements is held out to the individual Cherokees, who reside east of the Mississippi, to emigrate beyond the territory of Arkansas. The allurement of that residence is first held out to them- premiums of a specific property and money are added to these inducements-and, to overcome their natural reluctance to leave behind them the possessions they then enjoyed to the east of the Mississippi, they are assured that they shall suffer no loss on that account, but that the United States will pay them a just compensation for the property they may abandon--not for the property they may sell and convey to the United States nor even that 'they may abandon to the United States' (which by the way would have been a very envious form of expression) but 'for all the property they may abandon;' that is, that they may have derelict within the eastern nation. The terms are by no means, appropriate to the contract of sale. It is not conceivable that they are the terms which would have been selected, if a sale and purchase had been within the contemplation of the parties. There would have been some provision authorizing the United States to take possession of the property so left, under a contract of purchase; some provision authorizing them, either to occupy, or at least 'to rent the property to the Indians, for the use of the poor and decrepit of their nation.' But there is nothing which affords the slightest indication that the United States considered themselves as acquiring the property so to be abandoned. The event is contemplated of its being left by the emigrant Indians; and, in that condition it is viewed and treated and called property abandoned.

2. But suppose it to be a sale to the United States, of what is it a sale? of the property which the emigrants should leave behind them. 

What property could they leave behind them which was, in its nature, capable of alienation to anyone nor a member of the Indian nation? Their personal property only; that is, their horses, cattle, stock, agricultural implements 'c. For, as to the lands which they had occupied, these belong to the whole nation, as a nation, and were capable of individual alienation

to anyone except a member of that nation. The emigrant could sell only the title he held. And, according to the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States (in the vase of Johnson and McIntosh, 8th Wheaton 593) the character of individual title to lands within the Cherokee Nation is concerned exclusively by their own laws and usages. But, according to their laws and usages there is no individual property in lands. The Indian who builds improvements on a piece of land acquires the exclusive right to use the lands, for one quarter of a mile around his improvements so long as he shall choose to occupy them. If he wishes to leave them, he may sell  his improvements and right of occupancy to one of his own nation, but to no one else. If he abandons them for twelve months, without such a sale, the title reverts to the whole nation.

If therefore, the 8th article did contemplate a sale to the United States of the property which the emigrant should abandon

(which it is quite apparent it did not) the sale could be only of such property as was alienable to personnel of the nation; and consequently, did not include land and improvements, which were not so alienable. Not does it vary the result that the United States is the supposed purchaser. For, in the first place the United States cannot alter the laws of the Cherokee Nation, except so far as they are authorized so to do by treaty. In the next place, even if the United States could alter those laws, it could be done, only, by an act of Congress, which is not pretended. It, surely, could not be done by the President and Senate, in the form of a treaty, and that, too, a treaty made with another nation. So long as the Cherokees remain a sovereign nation, under the exclusive  government of their own laws (which I have shown, in another opinion, that they are and have a right to be) their title to their lands cannot be extinguished, except by their own treaties, made by them as a nation, or by individuals of their nation authorized so to do by their own laws.

It is understood as being objected to this conclusion, that, according to the process of reasoning, which has led to it, if a majority of the Cherokee Nation should withdraw and receive compensation for their respective claims, the remnant however small would extend their title of occupancy over all the lands lying within the limits originally allotted to the whole; which,  it is said,since the year 1808, seem not to have been the understanding either of this Government or of the particular tribe, whose rights are involved in this inquiry; and the treaties of 1817 and 1819 are cited in proof of this understanding; as well as of the policy by which the United States have encouraged the emigration of this tribe. To which I answer, that the case arising under the 8th article of the treaty of 1828, does not at all, fall within the policy which has prevailed since the year 1808, and which is illustrated by the treaties of 1817, and 1819. It is manifest, indeed, that the policy has been to encourage the emigration of this tribe; but, the means, heretofore, used to encourage it, have been perfectly legitimate, and in strict consonance with all the rights claimed for the Indians. The treaties of 1817 and 1819 were not treaties as contracted with individuals of the Cherokee Nation. They were treaties with the whole nation for the benefit of the entire nation. The

cessions made by these treaties, were

regular cessions by the whole nation, in its sovereign capacity; and the compensation received was a compensation to the nation. This was all fair and proper, and perfectly consistent with the constitution, laws, and political sovereignty asserted for the Cherokee Nation.  But there never has been an understanding since the year 1808, not at any other time, that the sovereign right of the nation over their lands could be extinguished by private purchases from the individuals of the nation. With regard to the case put of a majority of the nation withdrawing and receiving compensation for their property, and the remaining remnant asserting a title to all the lands, lying within the limits originally allotted to the whole tribe, it presents no kind of difficulty; for the question still is whether the title belongs to the whole nation, collectively, or to the individuals of that nation, in their individual capacity. If to the former, as it unquestionably does, then however much the nation may be reduced either by death of emigration, those who remain will still compose the nation, and hold all the national rights. For, the rights of a sovereign nation do not depend on the number of its people. So long as they continue to be a sovereign nation, all the rights of the nation remain entire. Nor has there ever been an understanding, or a policy,since 1808, or at any other time, nor do the treaties of 1817 and 1819 illustrate any such policy or understanding, that the United States can extinguish the title of this nation in their lands, piecemeal by contracts made with individuals of the nation, without the concurrence of the nation itself.  The treaties of 1817 and 1819, repeat it, were the acts of the entire nation, and afford neither precedent nor principle for the implied contract with individuals of the eastern nation, under an article contained in a treaty with the nation west of the Mississippi.

Upon the whole, I am of the opinion that the claim of Georgia to an acquisition of lands, in the territory of the nation east of the Mississippi, by the 8th article of the treaty of 1828, with the Cherokees on the Arkansas, is as totally destitute of foundation as the claim under the first question.

WILLIAM WIRT.

Baltimore, June 21, 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: THis issue printed in three columns only.

Note: This issue printed in three columns onlyOPINION ON THE BOUNDARY BETWEEN THE CHEROKEES AND CREEKS IN GEORGIA

BY WILLIAM WIRT, ESQ.

Case

The Cherokee and Creek Indians were coterminous tribes in the south and a part of their respective territories lay within the chartered limits of Georgia. Some doubt having been thrown over one of their common boundaries by the fact of their having both made cessions to the United States, including a slip of the same lands, they agreed in the year 1821, to mark this line, which was accordingly done. The line thus marked is a right line from the Ten Islands on the river Coosa, eastward to the Buzzard Roost on the Chattahoochy, the Cherokees owning the land to the north of that line, and the Creeks to the south. This line has been recognized by the United States as the boundary between these two tribes; and the recognition is contained in the treaty between the United States and the Creek Nation in 1826. The line is called for in the second article of that treaty, and the cession is bounded by it for thirty miles; but the Creeks being disposed to cede  all their lands, within the chartered limits of Georgia, in supplement is added to the treaty for this purpose, by which this additional cession is bounded for forty-five miles by this line thus marked between the Creeks and the Cherokees in 1821. This cession by the Creeks is for avowed purpose of ceding all the lands which they possessed in the State of Georgia; thus it is admitted by the Creeks and by the United States that the Creeks owned no lands in Georgia to the north of this line, and that, consequently, that line is the true boundary between the Creeks and the Cherokees.

The State of Georgia, however, to whose benefit this cession [See fourth page] inures, denies that this is the boundary, and she has of her own authority, run another line which she calls the true boundary, and which lies sixty miles to the north of the line established by the Creeks and the Cherokees. By this process she takes from the Cherokees a territory sixty miles in breadth on the Chattahoochy, and stretching from that river to the Coosa, with different degrees of width.

As the Cherokees refused to submit to this amendment on their

territory, the subject came before the President of the United States, who has caused a third line to be run, different from both the former, and not corresponding with any treaty which has heretofore been made, but which he has declared officially, shall be the line between the lands ceded by the Creeks to the United States and the Cherokees in 1826. The line thus established by the President's orders, leaves the Chattahoochy at the Shallow Ford, about thirty miles to the north of the Buzzard Roost, the point agreed upon by the Cherokees and Creeks, as one of the termini of their line, and runs between this line and that which is claimed by Georgia. Thus the President's line takes thirty miles of their territory from the Cherokees at that point if the line between them and Creeks in 1821 was a line authorized by law.

QUESTIONS/

1. Had these coterminous tribes of Indians a right to mark the boundary between themselves, by their own consent, and is not the boundary so marked the true boundary between them?

2. If it required the sanction of the United States to make that boundary valid, was not this sanction sufficiently given by the treaty of 1826?

3. Has the President of the United States any constitutional and legal power to run and establish the line which he has declared to be the line between the Creeks and the Cherokees?

ANSWERS

1. The right of coterminous tribes to settle their own disputed boundaries, by their own consent, was admitted by the executive of the United States, at a time when the highest office of this nation was filled by one of the most eminent lawyers and statesmen that our country has ever known.--I mean Mr. Jefferson. In the treaty of 1806 between the United States and the Cherokee Nation of Indians. I find the following article:

'Art. 3. It is, also, agreed, on the part of the United States, that the Government, thereof, will use its influence and best endeavors to prevail on the Chickasaw Nation of Indians to agree to the following boundary between that nation and the Cherokees, to the southward of the Tennessee River viz: beginning at the mouth of Caney Creek, near the lower part of the Muscle Shoals, and to run up the said creek to its head, and in a direct line from thence to the Flat Stone or Rock, the old corner boundary.'

'But it is understood by the contracting parties that the United States do not engage to have the aforesaid line or boundary establish, but only to endeavor to prevail on the Chickasaw Nation to consent to such a lie as the boundary between the two nations.'

It is needless to dilate on this article.  It is perfectly clear that Mr. Jefferson considered the Indians as the only competent authority to settle their own disputed boundaries, that it was to be done by their consent alone, and that the United States had no right to interfere in the matter, except in the character of mediators.

Who, indeed, can be so well qualified to settle such a question as the parties themselves? It depends on facts and traditions of which they are the best and the peculiar repositories, and therefore interest natural to all men, civilized or savage, will make them vigilant and astute to take advantage of every circumstance that operates in their favor; so that when a boundary is once fixed by them, by consent, it may well be considered as near the truth as human sagacity, sharpened by interest, can approach.

With regard to their right to do this: the possessory right of the land is in them exclusively, and it is a perpetual right of possession, in them and their heirs forever. It would be singular if they had not the right to settle the boundary of their respective possessions, amicably, between themselves. If they cannot do it, who can?  The United States we have seen disclaimed the power in 1806; and under the constitutional laws and treaties of the United States the several States have no right to interfere with them.

It is objected that this settlement of boundaries may involve a cession of lands by the one with theother, and that they have no right to make any cession except to the United States. Among the multitude of answers, to which this objection is exposed, I will merely suggest the following without dilating on them; promising that, even if the objection were valid in other respects, before the boundary could be questioned, it must be shown judicially, not that it was, but that it does involve a cession.

1. No enlightened tribunal would ever consider an amicable and bone fide settlement of their boundaries among the Indian tribes for the sake of peace among themselves as a cession of their lands, within the meaning of the principle to which the objection alludes.

2. The settlement of their boundary having been prior to a cession, by either, or any of the lands effected by that boundary, and it being perfectly uncertain which of the tribes would make the first cession, it must be a matter of indifference to the holder of the ultimate domain where the boundary would run.

3. The State of Georgia claims the possession of these lands under a cession by the Creek Nation. She can take only what was ceded; and the cession stopped at this boundary for which it called: expressly and upon which it ran for forty-five miles no more land was paid for under this cession, than what is comprised in this boundary.

4. Suppose the settlement of this boundary to be subject to the objection that because the Creeks and Cherokees held only the right of occupancy, they cannot make a cession except under the authority of the United States.- This brings us to consider the next question.

II. I cannot imagine any more high and solemn sanction to this boundary that that which is given to it by the treaty of 1826, made by the President, ratified by the Senate of the United States. It is very clear that Mr. Jefferson would have considered such a boundary as firmly established, when made by the tribes, themselves, under the mediation of the President; here is a solemn treaty, made by the President and Senate of the United States accepting a cession from the Creeks based on this boundary, and acknowledging that it comprised all the lands which the Creeks possessed in Georgia.

III. On this question I can only say that I am not informed of anything in the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States which confers the power which has been exercised. It is certainly not among the specific powers enumerated in the Constitution. The Treaty of 1826 directs that the line which it designates shall be run under the superintendence of commissioners to be appointed by the Cherokees. The 20th section of the intercourse act of 1802 authorizes the President to run and mark the boundary lines, which have been established by treaty. But it is said that the line run and marked in this case does not follow the designatio of any treaty; certainly not of that of 1826.  The act done seems to me to be without authority- and, therefore, void.

WM. WIRT.

Baltimore, June 24, 1830.

______________

Baltimore, June 25th, 1830

Since the above opinion was written my attention has been called to the treaty of the 15th November 1827 between the Creeks and the United States. It appears by the supplementary article to the Treaty of 1826, that the impression of the parties was that a line setting out from the Chattahoochie fifty miles below the Buzzard Roost, and to run as to strike the line marked by the Creeks and Cherokees forty-five miles west of the Buzzard Roost, thence along the line so marked to the Buzzard Roost, and thence down the Chattahoochie to the place of beginning would embrace all the land of the Creeks in Georgia west of the Chattahoochie, which it was declared to be the intention of the Creeks to cede by that supplementary article. It was uncertain whether the line between Alabama and Georgia did not cross that marked boundary at a distance short of forty-five miles from the Buzzard Roost-in which case the first line designated by the supplementary article would have run into Alabama which was not the intention of the parties. That first line, therefore was directed to stop at the point at which the line of Alabama might cross the marked boundary. If it should cross it within the forty -five miles. It was afterwards ascertained however, that point of intersection lay still farther west, and that it would require an extension of the lines designated by the treaty of 1826 to comprehend all the lands of the Creeks in Georgia, west of Chattahoochie.  These facts are recited in the preamble to the Treaty of 1827; and then it is added in the preamble that 'the President of the United States having urged the Creek Nation further to extend the limits as defined in the treaty aforesaid (that of 1826) and the chiefs and head men of the Creek Nation being desirous of complying with the wish of the President of the United States, THEREFORE, they, the chiefs and head men aforesaid, agree to cede and they do hereby cede to the U. States all the remaining land now owned or claimed by the Creek Nation, nor heretofore ceded, and which an actual survey may be found to lie within the chartered limits of the State of Georgia,'

I do not perceive that there is anything in this treaty to change the foregoing opinion. It does not propose to effect the boundary marked between the Creeks and the Cherokees. It proposes only such an extension of the lines defined by the Treaty of 1826 as to enhance the Creek lands. But that treaty defines no line, to the north of the line marked by the Creeks and the Cherokees; all the new lines defined by it lie below the marked line, and the north boundary coincides with it. I consider the Treaty of 1827 construed as it should be, altogether, rather as a re-affirmance of the marked boundary. It is true it cedes all the Creek lands in Georgia; but that a cession, is, in express terms to be effected by an extension of the lines defined in the Treaty of 1826- and the only lines defined in that treaty are the line from the Chattahoochie to the marked boundary then along the marked boundary to the Buzzard Roost, and down the Chattahoochie to the beginning; and these are in my opinion the lines which the President is authorized to run under the 20th section of the intercourse law of 1802.

WM. WIRT

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For (sic) the New York Observer

HISTORY OF THE INDIAN BILL.- No. III

When Mr. Frelinghuysen closed his argument in behalf of the Indians, which was on Friday, April 9th, he was immediately succeeded by Mr. M'Kinley of Alabama, who occupied about an hour before the Senate adjourned. The principal topic on which he spoke was the case of Johnson and M'Intosh, where, as he supposed, the Supreme Court of the United States decided against the rights of Indians. His reasoning was not very clear, and it was evident that he totally misapprehended the opinion of the court. It was decided, indeed, in that case, that Indian chiefs, according to the laws of Great Britain and the United States, cannot convey their lands to individual white men; but there is not a word in the opinion or reasoning of the court, which limits the occupancy of the Indians as to time; nor a word which authorizes any encroachment upon their boundaries, or any extension of our laws over them. On the contrary, their legal and just claim to occupy their own lands according to their own discretion, is distinctly asserted. So far is is (sic) the case from bearing hard upon the Cherokees, that they rely upon it as announcing principles, which would defend their present possession and their territorial rights, even if there were no treaties in existence.

The debate on this subject was not resumed till half past one o'clock on Tuesday, April 13th, when Mr. M'Kinley concluded his remarks, in a speech of about an hour and a half. The particular object which he had in view, was to show, that the new states are not bound by the engagements, into which they entered as the condition of their being admitted into the Union. His argument was highly metaphysical; and it was rare to find a man who understood it. I studied upon it a good deal; and unless I am mistaken it was substantially as follows: the United States prescribed to Alabama when a territory, that, before the territory could be erected into a state, the people should agree in a coavention (sic) to certain conditions on which a lone they could be admitted into the Union. They do thus agree; and are afterwards admitted into the Union by an act of Congress, which is expressly founded upon the fact, that the prescribed conditions have been solemnly assented to by the people of the new state.

Yet these conditions are not binding upon the state after it is admitted. The reasons are three. 1. An engagement made by the people of a territory cannot be binding upon the same people when formed into a state, because they are incapable of binding themselves in this manner when existing under a territorial organization. The state is not formed, and how can a state be bound by an act done by itself before it is formed? The state cannot act before it has an existence; then how can a state be bound by an act imputed to it as its own, which act nevertheless, was done before the state had an existence?

This is the metaphysical argument; and I presume it is the principal one. If it is not clear to the reader, I cannot help it. I have honestly done all in my power to state it fairly. This is the same argument on which Mr. M'Kinley relied in a previous session, to prove that the new states have a right to all the lands of the United States within the limits of the new states. All these states were admitted into the Union on the condition that they would not interfere with the title of the United States to lands unsold, that they would not tax the public lands till five years after they were sold; and that they would not tax the land of non-residents at a higher rate than other lands. Yet Mr. M'Kinley and some other Senators contend that the new states may rightfully appropriate to their own use the public lands of the United States, thus secured by the most solemn stipulations.

2. The new states are not bound bound (sic) by their engagements, made on entering into the Union because these engagements were extorted, and obtained by a moral power equal to a duress. The new states could not be admitted unless they entered into these engagements. Therefore they made these engagements by constraint; and therefore they are not bound by them.

3. These engagements are not binding upon the new states, because all the states must be perfectly equal. Non can be subordinate to others. All are equally sovereign; therefore these conditions, being derogatory to the sovereignty of the new states, cannot be binding upon them.

As a general conclusion, it follows that Alabama and Mississippi are not bound by their solemn covenant, adopted, approved, and ratified as the ground of their admission into the Union: in which covenant they declared that they would 'never disturb nor invade the Indians in their property rights, and liberty;' nor are these states bound by their engagement not to tax or seize the public lands within their chartered limits. As it happens, however, they have not proceeded to tax and confiscate the public lands; though they have proceeded to disturb and invade the rights of the Indians.

Mr. Forsyth, one of the senators from Georgia, succeeded Mr. M'Kinley. He spoke only twenty minutes that day.

On Wednesday and Thursday, April 14th and 15th, Mr. Forsyth pursued his argument about two hours each day. This gentleman is rather an agreeable speaker. His voice is pleasant, and his countenance prepossessing, except occasionally, when he assumes an angry or a haughty air. He does not speak with a continual flow of eloquence; or has he any highly finished or very forcible passages. His whole discourse is not a regular performance, but rather a collection of little speeches or disjointed topics. Due allowance should be made however, for the nature of cause, which he had to advocate.

I have before an abstract or abridgement of Mr. Forsyth's argument doubtless prepared for the press himself.

He began by declaring that Georgia had formed her plan and would not fail to execute it. He was not apprehensive of any collision with the general government: for the President had decided in favor of Georgia. He contended that Georgia had, in fact, obtained all the Indian country within her chartered limits by treaties made before the adoption of the Federal Constitution. By the Treaty of Galphinton, in 1785, the Creeks admitted themselves to be members of the state of Georgia. As to the Cherokees, by the Treaty of DeWitt's Corner, 1777, they admitted that all the country eastward of the Unicaye Mountains had been conquered by South Carolina, and they ceded these lands to that state.  The conquest went for the benefit of Georgia; and these lands are the very lands now occupied by the Cherokees in Georgia.

It will be convenient for the reader to learn here, that this treaty was quoted incorrectly by Mr. Forsyth, and was totally misunderstood by him. The lands ceded to South Carolina as having been conquered previously to 1777, are more than a hundred miles from the Cherokee lands now inhabited by that tribe.  Not an acre ceded at DeWitt's Corner has ever been claimed by the Cherokees since. So little pain did Mr. Forsyth take to examine the foundation of his arguments. It is quite remarkable, that, after Mr. Sprague had exposed this mistake, the same statement should appear in a speech published five weeks from the time of its being delivered.

Mr. Forsyth proceeded to say, that, by the Treaty of Hopewell the Cherokees had agreed that Congress should have the power of legislating for them and of managing all their affairs. Of course, Congress could remove them by force, if it pleased. It might be said that this legislation over the Indians was unjust and a violation of faith. That was a matter for the United States and the Cherokees. Georgia had nothing to do with it; at least she had only her portion.  The United States had ceded all her right to Georgia, and that state would have her bond. She would have the pound of flesh

Mr. Forsyth then described the efforts which had been made to excite prejudice against Georgia, such as the writing of essays, sending circulars from ladies, holding meetings, and getting up memorials. But he thought all these measures had failed.  The good sense of the country would see that Georgia was claiming no more than her rights. He said, that he was opposed to Mr. Monroe's project of removal, as visionary and impracticable; and that he then formed a project himself, from which he was deterred by finding a want of constitutional power to execute it. He did not expect that the condition of the Indians would be improved by a removal, but the states would be relieved from a useless and burdensome part of their population, and the Indians would be no worse off that they are at present.

He was not about to vindicate Georgia, as that state needed no vindication. She was on the vantage ground. The President had decided for her; and all the constituted authorities have decided for her. The President leans, indeed, too much in favor of the Indians; for he says their lands are guaranteed to them. In this he is mistaken. Georgia has a right to the lands, as well as to the sovereignty.  And it will be so determined by the federal tribunals and the state tribunals, if the question should be agitated.  He trusted and believed, that the question will never be agitated. It will not, unless the Senator from New Jersey should fill the Cherokees with vain hopes.

Georgia is the theme of the evening chant and matin song of all the calumniators in the Union, who have taken the Cherokees into their holy keeping. No epithet is too strong, no reproach too foul to cast upon her, for having followed the example of ten states in the exercise of jurisdiction over the Indians in their territory.

The causes of this distinction between the treatment which Georgia receives and that which the other states received, are the following. There are many white man, missionaries and others who have comfortable settlements among the Indians. The Cherokee government is in the hands of a few half breeds and white men who control all the funds of the tribe. A press is supported by these funds. The money, which ought to be applied to feed and clothe the common Indians who are represented as half starved and naked wretches is applied to the support of a printing press. The Cherokee government has a delegation at Washington, and as the leaders understand the value of money, they have authorized the delegation to pay for any advice they may obtain. Of these printed circulars, memorials, pamphlets, and essays, which have been laid upon the tables, how many have been fabricated under the hope or promise of present reward?

He added, that reproach and censure, ungrateful as they are, have been long experienced by Georgia. The dispute about her western lands began early.  Though Georgia has been always abused, she has always obtained her rights. Mr. Forsyth closed his speech by a history of the injuries which in his estimation, had been inflicted on Georgia by the general government.

As he was about concluding his remarks, he said he had a paper in his hands, describing the present condition of the Cherokees, which however was too bad to be read. Mr. Benton cried out, `Read it'  No, said Mr. Forsyth, it is too bad to be read; but I will send it to the Senator from New Jersey, and if his vision is not obscured by prejudice, he cannot fail to see the degraded condition of the Cherokees.

The Messenger took the paper, and carried it toward Mr. Frelinghuysen's seat, who declined receiving it, by saying that he did not want it, and directing it to be laid upon upon (sic) the clerk's table.  It was afterwards read by several Senators and others. The principal part was a description of a ball-play witnessed among the Cherokees by the writer not long ago.- These plays were universally practiced till missionaries exerted an influence which has prevented three quarters of the people from engaging in them. They were praised by all advocates of preserving the customs of the Indians, and declared to be fine athletic sports by all opposers of missions; but now the mere remnants of these sports are to be charged upon the whole Cherokee people, as conclusive proof of their degradation.

In Mr. Forsyth's printed account of his speech, he totally omitted one topic, upon which he spoke more than an hour. It was a history of the injuries which the natives of America had always experienced from Europeans. He began with the outrages which the Spaniards committed.  He contended that the Puritans had encroached upon Indian rights worse than Georgia had ever done. He alleged that William Penn cheated the Indians, and claimed jurisdiction over them. He said that the law of conquest, or the rights of the strongest, had always been respected and always would be. He wished to know why Georgia had not as good a right to legislate for the Indians, as other states had. The whole moral of this part of the discourse appeared to be, (it was certainly so understood by Senators and others) that it was vain and foolish to enquire what was right and just in itself. The Indians had so long been ill treated and abused, that they had no other treatment to expect. Other states had treated them ill so long, that it was very unreasonable to demand that any state should regard their rights.

Mr. Frelinghuysen had complained of the laws of Georgia, by which the Cherokees had been subjected to her jurisdiction, and which he pronounced a cruel and outrageous usurpation; particularly the provisions that the Cherokees could not be witnesses and that they were to be imprisoned four years in the penitentiary if they endeavored to prevent the sale of their country.

Mr. Forsyth, in reply, spent much time in vindicating these laws of Georgia. He said, it was no hardship to exclude Indians from testifying, as they had not sufficient knowledge to be competent witnesses at common law. He thought the laws of Georgia milder than those of other states. None of this is published. I refer to the speech as it appeared in the Telegraph of the 24th. If there is any other report of it, I have not seen it.

In preparing his speech for the press, Mr. Forsyth omitted the phrase poor devils, which he applied to the Cherokees four times: viz three times on Wednesday and once on Thursday. It is well that the criticisms of the newspapers infused into him some sense of propriety, if not a sense of shame. A man does very little to recommend himself to the approbation of the virtuous and honorable when he speaks contemptuously, of the weak and defenseless, and the miserable.  No temper can be more unamiable than one which is indicated by such a habit of speaking. No character is so frequently represented in Scripture as odious and abominable as the character of one who disregards the rights of the poor, and who tramples upon the poor because they are poor. It is much to be regretted that any member of the American Senate should appear for a moment to possess this character; and that if his feelings were really kind toward the Indians, he should exhibit them so unfortunately. - Before he uttered such expressions, he should have remembered , that there were Cherokees within the hearing of his voice; some of whom Mr. White had described as worthy of a seat on that floor; that these men have exquisite sensibility to reproaches and contempt; that the use of railing and abusive language is a vice and a vulgarity from which the Cherokees ' many other tribes of Indians are free; that it is quite hard egong(sic) to be deprived of lands and country, laws and government, in violation of the plain meaning of engagements, which they had always considered as binding; that to be called poor devils by one of the Senators, to whom they had applied as the guardians of the nation's honor, was a salutation which they had little reason to expect: and that as his vote given in circumstances not the most favorable to impartiality, might decide their destiny, it became him to pronounce that decision with some regard to tenderness and decorum.

The manner of Mr. Forsyth, in alluding to the Senator from New Jersey, though more respectful in the Senate, then it appears to have been to one who reads the speech in the Telegraph, was not altogether such as the occasion required.

VERITATIS AMANS.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For the New York Observer

HISTORY OF THE INDIAN BILL.- No. III

When Mr. Frelinghuysen closed his argument in behalf of the Indians, which was on Friday, April 9th, he was immediately succeeded by Mr. M'Kinley of Alabama, who occupied about an hour before the Senate adjourned. The principal topic on which he spoke was the case of Johnson and M'Intosh, where, as he supposed, the Supreme Court of the United States decided against the rights of Indians. His reasoning was not very clear, and it was evident that he totally misapprehended the opinion of the court. It was decided, indeed, in that case, that Indian chiefs, according to the laws of Great Britain and the United States, cannot convey their lands to individual white men; but there is not a word in the opinion or reasoning of the court, which limits the occupancy of the Indians as to time; nor a word which authorizes any encroachment upon their boundaries, or any extension of our laws over them.  On the contrary, their legal and just claim to occupy their own lands according to their own discretion, is distinctly asserted. So far is is (sic) the case from bearing hard upon the Cherokees, that they rely upon it as announcing principles, which would defend their present possession and their territorial rights, even if there were no treaties in existence.

The debate on this subject was not resumed till half past one o'clock on Tuesday, April 13th, when Mr. M'Kinley concluded his remarks, in a speech of about an hour and a half. The particular object which he had in view, was to show, that the new states are not bound by the engagements, into which they entered as the condition of their being admitted into the Union. His argument was highly metaphysical; and it was rare to find a man who understood it. I studied upon it a good deal; and unless I am mistaken it was substantially as follows: the United States prescribed to Alabama when a territory, that, before the territory could be erected into a state, the people should agree in a coavention (sic) to certain conditions on which a lone they could be admitted into the Union. They do thus agree; and are afterwards admitted into the Union by an act of Congress, which is expressly founded upon the fact, that the prescribed conditions have been solemnly assented to by the people of the new state.

Yet these conditions are not binding upon the state after it is admitted. The reasons are three. 1. An engagement made by the people of a territory cannot be binding upon the same people when formed into a state, because they are incapable of binding themselves in this manner when existing under a territorial organization. The state is not formed, and how can a state be bound by an act done by itself before it is formed? The state cannot act before it has an existence; then how can a state be bound by an act imputed to it as its own, which act nevertheless, was done before the state had an existence?

This is the metaphysical argument; and I presume it is the principal one. If it is not clear to the reader, I cannot help it. I have honestly done all in my power to state it fairly. This is the same argument on which Mr. M'Kinley relied in a previous session, to prove that the new states have a right to all the lands of the United States within the limits of the new states. All these states were admitted into the Union on the condition that they would not interfere with the title of the United States to lands unsold, that they would not tax the public lands till five years after they were sold; and that they would not tax the land of non-residents at a higher rate than other lands. Yet Mr. M'Kinley and some other Senators contend that the new states may rightfully appropriate to their own use the public lands of the United States, thus secured by the most solemn stipulations.

2. The new states are not bound bound (sic) by their engagements, made on entering into the Union because these engagements were extorted, and obtained by a moral power equal to a duress. The new states could not be admitted unless they entered into these engagements. Therefore they made these engagements by constraint; and therefore they are not bound by them.

3. These engagements are not binding upon the new states, because all the states must be perfectly equal. Non can be subordinate to others. All are equally sovereign; therefore these conditions, being derogatory to the sovereignty of the new states, cannot be binding upon them.

As a general conclusion, it follows that Alabama and Mississippi are not bound by their solemn covenant, adopted, approved, and ratified as the ground of their admission into the Union: in which covenant they declared that they would 'never disturb nor invade the Indians in their property rights, and liberty;' nor are these states bound by their engagement not to tax or seize the public lands within their chartered limits. As it happens, however, they have not proceeded to tax and confiscate the public lands; though they have proceeded to disturb and invade the rights of the Indians.

Mr. Forsyth, one of the senators from Georgia, succeeded Mr. M'Kinley. He spoke only twenty minutes that day.

On Wednesday and Thursday, April 14th and 15th, Mr. Forsyth pursued his argument about two hours each day. This gentleman is rather an agreeable speaker. His voice is pleasant, and his countenance prepossessing, except occasionally, when he assumes an angry or a haughty air. He does not speak with a continual flow of eloquence; or has he any highly finished or very forcible passages. His whole discourse is not a regular performance, but rather a collection of little speeches or disjointed topics. Due allowance should be made however, for the nature of cause, which he had to advocate.

I have before an abstract or abridgement of Mr. Forsyth's argument doubtless prepared for the press himself.

He began by declaring that Georgia had formed her plan and would not fail to execute it. He was not apprehensive of any collision with the general government: for the President had decided in favor of Georgia. He contended that Georgia had, in fact, obtained all the Indian country within her chartered limits by treaties made before the adoption of the Federal Constitution. By the treaty of Galphinton, in 1785, the Creeks admitted themselves to be members of the state of Georgia. As to the Cherokees, by the Treaty of DeWitt's Corner, 1777, they admitted that all the country eastward of the Unicaye Mountains had been conquered by South Carolina, and they ceded these lands to that state. The conquest went for the benefit of Georgia; and these lands are the very lands now occupied by the Cherokees in Georgia.

It will be convenient for the reader to learn here, that this treaty was quoted incorrectly by Mr. Forsyth, and was totally misunderstood by him. The lands ceded to South Carolina as having been conquered previously to 1777, are more than a hundred miles from the Cherokee lands now inhabited by that tribe.  Not an acre ceded at DeWitt's Corner has ever been claimed by the Cherokees since. So little pain did Mr. Forsyth take to examine the foundation of his arguments. It is quite remarkable, that, after Mr. Sprague had exposed this mistake, the same statement should appear in a speech published five weeks from the time of its being delivered.

Mr. Forsyth proceeded to say, that, by the Treaty of Hopewell the Cherokees had agreed that Congress should have the power of legislating for them and of managing all their affairs. Of course, Congress could remove them by force, if it pleased. It might be said that this legislation over the Indians was unjust and a violation of faith. That was a matter for the United States and the Cherokees. Georgia had nothing to do with it; at least she had only her portion.  The United States had ceded all her right to Georgia, and that state would have her bond. She would have the pound of flesh

Mr. Forsyth then described the efforts which had been made to excite prejudice against Georgia, such as the writing of essays, sending circulars from ladies, holding meetings, and getting up memorials.  But he thought all these measures had failed. The good sense of the country would see that Georgia was claiming no more than her rights. He said, that he was opposed to Mr. Monroe's project of removal, as visionary and impracticable; and that he then formed a project himself, from which he was deterred by finding a want of constitutional power to execute it. He did not expect that the condition of the Indians would be improved by a removal, but the states would be relieved from a useless and burdensome part of their population, and the Indians would be no worse off that they are at present.

He was not about to vindicate Georgia, as that state needed no vindication. She was on the vantage ground. The President had decided for her; and all the constituted authorities have decided for her. The President leans, indeed, too much in favor of the Indians; for he says their lands are guaranteed to them. In this he is mistaken. Georgia has a right to the lands, as well as to the sovereignty.  And it will be so determined by the federal tribunals and the state tribunals, if the question should be agitated.  He trusted and believed, that the question will never be agitated. It will not, unless the Senator from New Jersey should fill the Cherokees with vain hopes.

Georgia is the theme of the evening chant and matin song of all the calumniators in the Union, who have taken the Cherokees into their holy keeping. No epithet is too strong, no reproach too foul to cast upon her, for having followed the example of ten states in the exercise of jurisdiction over the Indians in their territory.

The causes of this distinction between the treatment which Georgia receives and that which the other states received, are the following. There are many white man, missionaries and others who have comfortable settlements among the Indians. The Cherokee government is in the hands of a few half breeds and white men who control all the funds of the tribe. A press is supported by these funds. The money, which ought to be applied to feed and clothe the common Indians who are represented as half starved and naked wretches is applied to the support of a printing press. The Cherokee government has a delegation at Washington, and as the leaders understand the value of money, they have authorized the delegation to pay for any advice they may obtain. Of these printed circulars, memorials, pamphlets, and essays, which have been laid upon the tables, how many have been fabricated under the hope or promise of present reward?

He added, that reproach and censure, ungrateful as they are, have been long experienced by Georgia. The dispute about her western lands began early. Though Georgia has been always abused, she has always obtained her rights. Mr. Forsyth closed his speech by a history of the injuries which in his estimation, had been inflicted on Georgia by the general government.

As he was about concluding his remarks, he said he had a paper in his hands, describing the present condition of the Cherokees, which however was too bad to be read. Mr. Benton cried out, `Read it'  No, said Mr. Forsyth, it is too bad to be read; but I will send it to the Senator from New Jersey, and if his vision is not obscured by prejudice, he cannot fail to see the degraded condition of the Cherokees.

The Messenger took the paper, and carried it toward Mr. Frelinghuysen's seat, who declined receiving it, by saying that he did not want it, and directing it to be laid upon upon (sic) the clerk's table.  It was afterwards read by several Senators and others. The principal part was a description of a ball-play witnessed among the Cherokees by the writer not long ago.- These plays were universally practiced till missionaries exerted an influence which has prevented three quarters of the people from engaging in them. They were praised by all advocates of preserving the customs of the Indians, and declared to be fine athletic sports by all opposers of missions; but now the mere remnants of these sports are to be charged upon the whole Cherokee people, as conclusive proof of their degradation.

In Mr. Forsyth's printed account of his speech, he totally omitted one topic, upon which he spoke more than an hour. It was a history of the injuries which the natives of America had always experienced from Europeans. He began with the outrages which the Spaniards committed.  He contended that the Puritans had encroached upon Indian rights worse than Georgia had ever done. He alleged that William Penn cheated the Indians, and claimed jurisdiction over them. He said that the law of conquest, or the rights of the strongest, had always been respected and always would be. He wished to know why Georgia had not as good a right to legislate for the Indians, as other states had. The whole moral of this part of the discourse appeared to be, (it was certainly so understood by Senators and others) that it was vain and foolish to enquire what was right and just in itself. The Indians had so long been ill treated and abused, that they had no other treatment to expect. Other states had treated them ill so long, that it was very unreasonable to demand that any state should regard their rights.

Mr. Frelinghuysen had complained of the laws of Georgia, by which the Cherokees had been subjected to her jurisdiction, and which he pronounced a cruel and outrageous usurpation; particularly the provisions that the Cherokees could not be witnesses and that they were to be imprisoned four years in the penitentiary if they endeavored to prevent the sale of their country.

Mr. Forsyth, in reply, spent much time in vindicating these laws of Georgia. He said, it was no hardship to exclude Indians from testifying, as they had not sufficient knowledge to be competent witnesses at common law. He thought the laws of Georgia milder than those of other states. None of this is published. I refer to the speech as it appeared in the Telegraph of the 24th. If there is any other report of it, I have not seen it.

In preparing his speech for the press, Mr. Forsyth omitted the phrase poor devils, which he applied to the Cherokees four times: viz three times on Wednesday and once on Thursday. It is well that the criticisms of the newspapers infused into him some sense of propriety, if not a sense of shame. A man does very little to recommend himself to the approbation of the virtuous and honorable when he speaks contemptuously, of the weak and defenseless, and the miserable.  No temper can be more unamiable than one which is indicated by such a habit of speaking. No character is so frequently represented in Scripture as odious and abominable as the character of one who disregards the rights of the poor, and who tramples upon the poor because they are poor. It is much to be regretted that any member of the American Senate should appear for a moment to possess this character; and that if his feelings were really kind toward the Indians, he should exhibit them so unfortunately. - Before he uttered such expressions, he should have remembered , that there were Cherokees within the hearing of his voice; some of whom Mr. White had described as worthy of a seat on that floor; that these men have exquisite sensibility to reproaches and contempt; that the use of railing and abusive language is a vice and a vulgarity from which the Cherokees ' many other tribes of Indians are free; that it is quite hard egong(sic) to be deprived of lands and country, laws and government, in violation of the plain meaning of engagements, which they had always considered as binding; that to be called poor devils by one of the Senators, to whom they had applied as the guardians of the nation's honor, was a salutation which they had little reason to expect: and that as his vote given in circumstances not the most favorable to impartiality, might decide their destiny, it became him to pronounce that decision with some regard to tenderness and decorum.

The manner of Mr. Forsyth, in alluding to the Senator from New Jersey, though more respectful in the Senate, then it appears to have been to one who reads the speech in the Telegraph, was not altogether such as the occasion required.

VERITATIS AMANS.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






A Camp meeting will be held at Rocky Spring, Conasauga, commencing on the 9th Sept. next.

Also a camp meeting will be held at Mount Wedey, Ocugillogee, on Thursday the 16th September.

Another will be held at Chattooga camp ground on Thursday the 23d of September.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA SEPT. 11, 1830

We finish publishing, this week, Mr. Wirt's opinions. They can be had at this office in pamphlet form.

_______________

A detachment of the United States troops have lately visited the mines at Six's.

_______________

A CHOCTAW is unavoidably deferred until next week.

___________________

A meeting of the citizens of Aquohee District in the Cherokee Nation convened for the purpose of considering the present situation of the nation: the following resolutions were passed, and an address to the citizens of the United States adopted.

1. Resolved unanimously, that the unfeigned thanks of this meeting be given to 'William Penn' for the substantial benefits rendered to our beloved country by his able exposition of the grounds of our national rights, and of our relation to the United States as set forth in his luminous numbers on 'The Present Crisis in the Condition of the American Indians.'

2. Resolved unanimously that the thanks of this meeting be given to the Honorable Senators and Members of Congress who ______  unanimously espoused our cause and asserted our rights, and by arguments and eloquence vindicated our claims and repelled the attacks of our adversaries in the United States Senate and House of Representatives.

3. Resolved unanimously, that the cordial thanks of this meeting be given to these philanthropic citizens of the United States who have interested themselves on our behalf, who sustained our cause in Congress by the weighty arguments and high respectability of their memorials.

4. Resolved unanimously that the thanks of this meeting be given to the independent editors of Public Journals who have rendered essential service to our country by freely circulating information which has enlightened the public mind, on the subject of our just rights; and thereby produced a strong feeling in our favor. And also, to all those public spirited individuals, who by their eloquence or their pens, have contributed to place in a clear light, the arguments on which those rights were founded.

5. Resolved that in the absence of any direct medium of communication with our friends: the foregoing resolutions and the following address be sent to the Cherokee Phoenix for publication in the hope these feeble expressions of our gratitude may thus meet the eyes of those for whom they are intended.

To the citizens of the United States

Friends and brethren:

The occasion of our present address is one, which affects not only the well being, but the very existence of our country.

A course of policy has of late been pursued with relation to us, which we consider to be at variance with the most solemn treaties ' which has filled our minds with painful anxiety.

Oppression is at this moment in vigorous operation under the appellation of laws of Georgia. These overbearing and cruel edicts are evidently designed to exterminate us from the earth. Under the sable banners of these pretended laws, are already marshalled for the purposes of rapine and plunder a host of the most abandoned characters who drive off our property, break the repose of our families, imprison our persons, and threaten our lives. But these laws grant us no hearing: they afford us no redress.

We consider these doings to be flagrant violations of those identical treaties by virtue of which millions of acres of land, ever ours are now vested in the United States as the price of protection against these very evils.

We have asked your Executive, for the stipulated protection: but it is not granted. We have petitioned Congress; but without success. We have assumed the attitude of abject suppliants, in soliciting that for which we have paid in full tale; but we have met nothing but mortifying repulses. We are grieved. We are oppressed. What are we to do, where shall we look for succor? The arm of your President heretofore potent to enforce justice has lost its wanted energy; he cannot help us.

The State of Georgia, in the vehemence of her thirst for sovereignty, has overleaned (sic) her bounds. She tramples on our dearest rights and frowns to silence the interrogators of justice.

People of America, where shall we look? Republicans we appeal to you. Christians we appeal to you. We need the exertion of your strong arm, we need the utterance of your commanding voice, we need the aid of your prevailing prayers.

In times past, your compassions, yearned over our moral desolation, and the misery which was spreading among us though the failure of game our ancient resource. The cry of wretchedness reached your hearts; you supplied us with implements of husbandry, and domestic industry, which enabled us to provide food and clothing for ourselves.--You sent us instructions in letters and the true religion which has chased away much of our mental and moral darkness.

Your wise President Jefferson, took much pains to instruct us in the science of civilized government and recommended the government of the United States and of the several states as models for our imitation.  He urged us also to industry and the acquisition of property. His letter was read in our towns; and we received it as the counsel of a friend.  We commenced learning. We commenced improving our government. And by gradual advances we have attained our present station. But our venerable father Jefferson never intended that whenever we should arrive at a certain point in the science of government, of the knowledge of civilized arts, that our rights would be forfeited, our treaties become obsolete, the  protection guaranteed them withdrawn, our property confiscated to lawless banditti, and our necks placed under the foot of Georgia.

If your benevolence responded to our silent petitions where we possessed no other claims than our wretchedness, and no other advocate than generous emotions of your own breasts, we feel assured that our appeal will not be disavowed when we ask for justice at your hands.

Much industry has been employed to misrepresent our condition, our faults, and our misfortunes and our defects have been magnified; and unfounded odium has been cast upon our name as if the worthlessness of our character and the degradation of our condition could exonerate the United States government from her engagements and annul the binding force of the treaties.

Sometimes our untamable barbarism and deplorable degradation are urged against us; and at others our civilization and our cultivation of domestic and social advances resulting therefrom are charged against us as unpardonable crimes.

It has been frequently asserted that we are willing and even desirous to go to the west. We assure our friends it is not so. We have our homes, we have our families, we love to dwell by our father's graves. We love to think that this land is our Great Creator's gift to them that he had permitted us to enjoy it after them and that our offspring are preparing to succeed us in the inheritance.

This land is our last refuge and it is our own.  Our title to it has no defect, but the inferiority of our physical force, this defect is amply supplied by our compacts with the powerful and magnanimous government of the United States.

Respected and honored friends, permit us to speak plainly. Much has been done against us. Promises, threats, and stratagems have been employed. But we are still unshaken in our attachment to the land of our birth, and we do sollemnly protest against the exercise of oppressive measures to effect our removal.  We protest against the extention of the laws of Georgia over any part of our territory; against the occupancy of our lands by U.S. citizens in virtue of compacts between the U. S. government and another nation with which we have no political connection and whiich possesses no rights within our territory against the removal of our boundary lines; and against the employment of money or other bribes to corrupt our citizens and induce them to become traitors to their country; and against the distribution of our annuities amongst individuals as being all contrary to the letter and spirit of our treaties.

We are greatly encouraged in bearing up under accumulated wrongs, to know that our rights are acknowledged and our claims advocated by a great majority of the wise, the honorable, and the virtuous among the citizens of the United States.

Brethren, while we beg your acceptance of the imperfect expression of our unfeigned gratitude for your past exertions, we ask with the most earnest solicitude of respect, the continuance of your aid in every way which your wisdom and philanthropy may dictate. And trusting to the ing (sic) dance of all wise Providence; we are encouraged to look forward through generations yet to come, in the hope that the Cherokees will be still known on their native soil; that the light of truth which already illuminated our horizon will advance to meridian splendor, and that the magnanimous deeds of the vindicators of our rights will live in the memory and the veneration of our posterity! long after our bodies shall have mingled with the dust.

Signed by order and on behalf of the meeting

CHOSTOSA Chairman

JOHN WICKLIFF Clerk

JOHN TIMSON

SWEETWATER

SITUAGI

KANEEDA

________________

We would invite the attention of our readers to the Address

of the Cherokee Committee and Council which may be found on our last page. We have before expressed our opinion of this document which is remarkable both for its force and eloquence and gives us a practical idea of men upon whom the screws of torture have been fixed by this enlightened and Christian country, to be turned round and round just so many times as is necessary to crush the victims or tear them from their soil. If the State of Georgia and the national Administration expect to conceal the injustice of the act under a look of benevolence and philanthropy they deceive themselves as the decision of the civilized world, the decision of posterity, and we doubt not the decision of Heaven will tell them.  Party men may endeavor, as they have done, to lull the public into a belief that all is well,--but the question will arise and it must be answered. How comes it to pass that the Cherokees who but two or three years ago were in the enjoyment of independence, self government, and undisputed sovereignty over their soil, and were protected by nearly a score of solemn treaties guarantying them the continuance of their privileges,-how comes it that they are now subjected to a government not their own, exposed to continued and goading provocations, forbidden to dig gold on their own lands, abandoned, or rather betrayed, by the general government, their laws and immemorial usages abolished, their constitution abrogated, their peace invaded, their hopes lost! How comes it, we say, that all this has been done, and that all the alternative left them is misery where they are, or misery in the depths of the wilderness? Let those answer who are officially their fathers and protectors, and with whom rests the execution of Treaties. In our humble opinion, all the Veto Messages which could be piled up between here and Maysville, would be an honor and ornament to the present Administration and the dominant party in comparison with their treatment of the Cherokee Indians.

N. Y. Jour. of Com.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We take the liberty to request the serious attention of our readers to an article which we republish from the Cherokee Phoenix.  It is an address from the Council of that nation to the People of the United States, on the situation and circumstances in which they are placed by the act of Congress passed at the late session for the removal of the Indians beyond the Mississippi, and the operation of a legislative act of the state of Georgia. It occupies more room than we could conveniently spare, but we flatter ourselves that we shall escape censure for inserting it not withstanding its length, by every friend to justice and humanity. No man who is not doubly fortified by the degrading and demoralizing spirit of party against every feeling of justice or who is not governed by a sordid and selfish interest in the property of the Cherokees of which they are in a fair way to be plundered and despoiled can read this appeal without experiencing the deepest emotions. Nothing can be more pathetic than the plain and simple eloquence with which these despised ' injured people plead their own cause. Our countrymen should beware of the consequences of rejecting or turning a deaf ear to that appeal. One would think it impossible that those who are not directly or indirectly interested in the plan devised and thus is executed, for stripping these weak and defenseless people of their property, and their rights could read without a crimson blush upon their cheeks, the reference in this address to the 'golden rule' of rectitude in the sacred scriptures. Are the inhabitants of this professedly Christian country to be taught their moral and religious duties, their responsibility as accountable beings by these despised, oppressed and persecuted Indians?

The Indian bill passed through the House of Representatives by a very small majority- and we are much mistaken if several individuals in that majority did not act in direct opposition to the sentiments, opinions, feelings, and principles of their constituents.

We shall think it strange, if in the next Congress, there is not a majority in both Houses against the measure. In that event, the act passed at the last session will undoubtedly be repealed. In the meantime, notwithstanding the manifest disposition of our Cabinet to interfere with their plan of appealing to the Supreme Court, we trust that object will be steadily pursued. If General Jackson thinks proper to distribute the money payable to the Cherokees by treaty, in such a manner as designedly to prevent them from applying it for purposes of procuring a judicial redress of their wrongs, he will fail of his object, or we are grossly mistaken in our expectations. We have not the slightest doubt that any reasonable sum of money, necessary to enable them to try their great cause before the proper tribunal can be, and will be raised, any moment that it called for, in this division of the Union.

We are glad that the Cherokees intend to decline the invitation to meet their 'Great Father' the President of the United States, at Nashville, for the purpose of treating relative to their removal. Having determined not to remove, it would be worse than useless for them to receive the overtures, or to listen to propositions. Their safety consists in keeping quietly at home, even if subjected to the depredations of their civilized neighbors from Georgia, and directing their whole attention to the trial of their case before the Court. If that question should be heard, and decided in their favor, the chief magistrate of the nation must enforce the laws under the decision of the Judiciary whether he likes or dislikes it. Neither his own legal opinion, nor that of Mr. Secretary Eaton, nor even that of Mr. Attorney General Berien, will be able to stand against a solemn decision of the highest judicial tribunal, if that decision happens to be in favor of the Cherokees, and against the State of Georgia. To this state of things, we hope they will direct their attention, and all their efforts. The politicians of Georgia will probably consider the state as degraded by being obliged to defend their own acts against a tribe of Indians; but injustice to Indians is as proper a subject for judicial examination, as injustice to white men; and they must console themselves with the reflection that it is a calamity of their own seeking, and they have nobody to thank for its visitation but themselves. And they must be told that it is not half as degrading to be forced to defend themselves in a controversy with Indians in a court of law as it will be to meet the reproaches and scorn of all civilized nations.

__N. Y. Adv.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the New York Observer.

HISTORY OF THE INDIAN BILL. - NO. IV.

I omitted to mention, at the close of my last number, that Mr. Forsyth, when he resumed his speech on Thursday, spent some minutes in a studied attack upon Mr. Peel, of the British House of Commons.  This was in retaliation, as Mr. Peel had spoken rather reproachfully of Georgia, in one of the discussions of last winter. The printed speech of Mr. Forsyth contains no allusion to this subject.

The debate was continued by Mr. Sprague, Senator from Maine, who spoke on Friday and Saturday, April 16th and 17th. He occupied the floor about five hours in the whole. In the first place, he examined all the arguments of Messrs. White, M'Kinley, and Forsyth. Everything on that side, that could be made to wear the semblance of an argument, he stated fairly and refuted unanswerably. He then traced the history of our intercourse with the Indians, asserted their original and perfect right to their country, and established the validity of the treaties, by which the Cherokees claim our protection against the laws of Georgia. He alluded very happily to the pound of flesh, which Mr. Forsyth had said Georgia will have. He described the process of bribery, which had been recommended by the Secretary of War, and held it up to merited indignation.  The whole speech was a very able one; and those parts of it, which related to solemn treaties,-to the disgrace of violating our faith;-to the foul reproach, which the contemplated measures would bring upon our country, and to the wrath of God, to which as a nation, we should be justly exposed,- were very impressive, and were felt to be so by all parties. When the opinions of all our great statesmen were shown to be in exact accordance with the claims of the Cherokees; when treaties ratified without a dissenting voice by every Senate; and at every session, since the adoption of the constitution and sanctioned by every House of Representatives, at every session, were demonstrated to speak the same language; when all these transactions were shown to be honest; upright, and honorable, and a contrary course now proposed for the first time, was described as oppressive to the Indians, and disgraceful to ourselves ; it seemed impossible that a majority of the Senate should set aside the most solemn acts of their predecessors.

The debate was resumed on Tuesday, April 20th.  Mr. Adams, a new member from Mississippi, who did not arrive till near the middle of the session spoke an hour and twenty minutes in favor of the bill. This was the only speech he made, during his short term of service. It has since been printed, at somewhat greater length than when it was delivered, and is not before me.

Mr. Adams began by saying, that he had never before had a seat in a legislative assembly, and must therefore solicit the indulgence of the Senate, while expressed his views on the subject. He admitted that the opinion of the Prescient as exhibited in his message, was contrary to the provisions of the treaties made by the United States and now existing in full force, with the Cherokees, Creeks, Choctaws, and Chickasaws.' He admitted, also, that the laws of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi were :in violation of those treaties.' These are his very words. But he contended, that the President had decided these treaties to be unconstitutional; and the President, as a distinct department of the government, and having taken an oath to support the constitution, 'is bound to declare any law, or treaty, a nullity, if made contrary to the provisions of the constitution.'

Mr. Adams selected several laws from what he considered the codes of the Senecas, the Cherokees, and the Choctaws, and which, he thought indicated a barbarous state of things. He argued, therefore, that it would be a very absurd use of the power of the United States to defend the right of the Indians to exercise such a legislation. He insisted, that if gentlemen were in earnest, and if the writers of pamphlets were sincere, they should show their sincerity by acting according to their principles. They should call back the Indians, and deliver up to desolation and barbarism, the, the cultivated regions of the northern states. He considered the lands obtained from the Indians by purchase, as having been really obtained by fraud, which was not bettor than force. He urged, that the British Crown might legislate over all the territory claimed as within the colonial limits; and that all the old states of the Union had legislated over the Indians. He admitted that the treaties with the Indians were binding on the United States; but said that making compensation was fulfillment.- When the Indian tribes were powerful, and the new settlements dreaded their incursions, he said, the United States and the several states consented to any terms with the Indians, and made no complaints that the legislative rights of the states were disregarded; but when the Indians became weak, and the whites strong, the legislative rights of the states were reasserted. In other words, we will keep our engagements so long as compelled to do so by fear; but as soon as we have the power, we will set aside our most solemn contracts.

This is the substance of Mr. Adam's  speech. Though he had never been a member of a legislative body before, and though he made no other speech during the session, there is one suggestion in his speech, which is to be found no where else. It is the discovery, that because the President has sworn to support the constitution, he may abrogate any treaty, or repeal any law, which he judges to be inconsistent with the constitution.

On Wednesday, April 21st, Mr. Robbins, Senator from Rhode Island delivered a neat and beautiful speech against the bill.  He first described the nature of Indian sovereignty by showing that these aboriginal tribes had always been sui juris, and had always been admitted to be so; and that being sui juris is the true criteria of sovereignty. He inferred, that our treaties with Indians are as binding as any treaties can be; and closed by a solemn and tender appeal in behalf of these deserted and betrayed people.

Speaking of the objection to the new Cherokee government, Mr. Robbins said:

'Ill fated Indians! barbarism and attempts at civilization are alike fatal to your rights; but attempts at civilization the more fatal of the two. The jealous of their own rights are the contemners of yours; proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to take advantage of your weakness. You have lands which they want, or rather which they desire for they do not want them, your rights stand in their way, and those proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to destroy your rights by their legislation. Proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to present to your feeble and helpless condition, this alternative- either to abandon your homes and habitation you have built, the fields you have planted, and all the comforts you have gathered around you; the homes of your fathers, and the sepulchers of the dead; and go far into the depths of an unknown wilderness, there to abide the destiny which may await you, or to surrender your rights, and submit yourselves to their power, but to expect no participation in their rights.'

Mr. Robbins closed with the following paragraph, having mentioned the decree, which had gone forth against the Cherokees.

'The cry of the miserable Indians will not arrest it: the sympathy of this nation in that cry will not arrest it; that sympathy is not credited, or if credited, is despised: and we are told here, in a tone of defiance too, that no power shall arrest it. My fears are that no power will arrest it; none certainly will if this bill pass, and without this amendment, for then the Executive will not arrest it. But if executed, and when executed, for one, I will say, that these Indians have been made the victims of power exerted against right: the victims of violated faith, the nation's faith; the victims of violated justice; yes, I call God to witness, of his violated justice.'

The speech of Mr. Robbins occupied about three quarters of an hour.

When he sat down Mr. White rose and said that he wished to make the closing speech on the question. He presumed this privilege would be yielded to him as a matter of courtesy. He would therefore wait till all, who had an inclination to address the Senate, had possessed an opportunity.

Mr. Forsyth then occupied the floor two hours.  He spoke with more animation, and somewhat more bitterness than before. He often displayed great ignorance of facts, and was very inaccurate in his statements. He did not again call the Cherokees 'poor devils' having been observed to read a remark on that subject, in one of the Washington papers. He laid down these doctrines; that it makes no odds whether the government  of the United States extinguishes the Indian title by compact, or by the exertion of physical force, the United States being bound to do one or the other; and that the Indians have only the right to be paid for their land, when the interest of the United States requires that they shall be removed. He said he did not justify the conduct of the whites towards the Indians: he only described what the rights are, and insisted that Georgia should have the benefit of them.  As between the whites and the Indians, it was altogether a matter of expediency and power. It soon resolved itself into a question of physical force, and not of the principles to immutable justice. It is too late in the day to talk of abstract rights. He put the following question with great confidence.  Does not every person know, that if Georgia had been determined to have these lands sooner a pretext for a war might be had which would justify it in the view of Congress?

That a Senator in the nineteenth century should claim for his state the merit of great forbearance and kindness because a pretext for an exterminating war had not been sought against a _____ peaceable ________ any living under the most solemn guaranty of friendship which our great republic could give is what many people were not prepared to witness.

Mr. Forsyth also asked. Have we not lost a glorious opportunity recently for making an Indian war? I have his very words. He doubtless referred to the burning of the houses of intruders by the Cherokees last winter, and the barbarous _______ of Cherokee by inhabitants of Georgia.

'If,' said Mr. Forsyth, 'the Cherokees should be instigated to resistance, their destruction is certain, they will indeed be immortal. They will die in the land of their fathers, weltering in their own blood. But the philanthropist cares nothing about this.  He Gains his object. The government is made odious.'

At the close of this speech, the question came very near being taken by surprise. A large part of the Senators, nearly or quite half, who were expected to vote in favor of the amendment had withdrawn, with the full understanding that the question would be debated another day, as Mr. White had expressed his wish to speak again. It was with great difficulty that a decision was avoided.  The particular circumstances if described, would occupy too much space in this narration. It is sufficient to say, that the matter was pressed to an extent which appeared far from being fair and honorable.

At length, however, Mr. Frelinghuysen succeeded in getting the motion for an adjournment put, and the Senate adjourned.

On Thursday, April 22d. Mr. Frelinghuysen replied to the arguments of the friends of the bill in a powerful and eloquent speech of rather more than an hour. Mr. M'Kinley succeeded, and repeated his argument about stat rights, which he did not render more intelligible than it was before. He spoke three quarters of an hour. Mr. Forsyth again addressed the Senate for about fifty minutes.

He stated that the letter which he had read to the Senate on a former occasion was written by Mr. Jones, Postmaster at New Haven with whose permission his name was now mentioned. The letter asserted that the clergy took a principal part in circulating memorials 'c. and was designed to leave the impression that the interest felt on the subject was altogether factitious.

Mr. Forsyth acknowledged his responsibility to the world and to heaven. He regretted that the law of Georgia had been passed, 'not because it is unjust in itself, (for it is unjust only to a few, 200 or 300 perhaps) but because it  can be made the means of exciting prejudice against the state.' These are the exact words which he uttered.

It is a new sort of logic, by which it can be proved that a law is not unjust in itself because it is unjust to no more than 200 or 300 people. What sort of deference is due mans _____ when his mind ________ at this rate, in a discussion of great public interest and importance. When has ______ of justice and _______als are in this _______ __________  cent______ state? Suppose Mr. Forsyth has _______ and ______ _____ ______ outlawed, would it satisfy him to be told that the _____ of outlawry was not unjust in itself because it was unjust only to _____ _____ his neighbors, not ______ 100 in all? Why should John Ross be outlawed any more than John Forsyth or William Hicks than George M Troop?

Besides if it would prove a law not to be unjust  because no more than 300 would suffer unjustly by it, he ought to sure that the ________ should be so large as to prove the law unjust in itself. Now the Cherokees contend that there are 3000 adults in that nation who would be a ____ witnesses in Great Britain and most of the United States.

On Friday, April 23d, Mr. White who had the floor gave way to Mr. Sprague.

The gentleman in an earnest appeal of _______ an hour commanded the most respected attention of the Senate. He recapitulated the treaties and enforced their obligations in a masterly manner. The closing of this address was more striking than any passage of his  published _______. If the people of the United States could all have heard Mr. Frelinghuysen's speech of yesterday, and Mr. Sprague's today, there would be little danger of Indians being driven from their country.

VERITATIS AMICUS

P.S. Since the ____ _____ ______ of this number ____ ( this paragraph is unreadable)

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

From the New York Observer

HISTORY OF THE INDIANS BILL.-No. IV

I omitted to mention, at the close of my lst number, that Mr. Forsyth, when he resumed his speech on Thursday, spent some minutes in a studied attack upon Mr. Peel, of the British House of Commons.  This was in retaliation, as Mr. Peel has spoken rather reproachfully of Georgia, in one of the discussions of last winter. The printed speech of Mr. Forsyth contains no allusion to this subject.

The debate was continued by Mr. Sprague, Senator from Maine, who spoke on Friday and Saturday, April 16th and 17th. He occupied the floor about five hours in the whole. In the first place, he examined all the arguments of Messrs. White, M'Kinley, and Forsyth. Everything on that side, that could be made to wear the semblance of an argument, he stated fairly and refuted unanswerably. He then traced the history of our intercourse with the Indians, asserted their original and perfect right to their country, and established the validity of the treaties, by which the Cherokees claim our protection against the laws of Georgia. He alluded very happily to the pound of flesh, which Mr. Forsyth had said Georgia will have. He described the process of bribery, which had been recommended by the Secretary of War, and held it up to merited indignation.  The whole speech was a very able one; and those parts of it, which related to solemn treaties,--to the foul reproach, which the contemplated measures would bring upon our country, and to the wrath of God, to which as a nation, we should be justly exposed,- were very impressive, and were felt to be so by all parties. When the opinions of all our great statesmen were shown to be in exact accordance with the claims of the Cherokees; when treaties, ratified without a dissenting voice by every Senate, and at every session, since the adoption of the Constitution and sanctioned by every House of Representatives, at every session, were demonstrated to speak the same language; when all these transactions were shown to be honest, upright, and honorable, and a contrary course now proposed for the first time, was described as oppressive to the Indians and disgraceful to ourselves; it seemed impossible that a majority of the Senate should set aside the most solemn acts of their predecessors.

The debate was resumed on Tuesday, April 20th.  Mr. Adams, a new member from Mississippi, who did not arrive till near the middle of the session spoke an hour and twenty minutes in favor of the bill. This was the only speech he made, during his short term of service. It has since been printed, at somewhat greater length than when it was delivered, and is now before me.

Mr. Adams began by saying, that he had never before had a seat in a legislative assembly, and must therefore solicit the indulgence of the Senate, while he expressed his views on the subject. He admitted that the opinion of the President, as exhibited in his message, was 'contrary to the provisions of the treaties made by the United States, and now existing in full force, with the Cherokees, Creeks, Choctaws, and Chickasaws.' He admitted, also, that the laws of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi were 'in violation of those treaties.' These are his very words. But he contended, that the President had decided these treaties to be unconstitutional; and the President, as a distinct department of the government, and having taken an oath to support the Constitution, 'is bound to declare any law, or treaty, a nullity, if made contrary to the provisions of the Constitution.'

Mr Adams selected several laws from what he considered the codes of the Senecas, the Cherokees, and the Choctaws, and which, he thought, indicated a barbarous state of things. He argued, therefore, that it would be a very absurd use of the power of the United States to defend the right of the Indians to exercise such a legislation. He insisted, that if gentlemen were in earnest, and if the writers of pamphlets were sincere, they should show their sincerity by acting according to their principles. They should call back the Indians, and deliver up to desolation and barbarism, the cultivated regions of the northern states. He considered the lands obtained from the Indians by purchase, as having been really obtained by fraud, which was no better that force.  He urged, that the British Crown might legislate over all the territory claimed as within the colonial limits; and that all the old states of the Union had legislated over the Indians. He admitted that the treaties with the Indians were binding on the United States; but said that making compensation was fulfilment (sic).- When the Indian tribes were powerful, and the new settlements dreaded their incursions, he said, the United States and the several states consented to any terms with the Indians, and made no complaints that the legislative rights of the states were disregarded; but when the Indians became weak, and the whites strong, the legislative rights of the states were reasserted. In other words, we will keep our engagements so long as compelled to do so by fear; but as soon as we have the power, we will set aside our most solemn contracts.

This is the substance of Mr. Adam's speech. Though he had never been a member of a legislative body before, and though he made no other speech during the session, there is one suggestion in his speech, which is to be found nowhere else. It is the discovery, that because the President has sworn to support the Constitution, he may abrogate any treaty, or repeal any law, which he judges to be inconsistent with the Constitution.

On Wednesday, April 21st, Mr. Robbins, Senator from Rhode-Island, delivered a neat and beautiful speech against the bill. He first described the nature of Indian sovereignty showing that these aboriginal tribes had always been sui juris, and had always been admitted to be so and that being sui juris is the true criterion of sovereignty. He inferred, that our treaties with Indians are as binding as any treaties can be; and closed by a solemn and tender appeal in behalf of these deserted and betrayed people.

Speaking of the objection to the new Cherokee government, Mr. Robbins said:

'Ill fated Indians! Barbarism, and attempts at civilization are alike fatal to your rights; but attempts at civilization the more fatal of the two. The jealous of their own rights are the contemuers (sic) of yours; proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to take advantage of your weakness.  You have lands which they want, or rather which they desire, for they do not want them; your rights stand in their way, and those proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to destroy your rights by their legislation. Proud and chivalrous states do not think it beneath them to present to your feeble and helpless condition, this alternative- either to abandon your homes, the habitations you have built, the fields you have planted, and all the comforts you have gathered around you; the homes of your fathers, and the sepulchres (sic) of the dead; and go far into the depths of an unknown wilderness, there to abide the destiny which may await you, or to surrender your rights, and submit yourselves to their power, but to expect no participation in their rights.

Mr. Robbins closed with the following paragraph, having mentioned the decree, which had gone forth against the Cherokees.

'The cry of the miserable Indian will not arrest it; the sympathy of this nation in that cry will not arrest it; the sympathy is not credited, or if credited, is despised; and we are told here, and in a tone of defiance, too, that no power shall arrest it. My fears are that no power will arrest it; none certainly will if this bill pass, and without this amendment, for then the Executive will not arrest it.  But if executed, and when executed, for one, I will say, that these Indians have been made the victims of power exerted against right; the victims of violated faith, the nation's faith, the victims of violated justice; yes, I call God to witness, of his violated justice'

The speech of Mr. Robbins occupied about three quarters of an hour.

When he sat down Mr. White rose, and said that he wished to make the closing speech on the question. He presumed this privilege would be yielded to him as a matter of courtesy. He would therefore wait till all, who had an inclination to address the Senate, had possessed an opportunity.

Mr. Forsyth then occupied the floor two hours.  He spoke with more animation, and somewhat more bitterness than before. He often displayed great ignorance of facts, and was very inaccurate in his statements. He did not again call the Cherokees 'poor devils,' having been observed to read a remark on that subject in one of the Washington papers. He laid down these doctrines; that it makes no odds whether the government of the United States extinguishes the Indian title by compact, or by the exertion of physical force, the United States being bound to do one or the other; and that the Indians have only the right to be paid for their land, when the interest of the United States requires that they shall be removed. He said he did not justify the conduct of the whites towards the Indians; he only described what the rights are, and insisted that Georgia should have the benefit of them. As between the whites and the Indians, it was altogether a matter of expediency and power.  It is too late in the day to talk of abstract rights.- He put the following question with great confidence: Does not every person know, that if Georgia had been determined to have these lands sooner, a pretext for a war might be had, which would justify it in the view of Congress?

That a Senator in the nineteenth century should claim for his state the merit of great forbearance and kindness because a pretext for an exterminating war had not been sought against a little peaceable community living under the most solemn guaranty of friendship which our great republic could give, is what many people were not prepared to witness.

Mr. Forsyth also asked, 'Have we not lost a glorious opportunity recently for making an Indian war?' I have his very words. He doubtless referred to the burning of the houses of intruders by the Cherokees last winter, and the barbarous murder of a Cherokee by inhabitants of Georgia.

'If,' said Mr. Forsyth, 'the Cherokees should be instigated to resistance, their destruction is certain, they will indeed be immortal. They will die in the land of their fathers, weltering in their own blood. But the philanthropist cares nothing about this.  He gains his object. The government is made odious.'

At the close of the speech, the question came very near being taken by surprise. A large part of the Senators, nearly or quite half, who were expected to vote in favor of the amendment had withdrawn with the full understanding that the question would be debated another day as Mr. White had expressed his wish to speak again. It was with great difficulty that a decision was avoided. The particular circumstances, if described, would occupy too much space in this narration. It is sufficient to say, that the matter was pressed to an extent, which appeared far from being fair and honorable.

At length, however, Mr. Frelinghuysen succeeded in getting the motion for an adjournment put, and the Senate adjourned.

On Thursday, April 22d, Mr. Frelinghuysen replied to the arguments of the friends of the bill, in a powerful and eloquent speech of rather more than an hour. Mr. M'Kinley succeeded, and repeated his argument about state rights, which he did not rended more intelligible than it was before. He spoke three quarters of an hour. Mr. Forsyth again addressed the Senate for about fifty minutes.

He stated that the letter which he had read to the Senate in a former occasion, was written by Mr. Jones, Postmaster at New Haven, with whose permission his name was now mentioned. The letter asserted, that the clergy took a principal part in circulating memorials, 'c. and was designed to leave the impression, that the interest felt on the subject was altogether factitious.

Mr. Forsyth acknowledged his responsibility to the world and to heaven. He regretted that the law of Georgia had been passed, 'not because it is unjust in itself, (for it is unjust only to a few, 200 to 300 perhaps,) but because it can be made the means of exciting prejudice against the state.' These are the exact words which he uttered.

It is a new sort of logic, by which it can be proved that a law is not unjust in itself, because it is unjust to no more than 200 or 300 people. What sort of deference is due to a man's opinions, when his mind runs on at this rate, in a discussion of great public interest and importance? When his notions of justice and morals are in this loose, disjointed and confused state? Suppose Mr. Forsyth, his family and neighbors were outlawed, would it satisfy him to be told that the act of outlawry was not unjust in itself, because it was unjust only to himself and his neighbors, not exceeding 300 in all?  Why should John Ross be outlawed any more than John Forsyth, or William Hicks than George M. Troup?

Besides, if it would prove a law not to be unjust, because no more than 300 would suffer unjustly by it, he ought to be sure that the number should be so large as to prove the law unjust in itself. Now the Cherokees contend that there are 3,000 adults in that nation, who would be competent witnesses in Great Britain, and most of the United States.

On Friday, April 23d, Mr. White, who had the floor, gave way to Mr. Sprague.

This gentleman, in an earnest appeal of nearly an hour, commanded the most respectful attention of the Senate. He recapitulated the treaties and enforced their obligations in a masterly manner. The closing of this address was more striking than any passage in his published speech.  If the people of the United States could all have heard Mr. Frelinghuysen's speech of yesterday and Mr. Sprague's of today, there would be little danger of Indians being driven from their country.

VERITATIS AMANS.

P. S. Since the commencement of this number, I have ascertained that more of Mr. Forsyth's speech was published than I had supposed. At the close of what appeared in the Telegraph of May 24th, no intimation was given that the speech would be continued; but it would seem that a part was afterwards published in that paper. The attack on Mr. Peel is included in that part. The account of the letter which was too late to be used is much more insolent, as described by Mr. Forsyth in his printed speech, than as I described it in my last number.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Correspondence between Mr. Wirt and Governor Gilmer, of Georgia.

Baltimore, June 4th 1830

Sir.- A just respect for the State of Georgia, and a desire to avoid a misrepresentation which might be attended with evil consequences, seem to me to call for a communication which, under other circumstances, might will be deemed officious, and intrusive. The excitement with regard to the Indians within your borders is already so high, and, in this state of feeling, measures of the most innocent character are so easily misapprehended and converted into causes of offence, that I persuade myself your Excellency will at least approve the motive of this letter as a measure of peace.

The Cherokee nation have consulted me, professionally, as to their rights under their various treaties with the United States.  Among other questions they have asked me whether, under the federal constitution, laws and treaties, the State of Georgia has the right to extend her laws compulsively, into their nation; and whether this question can or cannot be carried for decision to the Supreme Court of the United States? I am fully aware of the serious import of these questions, and regret exceedingly that they have arisen. I foresee distinctly the disastrous consequences which may be made to flow from giving the controversy this direction: and yet if it be met and conducted with proper temper, as I trust it will, it is quite as apparent that it may prove the means of peace and reconciliation. I have not sought this consultation. It has been cast upon me in the common and regular practice of my profession; and according to my understanding of my professional duties, I am not at liberty to refuse either my advice or services to any one who comes to consult me on his legal rights, and who has nothing more in view than the assertion of those rights according to the course of the laws of the land.

It is my misfortune to differ with the constituted authorities of the state of Georgia, on the question of her power to extend her laws into the Cherokee nation: and the late debates in Congress will satisfy your Excellency that in this opinion I am not singular, but that I hold it in common with many of the most distinguished lawyers on our continent.  We amy be wrong; and, as infallibility is not the lot of mortals, those who hold the opposite opinion may possibly be wrong. Fortunately there exists a tribunal before which this difference of opinion may be quietly and peaceably settled, and to this tribunal I think it maybe regularly referred. I perceive that in the debates to which I have alluded, a mistaken humanity has been supposed to warp the judgement on one side of this question, and interest on the other. In the Supreme court of the United States, we shall find a tribunal as impartial and as enlightened as can be expected on this earth; or if partiality can be supposed to find its way into that high tribunal, on any occasion is not on such a one as this that the Cherokee nation have a right to expect it in their favor.  To them the courts of the United States are foreign courts, while they are the domestic tribunals of the States of the Union.

I have told these people that I am willing to assist them in bringing their rights for final decision before the Supreme Court of the U. S. on the condition that they conduct themselves peaceable towards the people of Georgia, and of the United States, ' that they make the question purely a question of law for our courts: but that I will abandon them and their cause on the first aggression by violence on the white people around them which shall be authorised (sic) by their nation. It is but justice to add that in those of the nation who have been with me, ' who composed the delegation that have been at Washington thro' (sic) the winter, I have not discovered the slightest disposition to violence. They are civilized ' well informed men-they were our dress-speak our language correctly and in their manners indicate all the mildness and much of the culture and courtesy of our own best circles.  They assure me that their people at home have abandoned the habits of savage life and subsist by agriculture and the other usual and peaceful pursuits of civilized societies. They profess, and I believe, with entire sincerity, to be willing to make the questions of their rights under their treaties, questions of pure law, for the decision of our own courts; and as I perceive by the reported debate in Congress that a measure of this sort has been anticipated, and that one of your enlightened Senators in that body expressed a strong, and without doubt, a sincere conviction that the decision of the Judiciary would, if it should ever be asked, be in favor of the right of the State to legislate over the Cherokee nation, I cannot but indulge the hope that in proposing to bring this question before the Supreme Court, I shall have advised a measure rather pleasing than otherwise to the State of Ga.

Be this as it may, I cannot reconcile it to my own sense of propriety to have any agency in this affair without apprising your excellency frankly and respectfully of what is intended. I desire to have it distinctly understood, on every hand, that neither these people nor their counsel aim at anything more in this movement, that an open, peaceable and respectful appeal to the opinion of our own courts, the courts of the Union.

Your Excellency will not understand one as asking or expecting that you will take the trouble to answer this letter. My object is single and sincere; it is simply to avoid all appearance of concealment, and all misapprehension or surprise on the part of the State of Georgia, by advising your Excellency fairly and openly, of the measure in contemplation and by assuring you that there is no other purpose in view that a quiet, peaceable and respectful reference of the questions of laws and right in dispute between the State of Georgia and the Cherokee People, to the highest court of our nation, the Supreme Court of the United States.

Your excellency will permit me to assure you, further, that in the future measures which may grow out of this controversy, so far as they shall be under my direction, care will be taken to give as little trouble as possible to the constituted authorities of Georgia, and that the discussion will be conducted with all the respect for that State ' its laws which may consist with the proper assertions of what I consider the rights of this unfortunate people.

The decision may be expedited by making a case, by consent, if that course should suit the views of the State of Georgia.  It is not asked, however, but suggested merely for your consideration, with an assurance that if it should meet your approbation the Cherokees will cheerfully concur in the measure.

The motives which have led me to trouble you with this communication, make it equally proper, I think, that I should submit a copy of it to the President of the United States; and I shall place another copy in the hands of the Cherokee delegation, in order that they may distinctly see and remember the conduct which is expected from their people, and what, alone, they have a right to expect from me.

I have the honor to remain, Sir, most respectfully, your obedient servant. WM. WIRT.

His Ex. George R. Gilmer

Governor of Georgia.

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT. GEO.

Milledgeville, 19th June, 1830

Sir- Your communication addressed to the Governor of Georgia has been received informing him of your employment by the Cherokee Indians to defend them against the operation of the laws of the State, and proposing a reference of what you have thought proper to call the dispute between the Cherokee nation ' the State of Ga., to the supreme court of the United States. The Governor of Georgia knows no reason why he should be notified that professional duty required of you to take fees of all who ask your advice. Georgia claims no jurisdiction over the Lawyers of Maryland.  Your justification will have become appropriate when that State interferes with your professional business.  Why it should be the misfortune  of a citizen of Maryland ( as you say it is yours) to differ with the constituted authorities of Georgia, is not very clearly understood. You are neither responsible for the legislation of the State, nor subject to its control. There is no doubt but that many of the Lawyers distinguished like yourself ( as you say) profess to believe that the State has usurped authority and violated the faith of treaties in passing laws for the protection of the rights and punishing the crimes of the Indian people who reside within its limits. It is known that the extent of the jurisdiction of Georgia and the policy of removing the Cherokees and other Indians to the west of the Mississippi have become part questions. It is not therefore surprising that those who engage in the struggle for power, should find usurpation and faithlessness in the measures of the Government accordingly as the loss of office, or the hope of its acquisition may enlighten their understanding.  What you say of the fallibility of the constituted authorities of Georgia is a truism of universal application, and can have no meaning but by your intention to render the application particular.

You say that the Supreme Court of the United States is a high,impartial, and enlightened tribunal. Why this commendation?

The promise you make to use your professional influence to prevent your clients the Indians from committing violence upon the people of Georgia is very kind coming as it does from a private citizen of another State and will without doubt create an obligation upon the people whose safety is intended, commensurate with the favor to be received.

There are no fears felt in Georgia of Indian violence, although it is highly probable that your efforts will be productive of some mischief. It is believed that the Cherokees in Georgia had determined to unite with that portion of their tribe who had removed to the west of the Mississippi if the policy of the President were sustained by the Congress. To prevent this result as soon as it became highly probable that the Indian bill would pass, the Cherokees were persuaded that the right of self government could be secured to them by the power of the Supreme Court in defiance of the legislation of the General and State Governments. It was not known however, until the receipt of your letter that the spirit of resistance to the laws of the State and views of the United States which have of late been evident among the Indians had a (sic) any manner been occasioned by your advice. Although insurrection among the Indian people of Georgia may be the consequence of your proceedings and those who act in unison with you, the constituted authorities of the State disclaim all right to interfere with you in any manner so long as you keep yourself beyond the jurisdiction of the State.

You have thought proper to give the Governor of Georgia an account of the civilization of the Cherokees, describing those whom you have known, to be polished gentlemen, and those whom you do not know, to have ceased to be savages. What you say of the intelligence of the members of the Cherokee tribe who were in Washington City last winter is partly true and equally descriptive of many others.- They are not Indians however, but the children of white men, whose corrupt habits or vile passions led them into connection with the Cherokee tribe. It is not surprising that the white men and the children of white men have availed themselves of the easy means of acquiring wealth which the Cherokee territory has presented for thirty of forty years; nor that intelligence and spirited activity should increase with their increased wealth; not that when wealth intelligence and industry were confined to the whites and the children of white men that the power over the tribe should become centered in the same hands. But that these causes were calculated to produce similar effects upon the Indians, the real aborigines, is disproved by every example among the thousands which the experience of the two last centuries has furnished in every part of this continent. The Cherokees have lost all that was valuable in their Indian character, have become spiritless, dependent and depraved, as the whites and their children have become wealthy, intelligent, and powerful. So long as the Cherokees retained their primitive habits no disposition was shown by the States under the protection of whose Government they resided, to make them subject to their laws. Such policy would have been cruel, because it would have interfered with their habits of life, the enjoyments peculiar to Indian people and the kind of Government which accorded with those habits and enjoyments. It was the power of the whites and their children among the Cherokees that destroyed the ancient laws, and subjected the natives to the rule of the most oppressive of Governments, an Oligarchy. There is nothing surprising in this result. From the character of the people and the causes operating on them it could not have been otherwise. It was this state of things that rendered it obligatory upon the State of Georgia, to vindicate her rights of sovereignty by abolishing all Cherokee Government within its limits. Whether intelligent, or ignorant the state of Georgia has passed no laws violative of the liberty, personal security, or private property of an Indian. It has been the object of humanity and wisdom, to separate the two classes among them, giving the rights of citizenship to those who are capable of performing its duties and properly estimating its privileges, and increasing the enjoyment, and the probability of future improvement to the ignorant and idle, by removing them to a situation where the inducements to action will be more in accordance with the Cherokee people.

Your suggestion that it would be convenient and satisfactory, if yourself, the Indians, and the Governor, would make up a law case to be submitted to the Supreme Court for the determination of the question whether the legislature of Georgia has competent authority to pass laws for the Government of the Indians residing within its limits, however courteous the manner, and conciliatory the phraseology cannot but be considered exceedingly disrespectful to the Government of the State. No one knows better than yourself that the Governor would grossly violate his duty and exceed his authority by complying with such a suggestion, and that both the letter and spirit of the powers conferred by the Constitution upon the Supreme Court forbids its adjusting such a case.  Your suggestion is but an evidence of the state of that contest in which the advocates of power, are exerting themselves to increase the authority of the Department of the General Government whilst the friends of liberty and the rights of the people are in opposition endeavouring (sic) to sustain the sovereignty of the States. It is hoped that the efforts of the General Government to execute its contract with Georgia, to secure the continuance and advance the happiness of the Indian tribes, and to give quiet to the country, may be so effectually successful as to prevent the necessity of any further intercourse upon this subject.

Yours, 'c.

GEORGE R. GILMER.

William Wirt, Esq.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

New Echota, Sept. 18, 1830

We publish in another part of our paper a correspondence between Mr. Wirt and Governor Gilmer. The reader will be struck with the wide difference of the two letters in their stile (sic) and spirit. The one is courteous and gentlemanly in every respect, while the other is evidently the production of a heated imagination. The Augusta Chronicle very properly finds fault with the spirit of the Governor's letter. Other Georgia papers, however, extol it highly as a very appropriate answer to that of Mr. Wirt. The candid and disinterested reader can judge.

Is it not evident that the Governor and other leading men of the State are endeavouring (sic) to prejudice the minds of the people against any reference of the question, in which the Cherokees are so much interested, to the Supreme Court of the U. States, by crying interference. Why is this?  If the state is so confident that she is right, and that her laws are constitutional, and if her citizens, as they have frequently done, in Congress, and out of Congress, refer to the decisions of the Court to sustain her pretensions, why is now this cry made?  Is she afraid of her own courts?  All this passion and abuse certainly discover a bad cause. If she really is for justice, she ought to be willing to convince the Cherokees so, by peaceably permitting the question to be settled by an impartial and disinterested tribunal.- Should it go against the Cherokees it would be their own seeking, and they would have to submit to the laws of the state, or if they find them too intolerable to bear, they could then move away, and forever relieve the State of much trouble and vexation. We should think that such a course would be greatly desired by every man of justice in Georgia. But this way of abusing and misrepresenting the motives of worthy men, of which Governor Gilmer has given the most unhappy instance, will by no means show that right and justice are desired, but unrestrained oppression.

What the Governor says of the condition of the Cherokees is but an old story told a thousand times over and is often refuted.

____________________

The Augusta Chronicle, speaking of the principal chief of this nation says: 'We presume he is entirely a white man, having not the slightest tincture of Indian manners or appearance, and in fact bearing probably as strong a contrast to the Indians, as is to be found in the features, complexion, expression, form, or stature [high or low?] or the white man. We understand, too, that he was formerly, a citizen [he is not now is he?] of the State of Georgia, and a RESIDENT OF COLUMBIA COUNTY!!' This beats all. We presume Mr. Ross never saw Columbia County, and sure we are, he has never been a citizen of Georgia. If he appears

as a white man, he is considered as an Indian, whose testimony is worth nothing in the eye of Georgia law. What will be told next?

___________________

It is said that three additional companies of the United States Troops- one of artillery from Charleston, the other two of infantry, one from Augusta, and the other from Fort Mitchel-under the command of Major Wager, have been ordered to proceed into the nation, to repress the working of the mines.

_____________________

We learn from the Nashville papers that a delegation of the Chickasaws have lately met the President and his commissioners at Franklin, Tennessee and entered into a treaty for their removal. What the terms of the treaty are we do not know.  It is also said that Gov. Carrol and General Coffee were immediately to proceed in the Choctaw Nation, to hold a conference with the chiefs of that tribe. It is now rendered pretty certain that these two tribes will very soon remove across the Mississippi.

______________________

A letter has lately been received in the neighborhood from one of the late emigrants on the Arkansas. It is to be remembered by the public that the Indians who are to be removed there are to immediately civilized by the government and christianized by the Indian Board.

After describing very particularly the late war a expedition of the Cherokees against the Pawnees, in which the former lost five, and the latter sixty scalps, this writer observes:-

'There is a large party of Cherokees and Creeks about to start in a few says a war expedition against the Pawnees. Captain John Smith is going to head the party of Cherokees, and I and my  friend _____ _____ are going, and a great many of the late emigrants. General M'Intosh to head the party of Creeks. When I return I shall be able to tell you all about our proceedings.'

'There was an Osage wounded a few days ago near the outer edge of the Cherokee settlement, supposed to be by a party of Pawnees; and a few days afterwards there was a Creek Indian killed in the village, and the murderers were traced towards the Pawnee Nation by General M'Intosh with 150 Creeks and a party of soldiers. They have not yet returned.

Again he says- 'It appears we have nice laws and law-makers in this nation, the Cherokees demand one life from the Osage and the Osages refuse to give him up. It is said that the commanding officer at Fort Gibson calculates calling the two nations together in a few days to settle the dispute. The Cherokees say that if the officer does not make the Osages give one life to them, they intend to have one Osage scalp before they leave the ground.'

___________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix

The Choctaws are sensible of the obligations they are under to their elder brethren, the Cherokees, for their noble stand in the present great crisis of the fragments of the red people. A deep interest must be felt by all red people who are apprized of the danger of extermination with which they are threatened; and the just and honorable part of the civilized world would deeply feel for us, could they know our situation, and the measures which are in operation to destroy us and as an individual. I feel it a duty to present some of these measures to the public.

The Choctaws discovered that the United States and the state of Mississippi had determined to possess the country, and they must either remove in a body, or else suffer all the harassing consequences of agents with plenty of money traveling among them and trying to divide them and cart off the ignorant and uninformed under leaders who would sacrifice the just claims of the nation that they might obtain individual wealth and occupy the station of Chiefs in their new country, under the protection of the United States government. We knew the price of some Old Chiefs was well known to the President and if they were bought they could carry a number of people with them and if they were established in our country west of the Mississippi they would re-establish their old habits and customs and thereby render future emigration of the body of the nation impossible as they could never consent to give up their improvements.  The Choctaws believed that if they proposed to sell their country and move in a body, the government of the United States would rejoice in an opportunity of sending them to their new home in peace among themselves and enabling them to carry all the improvements in civilization, agriculture, and Christianity with them.

In making propositions to the government, they were governed by what has generally been understood to have been the propositions made to them by President Adams.- It is generally known that he offered them  a million of dollars for their Country and to put all their present improvements on their new homes, even to a fruit tree or fowl, to pay them for their stock or replace it over there; and give them one hundred and eighty sections of land as reserve together with other important advantages. To some of these particulars we felt objections. It would be difficult for the government to please the people in the improvements. It was scarcely possible to have the improvements made so as to enable each family to make a crop the first year, which if they failed to do, they would have nothing upon which to subsist the second year. An additional motive was, that our people, by making their own improvements would be forming habits of labour (sic). In addition to the replacing the improvements on their future homes, it was believed that each family who in any degree clothed themselves, or gained any other adantage (sic) from agriculture, should be indemnified for their loss of crops from the time they emigrated until they could be in a situation equally advantageous in their new country. Further, there would be many articles left and lost in removing for which a demand could not be made.

To meet all these and other just wishes and expectations, it was proposed that the government should give each family six hundred and forty acres of land in their present residence, and thereby enable them to meet the losses to which they might be subjected: and as an indemnity for this change, in favour (sic) of the Choctaws, they proposed to surrender all their present annuity, amounting to twenty four thousand dollars; twelve thousand of which is an interest on two hundred thousand dollars in the hands of the government. Then the million of dollars was asked for as a capital which should remain in the hands of the government at least twenty years; on interest of five percent.  These were the two principal items in the treaty in which twenty thousand persons proposed to leave the land of their Fathers, a country containing ten or twelve million of acres of land, and get out of the way of the state of Mississippi.

In this outline of the treaty sent by the Choctaws, I say nothing about an exchange of land, because the Choctaws have already purchased a sufficient country there by an exchange, and hold the government bound, by treaty, to furnish every emigrant a certain outfit and one year's provisions on reaching his western home.

With a full assurance that President Jackson would be more liberal to the Choctaws than President Adams most of the Choctaws hailed his elevation to the Presidential chair as the most fortunate occurrence which could have taken place in the affairs of the Choctaw Nation. Many of them were personally acquainted with him.  They had suffered with him.- They had fought under him; and their brethren had bled and died in his sight.-They were assured that when he was informed, that the council of the Northwest District had determined that they would not emigrate, unless he said to them they must, or submit to Mississippi laws, he burst into tears and exclaimed, 'how can I say to the people who have fought with me, that they must ' shall remove?'

Under these views of our situation we proposed a treaty which we believed to be just and equitable, with an honest and honorable design of sacrificing our attachments to the land and graves of our fathers, that in peace among ourselves, and in peace with all the world we might seek a home in the western wilderness. But our mortification can scarcely be imagined, on discovering  that the messenger bearing our proposition had scarcely left us, when the United States Interpreters were found actively engaged in raising a party to oppose and prevent the ratification of the treaty. Councils were appointed everything like civilization and Christianity was to be excluded from the new party. Loud boastings were heard of arms and deadly weapons at their Councils. Reports of the gathering of forces, from the Creeks and whites, to destroy the Christian Choctaws, were circulated.-- Rumors were hastening through the settlements of the Christian Choctaws, waking up families at midnight hour, and informing them that the slaughtering army was approaching, and that unless they immediately left their religion, and joined them, they would all be destroyed. The whole population of an extensive tract of country was thrown into confusion. Some fled to the opposite party-Many sought safety in swamps and some fled to the white settlements in Mississippi. Every falsehood which could be invented to produce confusion was resorted to.- Families were seized by armed parties and carried to their councils, and one side of their faces blacked and the other painted, and they were then ordered to get up and dance away their religion; and if they hesitated, guns were fired under them to hasten them.

During this season of confusion the body of the nation continued to look with inexpressible anxiety for the return of the messenger by whom they had sent their proposition to the City of Washington, hoping that the treaty would be ratified, by which means peace would be restored. But the enemies of peace became bold in proportion to the forebearance (sic) of the friends of peace.

The life of the principal chief was threatened.  It was understood that strong measures would be resorted to, to draw off a part of the Northwest District, and if successful, that na attack would be made upon all the Christian settlements and if possible have them exterminated. About the time that this plan was believed to be in serious contemplation, both the Districts in which these evils had principally prevailed were called to the Factory on Tombigbee River, to receive their annuity, and Col. Leflore, the Chief of the third District, was invited by the agent to be present.- Col. Leflore immediately determined to march a sufficient armed force to that place, to secure peace on some terms. - He accordingly communicated his intention to the other two districts, that they might be apprised of his object. He met the other two districts, and secured peace and friendship by having Mushulatubbee broke as chief of the Eastern District, and arranging with his captains that neither of the two districts should interfere, that they should not elect a chief under two months. In the council that was held by all the captains of the three districts and two Chiefs, the Chief and Captains who had been associated with Mushulatubbee joined at Middleton Mackey and stated, that he had told them lies which had produced all the disturbance in the nation.  That it was the lies of Mackey the United States interpreter, which had lead (sic) them all in a wrong way.- It is now easy to see the connexion (sic) between our confusion and the measures of the United States government-a small party headed by the United States' interpreter had appointed two Chiefs, in opposition to Col. Leflore, who had been elected by the national Council the sole Chief of the nation. This party with their two Chiefs used every possible means to gain the ascendancy, and, to secure their popularity, no doubt reported themselves as having the body of the nation with them. Though they were still in the minority they had two chiefs, which gave them a majority of Chiefs. In this situation or immediately after Mushulatubbee was forced to resign, a communication is received from President Jackson, requiring that the three Chiefs, each with six Captains, should meet him in Tennessee to hold a treaty with him. It was strongly intimated that they must not come unless they intended to treat. To comment on this circumstance is unnecessary-I give the facts and leave the people of the United States and the world to make their own comments.  Although the Mississippi law is illy suited to the present state of the Choctaws, it is becoming doubtful whether even the ignorant part of the nation can be prevailed upon to remove to a country where the United States interpreters will have every facility of producing a general crusade of the wild savages of the desert to destroy them, whenever the American government may wish their land. The Government is not seen in these movements, but thinking men will know that men would not be retained in office unless they acted in accordance with the views of the government.

Mississippi has extended her laws over us, she allows us all the privileges of citizens, and when she sees that we have made a strong and liberal effort to get out of her way, the same spirit of liberality will lead her to give us eight or ten years to prepare to become acceptable citizens, and with this indulgence in pressing on in our improvements we shall never need a home in the West. If Mississippi wishes the Choctaws removed, she also wishes that they should be  treated with justice and humanity.

A CHOCTAW.

N. B. Suppose the government should succeed in dividing us and removing the ignorant and uninformed to the West, will not a moment's reflection teach any reasonable man that extermination must be the consequence? It is said to be a game Country.- It is well known, however, that the only important species of game there is the Buffaloe (sic), and that they are followed by large bodies of wild and warlike savages who would feel it to be a dangerous intrusion upon their rights for other Indians to hunt them. If the Choctaws get many of them they must fight for them, and if they go in sufficient numbers to defend themselves, they will consume the game as fast as they can procure it: and when the game is done, which must soon be the case, is it not certain that they will starve, if the laboring part of the nation is left in Mississippi? The half Bloods and laboring part can live in any country. It is their ignorant Brethren whose situation demands the sympathies of all reflecting minds.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA SEPT. 18, 1830

We publish in another part of our paper a correspondence between M. Wirt and Governor Gilmer. The reader will be struck with the wide difference of the two letters in their style and spirit. The one is courteous and gentlemanly in every respect, while the other is of ________ the production of a heated imagination. The Augusta Chronicle very properly finds fault with the spirit of the Governor's letter. Other Georgia papers, however, extol it highly as a very appropriate answer to that of Mr. Wirt. The candid and disinterested reader can judge.

Is it not evident that the Governor and other leading men of the State are endeavoring to prejudice the minds of the people against any reference of the question in which the Cherokees are so much interested, to the Supreme Court of the U. States, by crying interference. Why is this?  If the state is so confident that she is right, and that her laws are constitutional, and if her citizens, as they have frequently done, in Congress, and out of Congress, refer to the decisions of the Court to sustain her pretensions, why is now this cry made?  Is she afraid of her own courts?  All this passion and abuse certainly discover a bad cause. If she really is for justice, she ought to be willing to convince the Cherokees so, by peaceably permitting the question to be settled by an impartial and disinterested tribunal.- Should it go against the Cherokees, it would be their own seeking, and they would have to submit to the laws of the state, or if they find them too intolerable to bear, they could then move away, and forever relieve the State of much trouble and vexation. We should think that such a course would be greatly desired by every man of justice in Georgia. But this way of abusing and misrepresenting the motives of worthy men, of which Governor Gilmer has given the most unhappy instance, will by no means show that right and justice are desired, but unrestrained oppression.

What the Governor says of the condition of the Cherokees is but an old story told a thousand times over and as often refuted.

________________

The Augusta Chronicle, speaking of the principal chief of this nation ways: 'We presume he is entirely a white man, having not the slightest tincture of Indian manners or appearance, and in fact bearing as strong a contrast to the Indian, as is to be found in the features, complexion, expression, form, or stature [high or low?] of the white man. We understand, too, that he was formerly, a citizen [he is not now is he?] of the State of Georgia, and a RESIDENT OF COLUMBIA COUNTY !!' This beats all. We presume, Mr. Ross never saw Columbia county, and sure we are, he has never been a citizen of Georgia. If he appears as a white man, he is considered as an Indian, whose testimony is worth neither in the eye of Georgia law. What will be told next?

_______________

It is said that three additional companies of the United States Troops- one of artillery from Charleston, the other two of infantry, one from Augusta, and the other from Fort Mitchell- under the command of Major Wager, have been ordered to proceed into the nation, to repress the working of the mines.

______________

We learn from the Nashville papers that a delegation of the Chickasaws have lately met the President and his commissioners at Franklin Tennessee and entered into a treaty for their removal. What the terms of the treaty are we do not know. It is also said that Gov. Carrol and (n.b) General Coffee were immediately to pr______ the Choctaw nation, to hold a re____ with chiefs of that tribe. _____ rendered pretty certain that the tribes will very soon remove ______ Mississippi.

_____________

A letter has lately been received in the neighborhood from one of the ____ grants on the Arkansas. It is remembered by the public that those who are to be removed there are _____idately civilized by the government, christianized by the Indian Board.

After describing very particularly the late war expedition of the Cherokees against the Pawnees, in which al__ lost five, and the latter sixty, a writer observes:-

'There is a large party of C_____ and Creeks about to start in a fe_____ war expedition against the _____. Captain John Smith is going to ____ party of Cherokees, and ____ and ____

____ _______ are going, and a great _____ the late emigrants. General _____ to head the party of Creeks. W__  turn I shall be able to tell you _____ our proceedings.'

'There was an Osage wounded days ago near the outer edge of our Cherokee settlement, supposed to be a __-party of Pawnees; and a few ___wards there was a Creek Indian ____ the village, and the murderer ______ ___towards the Pawnee nation. __ M'Intosh with 150 Creeks and ____ soldiers. They have not yet ______.

Again he says- 'It appears ____- nice laws and law makers in this _____ the Cherokees demand one life____ Osage and the Osages refuse to __ up. It is said the commander at Fort Gibson calculates calling the nations together in a few days to ______ dispute. The Cherokees say _____ officer does not make the Osage ______ life to them, they intend to have __- Osage scalp before they have the _______.

NB- The right side of the column is caught in the binding and cannot be read. That is the reason for the ___ (blanks) instead of complete or completed words.

_______________

___________________

Cherokee Phoenix and Indians' Advocate

Volume 3,  No. 19

Saturday September 18, 1830

Pg. 2 Col. 5b-Pg. 3 Col. 4b

For the Cherokee Phoenix

NB. The right side of the column is caught in the binding and cannot be read. That is the rason for the _____ (blanks) instead of complete or completed words.

The Choctaws are _______ obligations they are under _____ ___der brethren, the Ch______ their nobel stand in the present crisis of the fragments of the ___ people. A deep interest must _____ all red people who are approaching danger of extermination _____ they are threatened; and the ______ honorable part of the civilization _____ would deeply feel for us _____ know our situation and the ____ which are in operation to ____ and as an individual.  I f____ some of these men to the public.

The Choctaws discovered ___ United States and the state of Mississippi had determined to _____ country, and they must __ remove in a body, or else suffer harassing consequences of ___ plenty of money travelling ____ and trying to divide them: ____ off the ignorant and uninformed leaders who would sacrifice ___ claims of the nation, that th__ obtain individual wealth and ___ the station of Chiefs in ____ country, under the protection of the United States government knew that the price of some of ___ was well known to the President that if they were bought ____ carry a number of people w____ and that if they were established in our country west of Mississippi would re-establish their ____ and customs, and thereby re_____  future emigration of the bo___ nation impossible, as they could consent to give up their improvements. The Choctaws believed that ___ would propose to sell their ___ and remove in a body, the government of the United States would ____ an opportunity of sending them ___ new home in peace among them and enabling them to carry ___ improvements in civilization ___ture and christianity with them.

In making propositions to __ government they were governed ---has been generally understood___ been the propositions made to ___ President Adams- It is generally known that he offered them ___  of dollars for their Country and all their present improvements ___ their new homes, even to a ___ or fowl, to pay them for them or replace it over there; ___ them one hundred and eighty ___ of land as reserve together --- other important advantage ___ some of these particulars were objections. It would be difficult ___ government to please the people __tvements- It was scarcely possible to have the improvements made so as to enable each family to make a crop the first year, which if they failed to do, they would have nothing upon which to subsist the second year. An additional motive was, that our people, by making their own improvements would be forming habits of labor. In addition to the replacing the improvements on their future homes, it was believed that each family who in any degree clothed themselves or gained any other advantage from agriculture should be indemnified for their loss of crops from the time they emigrated until they could be in a situation equally advantageous in their new country. Further, there would be many articles left and lost in removing for which a demand could not be made.

To meet all these and other just wishes and expectations, it was proposed that the government should give each family six hundred and forty acres of land in their present residence, and hereby enable them to make their own improvements, and meet the losses to which they might be subjected, and as an indemnity for this change in favor of the 'Choctaws, they proposed to surrender all their present annuity, amounting to twenty four thousand dollars; twelve thousand of which is an interest on two hundred thousand dollars in the hands of the government. Then the million of dollars was asked for as a capital which should remain in the hands of the government at least twenty years; on interest of five percent. These were the two principal items in a treaty in which twenty thousand persons proposed to leave the land of their Fathers, a country containing ten or twelve million of acres of land, and get out of the way of the state of Mississippi.

In this outline of the treaty sent by the Choctaws, I say nothing about an exchange of land, because the Choctaws have already purchased a sufficient country there by an exchange and hold the government bound by treaty, to furnish every emigrant certain outfit and one year's provisions on reaching his western home.

With a full assurance that President Jackson would be more liberal to the Choctaws than President Adams most of the 'Choctaws hailed his elevation to the Presidential chair as the most fortunate occurrence which could have taken place in the affairs of the Choctaw nation.  Many of them were personally acquainted with him. They had suffered with him- They had fought under him; and their brethren had bled and died in his sight- They were assured that when he was informed that the council of the north west District had determined that they would not emigrate, unless he said to them they must, or submit to Mississippi laws, he burst into tears and exclaimed, 'how can I say to the people who have fought with me, that they must ' shall remove?'

Under these views of our situation we proposed a treaty which we believed to be just and equitable, with an honest and honorable design of sacrificing our attachments to the land and graves of our fathers, that in peace among ourselves, and in peace with all the world we might seek a home in the western wilderness. But our mortification can scarcely be imagined, on discovering that the messenger bearing our proposition had scarcely left us, when the United States Interpreters were found actively engaged in raising a party to oppose and prevent the ratification of the treaty. Councils were appointed; everything like civilization and christianity was to be excluded from the new party. Loud boastings were heard of arms and deadly weapons at their Councils.  Reports of the gathering of forces, from the Creeks and whites, to destroy the Christian Choctaws, were circulated--Rumors were hastening through the settlements of the Christian Choctaws, waking up families at midnight hour, and informing them that the slaughtering army was approaching and that unless they immediately left their religion, and joined them, they would all be destroyed.  The whole population of an extensive tract of country was thrown into confusion. Some fled to the opposite party--Many sought safety in swamps and some fled to the white settlements in Mississippi. Every falsehood which could be invented to produce confusion was resorted to.- Families were seized by armed parties and carried to their councils, and one side of their faces blacked and the other painted, and they were then ordered to get up and dance away their religion: and if they hesitated, guns were fired under them to hasten them.

During this season of confusion the body of the nation continued to look with inexpressible anxiety for the return of the messenger by whom they had sent their proposition to the city of Washington, hoping that the treaty would be ratified, by which means peace would be restored. But the enemies of peace became bold in proportion to the forbearance of the friends of peace.

The life of the principal chief was threatened. It was understood that strong measures would be resorted to, to draw off a part of the north west District, and if successful, that na attack would be made upon all the christian settlements, and if possible have them exterminated. About the time that this plan was believed to be in serious contemplation, both the Districts in which these evils had principally prevailed were called to the Factory on Tombigbee river, to receive their annuity, and Col. Leflore, the Chief of the third District, was invited by the agent to be present.- Col. Leflore immediately determined to march a sufficient armed force to that place, to secure peace on some terms.- He accordingly communicated his intention to the other two districts, that they might be apprised of his object. He met the other two districts, and secured peace and friendship by having Mushulatubbee broke as chief of the eastern district, and arranging with his captains that neither of the two districts should interfere, that they should not elect a chief under two months. In the council that was held by all the captains of the three districts and two Chiefs, the Chief and Captains who had been associated with Mushulatubbee joined at Middleton Mackey and stated, that he had told them lies which had produced all the disturbance in the nation. That it was the lies of Mackey the United States interpreter, which had lead them all in a wrong way.- It is now easy to see the connection between our confusion and the measures of the United States government- a small party headed by the United States interpreter had appointed two Chiefs, in opposition to Col. Leflore, who had been elected by the national Council the sole Chief of the nation. This party with their two Chiefs used every possible means to gain the ascendancy, and to secure their popularity, no doubt reported themselves as having the body of the nation with them. Though they were still in the minority they had two chiefs, which gave them a majority of Chiefs. In this situation or immediately after Mushulatubbee was forced to resign, a communication is received from President Jackson, requiring that the Three Chiefs, each with six Captains, should meet him in Tennessee to hold a treaty with him.  It was strongly intimated that they must not come unless they intended to treat. To comment on this circumstance is unnecessary- I give the facts and leave the people of the United States and the world to make their own comments.  Although the Mississippi law is illy suited to the present state of the Choctaws, it is becoming doubtful whether even the ignorant part of the nation can be prevailed upon to remove to a country where the United States interpreters will have every facility of producing a general crusade of the wild savages of the desert to destroy them, whenever the American government may wish their land. The Government is not seen in these movements, but thinking men will know that men would not be retained in office unless they acted in accordance with the views of the government.

Mississippi has extended her laws over us, she allows us all the privileges of citizens, and when she sees that we have made a strong and liberal effort to get out of her way, the same spirit of liberality will lead her to give us eight or ten years to prepare to become acceptable citizens, and with this indulgence in pressing on in our improvements we shall never need a home in the west. If mississippi wishes the Choctaws removed, she also wishes that they should be treated with justice and humanity.

A CHOCTAW

N.B. Suppose the government should succeed in dividing us and removing the ignorant and uninformed to the west, will not a moment's reflection teach any reasonable man that extermination must be the consequence? It is said to be a game Country--It is well known, however, that the only important species of game there is the Buffaloe, and that they are followed by large bodies of wild and warlike savages who would feel it to be a dangerous intrusion upon their rights for other Indians to hunt them. If the Choctaws get many of them they must fight for them, and if they go in sufficient numbers to defend themselves, they will consume the game as fast as they can procure it; and when the game is done, which must soon be the case, is it not certain that they will starve, if the laboring part of the nation is left in Mississippi? The half Bloods and laboring part can live in any country.  It is their ignorant Brethren whose situation demands the sympathies of all reflecting minds.

___________________

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For the Cherokee Phoenix

NB. The right side of the column is caught in the binding and cannot be read. That is the reason for the _____ (blanks) instead of complete or completed words.

The Choctaws are _______ obligations they are under _____ ___der brethren, the Ch______ their nobel stand in the present crisis of the fragments of the ___ people. A deep interest must _____ all red people who are approaching danger of extermination _____ they are threatened; and the ______ honorable part of the civilization _____ would deeply feel for us _____ know our situation and the ____ which are in operation to ____ and as an individual.  I f____ some of these men to the public.

The Choctaws discovered ___ United States and the state of Mississippi had determined to _____ country, and they must __ remove in a body, or else suffer harassing consequences of ___ plenty of money travelling ____ and trying to divide them: ____ off the ignorant and uninformed leaders who would sacrifice ___ claims of the nation, that th__ obtain individual wealth and ___ the station of Chiefs in ____ country, under the protection of the United States government knew that the price of some of ___ was well known to the President that if they were bought ____ carry a number of people w____ and that if they were established in our country west of Mississippi would re-establish their ____ and customs, and thereby re_____  future emigration of the bo___ nation impossible, as they could consent to give up their improvements. The Choctaws believed that ___ would propose to sell their ___ and remove in a body, the government of the United States would ____ an opportunity of sending them ___ new home in peace among them and enabling them to carry ___ improvements in civilization ___ture and christianity with them.

In making propositions to __ government they were governed ---has been generally understood___ been the propositions made to ___ President Adams- It is generally known that he offered them ___  of dollars for their Country and all their present improvements ___ their new homes, even to a ___ or fowl, to pay them for them or replace it over there; ___ them one hundred and eighty ___ of land as reserve together --- other important advantage ___ some of these particulars were objections. It would be difficult ___ government to please the people __tvements- It was scarcely possible to have the improvements made so as to enable each family to make a crop the first year, which if they failed to do, they would have nothing upon which to subsist the second year. An additional motive was, that our people, by making their own improvements would be forming habits of labor. In addition to the replacing the improvements on their future homes, it was believed that each family who in any degree clothed themselves or gained any other advantage from agriculture should be indemnified for their loss of crops from the time they emigrated until they could be in a situation equally advantageous in their new country. Further, there would be many articles left and lost in removing for which a demand could not be made.

To meet all these and other just wishes and expectations, it was proposed that the government should give each family six hundred and forty acres of land in their present residence, and hereby enable them to make their own improvements, and meet the losses to which they might be subjected, and as an indemnity for this change in favor of the 'Choctaws, they proposed to surrender all their present annuity, amounting to twenty four thousand dollars; twelve thousand of which is an interest on two hundred thousand dollars in the hands of the government. Then the million of dollars was asked for as a capital which should remain in the hands of the government at least twenty years; on interest of five percent. These were the two principal items in a treaty in which twenty thousand persons proposed to leave the land of their Fathers, a country containing ten or twelve million of acres of land, and get out of the way of the state of Mississippi.

In this outline of the treaty sent by the Choctaws, I say nothing about an exchange of land, because the Choctaws have already purchased a sufficient country there by an exchange and hold the government bound by treaty, to furnish every emigrant certain outfit and one year's provisions on reaching his western home.

With a full assurance that President Jackson would be more liberal to the Choctaws than President Adams most of the 'Choctaws hailed his elevation to the Presidential chair as the most fortunate occurrence which could have taken place in the affairs of the Choctaw nation.  Many of them were personally acquainted with him. They had suffered with him- They had fought under him; and their brethren had bled and died in his sight- They were assured that when he was informed that the council of the north west District had determined that they would not emigrate, unless he said to them they must, or submit to Mississippi laws, he burst into tears and exclaimed, 'how can I say to the people who have fought with me, that they must ' shall remove?'

Under these views of our situation we proposed a treaty which we believed to be just and equitable, with an honest and honorable design of sacrificing our attachments to the land and graves of our fathers, that in peace among ourselves, and in peace with all the world we might seek a home in the western wilderness. But our mortification can scarcely be imagined, on discovering that the messenger bearing our proposition had scarcely left us, when the United States Interpreters were found actively engaged in raising a party to oppose and prevent the ratification of the treaty. Councils were appointed; everything like civilization and christianity was to be excluded from the new party. Loud boastings were heard of arms and deadly weapons at their Councils. Reports of the gathering of forces, from the Creeks and whites, to destroy the Christian Choctaws, were circulated--Rumors were hastening through the settlements of the Christian Choctaws, waking up families at midnight hour, and informing them that the slaughtering army was approaching and that unless they immediately left their religion, and joined them, they would all be destroyed. The whole population of an extensive tract of country was thrown into confusion. Some fled to the opposite party--Many sought safety in swamps and some fled to the white settlements in Mississippi. Every falsehood which could be invented to produce confusion was resorted to.- Families were seized by armed parties and carried to their councils, and one side of their faces blacked and the other painted, and they were then ordered to get up and dance away their religion: and if they hesitated, guns were fired under them to hasten them.

During this season of confusion the body of the nation continued to look with inexpressible anxiety for the return of the messenger by whom they had sent their proposition to the city of Washington, hoping that the treaty would be ratified, by which means peace would be restored. But the enemies of peace became bold in proportion to the forbearance of the friends of peace.

The life of the principal chief was threatened. It was understood that strong measures would be resorted to, to draw off a part of the north west District, and if successful, that na attack would be made upon all the christian settlements, and if possible have them exterminated. About the time that this plan was believed to be in serious contemplation, both the Districts in which these evils had principally prevailed were called to the Factory on Tombigbee river, to receive their annuity, and Col. Leflore, the Chief of the third District, was invited by the agent to be present.- Col. Leflore immediately determined to march a sufficient armed force to that place, to secure peace on some terms.- He accordingly communicated his intention to the other two districts, that they might be apprised of his object. He met the other two districts, and secured peace and friendship by having Mushulatubbee broke as chief of the eastern district, and arranging with his captains that neither of the two districts should interfere, that they should not elect a chief under two months. In the council that was held by all the captains of the three districts and two Chiefs, the Chief and Captains who had been associated with Mushulatubbee joined at Middleton Mackey and stated, that he had told them lies which had produced all the disturbance in the nation.  That it was the lies of Mackey the United States interpreter, which had lead them all in a wrong way.- It is now easy to see the connection between our confusion and the measures of the United States government- a small party headed by the United States interpreter had appointed two Chiefs, in opposition to Col. Leflore, who had been elected by the national Council the sole Chief of the nation. This party with their two Chiefs used every possible means to gain the ascendancy, and to secure their popularity, no doubt reported themselves as having the body of the nation with them. Though they were still in the minority they had two chiefs, which gave them a majority of Chiefs. In this situation or immediately after Mushulatubbee was forced to resign, a communication is received from President Jackson, requiring that the Three Chiefs, each with six Captains, should meet him in Tennessee to hold a treaty with him.  It was strongly intimated that they must not come unless they intended to treat. To comment on this circumstance is unnecessary- I give the facts and leave the people of the United States and the world to make their own comments. Although the Mississippi law is illy suited to the present state of the Choctaws, it is becoming doubtful whether even the ignorant part of the nation can be prevailed upon to remove to a country where the United States interpreters will have every facility of producing a general crusade of the wild savages of the desert to destroy them, whenever the American government may wish their land.  The Government is not seen in these movements, but thinking men will know that men would not be retained in office unless they acted in accordance with the views of the government.

Mississippi has extended her laws over us, she allows us all the privileges of citizens, and when she sees that we have made a strong and liberal effort to get out of her way, the same spirit of liberality will lead her to give us eight or ten years to prepare to become acceptable citizens, and with this indulgence in pressing on in our improvements we shall never need a home in the west. If mississippi wishes the Choctaws removed, she also wishes that they should be treated with justice and humanity.

A CHOCTAW

N.B. Suppose the government should succeed in dividing us and removing the ignorant and uninformed to the west, will not a moment's reflection teach any reasonable man that extermination must be the consequence? It is said to be a game Country--It is well known, however, that the only important species of game there is the Buffaloe, and that they are followed by large bodies of wild and warlike savages who would feel it to be a dangerous intrusion upon their rights for other Indians to hunt them. If the Choctaws get many of them they must fight for them, and if they go in sufficient numbers to defend themselves, they will consume the game as fast as they can procure it; and when the game is done, which must soon be the case, is it not certain that they will starve, if the laboring part of the nation is left in Mississippi? The half Bloods and laboring part can live in any country.  It is their ignorant Brethren whose situation demands the sympathies of all reflecting minds.

___________________

From the Christian Herald.

A LETTER CONCERNING THE CHOCTAW INDIANS.

We have been kindly favored with the privilege of making the extraction given below, from a letter addresses bo the Rev. John Andrews, of this city, by the Rev. Loring S. Williams, missionary among the Indians. The letter is of a later date than any we have seen published from the missionaries.  As it contains an interesting narrative of the Mayhew Church, of the difficulties it has encountered, and of the prospects of the Indians of the Choctaw tribe; feelings of sympathy and anxiety will be awakened by its perusal, in behalf of these poor people.  The territory inhabited by the Choctaws is in the central part of the state of Mississippi. Amongst them missionary labors were commenced in the year 1813, and there are now eight regular stations, where schools are taught, and the gospel preached within the last year or two, it will be recollected that the efforts of the missionaries have been remarkably successful. Towards the close of the last year, it was believed there were two thousand persons who habitually prayed in the name of the Savior.

AIKHUNNA, Choctaw Nation

June 30, 1830

Rev. and Dear Sir:

A few particulars respecting the Choctaw Mission may be acceptable.

When I wrote to you in October last, I thing I stated that we had received about 50 Choctaws into our church. Since that date we have been permitted to receive 134 more besides two black persons; and it is expected that a number more will be admitted on the next Sabbath. I am now speaking of the Mayhew church which is scattered over a large extent of country, and is now under the care of Brethren Kingsbury, Byington, and myself, residing at three different stations. Of the church members 52 belong to my congregation.

There are nine ruling elders in this church, seven of whom are natives, who appear extremely well as church officers. It is true they are comparatively ignorant; but they are very teachable, and thus far, faithful and exemplary.

There are several places for public worship within the bounds of the church, where there is generally a good attendance on the Sabbath; and once in two months, the whole church according to their ability , meet at a central spot, where a large house has been erected for the purpose.  They commonly collect on Friday, and stay until Monday. On such occasions we have considerable preaching, examination of candidates, and the administration of the ordinances. The Lord's supper is also occasionally administered at some of the stations, as otherwise some of the infirm members, who live at a great distance from the center meeting house, could never enjoy it.

The number received into the churches in other parts of the nation is, I thin,, not far from 50.- There are also a number of hopeful candidates in different places. We hope that the special influences of the Holy Spirit are not wholly withdrawn. But there is less excitement among the people in general; or, I should say, less deep concern for the salvation of the soul is manifested. It will be seen in the sequel, that there is an excitement of another kind. There are some cases of lamentable backsliding among those who had professed to be anxious to obtain an interest in Christ. Some few church members have also gone astray. This may be said of this part of the nation; but it is particularly applicable to the southern part, where many of the inquirers, having been overcome by powerful temptations, have returned to their evil course. Never was the great Adversary more busy in opposing the gospel in this land, than at the present time. I will briefly state some facts in illustration of this remark.

Soon after the legislature of Mississippi extended her laws over the poor Indians, abolishing their laws, customs, 'c. making it a heavy penalty, and imprisonment, for any chief to associate as such--- two of the principal chiefs resigned their commissions. Their influence, in favor of the gospel, had hitherto been most salutary. But there were some portions remote from missionary stations, still held in complete bondage by the prince of darkness:--and besides, they were so much under the influence of certain corrupt white men, that though they had repeated offers of preaching, they would not hear. It seems that they only waited on opportunity of manifesting more openly their opposition to all invocations on their ancient customs., Taking advantage of the great change in the political affairs and government of the nation, they formed a conspiracy, which has at length become very strong. They make every exertion to oppose the gospel or anything that pertains to it; such as our mission schools, scripture, translation,' the like. They have not yet and we think they will not presume to do so. But it would seem that every other means that the wicked on could invent, has been, or is now tried, to induce the Christian party to renounce their religion. Flattery, bribes, threats, slanders, various allurement 'c. have been successfully employed. The descent upon the south part of the nation was so sudden and so skillfully managed as to produce the effect before mentioned. The church in the northern section had timely notice of their approach, and desirous so to prepare their minds by prayer and ____ of consultation. More private attempts were first made, after which a public council was called when the two parties met. It was good to see one of the band conduct with so much christian ______ meekness as they did on this occasion. All matters were discussed _____ _____ but there cold be no fellowship _____ with darkness.--- The heathen party had much to say about political affairs, but it was sufficiently obvious that their intent was to undermine the foundation of religion and to shut out the light of the gospel from the nation. And it was painful to see some white men them encouraging and advising them in their attempts. The christian party spent the most of the two nights they were on the council ground  in worship of God: while the other party thirty ___ distant spent them in heathen games and dances. O what a contrast! I know not that any advantage was gained by the enemy. He has not however, relaxed his exertions to draw off these poor _____ from the fold. The intelligent part of the people ar on this side, but there are some cunning and powerful speakers on the other. And as they address themselves to the corrupt propensities of human nature, and plead to earnestly for the ancient customs of their fathers for ' liberty of conscience', and insist so strenuously, that'the religion of white men is not for the red man, and that even multitudes of white men no not believe, and obey the Bible,'----that it cannot be expected but that they should succeed with many or those who are not rooted and grounded in the faith. They insist upon it for instance, that religion disqualifies a man for any civil office--being told by these officious white men, that the President of the U.S. is not a Christian; and that there are few or none in Congress.

It is indeed a sifting time in the church.  But we are comforted in the assurance that the Lord knoweth them that are his, and is able to keep them in the evil day. I have no doubt that perilous times are at hand.--The legislative proceedings of their white brothers have shocked and thrown them into confusion.  They now expect to leave their little farms and comfortable dwellings- the sepulchers of their fathers, their schools and meeting houses, to their white neighbors, while they retreat to the western wilds for a home, which, even there, they fear may yet be evicted and perhaps claimed by white men. O will not Christians at least pray for these lambs, and for those who are called to feed them.

Your in gospel bonds.

L. S. WILLIAMS

*All Indians we presume.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Christian Herald.

A LETTER CONCERNING THE CHOCTAW INDIANS.

We have been kindly favored with the privilege of making the extraction given below, from a letter addresses (sic) to the Rev. John Andrews, of this city, by the Rev. Loring S. Williams, missionary among the Indians. The letter is of a later date than any we have seen published from the missionaries.  As it contains an interesting narrative of the Mayhew Church, of the difficulties it has encountered, and of the prospects of the Indians of the Choctaw tribe; feelings of sympathy and anxiety will be awakened by its perusal, in behalf of these poor people.  The territory inhabited by the Choctaws is in the central part of the state of Mississippi. Amongst them missionary labors were commenced in the year 1813, and there are now eight regular stations, where schools are taught, and the gospel preached within the last year or two, it will be recollected that the efforts of the missionaries have been remarkably successful. Towards the close of the last year, it was believed there were two thousand persons who habitually prayed in the name of the Savior.

AIKHUNNA, Choctaw Nation

June 30, 1830

Rev. and Dear Sir:

A few particulars respecting the Choctaw Mission may be acceptable.

When I wrote to you in October last, I think I stated that we had received about 50 Choctaws into our church. Since that date we have been permitted to receive 184 more * besides two black persons; and it is expected that a number more will be admitted on the next Sabbath. I am now speaking of the Mayhew church which is scattered over a large extent of country, and is now under the care of Brethren Kingsbury, Byington, and myself, residing at three different stations. Of the church members 52 belong to my congregation.

There are nine ruling elders in this church, seven of whom are natives, who appear extremely well as church officers. It is true they are comparatively ignorant; but they are very teachable, and thus far, faithful and exemplary.

There are several places for public worship within the bounds of the church, where there is generally a good attendance on the Sabbath; and once in two months, the whole church according to their ability, meet at a central spot, where a large house has been erected for the purpose.  They commonly collect on Friday, and stay until Monday. On such occasions we have considerable preaching, examination of candidates, and the administration of the ordinances. The Lord's supper is also occasionally administered at some of the stations, as otherwise some of the infirm members, who live at a great distance from the center meeting house, could never enjoy it.

The number received into the churches in other parts of the nation is, I think, not far from 50.- There are also a number of hopeful candidates in different places. We hope that the special influences of the Holy Spirit are not wholly withdrawn. But there is less excitement among the people in general; or, I should say, less deep concern for the salvation of the soul is manifested. It will be seen in the sequel, that there is an excitement of another kind. There are some cases of lamentable backsliding among those who had professed to be anxious to obtain an interest in Christ. Some few church members have also gone astray. This may be said of this part of the nation; but it is particularly applicable to the southern part, where many of the inquirers, having been overcome by powerful temptations, have returned to their evil course. Never was the great Adversary more busy in opposing the gospel in this land, than at the present time. I will briefly state some facts in illustration of this remark.

Soon after the legislature of Mississippi extended her laws over the poor Indians, abolishing their laws, customs, 'c. making it a heavy penalty, and imprisonment, for any chief to associate as such--- two of the principal chiefs resigned their commissions. Their influence, in favor of the gospel, had hitherto been most salutary. But there were some portions remote from missionary stations, still held in complete bondage by the prince of darkness:--and besides, they were so much under the influence of certain corrupt white men, that though they had repeated offers of preaching, they would not hear. It seems that they only waited on opportunity of manifesting more openly their opposition to all invocations on their ancient customs. Taking advantage of the great change in the political affairs and government of the nation, they formed a conspiracy, which has at length become very strong. They make every exertion to oppose the gospel or anything that pertains to it; such as our mission schools, scripture, translation, ' the like. They have not yet proceeded to acats of violence on any person,and we think they will not presume to do so. But it would seem that every other means that the wicked one could invent, has been, or is now tried, to induce the Christian party to renounce their religion.  Flattery, bribes, threats, slanders, various allurement 'c. have been successfully employed. The descent upon the south part of the nation was so sudden and so skillfully managed as to produce the effect before mentioned. The church in this northern section had timely notice of their approach, and desirous so to prepare their minds by prayer and mutual consultation. More private attempts were first made, after which a public council was called when the two parties met. It was good to see one of the band conduct with so much Christian fortitude and meekness as they did on this occasion. All matters were discussed very freely but there could be no fellowship of light with darkness.--- The heathen party had much to say about political affairs, but it was sufficiently obvious that their intent was to undermine the foundation of religion and to shut out the light of the gospel from the nation. And it was painful to see some white men among them encouraging and advising them in their attempts. The Christian party spent the most of the two nights they were on the council ground  in worship of God: while the other party, thirty rods distant, spent them in heathen games and dances. O what a contrast! I know not that any advantage was gained by the enemy. He has not however, relaxed his exertions to draw off these poor lambs from the fold. The intelligent part of the people are on this side, but there are some cunning and powerful speakers on the other. And as they address themselves to the corrupt propensities of human nature, and plead so earnestly for the ancient customs of their fathers for 'liberty of conscience,' and insist so strenuously, that 'the religion of white men is not for the red man, and that even multitudes of white men do not believe, and obey the Bible,'----that it cannot be expected but that they should succeed with many of those who are not rooted and grounded in the faith. They insist upon it for instance, that religion disqualifies a man for any civil office--being told by these officious white men, that the President of the U.S. is not a Christian; and that there are few or none in Congress.

It is indeed a sifting time in the church.  But we are comforted in the assurance that the Lord knoweth them that are his, and is able to keep them in the evil day. I have no doubt that perilous times are at hand.--The legislative proceedings of their white brothers have shocked and thrown them into confusion.  They now expect to leave their little farms and comfortable dwellings- the sepulchers of their fathers, their schools and meeting houses, to their white neighbors, while they retreat to the western wilds for a home, which, even there, they fear may yet be coveted and perhaps claimed by white men. O will not Christians at least pray for these lambs, and for those who are called to feed them.

Your in gospel bonds.

L. S. WILLIAMS

*All Indians we presume.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






$30 REWARD

STOLEN from the subscribers stable on the night of Monday the 16th instant a light sorrel gelding, about five feet high, nine or ten years old, with a flax mane and tail. He paces, canters and trots pretty well, and had on when stolen, good shoes before, but had lost the shoe of his right hind foot. He has several small scars occasioned by the biting of mules, one of which is on his right hind leg a little above the fetter lock joint.  The thief may cut his tail and roach his main (sic), in order to disguise him. He also took a Saddle, (nearly new) with common Stirrup Irons, a Bridle, Martingales and a new cross barred blanket.--Any person securing the horse and thief, so that the latter can be brought to justice shall receive the above reward or Ten Dollars for the Horse alone, with reasonable expense, if delivered to the subscriber residing near the road leading from Washington to Augusta, seven miles above Haysville.

N.B. The thief is supposed to be a man about 5 feet 9 or 10 inches high, sallow complexion, thin visage, about 30 or 35 years of age; and wore a quaker hat, old striped round-about, light colored pantaloons, right and left shoes,and ribbed socks, a blue mixed.

SAMUEL BROOKS.

Washington, Geo. August 19, 1830

________________

NOTICE

I HEREBY forewarn all persons from harboring and trading with SELAH BLACKWELL, on my account, as she has never been legally my wife. I have sufficient evidence to prove that the said Selah Blackwell is the lawful wife of one Mr. Young. I therefore solemnly protest against any proceedings either in law, or in any other way, against me on her account.

ALEXANDER McDONALD

July 31, 1830

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the Georgia Athenian.

JUDGE CLAYTON'S CHARGE TO THE GRAND JURY OF CLARK COUNTY

Gentlemen of the Grand Jury:

A circumstance of some interest to the community, of which we are a part, imposes upon me the necessity of departing from my usual silence in relation to Grand Jury charges.

The Legislature of this State, at their last session, passed an act 'to add the territory lying within the chartered limits of Georgia, and now in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians, to the counties of Carroll, DeKalb, Gwinnett, Hall and Habersham, and to extend the laws of this State over the same, and to annul all laws and ordinances made by the Cherokee Nation of Indians, 'c.

It will be perceived that three of the counties to which jurisdiction is given for executing this act, belong to the circuit over which I preside: and, although no duty in relation to it can devolve on you, yet there are two motives influencing me to embrace this the earliest occasion, to take and express a public notice of the law.

First- As it is my fixed and determined purpose to enforce the act, founded upon the most deliberate and conscientious belief of its constitutionality, which has been so much questioned, I desire to know whether the Court will be supported in this resolution by the people of Georgia.  This is a plain and perhaps a startling language, but the occasion requires it and none other. If the laws are to be enforced, and no law can be executed contrary to public opinion, the public sentiment must not falter; it must come right to the point, and be willing to meet all consequences; some of which, as will be presently shown, possessing the most delicate character, are likely to occur. If it not to be enforced, if it is to remain a dead letter, or, what is worse, to be held out only as an expedient subject to all the indecision of such a condition, it ought to be repealed; and, as the elections are at hand, the People will have a fair opportunity of settling the question, through their representatives, at the next session of the Legislature.

Second- My other purpose is to apprize the Indians, that they are not to be oppressed, as has been sagely foretold; that the same justice which is meted to the citizen shall be meted to them. But, that they must not be deceived by false friends, who care no more for them than for the wild beasts of the forests, any farther than it serves a miserable selfishness, too hollow-hearted for an open avowal, and too infamous for an honest discussion.

If I am asked what has made it necessary to bring the public attention so strongly to a contemplation of the probable results of this law, I reply,

1st. Besides the fact officially announced in the council of the Indians lately assembled, I have received information from the Executive branch of this government, that counsel have been employed by the Cherokee Nation, to raise for the adjudication of the Supreme Court of the United States, the question, 'whether the State has a right to pass laws for the government of the Indians residing within its limits.' Now, without intending the least disrespect to that Court, to whose constitutional authority this and all other State Courts, I hope, will most cheerfully submit, this question can never go from a Court in which I preside, until the People of the State yield it, either from a conviction of error ascertained by their own tribunals, or by the more awful sense of their weakness to retain it, and it is useless to disguise the matter, to this issue the question must come, if the State is true to itself. I shall try all cases which may come under the law, and wholly disregard all interference from abroad. The punishments, if any shall be necessary, will be promptly inflicted, save only such as the unusual suggestions of humanity may otherwise require.

2d. There has been a most shameless intermeddling in this matter, on the part, I will not say of other States, as utterly without right or pretext, as it has been wanting in decency and respect.  Meetings have been held in all directions, to express opinions on the conduct of Georgia, and Georgia alone, when her adjoining sister States had lately done precisely the same things; and, in doing which, she and they have done no more than what the very States of these sensitive complainants had effected, from time to time, with an equal regard to their interests, and with infinitely less humanity and forbearance.  And, what is conclusive of the fact, Georgia is an old State, with one-third of heir territory yet in the possession of the Indians, while all the other States, old and new, have nearly rid themselves of this charge.

These meetings have not been content with the expression of opinions, on abstract principles, relating to the rights of the General Government, in respect for which, Georgia yields to none of them; but they have most insolently attempted to dictate our course in reference to our private concerns. They have denounced the laws passed by our legislature for our municipal regulations, in matters perfectly unconnected with any dispute with the Federal Government.

In discussing these subjects, they have indulged in a language unbecoming any privilege of fair debate, and certainly unworthy of any deportment of men, who either claim or court the distinction of gentlemen. Witness the late Kentucky meeting, gotten up for a sinister political purpose, packed and moved by a secret prompter, in which it was declared, in their seventh resolution, that they viewed the late law for the removal of the Indians, 'as having been wrested from the Government by the dictation of the State of Georgia, to secure Indian lands, not for the people of the United States, but for that State,which neither the density nor existing wants of its population require.' To which was added the further declaration, 'but which is needed only for the purpose of being gambled off in public lotteries.'- This last, however, was stricken out through the exertions of a friend of Georgia, doubtless more from a sense of crafty prudence in the director behind the curtain, the last quarter from which the charge of gambling should come than from any suggestion of either common propriety of becoming modesty in the meeting; qualities, it would seem, with which they were not distressingly overburdened.

These unwarrantable liberties have not only been taken against the character of the State, in town meetings, but even members of Congress, lost to the true character and high dignity of their stations, have descended to a train of abuse and reckless aspersion, to say the least of it, outraging the dictate of good breeding towards a sovereign State, and surely very wide of all self-respect, if, indeed by them, such an influence is either felt or understood. A senator from New Jersey, speaking of the Georgia law calls it, 'an oppressive edict of arbitrary power,' and declares 'history furnishes no example of such high-handed usurpation-the dismemberment and partition of Poland was a deed humane legislation compared with this.' He charges the State with putting in operation 'grinding heart-breaking exactions,' to drive the Indians from their country, and finally gives it as his 'religious belief, that if the law is enforced it will awaken tones of feelings that will go up to God, and call down the thunders of his wrath.'

This is not all, another class of men, styling themselves heralds of the cross, with an officiousness ever characteristic of pretended piety, and who follow religion less for its hopes than its honors, have lent themselves as willing tools to the projects of political ambition, in this crusade against Georgia, merely for the crumbs that may fall from the success of the undertaking. Is this language too severe ?'--it is then because it is too true! To the truly pious no part of it is applicable; and no man of this character need take any exception to the remarks. It is solely intended for a class, who certainly do not reside in the South, but who call themselves 'the learned and efficient clergy,' of whom I would say to the people of this nation--Beware!

I will pass over many instances of gratuitous intrusion on the part of these men, in proof of the statement made, and which must be familiar to everyone who had read the current pamphlets and papers of the country, and cite you to a case which their holy  zeal has carried even into Europe. At a late meeting of a Missionary Society in London, a Mr. Milner of New York, Reverend I think they call him, who happened to be in attendance at that meeting, ruefully asserted to the Society, amidst its repeated cheers, that 'if the cause of the negroes in the West Indies was interesting to that auditory and deeply interesting it ought to be-if the population in Ireland, groaning beneath the degradation of superstition, excited their sympathies, he trusted the Indians of North America would also be considered as the objects of their Christian regard. He was grieved however, to state there were those in America who acted towards them in a different spirit, and he lamented to say, that at this very moment, the State of Georgia was seeking to subjugate and destroy the liberties both of the Creeks and Cherokees, the former of whom possessed ten million acres of land, and the latter six millions.' Now here is a statement that is as false as God is true, and known to every person in the least acquainted with public affairs.  Since the 12th day of February, 1830, the Creek Indians have not resided nor even owned one foot of land within the limits of Georgia, and with them since that time, we have had nothing to do. These are facts with which the world is constantly plied, and by which course, it is as constantly deceived. This cold blood misrepresentation is uttered and spread through a foreign land.  It is proclaimed by a man against his own country: that man is an American, that American pretends to be Ambassador of the living God. As a man, it is detestable, as an American it is perfidious, but as a Minister, it is shocking. No man dare plead ignorance on such an occasion, for where distraction results from the words, the speaker is bound to know, and well know, the facts; and the maxim justly applies, that ignorance is a crime, where knowledge is a duty.

I have thus given you a fair sample of the subtle calumnies that have been the daily product of an active malice, combined with the restless ambition of off-cast statesmen, the more revengeful because disappointed, and the more unrelenting, because fanned and inflamed by a heartless priesthood. These have been put in operation against Georgia, only because in her politics as connected with the just and honorable views of the Chief Magistrate of the Union, it is considered that a flattering opening is presented to destroy his merited fame, and to regain to themselves a justly fortified conscience, long abased and never deserted; but fortunately for him and for the State, they afford a species of falsehood, which from its frequency and folly, has lost the power to deceive, and almost the merit of disdain.

But what makes these circumstances the more insulting, they have transpired under a character of inconsistency of more unmixedd hardihood than ever came from the front of the most unblushing impudence.  Would anyone believe that at the very moment Georgia was receiving such universal obloquy on account of the Indians, the State of New York was moving her own Indians to regions of Green Bay, and making them pass through all the trying and affecting scenes which have been compassionately portrayed for the Cherokees? That in some of the other northern States, the few scattered remnants of this unfortunate race, who were sparred from the butchery of dogs, are now in a condition, compared with which, even slavery has nothing more oppressive?

Who says anything against New York and these other States? Is Georgia the only State that has attempted to govern the Indians within her limits?  Indeed, where is the State that has not done it? Has not Alabama, Mississippi, and Indiana lately done what Georgia has? Who complains of their conduct? No! the truth is, Georgia has submitted long enough to these outrages, it is high time to fling these calumnies back into the teeth of her slanderers, and that it may be done with the best effect, it should proceed from the highest moral and political eminence of the State. Further submission will only provoke further insult: and as to reproach, on the score of recrimination, we have nothing to fear, for such is the character of defamation it utterly contemns all relation, from any source which feeds and acknowledges the authority of those well known courtesies that govern and refine the force of public opinion. If anything I have said, or expect to say, I do not wish to be understood as intending to convey any threat, especially against the Federal Union. This is too sacred a subject to be trifled with, and commands, at all times and in all places, our most unqualified affection and support, so long as it moves within its legitimate sphere. Threats are idle and weak, and oftener betray a wrong than a right cause, proceeding upon the idea that more is to be gained from physical than moral power, and that an adversary may be alarmed into compliance- this is not designed. But such is the nature and habits of our institutions, that they require and secure the utmost freedom of speech in relation to all our rights, and more particularly our wrongs. I have mentioned, therefore, the foregoing matters to show you what we may expect in attempting to carry our law into execution. If what we have witnessed be done 'in the green-tree, what may we not expect in the dry?' We must be prepared for all events. If we design to assert our rights over the territory of the State; the object must be pursued with a steady and unflinching purpose, or it ought to be abandoned altogether. So long, however, as the law remains unrepealed, the county has my solemn pledge that it shall be faithfully administered, so far as I am concerned.  I only require the aid of public opinion and the arm of the Executive authority, and no court on earth besides our own shall ever be troubled with this question.

To our citizens I would say, let us falsify the prophecies that have been made as to the treatment which the Indians are to receive at our hands, by exercising towards that unfortunate people, the utmost kindness, justice and humanity. Their personal rights must be respected. To the Indians I will repeat, they have nothing to dread, as far as they are concerned, either from the character of our laws, or their mode of administration, for if we can live under them, they surely can, and no distinction shall be made in their execution.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the New York Observer.

HISTORY OF THE INDIAN BILL.- No. V.

One memorable declaration of Mr. Forsyth, in his last speech on the bill, has not yet been mentioned. It was to this effect- that the interest of Georgia in the question was very inconsiderable.  A statement to the same purpose had appeared in the essays of William Penn; but such an avowal was not expected from a Senator of Georgia. It was supposed throughout the country that Georgia claimed to have great interest at stake.- She certainly had pressed her claim with extraordinary vehemence.-- Those who were intimately acquainted with the Cherokee country, and recollected that Georgia has but three or four whites, and as many blacks, to each square mile of her territory, while Massachusetts has seventy inhabitants to the square mile knew very well, that the interest of Georgia in the Cherokee country was inconsiderable. They often said so, in private conversation; and now, the Senator of Georgia, who acts as her champion, declares in his place, that this representation is true.

Mr. Forsyth exhibited Georgia as a generous vindicator of the rights of the states, and not as the selfish prosecutor of her own rights.

In one of his discursive rambles, during this debate, Mr. Forsyth severely reprehended Professor Hare, of Philadelphia, who had intimated that Georgia could not be in urgent need of more land she was fairly entitled to, inasmuch as New York has seventeen hundred thousand souls, and Pennsylvania twelve hundred thousand, while each of those states has less territory than Georgia actually occupies for three hundred and fifty thousand.

Friday, April 23d, Mr. White rose immediately after Mr. Sprague had delivered his animated protest. On that day, and the succeeding, Mr. White occupied the floor five or six hours, in the closing speech. Nothing new was advanced, unless it were a new joke upon the Presbyterian clergy, which caused a laugh at their expense from the lower class of spectators on the gallery.

The question was taken at 4 o'clock, P.M. Saturday, April 24th.

Mr. Frelinghuysen's first proviso, which would have pledged the government to protect the Indian tribes against all encroachments, till they shall choose to remove, was rejected, 27 to 20. His second proviso, which would have required that the new country should be secured to emigrating Indians by treaty, was rejected, 28 to 19.

Mr. Sprague then moved the following proviso: 'That until the said tribes or nations shall choose to remove, as is by this act contemplated, they shall be protected in their present possessions, and in the enjoyment of all their rights of territory and government, as promised or guarantied to them by treaties with the United States, according to the true intent and meaning of the treaties.

This was rejected, 27 to 20.

Mr. M'Kinley moved the following amendment: 'And upon the payment of such valuation, the improvements so valued and paid for, shall pass to the United States; and possession shall not afterwards be permitted to any of the same tribe.'

The design of this amendment was to facilitate the breaking up of the Indian tribes, by enabling the government to make purchases of individuals, when the Indian nation would not sell. Thus all existing treaties might be undermined and rendered powerless. No fair and upright tribunal, however, would give any force to such a provision.

The amendment was adopted.

Mr. Sanford moved an amendment, with a view to provide for the removal of the Indians in the State of New York, which was rejected, 37 to 10. This decision must have satisfied Mr. S. that there were persons very willing to profit by his vote, who had no intention that he should profit by theirs.

Mr. Forsyth moved an amendment, which confined the operations of the bill to such tribes of Indians as occupy lands owned by the United States,(that is of which the United States have the right of pre-emption,) or lands, the Indian claim to which, the United States are bound to extinguish.

The amendment was adopted.

Mr. Frelinghuysen then moved the following amendment.

'Provided, That before any exchange or removal shall take place, the President of the United States shall nominate, and, by and with the advise and consent of the Senate, appoint three suitable persons and by them cause the country to which it is proposed to remove the Indians to be fully explored, and a report made to the President, and by him to Congress, of the extent of good and arable lands that can be obtained, and of the proportion of woodland in such country, and of its adaptation to the object of this bill and to the wants and habits of the Indian nations.

This amendment was rejected.

The bill then passed to a third reading by a vote of 28 to 19.

This decision was a most humiliating one in the judgment of enlightened and candid men, who have the permanent interests of their country at heart.

The majority in favor of the bill was larger than had been expected by either party. Great surprise was felt by spectators, that so little regard was paid by the present Senate to a list of precedents, extending through forty years.

In a debate on another subject, Mr. Grundy, who voted for the Indian Bill, quoted a simple precedent, on a contested point, and urged it with great earnestness. The precedent, on which he insisted, had been established, after a short discussion, by the casting vote of the leader Adams, when Vice-President of the United States. Yet the decisions of the Senate, made unanimously, and after the most solemn deliberation, and confirmed by every Senate, and by every Senator, from 1789 to 1827, were utterly disregarded. No apology was made for this wide departure from some of the most firmly established principles of government and legislation. The recorded decisions of the first Senate of the United States, (which counted, among its twenty-four members, ten framers of the Constitution,) were disregarded with as little ceremony, as if they had been the crude opinions of bar-room politicians. Though, on another subject, Mr. Grundy said exultingly, in reference to Mr. Madison, whose reasoning he approved, 'Here is my constitutional lawyer;' yet, in reference to rights of the Indians ' the effect of treaties, the most deliberate opinions and the most unequivocal official acts of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, and all the members of the Senate and House of Representatives for thirty-five years, and all the governors and principal men of Georgia, down to 1827, were considered as of no more value than an old newspaper. This is the more astonishing, as all the Indian nations, with which we have a hundred and fifty treaties, are directly interested in an adherence to treaties. What would be thought of a court of law, which should all at once set aside the unvarying decisions of forty years--and all this without manifesting any solicitude to explain the reasons of such a change, or the necessity of it? The conduct of the majority, in passing the Indian Bill, sufficiently evinces, that, although public men may quote the opinions of Washington and Jefferson, with a view to carry a point, or preserve the confidence of a party, yet they do not always pay respect to authority however venerable, nor to principles however sacred.

It is impossible to state, or to imagine, a clearer case, than that of Indian rights. The precedents, the laws, the private opinions of our political sages have been on one side. Not a custom house bond, not a note of hand, can be more free from all doubt and cavil.  Yet here was a decision against the Cherokees, on the alleged ground that treaties with them had been mistaken transactions, and were now mere nullities. It is true the law did not say this in express terms; nor even necessarily imply it; but everybody knows that the law is to be interpreted in this manner, because such was the previously declared opinion of the President of the United States and the Secretary of War. The Senate has been considered the conservator of the honor of the United States. Oh! this was a deep and ghastly wound inflicted upon the reputation of the country by those Senators who voted for the Indian Bill; and most bitter will it be lamented through all future time, unless there is public virtue enough in the community to act immediately as a vis medicatrix in healing it.

On the vote of the Senate being declared, the friends of the Indians, both in Congress and out of it, felt exceedingly sad.  No language can do justice to their emotions. They viewed the measure as altogether unparalleled in the history of free governments. The smallness of the temptation to such an outrageous breach of faith seemed to render the whole business unaccountable. Bonaparte might be expected to break two or three treaties with Spain and Holland, for the sake of bringing millions of men, and hundreds of millions of money under his control. Here was a great temptation. But we have broken scores of treaties with dependent Indians, and descended to the most pitiful subterfuges and evasions not to augment our national power and resources-not to avoid any danger-but simply to appease a groundless clamor and to make an insignificant acquisition of new lands.

In giving the history of the debate in the House of Representatives, I shall not be so minute as I have been in describing that of the Senate.

VERITATIS AMANS.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the N. Y. Advocate ' Journal

To the Corresponding Secretary of the Missionary Society of the

Methodist Episcopal Church.

Lookout, Cherokee N. July 22, 1830

Dear Brother:- With no ordinary interest we would again invite the attention of the Christian community to the progress of our mission in the Cherokee Nation.  It is not ours to record the miraculous return of thousands or tell the undisputed triumphs of the cross over a whole nation. As yet, Satan extends his empire over the bewildered hearts of unfortunate thousands.,  His 'right' till within a few years past, 'there were none to dispute.'

It has been ours (with gratitude I record it) to witness the return of happy scores to the Shepherd and Bishop of souls, to join in the general acclamation of praise, and weep for joy over newly converted souls. An addition of 95 was made to our injured and oppressed Zion on my last round of quarterly meetings, and the work is increasing. An unusual interest is waked up in almost every part of the nation, and we only want time and opportunity to have the happiest society in the world.

Our quarterly meeting at Coosawatee was by far the most interesting we have ever held in this section; five were gained over to the Lord who promise abundant usefulness. This place has been, and is yet, notorious for wickedness; the most so perhaps of any town in the nation With but a very few exceptions they are given up to intemperance. We have in this place a flourishing school, and our only hope of extensive usefulness rests in the promising and interesting children under the care of brother D. C. M'Leod. The Valleytown circuit includes a large section of the nation, lying chiefly in the chartered limits of North Carolina, and presents one of the most romantic prospects I ever beheld.- Never did my eyes roam with such delight-never did I feel so perfectly abstracted from the world--and never was I so interestingly impressed with the sublimity of the great Creator's works. Far below the lofty summit on which I stood rolled in dark columns the rising clouds. I thought of Mt. Sinai, when lightnings played around its summit; when the thunder shook its base, and sent a thrill of terror through all the camp of Israel. On all sides round, as far as human vision could extend, mountain rose above mountain, some clad in the rich drapery of clouds, whitened by the reflection of a declining sun.

In the dark caves and valleys of these mountains travel our worthy brothers, Greenbury Garratt, William M'Intosh, (his interpreter,) and the untiring ' zealous Turtle Fields, the first regular itinerant preachers that ever penetrated this part of the nation. The first as such that ever sounded the thrilling note of salvation along these valleys; or waked up the echoing sound of redemption along the mountain's side. Their success has equalled our most extended anticipations. They already begin to reap a bountiful reward.  Our quarterly meeting at the agency was abundantly blessed to many. This is one of the most flourishing societies on the nation. Brother Wm. M. M'Ferrin informs me that the addition to this society has been upwards of 60. His school is numerously attended. The school at Lookout, under the immediate superintendence of brother N. D. Seales, is rapidly improving in science.- Their examination in arithmetic, English gammer, and geography, (on my last quarterly visit,) far surpassed my expectations.

It is pleasing to record the growing intelligence of the youth of this country, ' to witness the benign influences of the gospel over those of riper years. It has been said by those inimical to the interest of the Cherokees, that they have been gradually deteriorating for the last twenty years. Such an assertion, in the estimation of those who are acquainted with the religious, literary, and political improvement of this people, will be viewed as a libel on our missionary reports, and a slander on the nation. We have no hesitancy in saying their improvement has been in proportion to the means afforded; and should they be permitted to live in the peaceable possession of the land of their fathers, at no very distant period the lingering night of ignorance will have fled away. Religion and sound philosophy will arise, and shine with dazzling splendor. Their council fires would be lighted up with the inextinguishable torch of intelligence. Temples will then arise in honor of religion; in them the blooming sons of fallen warriors, with sound converted souls, will take their stand; and in the native charms of Indian eloquence proclaim immortality and eternal life to weeping wondering multitudes.

Yours, in missionary bonds.

FRANCIS A. OWEN.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the New York Observer.

Volume 1, SIT TO THE CHEROKEES.

A highly respectable gentleman at the south in a letter to the editor of the New York American, says:

Some months since I accompanied a small party of soldiers to the Cherokee country, in order to quiet some disturbances, which had arisen between the Indians and some white intruders: in the execution of this duty, circumstances rendered it necessary for us to visit some of their head men, and, among others, Mr. John Ross, their principal chief.

The dwelling of Mr. Ross is pleasantly situated in the northern bank of the Coosa River; the house is very well built, much in the style of the residences of farmers in flourishing circumstances at the north, and is surrounded by well cultivated fields. The day on which we arrived happened to be Sunday, and, from the concourse of well dressed natives there assembled, we supposed they intended celebrating divine service. This proved to be the case; for, after a short time, we were invited by Mr. Ross 'to hear divine service, performed in Cherokee.' We attended accordingly, and found an audience of about fifty Indians. There were present two regularly ordained native preachers, of the Methodist persuasion; one of them was a full blooded Indian, the other a very dark 'mixed blood,' possibly one-fourth white: the services commenced by the singing of hymns in the Cherokee tongue, translated from the English and adopted to English tunes, hymn books in the Cherokee character were used, and nearly all the audience participated in the sacred exercise.- Then followed a chapter from the Bible, then a sermon and exhortation, 'c. according to the rites of the Methodist church. The deportment of the audience throughout, was serious and attentive. I need not say that I was surprised and delighted, indeed it was a truly affecting sight to see the descendants of a race, who, twenty years since, were plunged in ignorance and barbarism, now profiting so largely by the precepts of that Gospel, intended by its divine author to benefit ali,e the white man and the red man.

I entered the Cherokee country with an impression that through the well meaning zeal of their (the Cherokees') friends, the accounts given of their progress in civilization, 'c. had been rather exaggerated; but, although I visited by no means the most flourishing portions of their country, I was led to the conclusion that if errors had been committed, they were generally on the side least favorable to the Cherokees.

Mr. Ross, as you have no doubt heard, is a gentleman of excellent natural talents, and of solid, I had almost said, brilliant attainments. His library is small but well arranged. I had an opportunity to see but few of the other chiefs; of these, some were full Indians and others of mixed blood. They appeared to be men of good sense, and generally possessed a tolerable English education, which they acquired in Tennessee and at the missionary establishments. The common people were almost universally comfortably clothed in habiliments of their own manufacture and after the manner of the whites.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We publish in another part of our paper the letter addressed by Mr. Wirt to the Governor of Georgia announcing in respectful language the course which the Cherokees have prescribed for themselves to ascertain the amount and extent of the rights which have descended to them from nature, or been acquired by treaty; and the reply of Governor Gilmer, which some newspaper Editor has pronounced to be dignified. Our notions of dignity may be crude and erroneous, but, whatever they are they lead us to a very different conclusion. While engaged in the perusal of this reply, we have found it impossible to divest ourselves of a feeling of astonishment, not unmingled with vexation of the petulant tone in which narrow views of the relative positions of the State of Georgia, and the Indians within its borders, are conveyed in this gubernatorial production. It does not strike us that Georgia gains any advantage, when she places herself on a remote point, and looks down with contempt on a proscribed and enfeebled people, who dare to make an appeal for protection, in their extremity, to the only and the legitimate and constitutional tribunal by which mooted questions of this important character must be decided. Unless one of the most august and intelligent and impartial Judiciaries in the world can be influenced by menace, or swayed in its decisions by the fretful insolence of one of the parties before it, we see no benefit which the Governor of Georgia has conferred upon his State by this silly indulgence in spleen and peevishness, and by the wilful misconstructions which he has been led to place on a proper, temperate and respectful communication. Weakness may be sneered at by folly, and oppressed by power, but before the tribunals of justice, it acquires a strength equal to that of the most haughty and self elevated spirit--it has rights which entitle it to equal respect, and command for it equal attention. Were it to accomplish no other end, the decision of the Supreme Court on this great question would be of the first importance, even if it should be adverse to the Indians, because of its efforts in reconciling to a measure of such sternness those friends of humanity who consider the legislative act by which it has been decreed as the result of prejudices which ought to be subdued rather than indulged, or of party feelings, which should never be allowed to mingle in a question of such vital consequence to thousands of human beings.

Nat. Jour.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






A CARD

To the Editor of the Baltimore Gazette



I observe in your paper of last evening, as extracted from Poulson's Philadelphia American, a letter of mine to the Governor of Georgia, of June 4th, 1830, and the Governor's answer of the 19th of that month. I wish it to be understood that the publication of these letters has not proceeded either directly of indirectly from me; although I have certainly no cause to regret it on my own account. My letter to the Governor is in accordance with the professional courtesy, which prevails in Virginia and Maryland, of giving notice, even to a private gentleman, of a contemplated suit, before proceeding against him. It is always intended as a mark of respect, and, in this quarter of the Union, is always so received by the gentleman addressed. I thought it still more imperiously due to the Governor of the State of Georgia. The other motives of my letter are apparent upon its face, and are cheerfully submitted to the construction of the Public.

There is only one passage of my own letter which to the general reader, can require a word of explanation.- My suggestion to the Governor is not that 'myself, the Indians and the Governor, shall make up a case to be submitted to the Supreme Court:' It is simply, that 'the decision may be expedited, by making a case by consent, if that course should suit the views of the state of Georgia.' The State of Maryland had done this, on the occasion of her law to tax the Branch Bank of the United States established at Baltimore: McCulloh vs. the State of Maryland 4 Wheaton, 316; and again, on the occasion of another State law, requiring the importers and vendors of foreign goods to take out a license from the State- Brown vs. the State of Maryland 12 Wheaton, 419.   This last case is made up in the form of pleadings, not requiring a statement of facts. But in both cases, the Attorney General of the State, it is understood, co-operated in the measure, and under the instruction of the State authorities, gave facility and despatch to the reference of the questions to the decision of the Supreme Court.- In both these cases, the question involved was the constitutionality of a State law; and, in both, the State of Maryland united in the reference of this question to the Supreme Court, and acquiesced in the decision. It was with these cases in view, that I made the suggestion in question, to the Governor of Georgia.

I did not answer the Governor's letter, because it must be seen that it neither required nor admitted an answer in the spirit of courtesy in which I had addressed him, and from which I thought and still think it improper to depart.- His letter surprised me, because I supposed the object and language of my own too plain to be misunderstood, and too respectful to have awakened feelings of displeasure.- The Governor having viewed it in a different light, I am not at all dissatisfied with the publication of the letters, which I presume is intended as an appeal to the people of the United States. To such an appeal I can have no objection, though my respect for the State of Georgia and my desire to avoid all needless irritation, would not have permitted me to make it.

WM. WIRT.

Baltimore, Sept. 9, 1930.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: Oct. 1, 1830

The United States' troops have again lately scoured the gold mines. At the upper mines, we understand they arrested upwards of one hundred, including whites, and Cherokees. The Indians were released on the ground after being kept under guard one night, and peremptorily forbidden to dig any more. The whites, were driven across the Chestitee, and they also were released. At the Six's no Cherokee was arrested, but they were ordered to desist digging. It now appears plainly that our GREAT FATHER considers us in the light of intruders.

_______________

We publish on our first page the charge of Judge Clayton to the grand jury of Clark County. In its spirit ' temper it belongs to the same tribe with Gov. Gilmer's letter to Mr. Wirt, and perhaps it is the more exceptionable of the two, proceeding as it does from a JUDGE, who of all men ought to avoid peevishness and unnecessary passion. This gentleman, we understand, observed at his late court at Gainsville, that if the case is ever carried to the Supreme Court, it ought to be over the dead bodies of the people of Georgia! Here is chivalry indeed-we would as soon trust a barbarian for justice as such a military judge. But then, why did not his honor try the Indian cases which were on docket before him? Why did he not try, convict, and command to be executed on the gallows, the Cherokee who is now in jail charged with the crime of murder? We cannot tell-we only know he did not do it.

We copy from the Journal of Commerce the following remarks of a correspondent of that paper. The writer has been and is yet in favor of Georgia, but, it will be seen, not in favor of the miserable revilings of Judge Clayton.

I cannot refrain from the expressions of my deep regret that Judge Clayton, in his late charge to the Grand Jurors of Clark County, (Geo.) should have considered it necessary to anticipate his judgment upon the question to come up in the progress of the dispute between Georgia and the Cherokees. I deprecate, moreover, the temper he has displayed in the vindication of his follow citizens, and crimination of those who differ with them. But it seems to be the fashion of the times, that all our institutions, the Press, the Legislature, and the Judiciary, shall be degraded by all manner of revilings, incited by the most sordid and vulgar motives.

__________________

At the late superior court in Laurenceville, for Gwinnett County, we are told Judge Clayton charged the grand jury to find a true bill against Mr. Ross, for convening the late called council, and if possible have him arrested before the rise of court. Whether such a bill has been found, we know not-there has been no officer at Mr. Ross'

____________________

A few weeks ago the Principal Chief received a communication from the Secretary of War, through the agent, which we presume was intended for the benefit of the Cherokee people. It has not yet been sent to us for publication. It is a silly production for a great man. The honorable Secretary says, you might as well expect to see young turkies (sic) domesticated as to see the Indians become civilized where they are.  'True enough,' says one of our Cherokee correspondents, 'if you are continually setting dogs and saucy boys upon them.'

We publish in another part our paper the Talk of the President of the United States to the Chickasaw Delegation at Franklin, Ten. We presume it was written by the Hon. Secretary of war- the expressions, 'A determination was taken,' 'c. and, 'No intention or wish is had' 'c. makes it evident that the document was written by him. Of this talk we repeat a few sentences.

'Brothers, listen:-'The laws to which you must be subjected [yes, subjected] are not oppressive, for they are those to which your white brothers conform, and are happy' [of course you may also be happy].

In the very next paragraph, we find the following: 'Where you are, it is not possible you can live contented and happy. Besides, the laws of Mississippi,' 'c.

Again-'To these laws, where you are, you must submit; [must submit] there is no preventive-no other alternative.'

'Our forefathers had the same feelings when a long time ago, to obtain happiness, they left their lands beyond the great waters, and sought a new and quiet home.' We suppose, however, our great father would not justify the measures which compelled many of the first English settlers to leave the mother country.

Once more-'Intruders, traders, and above all, ardent spirits so destructive to health and morals, will be kept from among you, only as the laws and ordinances of your nation may sanction their admission.' On this we give a very satisfactory and complete commentary in the following extract of a letter of the Rev. Mr. Washburn, of the Cherokee Nation west of the Mississippi, to the editors of the Missionary Herald, dated 4th of last July. It is said that 'actions speak louder than words.'

Temperance is sadly declining. There has been more drunkenness in the tribe during the last six months, than for the whole six years preceding. There is at this moment, I suppose not less than 100 or 150 barrels of whiskey in the nation; which, including the recent emigrants from the Cherokees in Georgia, and all the slaves, does not certainly contain a population of more than 2,500. The report abroad, that a considerable sum of money would shortly be paid to the Cherokees, has brought a flood of merchants and traders into the neighborhood and into the nation. All these sell whiskey to the Indians. Many Cherokees, and whites with Cherokee families, buy this article in large quantities to sell again. I suppose between 50 and 100 persons now in the nation have whiskey for sale, and it scattered all along the eastern line. It is doing most horrid mischief. Men, women, and children are daily to be seen and unavoidably heard in a state of brutal intoxication. Farms of considerable size and excellent quality are to be seen, in almost every neighborhood, wholly uncultivated, because the owner is constantly drunk.

Gambling, fighting, debauchery, murder, and every evil work are the concomitants of this prevalence of intemperance. Since last December not less than 50 persons in this nation have gone into eternity, in consequence of intemperance. Some of them have been murdered; but most of them have been taken off by inflammatory diseases induced by drunkenness. Many have been brought near the grave, and have yet been spared to drink still more of this liquid fire. Not a few have got broken bones, and been otherwise maimed and braised, in their drunken revels. But no description of mine can fully paint the whole mischief arising from the diffusion of ardent spirit here. I would not, I need not, I do not exaggerate. If the same state of thing shall continue a few months more, the nation is ruined.

All this whiskey comes from white men residing out of the nation.--Much comes down the Mississippi and Ohio, and much is brought from New Orleans. Many who sell it are residents of the Arkansas territory, and many from other states, and some from New England and New York.

_______________

We most cheerfully give insertion to the following resolutions. The time has come when it is the duty of every friend of justice and humanity to speak out and express his opinion, and raise his voice in favor of oppressed innocence. Why should not missionaries, the true friends of the Indians, who toil day and night for their spiritual good, be permitted to exercise the sacred right of freemen, liberty of speech and freedom of opinion? Must their mouths be muzzled, because they are the ambassadors of religion?  Must they weep only in silence while they see daily the wrongs heaped upon the people of their spiritual charge?  Surely they feel and they have the most unquestionable right to speak. Let it be remembered also that they have been most criminally and shamefully abused and misrepresented by the enemies of Indians.

At a meeting of the Methodist Missionaries in the Cherokee Nation, held at Chattanooga Camp Ground, on Saturday evening the 25th of Sept. 1830, the Rev. Francis A Owen was appointed to the chair, and the Rev. Dickson C. McLeod was appointed Secretary; after which the following resolutions were unanimously adopted.

Resolved, That it is the sincere opinion of this meeting that the oppressed condition of our brethren, the Cherokees, and the future prosperity of the missionary cause among them, do most importunately solicit from the Tennessee Annual Conference a public, and official expression of sentiment on the subject of these grievances.

Resolved, That the present Missionaries in the Cherokee Nation will give, as soon as practicable, a public detail of the civil, moral, and religious condition of this nation, and embody their several accounts in one condensed general report.

Resolved, That all the Missionaries in their detailed accounts, unequivocally testify, that it is abundantly evident that the people of the Cherokee Nation are firmly resolved not to remove from their present homes, unless forced so to do either by power or oppression.

Resolved, That whereas it has been stated to the public, that the Missionaries are associated with, and under the controlling influence of the principal men of the nation, in order to extend our missionary operations here, we do hereby most solemnly and unhesitatingly deny the charge.

It is unanimously resolved by this missionary convention that the present aggrieved condition of the Cherokees loudly calls for the sympathy and religious interposition of the Christian community in these United States, together with all the  true and faithful friends of humanity and justice.

Resolved, That the Secretary of this meeting forward the above resolutions to the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix, and to the editors of the Christian Advocate and Journal, for publication.

(Signed) FRANCES A. OWEN, PRESIDENT

GREENBERRY GARRETT

JOSEPH MILLER

WM. J, MCFERRIN.

NICHOLAS D. SCALES,

JAMES J. TROTT,

JACOB ELLINGER

A true copy,

DICKSON C. MCLEOD, Secretary

___________

Large Snake.- We saw the other day at the house of Mr. Edward Adair, Oougillogee, the skin of a snake lately killed in that neighborhood, which was considered by all who saw it uncommonly large, being seven feet and one inch in length, and thirteen inches and a half in circumference. It is true he was not as large as the Kentucky snake, but his equal is rarely found in this country. He was of the Diamond Rattle Snake, a species very seldom seen being the first we ever saw.  If a person is bit by this kind, it is said to be a hopeless case.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NOTICE

I HEREBY forewarn all persons from harboring and trading with SELAH BLACKWELL, on my account, as she has never been legally my wife. I have sufficient evidence to prove that the said Selah Blackwell is the lawful wife of one Mr. Young. I therefore solemnly protest against any proceedings either in law, or in any other way, against me on her account.

ALEXANDER MCDONALD.

July 31, 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






TALK OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,

Through the Secretary of War and General Coffee, to the Chickasaw Delegation, at Franklin, Tenn. on the 22d August, 1830.

Friends and Brothers:- Your Great Father is rejoiced once again to meet and shake you by the hand, and to have it in his power to assure you of his continued friendship and goodwill. He can cherish none but the best feelings for his red children, many of whom, during our late war, fought with him in defence of our country.

By a communication from you elder brethren and neighbors, the Choctaws, during the last winter, your Great Father learned that in consequence of the laws of Mississippi being extended over them, they were in great alarm; and of their own free will, and without any application from him, they asked to leave their country and retire across the Mississippi River. The treaty sent by them to him was laid before the Senate of the United States, and they refused to approve it. Solicitous to avoid every act the tendency of which might be to deceive or impose upon his red children, he laid the treaty, which was presented to him, before the Senate, with the protest which had been forwarded against it by the opposite party of the Choctaw Nation, that all the circumstances might be fully known;--it was rejected. Of these things, their confidential Agent, Maj. Haly, was advised, and he was requested to make them known to the Choctaws. Understanding from him that they were desirous to see and converse with their Great Father on this important subject, he agreed, in accordance with that desire, to meet them at this place. With regret he now learns they have declined their engagement.

By an act of Congress is was placed in his power to extend justice to the Indians--to pay the expenses of their removal--to support them for twelve months, and to give them a grant for lands which should endure 'as longs as grass grows or water runs.' A determination was taken immediately to advise his red children of the means which were thus placed at his disposal to render them happy and preserve them as nations. It was for this, that he asked his Chickasaw and other friends to met him here. You have come, and your Great Father rejoices to tell you, through his commissioners the truth, and point you to a course which cannot fail to make you a happy and prosperous people. Hear and deliberate well on what he shall say, and under the exercise of your own reason and matured judgment determine what may appear to you best to be done for the benefit of yourselves and your children.

Brothers:- You have long dwelt upon the soil you occupy, and in early time before the white man kindled his fires too near to yours, and by settling around, narrowed down the limits of the chase, you were, though uninstructed, yet a happy people. Now your white brothers are around you. States have been erected within your ancient limits, which claim a right to govern and control your people as they do their own citizens, and to make them answerable to their civil and criminal codes. Your Great Father has not the authority to prevent this state of things; and he now asks if you are prepared and ready to submit yourselves to the laws of Mississippi, make a surrender of your ancient laws and customs, and peaceably and quietly live under those of the white man?

Brothers, listen:- The laws to which you must be subjected, are not oppressive, for they are those to which your white brothers conform, and are happy. Under them, you will not be permitted to seek private revenge, but in all cases where wrong may be done, you are through them to seek redress. No taxes upon your property or yourselves, except such as may be imposed upon a white brother, will be assessed against you.- The court will be open for the redress of wrongs; and bad men will be made answerable for whatever crimes or misdemeanors may be committed by any of your people, or our own.

Brothers listen:- To these laws, where you are, you must submit there is no preventive--no other alternative. Your great Father cannot nor can Congress, prevent it. The States only can. What then?  Do you believe that we can live under those laws. That you can surrender all your ancient habits and the forms by which you have been so long controlled? If so, your Great Father has nothing to say or to advise. He has only to express a hope that you may find happiness in the determination you shall make, whatever it may be. His earnest desire, is, that you may be perpetuated and preserved as a nation; and this he believes can only be done and secured by your consent to remove to a country beyond the Mississippi, which for the happiness of our red friends was laid out by the Government a long time since, and to which it was expected ere this they would have gone. Where you are, it is not possible you can live contented and happy.  Besides the laws of Mississippi which must operate upon you, and which your Great Father cannot prevent, white men continually intruding are with difficulty kept off your lands, and difficulties continue to increase around you.

Brothers:- The law of Congress usually called the 'Intercourse Act' has been resorted to, to afford relief, but in many instances has failed of success. Our white population has so extended around in every direction, that difficulties and troubles are to be expected. Cannot this state of things be prevented? Your firm determination can only do it.

Brothers, listen:- There is no unkindness in the offers made to you. No intention or wish is had to force you from your lands, but rather to intimate to you what is for your own interest. The attachment you feel for the soil which covers the bones of your ancestors is well known. Our forefathers had the same feeling, when a long time ago to obtain happiness they left their lands beyond the great waters, and sought a new and quiet home in a distant and unexplored regions. If they had not done so where would have been their children and prosperity they now enjoy? The old world would scarcely have afforded support for a people, who, by the change their fathers made, have become prosperous and happy. In future time so will it be with your children. Old men! Arouse to energy and lead your children to a land of promise and of peace before the Great Spirit shall call you to die. Young Chiefs! Forget the prejudices you feel for the soil of your birth and go to a land where you can preserve your people as a nation. Peace invited you there-annoyance will be left behind--within your limits no State or Territorial authority will be permitted. Intruders, traders, and above all ardent spirits so destructive to health ' morals will be kept from among you, only as the laws and ordinances of your nation may sanction their admission. And that the weak may not be assailed by their strong and more powerful neighbors, care shall be taken and stipulations made that the United States, by arms if necessary will preserve and maintain peace amongst the tribes, and guard them from the assaults of enemies of every kind whether white or red.

Brothers, listen:- These things are for your serious consideration, and it behooves you well to think of them-- The present is the time you are asked to do so. Reject the opportunity which is now offered to obtain comfortable homes and the time may soon pass away when such advantages as are now within your reach may not again be presented. If from the course you now pursue this shall be the case, then call not upon your Great Father hereafter to relieve you of your troubles, but make up your minds conclusively to remain upon the lands you occupy, and be subject to the laws of the State where you now reside to the same extent that her own citizens are.  In a few years by becoming amalgamated with the whites, your national character will be lost, and then like other tribes who have gone before you, you must disappear and be forgotten.

Brothers:- If you are disposed to remove, say so, and state the terms you may consider just equitable. Your Great Father is ready and has instructed his commissioners to admit such as shall be considered liberal to the extent that he can calculated the Senate of the United States will sanction.--Terms of any other character it would be useless for you to insist upon, as without their consent and approval no arrangement to be made could prove effectual. Should you determine to remain where you are, candidly say so, and let us be done with the subject, no more to be talked of again.  But if disposed to consult your true interests and to remove, then present the terms on which you are willing to do so, to my friends, the Secretary of War and Gen. John Coffee, who are authorized to confer with you, and who in the arrangements to be made, will act candidly, fairly, and liberally towards you. ANDREW JACKSON.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We copy the following from the Georgia Journal, particularly the latter part, as a good specimen of the chivalry of some of the inhabitants of Georgia.

Under the present circumstances, and in the actual posture of our Indian affairs, what has Georgia to do? Nothing but to remain firm; nothing but to have her laws well executed, and strictly obeyed. If we, Georgians, can live happy and contented, under those laws, the Cherokees who are represented by northern citizens, as more civilized than we are, can easily submit to them and enjoy all the freedom we do. No concessions should be made to the northern fanatics and hypocrites. No compromise should be made with the federal government, respecting a portion of the territory we claim. If Georgia is an independent and sovereign state, she is entitled to all the land lying within the boundaries acknowledged by foreign powers and her sister States of the confederation. If she is not an independent state, then the people will have to obey the sovereign power, which must reside either in the federal government or in the Cherokee council; in which case the latter would be justified by Mr. Wirt in extending the laws of the Cherokees over the territory now occupied by the white citizens of Georgia, and, with the assistance of their northern friends armed and equipped in the Indian fashion, with tomahawks, bows and arrows, attempting to compel them to learn civilization from the Cherokees, and become as good and exemplary Christians as they are. But as she is independent and sovereign, she must exercise the attribute of that sovereignty. She must protest against the federal government meddling in those concerns, except in those matters authorized by the federal constitution, and the laws passed under its sanction. We will have to let the northern fanatics and hypocrites rail at us; call us barbarians; declare in their papers that we ought all to be hanged. Words and abuse do not hurt. But we must tell them, that at their peril, they are not to cross the Savannah River, even if our sister Southern States shall give them a passage through their territories. Yes, at their peril, let them dare the passage of the Savannah.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






War among the Indians.- It appears that a kind of exterminating war has broken out between the Cherokees, Shawnees, Delawares, and other tribes of Northern Indians, lately removed to Texas, and the Tahuacanies, Wacos, and Comanches.  Col. Bean writes from Nacogdoches under date of 29th May, to a gentleman in this place that the Cherokees, Shawnees, and Kikapoos have gone to war with the Tahuacanies and Wacos; that they had one battle, in which the latter lost thirty killed, and the former five.

It also seems that the Comanches have been driven from their former hunting grounds at the heads of the Brazos and Colorado, and forced to seek refuge in the South Western part of Texas, and on the Neuces and Rio Grande, by a tribe of Indians heretofore unknown to them.

Texas Gazette.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






$30.00 REWARD

STOLEN from the subscribers stable on the night of Monday the 16th instant a light sorrel gelding, about five feet high, nine or ten years old, with a flax mane and tail. He paces, canters and trots pretty well, and had on when stolen, good shoes before, but had lost the shoe of his right hind foot. He has several small scars, occasioned by the biting of mules, one of which is on his right hind leg a little above the fetter lock joint. The thief may cut his tail and roach his main, in order to disguise him.  He also took a Saddle, (nearly new) with common Stirrup Irons, a Bridle, Martingales and a new cross barred blanket.- Any person securing the horse and thief, so that the latter can be brought to justice shall receive the above reward; or Ten Dollars for the Horse alone, with reasonable expenses, if delivered to the subscriber residing near the road leading from Washington to Augusta, seven miles above Haysville

N.B. The thief is supposed to be a man about 5 feet 8 or 10 inches high, sallow complexion, thin visage, about 30 or 35 years of age; and wore a quaker hat, old striped round-about, light coloured pantaloons, right and left shoes, and ribbed socks blue mixed.

SAMUEL BROOKS,

Washington Geo. August 19, 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the Spirit of the Pilgrims.

SPEECHES ON THE INDIAN BILL.*

ACTUM EST DE REPUBLICA! The contemplated perfidy is accomplished; the Constitution has been violated by its appointed guardians, and whatever may be its consequences to the Indians, a page of the darkest guilt is already written in our country's history. The passage of the Indian Bill has disgraced us as a people, has wounded our national honor, and exposed us to the merited reproach of all civilized communities in the world. If we go on in this way, we shall become a by-word to the nations. It will no longer be Punica futes, that point the moral of the school-boy, and tips the arrow of the public satirist with gall. The memory of the wicked shall rot;- but the memory of a faithless nation cannot mingle itself with perishable elements; can never stagnate in the forgetness of contempt. Ours will be embalmed unless we prevent it by a timely interposition, in curses that can never lose their energy or weary the tongue which utters them.

The world may now see what reliance can be placed upon the faith of a republic. Had we been dealing with a European community, instead of an Indian tribe, who would have dared mention the claims of selfishness, or the clamors of party, against the solemn obligation of treaties?-- The frown of the eastern continent alone would have intimidated the most reckless politician.  But a nation that will cheat an inferior, will also, should a fair opportunity occur, overreach and violate justice with a higher power; nor can any confidence be placed, either in an individual or a community of individuals, proved to have acted, on a great and important occasion, rather as a furious partisan, or an unprincipled marauder, then from a sense of duty, or a knowledge of the truth. This is not the first time that the American Republic has shown a disposition to trifle with the sacredness of its plighted faith; it was all that the eloquence of an Ames could do, to keep his countrymen, in the memorable winter of 1796 from the guilt and the dreadful consequences of violating the British Treaty.

'Let me not even imagine,' said this illustrious orator, 'that a republican government, sprung, as our own is, from a people enlightened and uncorrupted, a government, whose origin is right and whose daily discipline is duty, can, upon a solemn debate, make its option to be faithless; can dare to act, what despots dare not avow: what our own example evinces that the States of Barbary are unsuspected of.'

When the subject of Indian rights began to be agitated in this country, it was regarded by reflecting minds as by far the most important which had occupied the public attention for many years. The apathy manifested throughout the nation as to the possible fate of these interesting communities was looked upon with anxiety, as an indication of the most alarming blindness or insensibility. It seemed to argue a torpor of patriotic feeling, a selfish indifference as to the treatment of a defenseless people, which was cruel and criminal in the highest degree. It argued a melancholy disregard of the sacredness of national faith; a point on which the citizens of a republic should be exquisitely sensitive-on which they could hardly be sensitive to a fault.

On a subject like this, no people can be made to feel deeply without information; unless, indeed, oppression enter their very doors, and come in a palpable form to each man's senses. No question, therefore, involving the rights, the property, and the privileges of a large body of men, ought to be discussed in a republican legislature; till the public mind has first been rightly directed to it and informed respecting it.

The subject of Indian rights was too long delayed, to admit of its being examined before the tribunal of public opinion, till it was on the eve of a final decision in Congress. It should have been foreseen and studied by the people at a period previous to the last election of their representatives, that they might have sent them prepared to vote for the nation, and thus have preserved a question of such vast importance from the possibility of being influenced in its decision by the bitterness of party prejudice. This is done in regard to such bills as the tariff; and why should a mere political business be treated with more solicitude, than that which touches the honor of the nation, and is to influence the lives and liberties, as well as the fortunes of men. In respect to the Indian Bill, sufficient time was not afforded for the people to form and utter their judgment. Memorials were indeed numerous; yet the expression of public feeling was faint, compared with what the exigencies of the case demanded, and with what we should have witnessed, had the true nature of the bill, the character prospects, and rights of the Indians and the wretched sophistry of their enemies, been largely exhibited, and illustrated with familiarity and power.

There is, however, a portion of our people who cannot plead ignorance in excuse for their apathy, and whose course would not have been altered by the greatest degree of additional light and information.  The people of Georgia, or their leading partizans, know well the merits of this case; but there, as in some other parts of the country, the prevalent feeling in regard to the Indians seem to be not merely reckless, but inhuman ' savage. If the toasts at public celebrations are not a totally false indication of the tone of public feeling, then what must be the degradation of morality and honor which could dictate or tolerate such sentiments as some of those delivered at public dinners on the 4th of July in Georgia? The style of expression adopted by some members of Congress from Georgia, in speaking of the Indians, is another proof of the cruel indifference and contempt, if not absolute hatred, with which this portion of our race are regarded in the scale of human existence. The idea of sympathy for their distresses, or anxiety for their fate was scouted, as if it were perfectly ridiculous. The designation of 'poor devils' applied to them by Mr. Forsyth, was an outrage on the moral sense of the whole community; an insult upon the Senate; a contemptible taunt upon the Cherokee Nation, which a child's sense of honor might have taught him to spare; a wanton violation of the delicacy due to the feelings of the Cherokee Chiefs in his hearing.  With what a sense of wounded dignity, with what grief of soul, with what ideas in regard to Christian and civilized refinement, must they have departed that day from the halls of Congress!

The discussion of this bill in the Senate and House of Representatives produced appearance not often witnessed in the deliberative proceedings of a national assembly. In the Senate, the American Senate, which ought, of all bodies in the world, to be most illustrious for its dignity and virtue, was witnessed, to an implied, but a direct, disgraceful refusal to maintain inviolate the public faith.  There was witnessed the evasion of an appeal, repeatedly urged in the most solemn manner, and intended to obtain a pledge, that nothing in the measures about to be adopted should lie construed as denying the obligation of existing treaties, or operating to suspend their execution. Messrs. Sprague and Frelinghuysen, it will be remembered both offered amendments to the bill, whose total and repeated failure placed the Senate repeatedly in this disgraceful attitude. The last proviso offered by Mr. Frelinghuysen was the following:

'Provided always, That nothing, herein contained shall be so construed, as to authorize the departure from or non-observance of, any treaty, compact, agreement, or stipulation, heretofore entered into and now subsisting between the United States and the Cherokee Indians.'

This was rejected by the Senate, which thus publicly authorized the violation of its own most solemn acts. Mr. Sprague's previously proposed amendment was as follows:

'Provided always, that until the said tribe or nation shall choose to remove, as is by this Act contemplated, they shall be protected in their present possessions, and in the enjoyment of their rights of territory and government, as promised and guarantied to them by treaties with the United States according to the true intent and meaning of such treaties.'

This was rejected by the Senate, thus publicly reiterating the denial of the President to the demand of the Cherokees for protection! We were astonished and grieved when we found that this avowal of a determination to break the plighted faith of the United States excited so little alarm in indignation.

The discussion of the bill in the House of Representatives, was attended with circumstances, if possible, more fatal to the cause of justice, and more discreditable to the character of a legislative assembly.  For some time at first, the supporters of the measure seemed anxious; but all at once, their whole manner changed; their air was confident; they gave up the floor to their opponents, scarcely deigning to be present, or listening to them with the utmost indifference, and evincing by their whole deportment, what was known to be true, that they had brought about an arrangement among the members, by which they had secured to themselves a majority, before the hearing of the case.

Our disgrace and guilt as a community are great; and if it be possible, (which we will not believe,) that this measure can ever be executed according to the intention of its authors, this nation will be criminal indeed. In a merely worldly point of view, the plan in question can bring nothing by unmingled odium now, and incalculable expense and injury hereafter. These would grow out of the natural operation of the bill itself. Then too, we must remember the terrific consequences of blotting the national reputation, and breaking down the national spirit, involved in the act of annihilating the public faith. Individually, a liar is the basest creature that walks the earth: can the spirit of a perjured nation be less degraded?  Still more, let us remember, this cause must be heard in the chancery of Heaven; and for a nation to incur the vengeance of that court, is an evil which no mind can grasp-no words express.

But in spite of its present result, the discussion of this question in Congress must prove, unless all honor and humanity in the country be extinct, eminently advantageous to the interests of the Indians.  It could hardly be otherwise, so long as opportunity of free discussion was not prevented. No course could be more fatal to the Indians, than silence on the part of their friends, either in Congress or out of it. Truth, justice and benevolence, are on their side; the power of argument, and the power of Christian feeling, any discussion therefore though ever so limited, if respectable talents are engaged must be favorable to the Cherokees. Accordingly; if this interesting people are saved, it will be in a great measure, through the defence their cause has received on the floor of Congress, though that defence was inadequate to arrest the progress of the Indian Bill, borne onward as it was by the concentrated energy of an inflexible political party.

The investigation acts upon public feeling ' public feeling thus corrected, reacts more powerfully upon Congress.  There is not a pin left to hang a doubt upon. The case of the Cherokees has been defended with such irresistible power of argument, that any man in his senses, who has but glanced at the public prints of the last six months, must feel ashamed to open his mouth in favor of their oppressors, or in support of the miserable sophistry, patched up for its excuse. We do not believe that a question ever cam into Congress, where the argument, the eloquence, and the truth were so exclusively on one side. The speeches of the supporters of this iniquitous bill were as lame and poverty-stricken, as could well be imagined. Whatever of declamation they exhibited was disgraceful for its inhumanity of feeling, and its recklessness of truth; and every thing that looked like argument received from their opponents a complete annihilation.  Notwithstanding the final result  of the discussion, and the fact, that the resolution of the party had been made up before it commenced, and not upon any grounds of reason or humanity; there never was a nobler triumph of truth over falsehood. It would doubtless have been favorable to the cause of the Cherokees, if some one or two of the speeches against them had been printed in the coming volume. The miserable abortions would have operated as powerfully by their own moral deformity, lameness in argument, and ragged beggarly appearance, to produce a conviction of the truth, as the best reasoning on the other side.

This discussion is of great benefit to the Indians, by making known their present character and condition. The proofs of their civilization and Christianity were before few and scattered like the leaves of the Sybil. We refer not now to the information obtained directly from Missionaries; there was enough of this to satisfy any candid mind; but it bore not the world seal. It was the best authority, but from mere prejudice, was often discredited:- in its teeth and eyes, men persisted in asserting that the Indians were all savages! It is an absolute fact, that many in the community hardly knew that such a people as the Cherokees existed; and which this truth was with good deal of pains discovered, an ideal picture of their state came with it like that which we form of the condition of the earliest Aborigines. No reasoning, no statements of the truth, though backed by the testimony of the most unimpeachable witnesses, could uproot these prejudices from the minds in some instances, even of enlightened and charitable men. The sanction of respectable Senators and Representatives in Congress will, however, work wonders. When it was found that such men as Mr. Sprague, Mr. Everett, and others believed in the doctrine of Indian improvement, there was no longer any want of converts. It began to be suspected that the Cherokees were not absolutely wild; and that even Missionaries could speak the truth. In the light shed upon this subject, slander and sophistry, as were palmed upon the public in the North American Review, appear in their proper nakedness. It has come to pass, moreover, that a man may exert himself in favor of this oppressed race, and yet not be suspected of fanaticism, or branded with the title of a meddling enthusiast. The most shameless presses are sparing of such epithets, when they fall upon able Senators of the United States, as well as on the respected author of the Essays of Wm. Penn. We were gratified when we saw Mr. Everett, with the true dignity of an honorable mind, expressing on the floor of Congress his own respect for the motives and character of that gentleman.

Had the activity of the friends of Indian rights in Congress been instantly succeeded by a corresponding activity, on the part of their friends throughout the country, the result would have been incalculably more favorable. Delay, and supineness have marked their efforts. It is the fate of almost every measure adopted in behalf of the Indians, to have been suggested and executed too late.- When the final passage of the Indian Bill was made known, the papers abandoned the subject; for a while there was a slight excitement, ---but it soon died away; a few speeches were published in a few journals, but most editors were too busy with the insignificant trifles of the moment, to allow themselves to bestow much attention on this momentous subject.  Scarcely a newspaper has performed its duty; and now the topic is almost forgotten. A steamboat disaster still awaken more sympathy and talk, than the alarming occurrences that are every week taking place to terrify, coerce, and enrage the Cherokees. Yet the Cherokee Phoenix contains, in every number, sufficient matter to awaken the public mind, if it could but gain attentive readers. It is but lately that, in reading that paper, we met with the following fact. It has been extensively circulated, but it will do no harm to repeat it here.

'Mr. Gray, a Cherokee, owed a small sum of money to a citizen of Georgia, who wished to obtain payment by law. An officer appeared with a writ, but being unable to obtain property belonging to Gray, and finding another Indian in the neighborhood, possessed some cattle, he seized them, and soon made return of the writ, before a magistrate's court.  The owner of the cattle thus stolen, appeared and stated the fact, but as the evidence of an Indian is, by the Georgia law, inadmissible against a white man, and indeed he cannot be received as a witness in any case, his property was sold before his eyes, and under the authority of the court, for the payment of his neighbor's debt.'

These things are not done in a corner, but in open day, in this very republic, where we boast the security of our freedom, and the perfection of our laws. If we formed our opinions in the slightest degree upon preconceived notions of the Indian character, we should not be surprised to learn by the next mail from the South, that the Cherokees had risen, with the determination to die by the sword, rather than endure any longer the merciless tyranny of such state legislation. But they possess a patience which is truly affecting; a submissiveness that no other Christian nation would have shown. 'We could bear reproach,' said Mr. Storrs, 'from the proud ' insolent; but there is eloquence in the humility with which these people plead their wrongs. We feel our gilt in the very submissiveness with which they reproach us.'  Amidst all that they endure, there is wisdom, energy, and greatness of mind in their proceedings. We are mistaken if their dignified and spirited proclamation to the people of the United States does not produce a powerful impression.

This is a case of such complicated absurdity and wickedness on the part of our government, that the wise framers of the Constitution, with all their extreme care, seem never to have had it suggested to their imagination. A cruel policy towards the Indians was the last thing which those noble patriots would have thought of. But we look upon it as though it contained nothing to disturb our security, nothing to demand our intervention. A whole people, free, from the remotest period, but feeble through the overshadowing growth of our strength, have cast themselves upon our government for protection; ' we have sworn protection, by forms as solemn as any with which language can bind a nation. Enslaved upon their own soil, and reduced to political beggary and disorganization, by the tyranny of a neighboring state, they appeal to the executive  for the performance of our oath; and he tells them that the Constitution will not hear him out in their defence; assured and pledged though it be, in treaties piled upon treaties, some of them executed by his own hand, and defined to be the supreme law of the land, 'any thing in the laws of any state notwithstanding.' Disappointed in this appeal, they carry it by a solemn delegation before the United States in Congress assembled, and it is supposed by all the eloquence and power of argument of which the truth is capable; yet here the national engagements are not only refused to be sustained, but a bill is passed enabling the President to co-operate with the tyranny of Georgia, in expelling them from their lands, their rights and everything on earth dear to them. The time passes on; a gang of intruders rush in, and terrify and trample upon their people; their persons are imprisoned; their lives at the mercy of any ruffian who chooses to murder; they are interrupted while in the exercise of their lawful industry, and forced away at the point of the bayonet; all is confusion, terror, insecurity, dismay. Again the President comes before them at this trying conjuncture, with the proposition for their removal, and the declaration, that he can offer no legal protection. The very troops that were stationed to keep peace in their borders are withdrawn, and commanded to aid in executing the civil processes of Georgia; and the defenseless Cherokees are thus totally deserted to the mercy of a state, whose statutes in this case may well be said to be written in blood; to the operation of laws, by which they are annihilated as a community, and enslaved as individuals; to the rush, finally, of an army of miserly and impatient gold-diggers.

What is to be done? Had the slightest attempt at such insufferable aggressions been made upon the whites, what indignation would have ensued! And shall we be less jealous of the freedom of a people voluntarily dependent upon us, ' in all respects independent of every other community?  If the President absolutely refuses to perform his duty in such cases, we are fast striding towards despotism.  Are the Cherokees to be suffered to remain month after month in the power of a state, which has abrogated their institutions, annihilated their political existence, and made them private slaves? Are they to be left exposed to all manner of rapine and murder, without the possibility of effectual resistance on their part, and without a single refuge to which they may flee for safety? And this too, while they have brought an action; entered a complaint against their oppressors, in the Supreme Judicial Court of the Republic? Why, we should treat the veriest gang of robbers with more lenity. While reserved for trial, they would at least be under the protection of the laws; and, though the violators of all law, they would experience its power in preserving them from popular outrage, and in the enjoyment of a fair, safe, impartial trial.  Here are the Cherokees, convicted of no crime, but in the attitude of a defenseless, injured plaintiff; subjected, all the while the trial is pending to a daily and hourly renewal of outrages enough to drive them mad: and asserted by the Executive of this Government to be beyond the protection of the law!

We ask then again, what in this crisis, is to be done? If there are no means of bringing the Executive to a sense of duty, and of compelling the execution of our intercourse laws, then must this unfortunate people remain here in the nineteenth century exposed to the slavery of laws, which would have disgraced the darkness of the middle ages; to the tyranny of a state, which, in this respect, is a despotism. Then must this state of things continue, till the tardy decision of justice from the Supreme Court shall have arrived-arrived, perhaps too late to be of any effectual benefit. We confess that such seems to be the melancholy necessity--we can think of no other alternative, unless the protestation of the people of the United States against these illegal proceedings should be so forcible as to bring the Executive Government to the immediate performance of the trust committed to its charge. And of this there can be no hope, so long as the present apathy on the subject continues.  We tremble for the possible result of such uninterrupted oppression on the minds and feelings of the Indians; but we trust in God, that their truly Christian patience and humility will not be worn out. If it should, and they should be goaded to a sanguinary struggle, it would be the day of Heaven's wrath on their oppressors, as well as the signal for their own extermination. But they possess wisdom and forbearance, as well as a keen sense of their wrongs.  Meanwhile, our citizens must be more fully enlightened in regard to this whole subject, and prepared to sustain the decision of the court, and to see that justice be done to the Indians, whatever may be the present exertions of their enemies.

The late singular order of the President, that the Cherokee annuity should be paid, not to the treasurer of the nation, as heretofore, but to individuals,** ought to arrest the attention of the most careless and open their eyes on the true character of such proceedings. It is one consequence of the extreme ignorance which has prevailed throughout the country in regard to this whole business, that the great majority of our citizens have not known whether the President and the state of Georgia, may not all this while be acting in perfect accordance with the Constitution. In his order respecting the payment of the annuity, he has violated the Treaty of Hopewell; for he commands payment to be made, in a mode directly contrary to that prescribed by the treaty. - Amidst so many treaties, torn into shreds, and scattered to the winds, perhaps and additional violation is of little importance.

The motives, which have led to this act, it is not difficult to divine. It is part of a plan of cooperation with Georgia, and evidently intended to cripple the Cherokees in their resources; to destroy their means of defence, and of support to their newspaper and national establishment, and to serve as a practical proof of the construction,which the United States Government are disposed to put upon the denationalizing laws of Georgia. No measure yet adopted is of so alarming a nature, both to the Cherokees and the people of the United States. In ever aspect, it indicates a combined determination on the part of our Executive and of Georgia to terrify the Indians into submission, and if possible, to compel them to a surrender of their rights, and an abandonment of their cause in despair, before it can be brought again into Congress, or decided in the Supreme Court of the United States. In this view, the measure is indeed dangerous; it becomes us to take care, lest a result be hastily brought about in this business, which justice, honor, and benevolence alike forbid, and which the people of the Republic would most bitterly deplore.

* The speeches against this Bill are now in press in this city, [Boston] ' will shortly be published in a neat duodecimo volume.

** Average the annuity on the Cherokee individuals, and the proportion would be about forty-six cents a piece!

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: OCT. 8, 1830

It was said, and repeated a hundred times, with a great deal of confidence, among those favorable to the emigration of the Cherokees, that the full Indians were desirous to remove, but were kept where they are by the power of the Chiefs, and laws of rigid character were enacted in Georgia to bring these chiefs to their proper senses for exercising such influence over their people. Who now asserts any such thing. Either truth has prevailed, or these Georgia laws must be miserably inefficient.

__________

The grand jury of Gwinnet County did not find a bill against Mr. Ross.

_______________

Many of the people of the United States, who think with Mr. Forsyth that the Cherokee are poor devils, may perhaps be surprised to learn that among them there are several societies for the spread of religion and morality, and what is still more astonishing, the chiefs of these people, 'who grind the faces of the poor' and 'keep them under, in poverty and ignorance,' that 'their avaricious propensity may be gratified,' generally take the lead and support them by their example and contributions. They have Missionary Societies, Tract Societies, Sunday School Societies, Benevolent Societies, Book Societies, and Temperance Societies. It was only the other day we had the pleasure of being present at the formation of a Missionary Society, the constitution of which we insert below. We wish success to every effort intended for the spread of true religion in this nation. We hope the people will feel the importance of doing something for themselves. Let us show the world that we are not so degraded as to prove the truth of Mr. Forsyth's contemptuous words, or if we are, we will manifest a strong desire to arise from such a degradation. Such a desire we found was apparent among the people at the formation of the Society of which we are speaking. They gave their mite freely. The following officers were chosen: John Ross, President--N. D. Seales; Vice President:- Col. W. S. Adair, Corresponding Secretary- Evan Nicholson, Treasurer:- John Miller, Edward Adair; Jeremiah Horn, Turtle Fields, Young Wolf, Edward Graves, Edward Gunter, Geo. W. Adair, B. F. Thompson ' Joseph Crutchfield.

CONSTITUTION

Art. 1st. This Society shall be denominated, 'The Missionary Society of the Cherokee Nation auxiliary to the Tennessee Conference Missionary Society of the Methodist Episcopal Church.'

Art. 2d. The officers of this Society shall consist of a President, Vice-President, a Corresponding and Recording Secretary, a Treasurer, and ten Managers.

Art. 3d. Five Managers shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

Art. 4th. The payment of twenty-five cents shall constitute a member for one year, and the payment of two dollars and fifty cents, at one time, shall constitute a member for life.

Art. 5th The proceeds of this Society shall be appropriated to the spread of the gospel in the Cherokee Nation.

Art. 6th The Annual meeting of this Society shall be held at the time and place of holding the last Quarterly Meeting for Conasauga Circuit in each year at which time it shall be the duty of the board of Managers to present a Report of the Society's proceedings for the past year, and recommend such measures for its future prosperity as they may deem necessary and expedient.

Art. 7th. An election or re-election of all the officers and Managers of this institution shall take place at each of its annual meetings and no person shall be eligible to an office, or appointed a manager of this Society, but a native Cherokee, or a legal citizen according to the constituted authorities of the Nation.

_____________

Anniversary meeting of the Cherokee Sunday School Society of

Mount Wesley



The second annual meeting of this society was held at Oougillogee Camp Ground on the 19th of this inst. After the reading of a very interesting Report by the Secretary, the Sunday School cause was warmly and ably advocated in three addresses; delivered to a large and respectable audience, who proved by their liberal contributions at the conclusion of the meeting that they were more than merely idle and uninterested spectators.

The first address was delivered by the Rev. N. D. Seales, in which he appropriately brought to view the great and singular advantages accruing to the rising generation, and to the community at large, from Sabbath School instruction.

The second address was delivered by the Rev. G. M. Rogers. From a brief review of the great and visible good that this society has already effected in the short space of two years, and an anticipation of its future, and more enlarged usefulness, the speaker became much animated by his theme, and very pathetically encouraged the superintendents, teachers, and patrons of the institution to proceed, if possible, with more untiring diligence in their labor of love.

The last address was delivered by the Rev. F. A. Owen, who, in a quite lucid manner demonstrated that Sabbath School institutions are calculated to be one of the most efficient auxiliaries in the promotion of the missionary cause in this nation; and that consequently every laudable effort, within our power, should be made in the support of an institution so beneficial in its results. He also suggested, and even urged the propriety of forming Bible Classes in every neighborhood where it would be practicable, as being very conducive to the spread of scriptural knowledge.

The Board have resolved to put the plan of Bible Class instruction into operation as soon as possible, and have made arrangements to obtain a suitable library of books for the purpose. This measure, if carried into successful operation, will doubtless prove a strong wall of defence, and a fruitful source of spiritual instruction to the Sunday Schools.

The following officers and managers were chosen for the ensuing year. Rev. J. I. Trott, President, John Martin, Esq. Vice President, Rev. N. D. Seales Cor. and Rec. Secretary, and Mr. J. A. Thompson, Treasurer, Messrs. Edward Adair, Evan Nicholson, Jer. Horn, Jos. Crutchfield, Johnson Thompson, George W. Adair, Andrew Adair, Col. Walter S. Adair, Benj. Paydon and John Saxon, managers.

September 22, 1830

D. C. McLeod. Ex. Cor. Sec'y.

______________

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

Mr. Boudinott,

Sir-- Were it not for the present peculiar and unpleasant situations of our nation, and the extraordinary measures used to force the Cherokees from their homes and their country, I would be content with silence; my voice should not be heard, even in audible whispers, in questioning the motives which influence the Government toward the Indians. Injustice has been done to the Cherokees, and to the State of Georgia, alone, I am not prepared to impute its perpetration. Her cruel and oppressive course has met the approbation of the United States Executive. The most solemn treaties, as well as acts of Congress, aye, the faith and honor of a proud Republic, are stained with disgrace, in order to deprive helpless Indians of their dearest rights and obtain possession of their lands, their cultivated fields, their orchards, the homes of their aged sires and little children, the country given them by their Great Father in Heaven.  Laws and treaties have been trampled with impunity under foot, that the avarice of the white man might triumph over justice. The Cherokees have appealed, though again, to the solemn pledges of protection give them by the United States- pledges which stand not only recorded in the many subsisting treaties made with these unfortunate people, but witnessed by HIM, who governs the destiny of man, Kingdoms, and Empires.

It was lately asked by a high officer of the Government, 'why should you indulge an excess of feeling for your Indians?' Let the people of this nation answer by stating all the injury and abuses which they have suffered within the last twelve months and the losses sustained under a course of unparalleled oppression on this continent-let the nation be heard in the strange efforts to extinguish its existence, and there is not a human heart but what must beat with sympathy, not a candid man who will hear but must feel that injustice 'follows in the wane' of some measures, and not a patriot that will not feel for his country's honor.

My principal object in this communication is to expose an important fact connected with the change made in the payment of our annuity. It may be proper to state first, that this annuity is not due to the individual Cherokees; but is stipulated to be paid to the 'Nation' as a nation, by the United States for lands which have been ceded by the 'Nation'. It is not a bounty prepared solely by the benevolence of the Government for the benefit of the Indians, as has been gravely, but unjustly, stated by some of the word-mongers' of the present dynasty. This nation once owned a large extent of country, which has been narrowed down, by cession after cession, until little remains. These cessions were always made by the nation, or its authority. Attempts have been made by individual Chiefs to cede, but they never in any instance effected their object. The consideration paid for these cessions has been to the 'Nation.' The right of the Cherokees to their lands I conceive to be a national right, and as such has been guarantied to them by the United States. With the termination of their national existence, this guaranty also terminates as a consequence.

In pursuance of the kind and paternal advice of Presidents Washington and Jefferson, they have adopted a 'Government of regular law.' They have a Treasury into which are deposited the funds of the nation for the support of this government, under which state of things they have peaceably and happily prospered for many years. But with the ascension of the present rulers of the United States, a most salutary system of 'Reform' was commenced, which it is benevolently intended shall end in the extinguishment of our National existence, the emptying of our treasury, and, in all probability, the severing of the ties of country and kindred. The state of Georgia has attempted to break down our humble government and to enslave our citizens on their own lands by legislation. The President has said she has the power and the right in exercising it,- but our treaties declare the contrary. We resolved to refer the question to the Supreme Court of the United States and the expenses were to be met by the Nation. But our determination was no sooner publicly known, than the President of the U. States, the 'Friend of the Cherokees,' issued his mandate, through the War Department, that the annuity shall no longer be paid into the Treasury, but distributed amongst the individuals.- Thus enriching these 'poor wretched ill-clothed beings.' by giving to each about forty cents!! That the Executive may have ample justice for this gracious act, the Secretary of War shall be heard, himself assigning the reasons.

In a letter addressed by him to the Rev. Mr. Baldwin of the Indian Board, New York, dated 30th June, 1830, he says: 'Our word  as to your last inquiry. The annuities which are payable to the Indians have heretofore been paid to the Chiefs of districts, or clans, by them to be apportioned amongst the heads of families within their jurisdiction. Complaints have been made, and recently that mode has been changed. An order from the War Department requires the different agents to pay to the several heads of families, each, his ratable portion of the annuity. Imposition may be thus prevented,' or at any rate complaints avoided. Complaints then have  been made and the mode of payment is changed, which, if it will not prevent impositions, at any rate complaints may be avoided! The reasons are indeed weighty, and yet may be expressed in 'one word' and that significant word is, 'complaints.' What strange and astonishing powers are derived from the use of this 'one word!' Why, it enables the President (constitutionally I presume) to substitute his will or treaty stipulations to the serious injury of the Cherokees ' contrary to their well known disapprobation of the measure. But are the Cherokees included in the Secretary's answer to Mr. Baldwin's inquiry?' They certainly are. The same alteration is made with them, and I believe at the very same time, as with the other tribes, and he of course includes the whole where he allows of no exception. Every candid reader must come to this conclusion. To those who do not know the facts of the matter as they actually are, I can say that the annuity was not paid to us as stated above, but paid into our treasury by the agent, and that agreeably to the understanding had between the nation and the Government.  As to complaints, none has ever been made. I understand from his letter that they came from the Indians, for who but themselves are interested in the disbursement of this fund? Complaints made by the Indians must be through the agent or direct from the nation.  They have not been respected when made in any other way. I speak of the Cherokees, and from personal knowledge. No 'complaints' have ever gone from any branch of authority in this nation, nor from any respectable individual of the nation. No respectable Cherokee has ever been heard to use language that could even be tortured into a complaint on the subject. If any are of the opinion that it is possible complaints may have gone up through the agent, his words will settle the matter. The following is in answer to a note I addressed him:

'Mr. Coody,

SIR- In answer to your inquiry, I will state that no complaints have ever passed through me to the Executive or any other person, either from the Indians or any other person on the subject of the distribution of the annuity.

Respectfully your Ob't Serv't

HUGH MONTGOMERY.

Agency, 20th Sept. 1830.'

No complaints then have ever passed through him from any source, and none from the nation or its respectable citizens. I am extensively acquainted among these people and have never in all my life heard but a solitary individual 'complain,' and that person was a white man, of bad character, and at the time intoxicated. Ought any complaints from citizens of the United States of Georgia, for they alone have I heard clamorous, to have a greater weight of influence with the Executive than a part of the 'supreme law of the land?' Does not the Hon. Secretary of War owe it to himself, to the Indian Board, to the ill fated Cherokees, to state at what time they complained, the nature of such complaints, and the source from whence those complaints originated?

If I have misstated any particular, I am willing to be set right. If I have fallen into error in my opinions, I am willing to be corrected; and I only ask for the Cherokees that which they have prayed in vain, impartial justice. They have still some consolation, in the enjoyment of a single thought, and that is, even though the funds of the nation

may be controlled by others, yet there are private funds, thank Heaven, which they are still 'permitted' to control themselves; ' so long as that is the case, ' they have justice on their side, they will not yield their rights ' their country. They are resolved not to touch a single dollar of the annuity unless paid to them as it ought to be. The day of their fall may be at hand; and if there is a redeeming virtue in the faith of the United States' Government, then they are gone forever, and it matters not how soon they pass the Rubicon of their fate.

W. S. COODEY.

Sept. 1830

____________________

The following letter, which we have received from one of the Cherokees whose names are subscribed to the communication addressed to one of the officers of the United States Troops, will give our readers further light on the kind of protection the government is affording the Cherokees.

GOLD REGION. C. N. 6TH Oct. 1830

Dear Sir- I arrived here a few days since for the purpose of engaging in the mining business in common with other citizens of the Nation, not apprehending any molestation in our peaceful operations.  I was informed on my arrival that a detachment of the United States troops from the Six's mines was daily expected.  We determined to remain, however, notwithstanding the ill treatment many of the Cherokees have received at the upper mines. On the 4th inst. they made their appearance, ' moved upon us in military order. The commandant ordered his soldiers to 'take charge of these men' and then delivered verbally, what he said to be an order from the War Department, that all digging for gold by the Indians should be stopped. We obeyed for the while, and were permitted to return to our camps, where we held a consultation, and addressed to the officer a letter, a copy of which I sent you. We know not what will be the result of our disobedience,, but we are prepared for the consequences, and will remain here until our military masters shall have ample time to act upon the subject.  Can it be possible, that this is the kind of protection President Jackson meant, when our Delegation at Washington last saw him, and he said to them, and, repeated two or three times, and raising his arm, as he spoke, 'I shall protect you in your territorial possessions.' Time must soon develop.

The officer at the Six's promised some of the Cherokees to obtain a copy of the order from the War Department to the commanding officer, and lay it before them, but the time has passed and yet no order.  I presume they are acting under the same order laid before the call session of our Council by the agent, and under his forced construction of the same.  We are anxious to see the result of matters. If we have rights let us enjoy them; but if they are to be surrendered at the point of the U. States bayonets, let it be done at once, that we may not deceive ourselves with unjust expectations. You shall be advised of future measures, and the world of our oppression.

Respectfully your friend. The letter above referred to is deferred until next week.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






WILL be sold to the highest bidder on 28th inst. at the town of New Echota, a likely negroe (sic) boy named

GEORGE

levied on as the property of AMBROSE HARNAGE, to satisfy a judgement against said HARNAGE in favour (sic) of William Richardson. The above property will be sold unless redeemed according to law.

J. M. LYNCH

Marshal

October 4th, 1830 21._____ tds.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






POETRY

The following truly beautiful lines are from Mr. Mellen's poem, delivered before the Phi Beta Kappa Society, at Harvard University. The poem is spoken of in the highest terms.

THE INDIANS.

And well it were America for thee,

Could fame's broad pen record but eulogy!

But while in lustre she reveals the name,

She will not dash the story of thy shame,

Already blazoned on the flying page,

Speeds the foul tale, shall thrill thro' every age;

Already there a blushing world shall read,

Of horrid perfidy the crowning deed!

Nay-tell me not of freedom-'tis but dust,

And all it touches, withered and accurs'ed;

I feel no freedom, where a creature bows

Crushed by a nation that forgets it vows-

I feel no freedom-none- but with the dead,

My country perjured and her glory fled!

And ye who judge not by what beams within,

But guide your sympathies by tint of skin

Who deem the truth to God and virtue dear,

May turn to falsehood in an Indian's ear;

And that no sanction lingers with the deed

Whose simple ties are wampum and the bead-

Go, and tho' scorn may gather on your brow

And slighted faith plead vainly with ye now,

Yet on the far unveiled futurity,

The fearful judgement of the past I see--

The stern tribunals where all lips are dumb,

A death bed and a conscience yet to come!

And when a race of whiter hearts than ye,

Shall gather round your lov'd ancestral tree,

And bid you from its shadow forth to roam

' To seek some new and visionary home,

Trample your hearths, and give to long despair

All bright and blessed hopes that cluster there,

Then breathe not--think not--but in peace depart,

Veiling the spirit's ire, and bursting heart-

Let the seal'd lip, in that eventful hour

Confess the justice, and admit the power.

These have their sires--their children, and their graves,

Their epitaphs the war-paths of their braves;

But ye would madly doom them to forego

The green wood forest, and the charter'd bow,

There where they roam'd magnificently free

With broad unbelted breasts from sea to sea!

And thou, my country, veil thy drooping head,

Nor deem the deed forgot when years have fled-

Dream not that centuries shall dim it--vain!

Twill fire thy forehead like the curse of Cain!

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














Indian Memorial. The following Memorial is about to be put in circulation to receive the signatures of the citizens of the State of Mississippi, as are opposed to the removal of the Indians, except by their own consent. We consider the facts and the consideration of every American, professing to be an advocate of republicanisms: those who are republican, are already satisfied of the iniquity of what is called the Indian Bill ' expect the Legislature repeal it.--The Natchez, To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Mississippi in General Assembly convened the following Remonstrance is respectfully addressed.

Your remonstrants disapprove of the law of the late Legislature, extending the jurisdiction of the State over the persons and property of the Indians within the limits thereof; and beg leave to show that the said law is unconstitutional, unwise, unjust, ungrateful, anti-republican and anti-Christian.

The law is unconstitutional in principle and fact, as it relates to the State Constitution, which does not give the power assumed, and which could not have been so made as to give such power. The convention were authorized by act of Congress, to form a Constitution for the people of the western part of the Mississippi Territory, not repugnant to the ordinance for the government of the North Western Territory, the 3d article of which requires that 'the utmost good faith shall always be observed towards the Indians,' that 'their lands and property shall never be taken from them without their consent,' and that 'in their property, rights and liberty, they shall never be invaded or disturbed, unless in just and lawful war, authorised by Congress.' Now, Congress laid us under the restriction above quoted, in compliance with their compact with Georgia, which provides, 'that the territory thus ceded shall form a State, and be admitted as such into the Union, on the same conditions and restrictions as is provided in the ordinance aforesaid, with the exception of the article forbidding slavery. Now the law in question is an invading and disturbing of the rights and liberty of the Indians, as well as a breach of good faith in regard to many solemn treaties existing between them and the United States, and is therefore clearly without the powers which the State Convention did, or could confer on the Legislature, and consequently unconstitutional.

This law is considered unwise, because it creates for the Indians civil and political relations, and imposes upon them civil duties, for which very few of them are prepared, either by intellectual culture or moral discipline. Ignorant of the language, the laws, the customs, and the privileges of the State, of which this law effects to constitute them citizens, they could not be supposed capable of discharging the duties of a witness, or a juror, much less those which appertain to the higher order of magistracy. Moreover, by removing the restraints imposed by their native rulers upon their fatal propensity for ardent spirits -- restraints suited to the measure of their intelligence and the customs of their tribes, but inadmissible among the regulations of civilized society -- by removing these restraints, the ruin, even the speedy extermination of the Indian race, would by this law be rendered almost inevitable. Can that Legislature be wise which places its object in circumstances so incongruous and so ruinous? But not only is this law unwise as it relates to the Indians; it also presents characters of great folly in regard to the citizens with whom they are incorporated.  With even the imperfect rights of citizens conferred upon them by this law, what is to prevent the Indians from roaming into any part of the State; and with the license of citizens, and impelled by their fatal propensity to intoxication, disgusting the whole country with scenes of Indian riot, and endangering the peace and safety of the community by their quarrels and their conflicts? Still further: this law is considered unwise because, by setting aside the constituted authority of the tribes it will have rendered it extremely difficult, if not utterly impossible to negotiate with the Indians for the purchase of their lands, should they be disposed to sell. With whom could the United States treat on the subject? Surely not with officers appointed by the tribes; for these, the law in question has declared destitute of authority. Indeed, as they hold their lands in common, if their national sovereignty be denied, it seems impossible to purchase any part of their lands without the distinct consent of each individual. This knot may be cut, but cannot be untied, unless by repealing the law against which your remonstrants find it their duty to protest.

That this law is unjust, every man may be fully satisfied, who will ask himself how he would feel on the subject, were he an Indian. It takes from the Indian, without his consent, his liberty, his right of self government, and subjects him to the caprice of men who he does not know, and over whom he can exercise no control. For impositions like these, our fathers appealed to arms, adopting for the motto, 'Liberty or Death.' Who dare look the foundation of moral excellence in the face, and say that this law is in accordance with that beautiful epitome of social morality, 'whatever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them?'  Your remonstraints deem it a waste of time, and an affront upon the intelligence and moral sense of your honorable body, to urge elaborate proofs of a point so clear as the injustice of this law.

It is ungrateful, as well as unjust.  Ungrateful towards God, who against mighty odds enabled our fathers to secure to us the very blessing which this law wrests from the Indians -- ungrateful to the Indians, who have ever been our accommodating friends when we are at peace, and our voluntary and efficient coadjutors when we were involved in war. Under the conduct of the illustrious Captain who now presides in our national government, they fought and bled in our cause, rendering important service to the security of our State and to the glory of our commander. How will it tell on this history of our state and nation, that without provocation even pretended, while yet the memory of their services and sufferings in the late war is green in our minds, we have made political slaves of the Choctaws and Chickasaws? Can history parallel such ingratitude?

Surely no question can exist concerning the anti-republican character of this law. The Legislature of the State of Mississippi, without the delegation from the Indians to them of any power for that purpose, have legislated for their government. This is subversive of what, in our Declaration of Independence, we have asserted to be the right of all men, viz: 'to be governed by themselves, or representatives chosen by themselves for that purpose:' and indeed it is contrary to the spirit of republican government in general, as it assumes a right to govern without the consent of the governed, and without responsibility to them for the exercise of the right so assumed. The consent of the Indians has never been asked, or obtained to the powers to which the law in questions subjects them. Our Constitution excludes even such as might have resided among us at the time of its adoption, from the suffrage, which is the most essential of all political rights; and although the law affects to confer right, it confers none that would make them a free people. Nothing can make them such under our government, but an amendment to the Constitution; and it is well worthy of remark, that although propositions for such an amendment were made, and well nigh carried at several successive sessions at the Legislature immediately previous to the last one, no attempt, it is believed, was made at the last one to effect such a purpose. The irresistible conclusion therefore is, that the law contemplated to force the Indians to become subjects, without admitting them to become citizens at any time.

After what has been already advanced, your remonstrants need hardly added, that this law is anti-Christian, seeing it has been shown to be contrary to the spirit of benevolence, of justice, of gratitude, and of equal regard to the rights of man, which breathes throughout the gospel.  But there is a point of view in which the subject presents itself, which renders the truth of this proposition wholly unquestionable. For some years past the ministry of the gospel among the Indians within the limits of this State, and especially among the Choctaws, has been successful in a degree scarcely equal, even in the triumphs achieved by the gospel in primitive times. Not only has the gospel attracted this attention; it has entered into their spirit, and wrought such a change in their character, as to induce persons well qualified to judge, and who have had abundant opportunities of observing, to pronounce the effect produced the proper fruit of the religious instruction which has been imparted to them. Now the law, against which this remonstrance is presented, is calculated -- by rousing the angry passions of the outraged Indians, by exciting well founded jealousy of the white man's character, and by driving them from their homes, or deranging the order established among them -- to frustrate the religious improvement so happily commenced among them; and not only to throw them back upon their former barbarism and irreligion, but even to remove them farther from the white man's gospel than they were before it was introduced among them. Your remonstrants are not unaware that the business upon which your honorable body is assembled, is not to devise ways and means for the spread of the gospel; nevertheless, as the national government, through the whole course of its existence, has deemed it highly important to introduce and encourage religious influence and instruction among the Indians with a view to their political amelioration, if from no other motive, it surely cannot be deemed unsuitable to admonish your honorable body against a course of proceedings which directly tends to prevent that influence and to defeat the purpose of that instruction. So intimate is the connection between religions influence and the political well being of any community, that that statesman little deserves the credit of patriotism, who would lessen or discountenance its existence, especially among those who, like the Indians, have few of these less effective, but yet powerful motives to well doing, which operate on civilized society. Nor in a Christian country ought it to be deemed political heresy to suppose that God might be offended at, and avenge himself on, those who lay such an impediment as this law in the way of his favorite plan for ameliorating the condition of his creature man.

Your remonstrants are aware that this law was intended as an indirect method of obtaining the Indian lands. Against such an unfair and unbecoming procedure, they feel bound solemnly to protest. Could those lands be obtained by fair purchase, your remonstrants would have equal gratification with any of their fellow citizens; for none are more solicitous for the solid growth and permanent prosperity of a State than they; but highly as they would be gratified by the acquisition of the Indian's land, they would think the purchase exorbitantly dear, if these lands were obtained by the sacrifice of justice, gratitude and honor -- not to say of the divine approbation also. Should your honorable body be resolved to persevere in the course of policy adopted by the late Legislature, and invincibly opposed to the repeal of the law against which your remonstrants have addressed you, then permit them to press upon your consideration the expediency, nay, the necessity of suspending the law for at least one year. Much time will be necessary to give consistency to the proceedings in the matter.  Leave the chiefs in authority, that the negotiations for their lands, which is understood are contemplated by the President, may not be embarrassed by the want of a proper organ through which the Indian may communicate on the subject. Leave their own laws in force, and their own officers in authority, till they shall have time to make the needful arrangements for their removal, if go they must. Think of the probable consequence of turning loose upon the borders of the State a horde of savages, freed from the restraints to which they are enured, and controlled only by the laws not understood by them, and too slow in their operation for their habits, and the outrages to which their oppression would be likely to drive them, and then determine whether a cruel exterminating war will not most probably be the result -- a war to which a very large portion of your fellow citizens must be conscientiously opposed, from the just conviction of its having been procured by the unconstitutional, unwise, and unjust legislation of their own State.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






GENERAL COUNCIL

Monday 11th.

This day the two houses of the General Council of the Cherokee Nation were organized. Mr. J. Ridge was elected President of the National Committee, and Mr. Williams Rogers, clerk. Going Snake was elected Speaker of the Council, and A. McCoy clerk. On Tuesday the two houses met in joint committee, to whom was read and interpreted the following:

MESSAGE.

To the Committee and Council,

in General Council convened.

Friends and Fellow Citizens:

We are permitted, once more, to witness the dawn of that day, which, by the provision of the Constitution, is designated for the annual convention of the General Council. For this inestimable privilege, our thanks are due to Him who holds the destiny of man and governs the Universe. In the tempestuous scenes of revolving time, we have had our day of trial and afliction; yet through His merciful interposition, we have experienced seasons of joyful hope -- and should tremble and difficulties still rise up as vivid clouds, o'er our aching breast, and threatening destruction chime its doleful note in our ears, hope and faith in Him can removed them.

In pursuance of duty, I will suggest, for your consideration, such topics as in my opinion, the public good seem to require, and holding your seats, as you do, by the free choice of the majority of the people it devolves upon you to adopt such measures as will promote the public welfare.

To meet the exigency of the times, a law was passed at the late extra session, authorizing the Principal Chief to take measures for defending the rights of this nation before all courts of law and equity in the United States, against the acts of any individual state attempting to exercise jurisdiction within our limits, to the end that the question, touching the right of sovereignty, may be taken up before the Supreme Court of the United States for adjudication. In the decision of this important question, this nation has everything that is sacred at stake, and Georgia nothing. Yet the constituted authorities of the latter feign to be very sensitive on all occasions, when the subject is only touched -- at the same time, by their laws, the lives, liberty, ' property of the Cherokees are left exposed to the mercy of the assassin, the tyrant, and the robber, provided the foul deed can but escape the eye of an honest white man, and the most common privilege of freemen is denied to them.

Mr. Wm. Rogers has been appointed as agent in behalf of the nation to attend to all cases that may occur in the courts of Dekalb, Gwinnett, Hall and Habersham counties, and the professional services of Thomas W. Harries and Wm. B. Underwood Esquires, have been engaged.  The character and talents of these gentlemen stand high -- they will attend to all cases that have or may occur in the five contiguous counties of Georgia that claim the right of exercising jurisdiction within our limits.

The arrest of one of our citizens at New Echota, by the deputy Sheriff of Gwinnett County, under a writ of ne exeat, issued by Judge Clayton, and his imprisonment in the jail of that county is a stamp of grinding oppression; and when he was brought before the court for trial, the same judge who had granted the writ, discharged him on the ground that the affidavit made by the prosecutor was insufficient to have warranted the issuing of such a writ -- also the arrest of three other citizens of this nation by the sheriff of Hall County, under a writ of attachment issued by Judge Clayton against them, for disobeying a Bill of Injunction which he had previously granted against them for digging gold within our territorial limits; and after conducting them into Georgia before the court then in session at Watkinsville, Judge Clayton ordered them to stand committed until all costs were discharged, thereby compelling them to pay a heavy cost, to avoid going to jail, and at the same time binding them in a large bond to appear before the court at Gainsville (sic) to stand their trial; and when appearing before that court, they were dismissed by the judge without a trial, on the ground that the Governor could not be a prosecutor in such a case. This is another instance of great injustice and oppression.

The case of Judge Sanders for punishing a white man under the laws of the nation, for the crime of horse stealing, and that of Corn Tassel, who is charged with committing murder upon another Cherokee within the limits of the nation, have been postponed by the Judge for the purpose of referring the pleas to the jurisdiction of the court, to a Convention of Judges at Milledgeville on the first of the week in November next, although he had himself once decided against them. Thus you will see the manner in which the rights of our citizens have been tantalized by the officers of Georgia, under their laws. There is another circumstance worthy of being noticed.  The deputy sheriff of Gwinnett County, on a case of debt, penetrated into the nation and arrested a respectable Cherokee woman, and took her off captive from the arms of her husband and the cries of her children, for the jail of a distant land of about one hundred miles; but after travelling fifteen miles, she was released by giving bail.  There are many other acts of equally grievous character perpetrated against our citizens under the laws of Georgia, and these are but a specimen of the effects of the exercise of jurisdiction over the Cherokees by Georgia; in which grievous evils the President of the United States has told us he cannot interpose his authority in our behalf.

The privilege directed under the sanction of the President to the agent for citizens of the United States to occupy the improvements which have been left by the emigrants, seem to have been extended by the agent without limitation, or without a just regard for the character of such occupants, and the instruction of the Secretary of War directing him to grant payments subject to their conduct until the order has been either countermanded or dispensed with at the discretion of the agent. A list of places, which are said to have been abandoned was furnished to the officer commanding the detachment of troops ordered on the Ala. ' Tennessee lines to remove intruders, accompanied with a note made by the agent, saying, that there were, no doubt, many white families on these places who had not applied for nor obtained permits, and that such were not to be interrupted. This strange procedure has placed upon our soil some of the most vicious and base characters that the adjoining states can produce, who are very active in annoying our citizens by stealing from them horses and other property; to enable them to perform their nefarious purposes with more effect, they have sought to form a link with such of our bad citizens as they can associate into their club.  This state of things is truly grievous, and much to be lamented. But if the authorities of the General Government will not order the necessary antidote, how can the evil be effectually remedied without resorting to such measures as would bring down upon us the censure and disapprobation of the officers, of the General Government? Acts of the most innocent character, however necessary and expedient, when performed under the authorities of this nation, in these days, are too apt to be misrepresented ' magnified into an offence.

The confused situation of the Gold Mines, the line which the President under the report of Gen. Coffee has assumed to establish, and the lands reserved under the treaty of 1819, for a school fund, which was to have been disposed of by the President and applied under his discretion, for the benefit of this nation require your deliberation. Other subjects of importance will be submitted for your consideration in a subsequent communication.

JNO. ROSS.

October 11th, 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






To the Committee and Council in General Concil convened.

I submit herewith a letter from the United State's agent in this nation, enclosing a document purporting to be a copy of a letter addressed to the Creek agent from the Secretary of War, and enclosed by him in a letter of Col. Ward, for the information of the Indians under his agency, and which Col. Montgomery believes was intended to be communicated to the Cherokees also, as he conceives them to be embraced in the 'opinions and arguments' it contains.

JOHN ROSS.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE AGENCY,

1st Sept. 1830.

To the Committee and Council in General Concil convened.

I submit herewith a letter from the United State's agent in this nation, enclosing a document purporting to be a copy of a letter addressed to the Creek agent form the Secretary of War, and enclosed by him in a letter of Col. Ward, for the information of the Indians under his agency, and which Col. Montgomery believes was intended to be communicated to the Cherokees also, as he conceives them to be embraced in the 'opinions and arguments' it contains.

JOHN ROSS.



SIR,

I have some days since received a letter from the Secretary of War, of which the enclosed is a copy. I for some time hesitated whether to send it to you or not, inasmuch as it is in the first place addressed to Col. Ward, and only directed to me on the envelope. But as he says, 'It contains the sentiments of the President, concerning the removal of the Indains, and further negotiation with them on that subject, and the course which in future is intended to be pursued, and that the opinions, and arguments, contained in it, are applicable to every tribe, which shall decline the liberal terms proposed by Congress' -- I have finaly concluded the Cherokees are embraced in it, as well as others, that notwithstanding the mistake in the direction, it would be wrong in me to withhold from them the information, opinions, and arguments which it contains. It is therefore enclosed and the serious reflection of the Cherokee, is requested, upon the subject to which it relates.

Very Respectfully

Your Obedient Servant,

H. MONTGOMERY.

JOHN ROSS,

Principal Chief

Cherokee Nation.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






FRANKLIN, 2d August 1830.

SIR -- The following letter was lately addressed to the Agent of the Creek Nation; it contains the sentiments of the President concerning the removal of the Indians, and further negotiations with them on that subject, and the course which in future is intended to be pursued, the opinions and arguments contained in it, being applicable to every tribe which shall decline the liberal terms proposed by Congress. It is forwarded, that you may make them known to thsoe who reside within your Agency.

Respectfully

J.H. Eaton
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






FRANKLIN, 2d August 1830.

SIR -- The following letter was lately addressed to the Agent of the Creek Nation; it contains the sentiments of the President concerning the removal of the Indians, and further negotiations with them on that subject, and the course which in future is intended to be pursued, the opinions and arguments contained in it, being applicable to every tribe which shall decline the liberal terms proposed by Congress. It is forwarded, that you may make them known to thsoe who reside within your Agency.

Respectfully

J.H. Eaton
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






FRANKLIN. TEN. 29th July, 1830.

DEAR SIR -- On the subject of removal it is a matter of regret to find, that with all the fair and reasonable arguments which have been urged, the Indians still manifest an indisposition to make exchanges of their land, and remove beyond the Mississippi. On the score of feeling and prejudice, some consideration may arise, as to leaving their homes, and retiring to a new country; but as it regards ultimate benefit and advantage to be derived, but title room can be left, for doubt to rest upon.  The Indians would really perceive the force of the arguments which so repeatedly have been urged, were it not for busy advisers who without believing what they say, imagine and assert a systematic course of injustice to be intended towards them; availing themselves of this, the Chiefs omit not to practice great coyness and seek to repress every expression of opinion by the common Indians, in the hope that their own interest and fortunes may the better be advanced. From information variously obtained, there is little room to doubt, but that the greater part of the nation are in favor of a removal could they be at liberty to giver utterance to their sentiments. This privilege is denied: and such is the deep hostility affected to be felt, that punishments in some instances, has been threatened, and in others indicted, for no other cause than a free exercise of opinion upon this subject. This we have heard, and we believe it.

Under such a state of things and since the Chiefs will not listen to the suggestions which so repeatedly have been made to them, it would not be injustice, if the Government were to determine and way to them, -- We intend to make no further effort in your behalf; but leave you to live under the laws of the states, ' if you cannot do so, then remove to your lands west of the River at your own expense. And this most probably will be the final result of matters. On the score of rigid justice what claims can these people have to our magnanimity? A country larger in extent of equally good climate and better soil has already years since been given them beyond the Mississippi. If justice only were consulted, her language would be this.  You shall not be forced from the lands you occupy; but being within a State, like every other citizen, you must conform to her regulations and laws; and if you cannot, move where you please, but as other people are compelled to do, pay your own travelling expenses and your own subsistence. Congress, at the last session attempted a fair experiment to ascertain the willingness of these people to remove to a country, where free from interruption from the laws of the states, they might be happy. If the Indians fail to accept the offer made them, Congress may probably attempt no further extension of their benevolence, but leave them where they are, under the operation of the laws of the state, or, if this condition of things shall not be found agreeable, to remove and defray their own expenses as our own citizens do. It is high time that some definitive grounds were assumed. The more you talk and persuade them to their interest, the more refractory they become; with a view to opposition, or in the hope of reaching a more advantageous bargain. So repeatedly have they been addressed and spoken to on this subject, that they are of the belief that the vital interest of this country, is involved in the decision which they shall pronounce. They should be undeceived: and in no way so effectually is to be done, as for the Government to withdraw from them every aid and assistance, of whatever kind it may be, except what is actually guaranteed by existing treaties. Let them stay, if they please; subject to the laws of the state; or remove if they please, supplying their own wants, their guns, kettles, articles of husbandry and subsistence. For any person acquainted with the character to maintain the feasibility of Indians living under the laws of the States, is idle in the extreme. It might as well as supposed that science and ignorance, and liberty and slavery, could dwell together. Every man in the country knows it cannot be -- the indian himself knows it.  What then is to be done? Congress has given the answer -- Treat with them -- send them beyond the Mississippi. To those who would follow agriculture and industry the country given affords abundant resources, while for the untamed Indian who will not forsake the forest and the chase, game inexhaustible quantities can be found.  But besides these advantages, which place them in an improved and benefitted condition, a further liberality is offered in the authority extended, to pay from the Government treasury, the expenses of their removal, and to provide for their support for one year afterwards, nor is this all! The land is to belong to them in fee, thereby affording an earnest, that they are to be again interrupted in their possessions, no more, forever. And is this injustice -- barbarity as it has been styled, such as it calculated to call down the avenging hand of an offended providence? Strike out from the act the word 'Indians' ' let it read that 'the poor people of the State who choose to remove, shall have equal, or better lands than they occupy provided for them -- that they shall be removed at the public expense, and provided with provisions until they can raise their crops would there be any thin in this to demand the avenging interference of providence? and yet, this is truly the picture as it should be drawn.

In future interviews with these people, your suggestions may be based upon the reasons which are here presented, that if though reflections not forget his nature, but at maturity they be not already informed, they may repose no longer in ignorance as to their true condition, and be resolved and prepared to meet it as they should. It is impossible they should be in doubt as to the course to be pursued. Enough has been said to instruct the most informed with the grounds of this contest, and lead them to a proper conclusion. To go, or to remain, is the question, and the only question to be decided; and whichever of the two shall be concluded upon, cannot require more argument, than already been advance. If what has been urged be insufficient, more need not be advanced. But under all the circumstances they should be left to their own time, to arrive at that conclusion, which reflection may dictate to be right. I am fully satisfied, that the more these people are importuned and reasoned with, the stronger may be their inclination to oppose, or else, to manifest indifference.  Now that he grounds for a removal have been presented in detail, to stat fully the course intended to pursued in future, and thus to leave both them, and the argument, will no doubt, sooner than any thing else, bring these people to a knowledge of their true condition and prompt them to solicit terms; and not, as has been the case so repeatedly, spare the liberal offers that from time to time, have been made.

While an earnest desire was had to bring this matter to a close, and the better to effect it, that they should meet the President at this place. Nevertheless, if prefered to hold a treaty in the nation, such is the reasonable desire for their interest, entertained, that the course would, no doubt be accorded, to them. But before any arrangement shall take place, or any council be agreed upon, it must be distinctly understood, that their minds be fully made up and prepared, to assent to a removal beyond the Mississippi, until this shall be definitively settled, it will be unnecessary to send Commissioners, to interrupt them with any propositions. If a meeting should not take place before the next Congress, I feel confident, the President will no more offer any propositions, but leave them to take their own course, in their own way, and as may best suit their own convenience. When this shall be the course taken, they will not fail, through the exercise of their judgment, to perceive truly their condition, and be desirous at once, to decide what is proper to be done. The question in its simple, and naked form, is what is advisable to be done, and in what does their interest consist? This is the important matter of inquiry to be examined and settled. The one side of the question, when thus produced, will be this, and this must be their reasoning on it. One ancient customs must be surrendered, for the laws of Alabama will not sanction their continuance. Immediate execution without trial for no other offence than the accidental killing of an Indian will not be tolerated. The imposing of corporeal punishment at the mandate of some chief, for the expression of an opinion disagreeable to him, will cease. The rights of property will be respected, for the protection thus afforded by the community in which they live, some contribution in the way of taxes, will of course be required. In all this there is no injustice, no hardship, it is what the well being of society sanctions, rather than a permission for a mere self government, independently to exist, within the limits of a State. If the Indians shall be indisposed to this course, of liberal, free submission, the alternative before them will be that, which the law of Congress authorizes and permits. They may sell a country, which, by established usage, they can hold only under a right of occupancy, and receive in fee simple, another, which in all respects is superior to their present one, and which will descend to the posterity for all time, while they shall exist as a nation. From the burthen of removal, they are to be relieved, -- the government now promising to encounter the whole; to place them in their new homes free of all expense, and for a year, until their crops can be raised, to supply them with the means of living. This is the contrast which the 'Indian Bill,' as it is termed, presents; and yet there are persons to be found ready to assert, that there is injustice and barbarity of treatment in the measure. Can it yet be, that our red brothers have yet been brought truly to understand it? or is it through some practised deception; some motive stiring movement, that they do not?  On their side are evidently all the advantages; not merely in the removal, and the means in effecting it, but in the liberal terms which they have been assured would be granted them, in the arrangement of a treaty. The opposition which is met with, proceeds from the Chiefs and leading men: for their who system of government, is preeminently an aristocracy, of high toned character. The common Indian without place, or the expectation of it, would prefer a residence more distant from the whites but of this, they dare not speak, a fell species of intolerant law restrains the exercise of opinion upon this subject. And is a government, such as this, where denunciation follows the mere expression of opinion, to be cherished within the limits of a state and the sympathies of the people appealed to, in support of it? The Constitution of the United States declares, that each state shall be secured in the maintenance of a republican form of government: but Georgia and Alabama and Mississippi are not thus maintained, if within their jurisdictional limits, they are to suffer the existence of a distinct, independent government, where actions and opinions are to be forcibly restrained, and without even the form of trial prescribed. If as by many is maintained, they can be considered independent sovereignties, it must be of unrestrained and unlimited character throughout their local limits. And if this be so, then any citizen of the United States, entering their limits, will be liable to all the brutalities of their criminal code and may be subjected to punishment -- who fire a gun which by accident kills an Indian, not seen at the time, may be put to death. The people of this country are surely not prepared to admit such strange governmental practices: and yet, these will be the effect and consequence of that argument, which reproves the course adopted by the president, and which concedes the right of sovereignty and self government to an Indian tribe, within the confines of a state. In Ohio and Kentucky dwell a religious sect of people, who claim no political connexion with the community in which they live: shall thy not assert, alike with our Indians, the privileges of self-government, apart from any interference of the states where they reside? May not the tribe of Red Jacket, (the Senecas), equally claim protection against the legislative enactments of New York and demand to be left to themselves, as to their forms and manner of government. Recently I visited these people: they lived with four miles of the flourishing town Buffalo.  on polish-Lake Erie, amidst an intelligent and ed people; ' they are Indians still; they spoke not our language would not.--Some 40 or 50 in an humble clap board tenement (their Council house) were discussing the affairs of the tribe; a badly clad, and autre set, with loungers and listeners around, while at a distance, women were seen , exposed to the heat of the day, cultivating the corn. Whenever civilization dawns, the rights of women are respected, and where they are not, refinement has not come. The lordly dignity of man, which prompts him to the chase to the battle, as the only pursuit worthy of his nature, leaving the women to be hewers and drawers, is peculiar to savage life: and where this is to be found to exist, civilization is but in progress. These people have grown amidst a white population; have long had a missionary school, a church and preachers amongst them; yet they are not civilized, they are Indians still. What hope, then, can be entertained for our southern tribes, who are strangers to associations and these advantages, which the Senecas have so long enjoyed, without any thing of benefit to themselves, or even the promise of it. They with a detachment of their tribe, which years ago went to Ohio, becoming dissatisfied with their contiguity to the whites, are manifesting solicitude to leave their present, and find a new home.

It is at least but a Utopian thought, to think of civilizing Indians. Nature must first be changed. One or two generations at least, must pass away under a rigid culture, before these people can be much benefited by science and education. The wild turkey, though you shall take the egg and hatch it in your barn year, will see the tallest forest tree, at nigh fall, for his roosting place. Of this, there are abundant evidences. And what does it prove, but that the 'Leopard cannot change his spots, nor the Ethiopian his shin.' An almighty hind has stamped upon every creature, a particular genius, propensity and leading traits of character. The polish of education may improve, but can not change, for the imperishable seal is there;  bars and dungeons, penitentiaries and death itself have been found insufficient, even in civilized society. society, to restrain man from crime and constrain him to the necessity of moral and virtuous action. How then, are we to look for, or expect it, in a community made up of savage and illiterate people? Theory and fancy may prate of such a result; but before reality gives impress to it, years must roll by, and a new and improved order of things arise. Then, and not till then, may hope, in her visions dream of success in reforming and improving the red man of the forest.  Their improvement is certainly, greatly to be desired, but for the present it must be given up into the hands of care and time. At any rate it should not be assayed at the expense of the constitution, which secures and promises to every state of the Union a republican form of government within her defined limits.

The Chief Magistrate of the country is necessarily required to take care, that no infraction of, or departure from the principles of the Constitution shall take place. As matter of duty, he is bound to attend to the interest of the state, and be careful that with his consent, no cat be done which is not warranted by the authorities conceded to him. To ex expect then, the protection of the Creeks and other tribes, within the states, at the sacrifice of the sovereignty of the state within which they are situated would be idle indeed. Indian benefits out not to be urged at such a price.

It is important that our red brothers should know, and understand these things, for until then they cannot truly appreciate their condition, or determine what rightly they should do, as it regards their own interest. To make a fair experiment upon this subject, and in a spirit, surely of great good feeling, Congress at the last session made liberal appropriations, to enable such Indians as should choose to do so, to remove. The whole matter is now brought before them, and their interest, as connected with their removal has been fully and repeatedly presented. If on a full view of all the circumstances, this offer shall be declined, the consequence must be, that no further appropriation will be asked for, and Congress may make no more. The indians must then make an electual trial to live; if they can under the laws of the states, subject to, and bound by them:  and if they cannot, then to make their way to their new homes beyond the Mississippi as their means and their own resources shall enable them leaving their lands behind to be compensated for or not as the government, controlled only by benevolence and justice may choose.  The opportunity of making any treaty or agreement, may soon pass by. The liberal efforts which are not made being rejected or refused, the Indians must not expect that their interest will any more be urged upon them as matter of concern: or that the Government will advise them longer what to do. They must be left for the future to themselves, and to their own reflections, if now, they shall obstinately refuse to act.

Very Respectfully,

JNO. H. Eaton.

Col. HUGH MONTGOMERY,

Cherokee Agency,

(via.) East Tennessee

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: OCT. 16, 1830

The Governor of Georgia has issued a proclamation appointing the 18th day this month for the meeting of the Legislature.  The object which Gov. Gilmer argues, is the regulation of the gold mines -- this may be the real motive -- but we doubt it. The Milledgeville Record says --

The proceedings of the next Legislature will be interesting to the people. Measures may be adopted which may have great influence upon the future welfare of the State.  Therefore, the members will have to exercise the utmost caution, and prudence in their proceedings and to give to every measure proposed much reflection and investigation before it is finally adopted.

The principal subject upon which the Legislature will have to debate, is the Cherokee controversy. The subject is a delicate one. In it is involved principle, the rights of the States, a correct construction of the Constitution, and the objects for which the States, confederated and formed that Constitution. The Cherokees pretend to absolute sovereignty over the territory they occupy: they will neither sell their lands nor remove to the other side of the Mississippi. These Indians cannot remain where they are; they cannot live under the laws of Georgia, at least a great majority of them.  If they are allowed to remain, in a few years the race will be extinct. What will Georgia do? Humanity demands that something should be done to preserve the Cherokees from destruction. The interest of Georgia demands that the Cherokees should remove from the territory they occupy. Will delay bring about amicable settlement of differences? We believe not. The Federal Government have tried several times to negotiate with the Cherokees, and failed. General Jackson has failed. What can Georgia do, in the critical situation of her Indian affairs? The last law of Congress respecting the Indians, may yet have a salutary effect, though the first attempt made under the provision of the law has failed. We do not approve of coercive measures. Before resorting to them, which may be in the last extremity, it may be good policy to wait till the General Government has declared that it has exhausted all the means in its power, without the recourse to force, to induce the Cherokees to remove.  Our readers must be aware of the prudence and caution the Legislature will have to exercise in the management of this business.

During the session of Congress, when the Indian Bill was under discussion, it was denied by those who advocated the policy of Georgia that force would in any way be employed either by the General or state Governments. To express an honest opinion that Geo. intended to drive the Cherokees off their lands, was considered a gross libel on the state and indignantly spurned as such by her champions. The public had a right to believe (although we did not) the declarations openly made on the floor of Congress. But how stands the case? It is said that the next legislature will survey the Cherokee territory and dispose of it to the people of Georgia by lottery. This is the common talk we hear, and we have it partly confirmed by the editor of the Recorder in the above remarks. That coercive measures are intended to be employed some time or other we believe is evident from the tenor of his language. We can tell those politicians who entertain so much regard for the Cherokees and would fain drive them at the point of the Bayonet in order to save them from extinction, that the last extremity will have to come. Take our word for it, that time willl come. The Cherokees are not going to run away, either at the bidding of Georgia or General Jackson, or from the operation of the Barbarous laws of the former, or by the insidious influence of the act of Congress. All these, the Recorder acknowledges, have already failed -- that they would fail, we predicted a long time ago. And we say now that open force alone will drive the Cherokees away, but we cannot say to where. If therefore the State of Georgia really intends to use force, she need not wait for the last extremity -- let her go to work now -- we can bear it as well now as at any other time. We are now well seasoned to her oppressions -- we have freely drunk of her bitter cup.

In making these remarks, we do by no means hold in contempt the power of the state -- she is powerful, and we are weak. She can soon destroy us if she takes us in hand.  We are bound, however, to tell the truth -- our readers will not, therefore, consider us out of the way of propriety when we merely tell them that if Georgia intends to use force, when peaceable means fail, she will have to do it. We do not say what the Cherokees will do -- they have borne a great deal, and they may bear a great deal more.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Copy of a letter addressed to the officer commanding the detachment of the United States troops.

Alatoony Gold Mines, C.N. Oct. 4th 1830

Sir, Since you were here, ' ordered the Cherokees to desist digging for gold, they have had a consultation on the subject, and have come to the following conclusions: They are labouring in an honest way, upon their own lands, for the support of their families; they intruded upon the possessions of none; they infringe upon none. The United States, by treaties, and otherwise, have acknowledged the country to be theirs, and have stationed their troops within its bounds to protect them in their territorial possessions, and notwithstanding your orders they cannot believe that the arms of the government will be employed against them without just cause or aggression. They respect the Government and its officer, the intend nothing but peace ' friendship; and they do not wish to add any thing to the embarrassments under which their nation is now laboring, by their imprudence; but so firmly convinced are they of their rights and their privileges, that they are still disposed to continue their mining operations. They do not invite difficulties and sufferings; and disclaim any unpleasant feelings towards the officers commanding the United States troops in the Nation, and are perfectly resigned to such fate as the consequence of their honest labour upon their own lands may consign them to, under the laws of the United States.

With sentiments of regard and esteem we are respectfully your ob't servants.

WILLIAM S. COODEY

JAS BROWN,

THOS. BIGBY,

THOS. WOODWARD,

ELIJAH HICKS,

WULLANEDAH,

JAMES BIGBY,

GEORGE HICKS,

NATHAN HICKS.

P.S. Should it suit your convenience the Cherokees will be glad to see you on your return, and have some further conversation.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We had no idea that the President had power to demolish Indian agencies. We thought they were erected by an act of Congress. Be that as it may, however, the Creek agency is about to be demolished if we may believe the following article.

From the Columbus Enquirer.

'The Augusta Courier doubts the correctness of our statement, made a few weeks since, relative to the recent communication of the President to the Creek Agent. The short mention we then made of the determination of the Executive, did not embrace all the important facts of the case. The President observed in the communication alluded to, in addition to what we stated in a former number of our paper, that as the State of Alabama had extended her jurisdiction over the Creek Indians, and by the act made them a part of her population; it was incompatible with the rights of sovereign State, to keep a Government Agent within its limits, to control and manage the concerns of a portion of its citizens. Entertaining these views on the subject, we directed the Agent to close the business of the Agency with the termination of the present year, as the only business the Government would have with the Creek Indians, would be the payment of the annuity allowed them, so long as they remained in Alabama, which could hereafter be dispersed by means of a special agent.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






MARRIED. At Oangallogee, 6th inst. Mr. THOMAS GORDON, to Miss ELIZA GREEN.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






MARRIED. At Oangellogee, ____. Mr. THOMAS GORDON, to Miss ELIZA GREEN.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Will be sold to the highest bidder on the 24th inst. at the Ahmohee courthouse, a likely negro boy named

GEORGE,

levied on as the property of AMBROSE HARNAGE, to satisfy a judgement against said HARNAGE, in favour of William Richardson. The above property will be sold unless redeemed according to law.

J.M. LYNCH

Marshall

October 4th, 1830 21. tds

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






LETTERS

REMAINING in the Post Office at New Echota, October 1, 1830.

Elias Boudinot 2,

John R. Garland,

Elijah Hicks,

Jefferson Lanier,

George Lanier,

George Layman,

Daivd McCoy,

Benj. Paton.

S.A. WORCESTER, P.M.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






$30 REWARD.

STOLEN from the subscribers stable on the night of Monday the 16th instant a light sorrel gelding, about five feet high, nine or ten years old, with a flax mare and tail. He paces, canters and trots preity well, and had on when stolen, good shoes before, but had lost the shoe of his right hind foot. He has several small scars, occasioned by the biting of mules, one of which is on his right hind leg a little above the fetter lock joint.  The thief may cut his tail and roach his main, in order to disguise him. He also took a Saddle, (nearly new) with common Stirup Irons, a Bridle, Martingals and a new cross barred blanket. Any person securing the horse and thief, so that the latter can be brought to justice shall receive the above reward; or Ten dollars for the Horse alone, with reasonable expenses, if delivered to the subscriber residing near the road leading from Washington to Augusta, seven miles above Haysville.

NB. The thief is supposed to be a man about 5 fee 8 or 10 inches high, sallow complexion, thin visage, about 30 or 35 years of age; and wore a quaker hat, old striped round-about, light coloured pantaloons, right and left shoes and ribbed sock, blue mixed.

SAMUEL BROOKS

Washington Geo. August 19, 1830

19--

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Georgia ' the Cherokees. A writer of considerable power in one of the Georgia Journals, denounces the measures of the President in reference to the Cherokees, as tardy and imbecile, and calls upon the citizens to take the business into their own hands. The injustice and ingratitude of this language, and the violence of the measures proposed, merit the severest rebuke. The President, to say the least of it, has gone to the utmost extent of his powers, to appease the cravings of Georgia, and because his measures have not resulted in the extermination of the Cherokees, his plans and purposes are, it seems, to be denounced, and the fate of the Indian is to be decided by an appeal to force.  These (sic) is not a sentiment in the breast of any honest or Honorable man, that does not revolt at conduct like this.  It is but to apparent that there are many restless spirits in Georgia that are determined to set the National Executive at defiance to treat his measures with ribaldry and contempt, to trample in scorn upon the sacred obligation of treaties, and to deprive the victims of their lawless cupidity of all redress by an appeal to the supreme tribunal of the land. There are no depths of reproach and humiliation to which each man may not deservedly be subjected. How far Georgia, as a State, participated in these feelings, a few months will more satisfactorily reveal; but the symptoms of violence are apparent in her highest places of power. It is not a few obscure and vulgar madcaps that are about to rush into these violent measures; the project has been matured in high places ' those who hold the reins of Government, and the destinies of the State in their hands are to lead on the revolt. A more reckless infatuation never seized the heart of man.

Wash. Spec.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Rochester Observer.

SLANDER ON WM. PENN

Mr. Editor: In perusing a late No. of the United States Telegraph, I met with the following paragraph, contained in an article under the head of 'Indian reform.'

'It would be exceedingly to the discredit of Wm. Penn to assert that he believed the Indians were the sovereign owners of the soil, and that he could have no just claim to it, until by fair contract, it had been conveyed to him, by the natives. Had these been his views, his treaties must have been a mere mocking of common sense and common honesty. All the circumstances show that both he and the Indians well understood that the terms of the contract, which was a contract in form only, were under his control, and he certainly knew that he was not paying them a tenth nor a hundredth part of a just equivalent for the land, had he been really purchasing it.'

The assertion that the 'treaties of Wm. Peen must have been a mere mockery of common sense and common honesty, if he had supposed he could have no just claim to the soil until it had been, by fair contract conveyed to him.' does, in my opinion, charge him with a want of 'common sense and common honesty;' and it the first charge of the kind against him, which I have any where met with. The whole paragraph is intended to convey the idea that Wm. Penn considered he possessed a right to the soil (irrespective of the claims to the Indians) by virtue of a charter from a European Sovereign: and that the treaties he made with the Indians, were mere matters of form, he never intending really to purchase their lands.

I do not deem it necessary to vindicate the character of Wm. Penn from such aspersions, especially, as the writer has not in the whole of the article, from which the extract is made, adduced the shadow of a proof, that the sentiments of that distinguished man, were as he represented them. I merely wished to show what methods are resorted to, to turn the current of public feeling in a particular channel, and make our citizens believe that the oppression of the Indians, is not oppression; that the Indians have no rights, and that treaties made with them. are not treaties -- for such must be the sentiments of the community in order to justify all the measures adopted, and now in progress against the aborigines of this country. I trust the time has not yet come when our citizens are prepared to sanction measures so directly contrary to the dictates of justice and humanity.

The editor of the Telegraph says the writer of the essays, from which the above extract is taken, is 'an eminent divine.' For the honor of the clerical profession, I am glad we have only the authority of the editor that such is the fact.

L.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We stated, in our paper of yesterday, that a Southern paper had intimated a determination on the part of the President to compel the Creeks to emigrate as a nation, by starving them into acquiescence. We copy the following paragraph on this subject from the Columbus Enquirer of the 3d instant:

'Much feeling and excitement are spreading through the Creek nation, especially that portion of it prepared and in daily waiting to remove to Arkansas, in consequence of a communication received by Col. Crowell, from the President, thro' the Secretary of War, dated at Franklin, in Tennessee, at which place the President was a few weeks since. We have learned from some intelligent Indians, to whom the purport of this communication from the Secretary of War has been made known, by the Agent, that the President directs emigration at the expense of the Government to be stopped; withdraws his protection from the Indians; and will not expend one dollar to assist them in emigrating, unless the whole Nation consent to go. The President further says, that though this determination on his part may operate harshly upon those Indians who have planted no corn, and who have no means of support if they remain another year, still he has formed the positive resolution to hold no further intercourse with them, except they apprise him of their wishes to sell out their lands, and remove in a body west of the Mississippi.

This is the substance of the communication of the President, received by the Agent a day or two since at the Creek Agency, near this place. The above statement of facts in relation to the Creek Nation may be relied on as substantially correct.'

It thus appears that those Creeks who, with a view to prevent, by a ready acquiescence in the wishes of the President, any compulsory measures, have made their arrangements to remove this season beyond the Mississippi; and have, in consequence, foreborne those efforts which they would otherwise have made to raise the means of subsistence, are to be left either to starve, or to rely on the precarious bounty of individuals for food:-- the Government which has seduced them into error coldly withdrawing its hand, and leaving them the victims of their credulity. Will reason, justice, common humanity sanction such a procedure? It cannot be presumed even for a moment; and if not, will the people of the United States sanction what is rejected by reason, justice, and common humanity? We hope history will answer for the people in the negative.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Three companies of United States Troops have been ordered into the Cherokee country, for the purpose, it is said, of 'repressing the working of the mines.' --the troops of Georgia, not being able to accomplish that object. Gov. Gilmer, it is added, acquiesces in this arrangement!  This acquiescence on the part of Georgia, strikes us as overturning her whole claim to jurisdiction. If these troops go to enforce the laws of the United States, then what becomes of the law of Georgia? They cannot both exist, and be in force at the same time. There is no concurrence of jurisdiction in this matter. It is exclusive on one side or the other. If the laws of the United States regulating intercourse with the Indians are admitted to be valid, then the jurisdiction law of Georgia falls; for the former declare the officers of the latter trespassers, and liable to heavy punishment as such. We should be glad to see this knot untied.

Suppose, however, it should turn out, that these troops are not enforcing the laws of the United States, but are aiding Georgia in executing her law; where, we would ask, is the authority to be found for thus employing the troops? Has any case arisen, in which the President may call out the military force of the country?  Is there an insurrection in Georgia?  There is a dilemma in this case, which must of necessity unhorse Gov. Gilmer or the President.

Fredonian

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS.

The talk of President Jackson to the Chickasaw Indians is going the round of the papers. We have not room to insert this document entire; and indeed, it is peculiarly trying to our feelings, at a moment when so much of our columns is devoted to a record of the noble sentiments and magnanimous conduct of the French people, and especially of our illustrious Lafayette, to be obliged to refer at all to a history so opposite in its character, and so humiliating to all patriotic Americans. The story of the treatment of the aborigines of this country by the whites, will be read by posterity with as much interest as that of the revolution in France; and the names of the chief actors in the scenes which it describes, will live at least equally long in the memory of future times. It is a story which has its bright and its dark spots. Amid much that is to be deplored, the names of Elliot, Mayhew, Brainerd, Penn, Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, throw their lustre over a period of two hundred years. But then begins a tale of meanness, duplicity and perfidy, which will confer upon this generation, and especially upon some of the distinguished men now on the stage, an ignominy as deep and as durable as the glory of Lafayette.

The first act which tarnished the reputation of our republic was the ratification of the treaty with the Creeks at the Indian Springs by the Senate of the United States, at a time when they had on their table clear evidence of the base fraud by which it was obtained. That treaty was signed b y Mr. Adams; and although he subsequently procured its annulment, there was no proper atonement for the sin.  That treaty opened the door for all the tyranny and oppression which have followed. When General Jackson came into office, the hope was indulged that he would avail himself of his unbounded popularity to restore the character of our government. One word from his lips uttered in Washington last winter -- 'the Union must be preserved' -- destroyed the nullification party in Congress; and one word from his lips, when he entered the Presidential chair -- 'The faith of the nation must be

preserved' -- would have made the tyrannical laws of Georgia, and her sister states as inoperative as the ordinances of Charles the X. This one word uttered by General Jackson, with his characteristic decision, would have saved the Indians, -- saved the reputation of the country, -- saved his own reputation, and not only saved it but placed his name on the list of men illustrious for stern justice and integrity, as well as for heroic courage. This word, he did not utter. With an infatuation scarcely surpassed by that of the Ex-King of France, he chose rather to nullify the solemn treaties and legislation of forty years, and stultify all his predecessors in office. What could be expected from such rashness but trouble on every side, and difficulties inextricable. Nor is it surprising, that in attempting to reconcile what is irreconcilable, he should run into the wildest inconsistency is strikingly manifest in the following paragraphs, which follow each other in immediate succession in his talk to the Chickasaws.

'Brothers listen -- The laws to which you must be subjected, are not oppressive, for they

are those to which your white brothers conform and are happy. Under them, you will not be permitted to seek private revenge, but in all cases where wrong may be done, you are through them to seek redress. No taxes upon your property or yourselves, except such as may be imposed upon a white brother, will be assessed against you. The courts will be open for redress of wrongs; and bad men will be made answerable for whatever crimes or misdemeanors may be committed by any of your people, or our own.'

'Brothers, listen -- To these laws: where you are, you must submit; there is no prevention -- no other alternative. Your great father cannot, nor can Congress prevent it. The states only can. What then? 

Do you believe that you can live under those laws? That you can surrender all your ancient habits and the forms by which you have been so long controlled? If so, your great father has noting to say or advise. He has only to express a hope, that you find happiness in the determination you shall make whatever it may be. His earnest desire is, that you may be perpetuated and preserved as a nation, and this he believes can only be done and secured by your consent to removed to a country beyond the Mississippi, which for the happiness of our red friends was laid out by the government a long time since, and to which it was expected ere this they would have gone.  Where you are, it is not possible you can live contented and happy.  Besides the laws of Mississippi which must operate upon you, and which your father cannot prevent, white men continually intruding are with difficulty kept off your lands, and difficulties continue to increase around you.'

The first of these paragraphs appears to have been intended for the ears of the whites, for those northern philanthropists who complain of the cruelty of subjecting the Indians to the laws of the states. To them he says, 'These laws are not oppressive,' -- and would apparently persuade us to require the Indians to obey them is not cruel. The second paragraph is for the Indians, and with a view to induce them to emigrate to the Arkansas, he says, 'Do you believe you can live under those laws? It is not possible you can live contented and happy.'

N.Y. Observer.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CONDITION OF THE CHEROKEES.

A gentleman who has resided for a considerable time in the Cherokee Nation, writes to his friend in this city as follow: 

N.Y. Observer.

CARMEL, CHEROKEE NATION,

September 6, 1830.

Dear Sir -- As I am persuaded that you feel deeply interested in behalf of the Cherokee Indians, it is presumed that any statements of mine tending to show their present condition, will not be unacceptable. You will recollect that I have made my residence in the Cherokee Nation for more than one year and eight months. I live on the Federal road leading from Augusta, Geor. to Nashville, Tenn. about forty miles form the white settlements of the former, and sixty from those of the latter state. I shall content myself, at present, with mentioning a few facts only, some of which may not have come to your knowledge.

During my residence here, much of my time has been spent in travelling. I have been in almost all parts of this Nation. My travels have been generally however, in the more destitute parts.  More than once I have traversed in that portion of this country called the Valley Towns. I have also visited many families at their own homes, learned their mode of living, witnessed, in some instances, their wants and their sorrows, and in others, experienced their kindness and hospitality. One prominent object with me in all my intercourse with the Cherokees, has been, to ascertain their true condition.

It has been said and reiterated in the ear of the public, that the game of the Indians is principally gone; that they are an idle, intemperate race, that they never can be effectually taught industrious and sober habits, and that so large a portion of them are now in actual want, that the cause of humanity calls for their removal to the wilderness of the west, in order to better their condition. I am aware that these, and similar statements have been already ably refuted, yet I fully believe, that the truth is not yet known, relative to the situation of the Cherokees, and consequently, that every item of information on this subject, may in some way subserve the cause of justice and truth.  That the game of the Cherokees is chiefly gone is not denied, but it is not true that they are thereby deprived of comfortable means of subsistence. Yet the impression which persons giving the above representation would make on the public mind, appears to be that they have not a better, or an equal substitute for their game. It becomes unnecessary, therefore to repeat the fact which has been before stated that the Cherokees, instead of depending, as they once did, upon the deer and the buffalo for support, now depend upon their flocks and their herds and their cornfields. I know not of a single family which depends solely upon hunting for support.  Individuals it is true, spend much time in the pursuit of game, yet so far as my knowledge extends, no Cherokee expects to maintain a family by so doing.

The following facts show, that as a nation, the Cherokees have not only a comfortable means of support for their own population, but that they have something to spare for the use of their neighbors. There are three or four public roads leading from Georgia to Tennessee through this nation: These roads are much travelled. Besides persons on ordinary business, may be seen drovers with large numbers of horses, mules, and hogs, passing from Kentucky and Tennessee to Georgia. While in this nation these animals consume vast quantities of corn and other provisions, and yet they are supplied almost exclusively from the products of this country. Thousands of bushels of corn sold by natives every year, which are raised by full Cherokees, to travellers and drovers. Within two miles of my residence are two public houses, owned and kept by natives. To my own personal knowledge, large droves of horses and hogs are very frequently supplied with corn for the night at each of these taverns. I have known as many as 1,400 hogs and their drivers to be supplied at the same time at one of these Indian houses. Nor are instances of this kind rare. A part of the corn sold at these public houses is raised by their owners, and a part purchased of full Cherokees I speak not of the quantities raised and sold by white citizens, because I wish to confine my remarks to natives. But if the Cherokees, as a body, are in such a state of want as has been represented, where are such quantities of corn and other provisions obtained to supply the calls of travellers? If they never can be taught industrious habits, how is it that they can annually dispose of their thousands of bushels of corn? Their sales are not however confined to the single article of corn.  Large numbers of cattle and hogs are sold by them every year to citizens of Georgia and of other states. Large droves of cattle purchased in this nation are driven annually to Virginia, and some are taken and sold in the Pennsylvania markets. I am personally acquainted with individuals engaged in this business. Cattle raised in this nation, I am informed, are sold in markets as far distant as Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania.

Wheat is also raised in some parts of this nation.  As many as five or six of my own neighbors have procured good crops of this valuable article the present season.  This wheat is floured at a mill owned by natives. I have seen of the flour, and hesitate not in saying that it would be considered merchantable in any market.

Another fact worthy of mention is, that from a single Indian town, called Ellijay, fourteen miles from this place, were conveyed, during the summer of 1829, seventeen or eighteen loads of corn averaging from thirty to thirty-five bushels each. This corn was purchased by inhabitants of Georgia, and carried on wagons seventy miles to some of the counties of that state contiguous to this nation. It passed my own dwelling on its way to Georgia. Seven loads of it were purchased of two full Cherokees, a man and his wife, whose names are Natcheer and Alesey. It must not be omitted here that Ellijay is a dark Indian town fourteen miles from the public road. Similar statements might, I doubt not, be made respecting other parts of this nation, but I have chosen to confine my remarks chiefly to facts which have occurred under my own observation.

And do not these facts show directly the reverse of what has been so often said of this people? If the Cherokees can sell hundreds of cattle and hogs annually, and annually part with thousands of bushels of corn to travellers, and if seventeen or eighteen loads of it can be spared from a single Indian town, does the cause of humanity call for their removal to the howling deserts of the West, to prevent them from perishing from want? The facts I have mentioned show moreover that corn, and beef, and pork can be obtained here on cheaper terms than in the neighbouring counties of Georgia. If it be not so, how, I ask, can purchasers of these articles afford to buy and convey them seventy miles or upwards either for their own use or for the purpose of selling them again? If it be true then that the game of the Indian is gone, let it not be forgotten that he has a more valuable substitute for his support.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Skeneatales Telegraph

THE CHEROKEES.

It is truly painful to read, from week to week, of the oppressive, not to say degrading and abominable measures, put in operation to afflict this unhappy people, and drive them from their immemorial and till recently acknowledged inheritance. They now are, and for some time have been, subjected to arts (sic) and indignities altogether too trying and vexatious, too unjust and debasing for common fortitude to bear. And it certainly is no less surprising to us than creditable to the sufferers, that so little disposition to violence has prevailed among them.

Our fathers were taxed without their own consent, and for purposes beyond their control; but they were never, we believe, so completely disfranchised, nor rendered so entirely helpless and miserable as are the Cherokees at this time. Greatly indeed were our ancestors oppressed; but never were deprived of all participation in the government; nor were they ever exposed to more flagrant and intolerable abuses, than are now endured by the Cherokees.

But to our sires, open and determined resistance promised a speedy and permanent remedy. The nation arose in its strength, and, by the favor of Providence, asserted and established its 'unalienable rights'. Not so the Indians. Keenly sensible as they are, to the unsparing cruelties practiced upon them by their once dependent and indulged but not ungrateful oppressors, they have not the power if they have the inclination to offer a sanguinary and effectual resistance.  They did suppose, and with much good reason, that a people whose history tells so much of exile and oppression from the mother country, and so much of Indian credulity, and kindness, in affording them a shelter and a home in their distress, would deal justly at least, if they did not greatly excell the uncultivated SAVAGE in deeds of charity, when the circumstances of each should be changed. And such a change has long been anticipated. So early indeed, that had not the above expectation been strengthened by the most fair and solemn promises, the progress of our nation would have been materially retarded, if its very existence had not been jeopardized.  Treaty after treaty was made with them, in all of which their sovereignty was acknowledged, either directly or indirectly. And no less plainly were protection and a regard to their rights, pledged FOREVER.

If they were not a sovereign people, why was it not known and asserted long since; and why was not the attempt made to convince them of this when they had the requisite power to oppose usurpation and to punish the intruder? If the national rights of the Cherokees were not distinct from those of Georgia, how could the General Government make treaties with them without violating state rights? Can the United States form a treaty with a county, or with five counties without considering and acknowledging them sovereigns? And if sovereigns, how can a state control them or lay claim to their territory? Can an independent state lie within a sovereign state? Our Constitution, our President, Georgia, and all rational men say no. But the Cherokees from time immemorial, existed a sovereign people, and claimed their possessions independently of all governments.  How then can any reflecting people claim them and their possessions as a constituent part of a state to which they never owed nor acknowledged allegiance? How could Georgia tamely permit treaties to be made with them so often, and so long since her nominal boundaries were thrown around them? and how could our wise Presidents and enlightened legislators sanction and confirm the compacts this unconstitutionally concluded? If they were unlawful, why was it not long since perceived and the present dilemma avoided?

With some it may be a matter of policy, and in many respects desirable, to bring the Indians under our laws and government.  So thought Great Britain when she attempted to coerce us into obedience. It is true, the circumstances of that case were different from the one now under consideration, inasmuch as the colonies had acknowledged allegiance to another country; which is in no sense true of the Cherokees; yet our fathers were indisposed to submit without a struggle. They were capable of distinguishing between the legitimate rights of the people and the delegated authority of the government and when that government assumed those privileges which did not belong to it, and exercised undelegated and unlawful authority, the injured people would not, could not be made slaves, so long as the hope of freedom and the means of defense remained.

'We hold these truths to be self evident,' said the venerable founders of our independence, 'that ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL; that they are endowed by their CREATOR with certain UNALIENABLE RIGHTS, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That, to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the CONSENT of the GOVERNED.' 'We hold these truths to be self evident' was and is now the response of the nation.

How then does it happen, that a nation thus tenacious of its rights, and determined to maintain them, can lift an arm of oppression over another, which owes them no obedience, nor any unriquitted obligation?

We know it may be as often as it has been repeated, the Cherokees are not an independent nation, because they are chiefly situated within the alleged boundaries of Georgia. But when did the Indians yield their immemorial title to the included territory? When did they assent to those boundaries? Shall mere nominal boundaries become real in this age of wisdom? Shall one possessor of the soil run his boundaries across the domains of another and his claims be sustained? Or shall one hold the property of another, simply because it has been formally deeded to him by a third? Is it ever too late to investigate the title of either, and thus decide between just and unjust claims?

Not only 'life liberty and the pursuit of happiness;' but also the quiet enjoyment of our homes, and the right of self-government, are treasures too valuable to be yielded into the hands of the tyrant or the covetous without a tear, an argument, an effort. More intrinsic worth do we all attach to them than to gold.  And he may be deemed a prodigal indeed who can carelessly waste, and he an idiot, who can quietly relinquish them to an unlawful grasp.

Is it not strange then, that any who have yielded a hearty assent to our national Bill of Rights, should so far forget their own avowed sentiments, as to attempt a forcible alienation of 'unalienable rights?' Is it not strange, 'passing strange,' that a people, whose right of self-government has not only been derived, in common with all men from the even hand of the Creator; but has also been sealed and secured by an almost unparalleled expenditure of blood and treasure, should so soon forget the value to others, of similar inheritance? Well indeed may every philanthropist exclaim with the poet,

'My ear is pain'd, my soul is sick

With every days report, of wrong

And outrage with which earth is filled.'

But it may be asked, what can be done to relieve the Cherokees? In reply, we may observe, that the moral sense of the community, if rightly directed and strongly expressed may do much to correct the evil. The voice of philanthropy has already done much to sooth and encourage the sufferers; and if raised to a still higher pitch, may produce a salutary effect upon the measures of Georgia. Were Georgia disposed to deal justly and tenderly with the original lords of the soil, then no further efforts would immediately be necessary; for the Indians ask no greater boon of us, than to permit them to remain around the graves of their fathers, and enjoy the fruits of their own toil. They ask of use simple justice, and not a gratuity. They ask the privilege of enjoying their inherent rights, only because they have not the power to maintain them against the arts ' more abundant means of their oppressors. They have looked in vain to the clemency of Georgia. It is evidently the object and aim of that state to depress their spirits, to tire their patience, and exterminate every hope of peace and quietude, or even a reciprocal citizenship, until they relinquish their present territory and consent to go into exile from the land of their birth and of their choice.

In this extremity, they have addressed their petitions for aid to their promised protectors, the general government; but like the burdened and complaining Israelites in Egypt, they are turned away without redress. And we would that this were all. Not satisfied with giving them a cold reception, and disappointing their reasonable expectations, additional and more vexatious burdens are laid upon them.

A small annuity, due from our government to the Cherokee Nation, and by them appropriated to the support of their government, is, in the wisdom of our chief executive, ordered to be apportioned among individuals of the nation. In consequence of this order each individual, or possibly one of each family, (for we would fain make the best of it) must apply to the government Agency, at the distance of one hundred miles from some of their dwellings -- all for about forty-two cents each! 'Tell it not in Gath! publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon!' Tell it not? Yes:  let it be told not exaggerated, to every man, woman and child of our nation.  And let each look down, we cannot say up, along the chain of our national existence and happiness, and calculate its length and probable tendency, if such vexatious and intolerant abuses are not speedily corrected. We say abuses, for we could exhibit more of them if time permitted.

We are consoled however by the reflection, that a last resort still remains, where justice may be peaceably sought and prudently awarded.

And to this source the Indian now turns his eye.  To the Supreme Court of the Union he appeals for a decision of the controversy. And his appeal will not be in vain.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: OCT. 23, 1830.

Our readers will notice an error in our last, in the Secretary of War's letter, which we here correct. A line was misplaced in the following sentence.

'The wild turkey, though you shall take the egg and hatch it in your barnyard, will not forget his nature, but at maturity will seek the tallest forest tree, at night fall, for his roosting place.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We published in our last a copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to the agent of the Creek Nation, and which was forwarded to the agent of the Cherokees, as a document applicable to them. It is indeed applicable to the people of this nation if the criterion which Mr. Eaton sets forth is to be taken as correct. In his letter to Col. Ward, accompanying a copy of the same communication, he says: 'The opinions and arguments contained in it being applicable to every tribe which shall decline the liberal terms proposed by Congress' 'c. We will apply this logic in the form of a syllogism, that the reader may the better understand it.

The opinions ' arguments contained in it are applicable to every tribe which shall decline the terms proposed by Congress:

The Cherokees have declined the terms proposed by Congress:

Therefore, the opinions and arguments contained in the communication are applicable to the Cherokees.

It is for the candid reader to say whether such logic is worth anything, or in other words, whether the refusal of the terms contained in Indian Bill will make an Indian a perfect savage, and put him beyond the possibility of reform; for the whole communication is but a series of false premises and arguments to prove that an 'Indian will still be an Indian' -- that he cannot be civilized. We have so often endeavoured in this paper to confute similar reasonings, and to give a correct statement of the condition, improvement and prospects of the Cherokee people, that it would, at this time, be a mere waste of words to enter into any examination of the Honorable Secretary of War's letter. We can freely commit his doctrines and arguments to the candor and good judgement of the reader. They will there undergo a rigid and just examination, and receive the sentence of an impartial tribunal.

As a document emenating from a high officer of the General Government, it is highly undignified, and perhaps, silly in the extreme. We know of no document from that quarter which can be compared with it. His allusions to the wild turkey, and the

Leopard ' Ethiopian (the latter borrowed from Scripture) are very unbecoming.  There is a lack of correct taste in the former, ' in the latter perhaps a little of impiety -- or it will at least be so considered, by one who believes in the revelation of God ' in its power to reform mankind, as reprehensible. But we leave the document in the hands of the public -- we are willing that its merits should there be fairly weighed without our saying another word.  We only beg a particular attention to it.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We learn by a letter from the Choctaw Nation, that the commissioners, the Secretary of War and General Coffee, appointed by the President of the United States to treat with the Choctaws, have effected their object. The Choctaws have treated ' sold their country. It is said they had no wish to sell, for their first answer to the propositions of the Commissioners was unanimous ' to that effect. They were induced to sell principally by two circumstances. The influence of the laws of Mississippi, and the fear that they would be made severer hereafter if they refused to treat; and a declaration from the Secretary of War to the nation, that if they refused, the agent would be removed and the interpreters dismissed. The principal provisions of the treaty are the following.

They are to receive $400,000 in 20 annual installments -- two years and a half are allowed them after the ratification of the treaty, for evacuating the country -- they are to be aided in the removal, and to be supplied with provision after they arrive -- they are to receive blankets, guns 'c -- forty young men are to be educated by the government for twenty years, and such individuals as choose are permitted to take reserves and remain.  So the long agony with the Choctaws is over. We wish them well -- they have a right to take such steps as they think proper.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Since our last, a detachment of the United States Troops under the command of Lieutenant Mackenzie visited this place and arrested a number of white persons and led them prisoners to head quarters.  It appears that Georgia laws are not yet sovereign over this country.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We did not inform our readers in our last that Col. John Lowrey, of Tennessee, has been appointed a special agent by the General Government to visit the nation, ' that this gentleman has been in this place since the commencement of the Council. The following correspondence on the subject of his mission will be interesting to the public.

To the Committee and National Council of the Cherokee Nation now in session.

Gentlemen -- on tomorrow (the 19th inst.) in the afternoon, I request a meeting with the Chiefs and Councilors of your Nation, at such place as may be selected by you for that purpose, that I may have an opportunity of explaining to you the object of my mission into your country.

Respectfully,

JOHN LOWREY.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NEW ECHOTA, 19th Oct. 1830

Col. JOHN LOWREY,

Sir -- Your note of yesterday is duly received by the Committee and Council in General Council convened, and I am instructed to say that they will at any time be ready to receive any communication, on the subject of your mission, addressed to them through John Ross principal Chief of this Nation, and afford to you an opportunity of making verbal explanations thereon, in joint Committee of the whole (in Council) when most convenient to yourself.

I have the honor to be your obedient servant.

JOHN RIDGE, Pres't Com.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NEW ECHOTA, 20th Oct. 1830.

Gentlemen -- Your note of the 19th instant has been duly received in which you require an exhibition of my authority -- in answer to which request, I would beg leave to say that I have heretofore notified the principal Chief of my appointment, the date thereof, and from whence it emanated.  I had also intended, and yet intend to exhibit it to the Council at the commencement of our interview, but believe it would be unprecedented in diplomatic concerns to forward it to you by way of communication. I should be very sorry our friendly interview should be clogged or impeded by etiquette or nice distinctions -- I wish it hastened.

Respectfully your obed't. serv't.

JOHN LOWREY.

The Committee and Council

 of the Cherokee nation.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NEW ECHOTA, Oct. 20, 1830.

Col. John Lowrey.

SIR -- Your note of this day is received, in answer to that of the General Council, of the 19th inst. in which you say, we requested an exhibition of your authority by way of communication. We have examined our note and find that you are only required to communicate with us through the Executive of this nation at any time most convenient to yourself. In this we did not intend 'to clog, embarrass or impede by Etiquette, new distinctions' or the interview you requested and to which we have complied in the manner stated.

It may not be improper to inform you that we requested the Principal Chief to be satisfied of your official character as a preliminary to the interview proposed, as you unofficially signed your name to the note addressed to the Council. It is our intention and wish to listen to you in candor and communicate with you in friendship, whenever you think best in the mode heretofore proposed.

JOHN RIDGE,

Pres't Com.

To the Committee and Council

I enclose herewith a copy of a note just received from John Lowrey, informing me that he has come into the nation agreeably to the desire of the Honorable Secretary of War, to explain by fair arguments the views of the General Government toward this nation, and requesting me to 'communicate his intentions to the proper authorities of the nation' and to let him know at what time it will be most convenient for them to hear him. It is proper I should state for your information that Mr. Lowrey has not as yet exhibited before me any evidence of his authority to speak in behalf of the General Government. The subject is submitted for your consideration.

Very respectfully, I am 'c.

JNO. ROSS.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






ECHOTA, 19th Act. 1830.

Sir -- By a request of the Honorable the Secretary of War, dated, Franklin 1st Sept. 1830 -- I was desired to come into your Nation, and by fair argument, explain to your people the views of the government toward them. I am now here for that purpose, and hope you will communicate my intentions to the proper authorities of your nation, and let me know at what time it will be most convenient for them to hear me.

Most respectfully your ob't. serv't.

JOHN LOWREY.

Mr. John Ross, Principal Chief, 'c.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






To the Committee and Council.

I submit here with a paper containing certain propositions from Mr. John Lowrey, special agent of the United States, intended by him for your consideration.

Very respectfully your ob't ser'vt.

JNO ROSS.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NEW ECHOTA, 20th Oct. 1830

The United States, in order to avert the evils and unhappy difficulties which now exist and are likely to continue, between the Cherokee Indians, east of the Mississippi and the surrounding states, and with a view to promote the peace and happiness of all concerned, propose to enter into a compact or treaty with the Cherokee Indians on the following terms, (to wit.)

1st. The United States propose to give to them a country west of the Mississippi, and without the limits of any of the states or territories of the United States, which shall be equal in value to the country they leave.

2d. They further propose to allow to each and every warrior and widow, residing within the states of Alabama and Tennessee, (and also Georgia, provided her consent can be obtained, and which we have strong assurances can be,) a reservation of two hundred acres, which they may occupy as long as they choose, and when they choose to leave it the United States will pay them a fair price in cash for it.

3. They propose to allow to each and every individual who choose to become citizens of the U. States, and who have arrived to such a state of improvement, as will enable them to sustain themselves under the laws of the States, a reservation in fee simple.

4th. They do further agree to remove those who may choose to emigrate, at the expense of the Government, ' to furnish them with provisions one year after they arrive at their new homes, and also to pay them for their stock (except horses) and other personal property which they may not choose to take with them, thereby giving them a perfect choice, to go or stay, and in either event to be provided for as above described.

5th. A liberal school fund will also be added, to be vested in the hands of such trustees as may be deemed worthy of the trust, for the promotion of education in the new country, that the rising generation may thereby be enabled to improve in useful learning, together with such annuities as may be thought best suited to their rank and standing amongst the southern Indian nations, compared with those which have been afforded to others.

JOHN LOWREY

Special Agent.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NEW ECHOTA, C.N., 21st Oct. 1830.

MR. JNO. ROSS,

SIR -- The Committee and Council, in General Council convened, deem it unnecessary to exhibit a detailed statement of their objections to the propositions submitted through you by the special Agent of Government Col. John Lowrey. The special Agent in his remarks was understood to say, that, whenever the State of Georgia thinks proper to enter the territories of this nation, and survey it, the President would not interfere or prevent her, and that citizens of Georgia would then draw for the land agreeably to their laws. In other words, they would take it by force, without any opposition from the General Government. We have not sought the difficulties, the special Agent has enumerated in bold relief, nor are we prepared to run away from the trials that beset us; and if any officers of the United States harbor the expectation of driving a bargain with us, by withdrawing the protection of the United States guarantied to us by treaty, we can only say that they have only to continue their policy, until it leads them to a point, beyond which it will be in vain to expect success; and it is best known to themselves how far they will go.

Reservations in fee have been offered, to which we say, we have no disposition to alter the extent of our reservation as defined by former treaties -- the limits of the whole Cherokee Nation. It is the desire of the Council, that the special Agent may receive this as an answer to the propositions submitted for our consideration.

If it is thought expedient on your part to reply more fully to the communication referred to, the Council can have no objection.

JOHN RIDGE, Pres't Com.

GOING SNAKE, Spkr. Coun.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We listened very attentively to the remarks of the special agent on last Thursday, in explanation of his propositions for a compact or treaty. Those remarks, we believe, are correctly reported by our correspondent. It is due to the public, at this time when there is so much excitement on the subject of the Indian controversy, and so much need of correct understanding on the true policy of the Government towards the Cherokees, that not only what is officially communicated by the agent should be known, but also his verbal reasonings arguments. It is the more necessary as another wide step towards the accomplishment of the purposes of Georgia and the General Government is proposed to be taken. We did really understand the special agent to intimate that Georgia would survey the Cherokee country, or so much of it as lies within her charter, and that the President would not interfere; ' furthermore, that the lands thus surveyed would be disposed of by lottery; ' that the individuals of the nation would ultimately be compelled to content for their rights against the fortunate drawers, who would receive their titles from the State. In this we could not have misunderstood the speaker; certainly we can have no inducement to misrepresent his remarks.

We had frequent intimations before that the legislature of the state of Georgia would make provisions for the surveying of the Cherokee lands, during its present session, but that a tacit permission would be given by the President of the United States, for such a flagrant outrage on the rights of a weak and innocent people we had not the least inclination to believe. But if we can credit our ears, ' if the agent has been instructed to say what he has said, the American public have not even dreamt of what the present administration intend to do in regard to the Cherokees.

The propositions of the agent and his remarks on them formed an ingenious step towards accomplishing this object. The former were directed to the avarice of the Cherokees, and the latter to their fears. We should be doing injustice to our countrymen if we were even to entertain the least suspicion of their steadfastness, notwithstanding, what may be supposed, the vulnerable point on which they are not attacked. The great majority of this nation cannot be bought by reservations, nor driven into compliance! If the land is not ours, we wish not an acre it -- we cannot receive it as a boon from Georgia.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For the Cherokee Phoenix.

It is already known to many persons in this Nation that a special Agent has been attending the General Council under appointment of the United States Government. Many conjectures have been set afloat as the object of his visit.  The people who have assembled at Echota during the present session of the Council have been, for the last several days, as it were, kept in suspense as to the probable and true object of Mr. Lowrey's business with the Cherokees. The clouds, however, have been dispelled and the minds of expectants illuminated by a speech from the Govt. Agent. A communication was addressed to the Principal Chief submitting certain propositions, having for their object a removal of the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, (which I presume will be published at the proper time.)  it was immediately laid before the 'Committee and Council, in full session, for their deliberation. Seats were prepared in front of the Council House, as the evening was pleasant, and the two branches formed a joint committee on the whole, to listen to the reading of the document. It was read and interpreted into Cherokee by the President of the Committee, to a grave and silent audience of Chiefs, citizens and strangers. At the conclusion scare a murmur escaped. There were no bursts of feeling either way. All was calmness and respect. Mr. Lowrey appeared and desired an opportunity of delivering an address in explanation of what had been submitted and the reasons why such a course had been taken, which was readily granted by the speaker of the Council.  He addressed them through the interpretation of Mr. Jno. Ridge, who excellent talent for such business I thought gave, if possible, a somewhat a more plausible force to his arguments.

He commenced by stating the character of the states in 1778, and that Congress of that year had guarantied to the state of Georgia her sovereignty. Its boundary lines were defined and marked. From that period she claimed Sovereignty and jurisdiction over all the territory comprehended within its limits. This sovereignty and jurisdiction she now refuses to part with.

If the United States did at that early day guarantie to Georgia these powers they cannot now recede from it. In a short period afterwards, Georgia adopted her constitution. That constitution was ratified by the Senate in Congress and President of the United States.  This then is the tenure by which Georgia now claims sovereignty and jurisdiction. It is true that in the year '91, by the treaty of Holston, the Cherokees were guarantied the right to the soil not then ceded. But how will that present itself before any court of justice? Suppose the President of the United States were to say to Georgia stay your hand, would not Georgia reply by looking at the guarantee made to her in '98? and if two guarantees are made, which shall prevail?  must not the oldest prevail? In order then to avoid this collision, the United States are willing to enter into some agreement, by, which those things may be put at rest. The President and Secretary of War say how is the time for action. If you wait until Georgia surveys your lands and allots them out, what then will become of you? If she conveys them to the drawers, will they not hold them? You will then have to seek redress, if at all, in the courts of justice, and the oldest legal right must predominate. IN order to avoid these difficulties, what can be more fair than the propositions which are now offered to you? The invitation to you is as broad as the Cherokee nation. You are all invited without exception, rank or standing. every warrior and widow can have a reservation, and every individual can have one according to his rank and standing in the community. Or if some choose to go and some to stay be it so. Those who go are to be provided for. Those who stay may have a guarantie as citizens of, and taken into the arms of the Government. Those causes that give trouble will be wiped away; and a guarantee will be extended to you to place all who stay upon equal footing with their white brothers. For those who go an ample fund will be provided, the proceeds of which to be applied for the promotion of education. These liberal terms are not offered to you. I am told by the President to say to you that he cannot withhold the jurisdiction of Georgia. If you remain and she exercises this power it must be settled between you and the surrounding states. How is it with the different states? The United States possess no power to legislate for the State of Tennessee.  She has sovereign power to legislate for herself. No authority is strong enough to oppose it. If the United States interfere with the state governments it would produce a dissolution of the Union. Therefore, it is, that the President cannot prevent the operation of the civil laws of Georgia. It is time, therefore, that every individual should think for himself.  Consider the happiness of himself and his offspring. Think freely; and exercise your own judgment for your own welfare. For all who wish to take reservations an office will be opened -- all to receive a valuable tract of land for himself which cannot be disturbed by Georgia. They will be allowed the selecting of places to be reserved, 'c. These offers are proper to show that the United States design the use of no force, and she hopes she will not be charged with harsh treatment.  This may be the last time such an opportunity will be afforded you. Think coolly and calmly and deliberate for yourselves.'

At the instance of Major Ridge, a letter addressed by the Honorable Secretary of War to Mr. L. dated Franklin 1st September 1830, was read by him, in which he was requested to come into the nation, and by fair argument, explain the views of the Government toward the Cherokees. The Secretary said that it had not been intended to trouble the Cherokees further on the subject of a removal, but, as a treaty had been made with the Chickasaws and a day fixed upon the meeting of the Choctaws for the same purpose, and a strong assurance that a treaty would be effected, it was thought best to endeavour once more to arouse the Cherokees, if possible, into a sense of their danger, 'by fair arguments.' Where they now are they can never be happy even if they are permitted to remain, and can only escape those difficulties and dangers that menace them by a removal west of the Mississippi.'

The propositions made by the special agent were merely, as he stated, to let them know what the United States would do for them; and if they met the approbation of the Cherokees would form the basis of a future treaty, as he was not clothed with powers to enter into any 'compact or treaty.'

A deliberate and respectful reply I presume will be returned by the nation; which, I will not however, anticipate, further than to say, if we are to judge of the future by the past, the effort to obtain the consent of the Cherokees to treat is not very likely to blind the Indians at this enlightened period of their national existence.

W.S.C.

Echota, Oct. 22d.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For the Cherokee Phoenix

A letter was published in your paper last week addressed to the officer commanding a detachment of the United States troops, from the Six's Station, by the Cherokees who were at work at the gold mine on Alatony Creek, and who were ordered by said commander to desist further digging. It was stated by them that they had come to the conclusion to continue their operations in a peaceable manner, and bear the consequences, but more recent circumstances have changed their determination. One of the signers of that letter had a conversation a few days after, with one of the officers who commands a station of the troops, who advised a suspension of their work until the views of the Government were more fully developed on the subject, and thought it would afford better opportunity, perhaps, of effecting the entire removal of all white intruders out of the nation. The Cherokees, disposed to act with prudence ' in the most friendly manner, toward the Government ' its authority, concluded to desist for a while, trusting that some good to the nation might be the result. Since then two detachments of troops have visited the mine but found very few citizens, perhaps half a dozen, who were captured and kept under guard one night and released. Another detachment from headquarters has been ordered on the Georgia frontier, along the Chattahoochy, to remove all white intruders and burn their houses. Another has visited Echota the last few days, and taken several white persons and confiscated about one hundred gallons of whiskey, introduced by a white man contrary to the laws of the United States and this nation, and himself made a prisoner, but on their return march by some means, effected his escape in the dark.  What the final result of these movements may be we know not, but does not a present seem to be very favorable to the position of Georgia, and in my view places its authority in a delicate situation.

During the short stay of the troops, the officers, Lieutenants McKenzie and Adams, (the latter a nephew of Ex-President Adams) visited the Council. They were kindly and respectfully treated. Upon their entrance into the Council House the Speaker arose and welcomed them by a few appropriate remarks, which I doubt not must have impressed upon them a sense of the great respect entertained by the people ' authority of this union toward their Government. The National Committee afforded a similar testimony of their respect and esteem for the Government and its officers; and it may be proper to add that the Cherokees, have been highly pleased with these two young gentlemen, who are worthy the title of American citizens, discharging with fidelity their duties as officers.

W.S.C.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






MISCELLANEOUS.

Extract of a letter dated Dresden (Ten.) August 16, to the editor of the Kentucky Reporter.

I said in my letter to you of 5th July, the the Indian Bill was doing General Jackson more harm here than anything else; and it certainly is the fact. Hundreds, yes thousands of the honest and intelligent yeomen of the District, are indignant at such a gross violation of a nation's faith, as is manifested in the recent act of Congress relative to the southern Indians, when taken in conjunction with the laws of Georgia extending her jurisdiction over them.  The people look at the subject as it is.  They are aware that the faith of this nation has been often times pledged to the Indians, that they should be secure in their homes, and in the free exercise of the laws and customs of their forefathers, free from the intrusion or molestation of any state, the citizens of any state, or the United States. The people of this country have eyes and they see -- they have ears and they hear -- they have minds and they understand. Possessed of these faculties, and living in a land of liberty, they never will be deterred from an independent expression of their sentiments upon the Indian Bill, or any other subject of interest to themselves and the nation, for the bare reason that by such an expression they might incur the displeasure of Gen. Jackson and his 'whole hog partizens.' The people in this country, the most of them reverence him as a soldier; but notwithstanding this fact, the cannot, they will not tamely and silently acquiesce in such base and inhuman treatment, even to the Indians, as Georgia and the General Government by the approbation and under the direction of General Jackson, are now carrying on against the Cherokee Indians. What man is there living who has read the appeal to the people of the United States by the Cherokee Indians, but must feel a pungent conviction of their wrongs and sympathize with them in the day of their adversity. If any there be who has read their appeal, and does not feel for their wrongs and sympathize with them in their distresses, I envy not that man his feelings. If Mr. Hall would take the trouble to come to this district, and see and converse with the common people of the country, he would find that there was a majority who reprobated in the strongest terms the treatment towards the Indians. They, the people, rejoice at the fact of Col. Crockett's voting against the Indian Bill -- many men in this country, (Weakly) who will not support support Col. Crockett for reelection, censure, in no measured strains, the Indian Bill, as it is called. Justice and humanity to the Indians cry aloud against it. Some who justify it say that policy and humanity to the Indians recommend it -- to which I say to such policy and such humanity let me always be a stranger. If the Indians from their own free will are disposed to exchange their present possessions for a new home beyond the Mississippi I for one say agreed; but, sir, to force them is downright robbery and treason against the Declaration of Independence, which says, 'that all mankind are created equal -- that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, and that amongst these is life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness'. As much attached as I am to the political career of HENRY CLAY -- as deeply as is my solicitude for his triumph over his calumniators and his enemies, and his ultimate elevation to the Presidency of the United States, I would not, I could not give him my support, at the ensuing elect for President, or at any subsequent time, if he avowed such sentiments (so foreign to right) as those avowed by General Jackson as to the rights of the Indians. He cannot interfere he says to prevent Georgia from enforcing her laws over the Indians: they must submit to these laws or consent to sell their homes and go into the wilderness beyond the Mississippi.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the Spirit of the Pilgrims,

REVIEW

on the speeches of the Bill for the Removal of the Indians

CONCLUDED

The investigation which this subject received in Congress was full and profound, even beyond our hopes. Every part of it was examined with the keenest legal accuracy, and the truth demonstrated with a power of argument utterly irresistible.  The right of the Cherokees to the free, sovereign, inalienable possession of their lands, so long as they may please to occupy them, was settled by proofs which can never be evaded.  No demonstration in Mathematics could be more convincing. No proposition in the whole circle of moral science was ever established by a chain of reasoning more perfect and beautiful in all its parts, more inevitable and overwhelming in its conclusion. Every division of the argument moves onward in unbroken strength; not a line falters; not a weak or exposed point in the whole array; firm, deliberate, impenetrable.  The subject was examined not only in the light of abstract justice,benevolence, and moral obligation; it was tested, and that severely, repeatedly, in every shape, by a reference to the Constitution, to scores of treaties, to the history of the Indians, the history of our country, the usage of the colonies, the practice of all past administrations, the maxims of national law, the views of profound lawyers and statesman, the intrinsic character of the bill, the practice of Georgia herself,and the views of her own senators. Out of their own mouths the enemies to the rights of the Indians were convicted. Their sophistry was laid bare; their misrepresentations detected; the moral deformity of their reasoning made notorious; light, like noon-day, flashed in on all the concealment, artifice, and intrigue, which have marked their proceedings in this whole business. Not a point, at which they attempted to rally their forces, where they were not disgracefully defeated. Every  historical evidence was made to speak the truth; every false witness turned out of court; every sophistical argument dissected, exposed, and refuted, in all possible shapes.

The opposers of this iniquitous measure plied their task nobly; alert on their posts, faithful in duty,prompt ' vigorous in their defence of the Indians. Though it was made the grand measure of the ruling party, and they knew,even before its decision,that argument might as well have been spoken to the raging sea, as to all hope of influencing the result, yet they would not be driven from the contest. Theirs was the noble side, the cause not only of the Indians, but of all this nation; and if clear argument and impressive eloquence could have exercised the demon of party, theirs would have been the victory. They spoke like men convinced of the importance of truth,and earnest for its triumph.

In point of argument, we are inclined to give the preference to the speech of Mr. Sprague; it is exceedingly close and powerful in its reasoning,nor is it wanting in passages of eloquence. No where else have we seen the sophistry of the supporters of the bill so glaringly exposed. Mr. Everett's is equally distinguished in his part of the subject; he shows the enormous absurdity of the bill from beginning to end. The speeches we trust will be in every man's hands throughout the country: we will here present a mere skeleton of some of the points which their perusal makes evident.

From the volume before us, and from the whole debate in Congress, it appears , first:

That this measure originated with the State of Georgia; that the course to be pursued by the present administration was known before the election of the President; that his proceedings were in direct accordance with the advice of the famous Committee of the Georgia Legislature in 1827; that, apart from this bill, the policy adopted by him in his official intercourse, through commissioners or otherwise,with the Indians is inhuman,sordid,and disgraceful to the nation. The present Secretary of War directs the agent of government 'to move upon the Cherokees in the line of their own prejudices;' not to meet them in general council, for 'the consequence would be, what it has been,a firm refusal to acquiesce;' but to appeal to the chiefs and influential men, not together, but apart at their own houses; and to offer them extensive reservations in fee simple, and other rewards!' The character of these unblushing propositions of bribery, and of other similar suggestions has ben severely exposed, and with full justice to their author, in the speeches of Messrs. Sprague, in the Senate, and Storrs, in the house of representatives.

Second; That the President, in virtually abrogating the treaties with the Indian nations,by taking on himself to inform the cherokees that he had no power to protect them from the operation of the laws of Georgia, has been guilty of violating the constitution,and acting in a manner most dangerous to the safety of the republic. If he can annul treaties or deny their obligations with one community, he can with another; and by an approach to despotism hitherto unheard of, our relations with all foreign powers are thus left wholly at the mercy of one man.

Third: that the arguments in favor of the bill were derived in great part from the consideration of the rights of discovery, rights of conquest, rights of civilized over uncivilized mind, rights of the king of Great Britain pretended to have been transferred to the States, and other topics of the like nature, which ought not to have ben mentioned, except to reprobate them, in any enlightened assembly. Some were attempted to be drawn from one or two treaties, incorrectly quoted and totally misunderstood; misrepresentations, proved to be so, and yet maintained, not only on the floor of Congress, but in print.  a great part of the speeches of the abettors of the bill consisted of inaccurate statements, loose and unprincipled declamation, appeals to sectarian prejudices, and blind, unintelligible sophistry, to release the States from all obligations to keep their covenanted engagements. It wa reserved for them to broach the singular doctrine, 'that because the President has sworn to support the Constitution, he may abrogate any treaty, or repeal any law, which he himself may judge to be inconsistent with that Constitution.'

Fourth: that the views of national moral obligation entertained by the supporters of the bill were beyond measure careless and unprincipled; and that their feelings towards the Indians were of such a character as ought in justice to have excluded them from the discussion were called 'poor devils;' sympathy in their behalf was ridiculed; the utmost indifference manifested in regard to their fate; the most outrageous falsehoods asserted as condition.

'But alas! (said Mr. Wilde, of Georgia,) the Indians melt away before the white man, like snow before the sun! Well, sir! would you keep the snow, and lose the sun?

'It is the order of nature we exclaim against. Jacob will forever obtain the inheritance of Esau. We cannot alter the laws of providence, a we read them in the experience of ages.'

Fifth: That Georgia, by the extension of her oppressive laws over the Cherokees, not only declares that they were not before subject to her jurisdiction,but places herself in open, actual rebellion against the statutes of the United States, calling for immediate ' vigorous interference on the part of the gen;. government; That by withholding of that interference by the Executive is an act of connivance with such rebellion: That Congress, in the passage of the Indian bill, present to the whole world the astonishing anomaly of an enlightened republic, not only refusing to interfere for the preservation of her laws when grossly violated, but sanctioning that violation by her own solemn act of approval.

Sixth; that Georgia, by the whole course of her practice from the first of her existence, and by solemn treaties between herself and the Cherokees, has always contradicted her present doctrine, and maintained, as strongly as possible, the full sovereignty of that nation: that in 1824, one of her own Senators* established the sovereignty of the Cherokees by the most conclusive reasoning, in a deliberate and written opinion, which in the late congressional debate he could not refute, and of which he did not even attempt a refutation: That the compact of 1802, on which Georgia so strangely insists for the support of her tyrannical claims, does, in itself, utterly destroy those claims,even if no previous or successive treaties between the United States and the Indians could be found in existence. And that all the right which Georgia can claim by virtue of any compact with the United States if the right of accession to the property, when the Indian title shall have been legitimately and peaceably extinguished.

Seventh; That 'there is not an act of Georgia since Oglethorpe first planted his foot upon the site of Savannah; there is not a resolve, ordinance, or law of Congress; there is not a treaty of the United States with the Indian Tribes,--that does not tend to establish the facts, that the Indians are the sovereign proprietors of the lands and hunting grounds they claim. You might have put the question to every man in this nation,or child on the frontier, and he would have told you so, until the legislation of the States, aided by interest, instructed him otherwise.' The passage of this bill goes to 'stultify the senate of the United Sates for a period of thirty-seven years;' fill the national statute book with nonsense; and make the history of our country's legislation nothing but a series of monstrous absurdities.

Eighty; That the policy of the present administration is not only contrary to the constitution and to every principle of benevolence, but at war with every preceding administration, and with the course pursued by the patriots of the revolution,and recommended and practiced by the Father of his Country. For several years, the methods adopted in obtaining cessions of territory from the Indian Tribes have been practically coercive,and not in accordance with the spirit of humanity. But this has been owing to the conduct of the treaty commissioners, and the nature of their representations and arguments;nor has it ever originated in the measures of government, which have heretofore been strictly upright and constitutional.  Until the present administration,it has been unheard of that a course of injustice and intrigue should be prescribed and marked out by the Executive for the commissioners and agents of government.  But now,our negotiations with them are nothing better than a system of cheating, bribery,and corruption. It is recommended to cajole them out of their territory; to seduce them into unfavorable treaties, to persuade,threaten,and compel them to relinquish portion after portion of their country. The fatal parchment has been signed in tears; and if an individual is prominent in his opposition,he is 'broke on the spot,' and the action is daringly avowed. It is recommended to send an 'armed force' to the Cherokee country, to assist in persuading the natives to remove; and the enforcement of the State laws, under whose operation the President declares that the Indians cannot live, is made use of to produce such a persuasion.

Ninth: That of all propositions of government, all schemes of legislation, this Bill is the most perfectly Utopian, contradictory and absurd. Of all projects that ever entered into the head of any political fanatic, it is the wildest ' most visionary; the most utterly destitute of any foundation whatever in necessity, utility, or common sense. There is but one feature which can have operated to redeem it from universal contempt; and that is, the enormous scale of it absurdity. Vast acts of oppression astonish the mind, when insignificant ones would only excite its scorn. If a man kills an individual, he is a murderer; when he destroys ten thousand, he becomes a hero. There is something in the extravagance of this plan so gigantic, that the mind is overwhelmed by the conception; we are confounded with the vastness of the folly.  It is like the wild combination that present themselves to the frenzied imagination of the maniac,rather than the drivellings of idiocy. It involves such a complication of incoherences as no common mind could have invented.

'Who ever heard of such a thing before' said Mr. Everett. 'Who ever read of such a project' Ten or fifteen thousand families to be rooted up,and carried hundreds, aye a thousand miles into a wilderness! There is not such a thing on the annals of mankind. It was the practice-the barbarous and truly savage practice-of the polished nations of antiquity to bring home a part of the population of conquered countries as slaves. It was a cruel exercise of the rights of the conqueror, as then understood, and in turn practiced by all nations. But in time of peace, towards unoffending communities, subject to our sovereignty indeed, but possessing rights guaranteed to them by more than one hundred treaties to remove them against their will, by thousands, to a distant and a different country, where they must lead anew life,and form other habits, and encounter the perils and hardships of a wilderness: sir, I never heard of such a thing, it is an experiment on human life and human happiness of perilous novelty.'

Tenth; That it proposes and requires an incalculably wasteful expenditure of the public money. Five hundred thousand dollars have already gone from the treasury-it is vain to ask where; twenty four millions more will be demanded, ere this bill can go into complete execution! A sum almost sufficient to disburse the national debt; sufficient, if expended i internal improvements or public charities to render this country the pride and wonder of the whole world. This calculation is neither visionary,nor improbable, nor false; it is based on indisputable evidence; it is arrived at by a minute statement of items, in aa close, accurate business-like 'counting of the cost.' It is made up,- from the original purchase money, more than seven millions of dollars; from the expense in the payment for improvements, more than nine millions; from the cost of collection and transportation, more than two millions; from the expense of subsistence for one year of 75,000 human beings,more than four millions,--'to say nothing of the support, which the Government unless it leaves them to starve, will indubitably be compelled to furnish them, at the end of the year, and for years to come;' for the extinguishment of titles beyond the Arkansas, a million and a half; for the support of territorial government and a Military Establishment, nearly a million. Twenty-four millions!! And this is the consequence of the speculators of an administration, whose grand title to the public esteem was to be-its practices of economical reform. Twenty-four millions from the treasury of a republic so prudent that the whole expense of the national establishment could be furnished from the trappings of a monarchy! Our republic may be termed 'the miser turned spendthrift,' when her representatives, who have been for years haggling and huckstering to reduce or annihilate the hard-earned pensions of her revolutionary patriots, shall scatter twenty-four millions from her treasury, in the prosecution of one of the wildest schemes of inhumanity ever suggested.

Eleventh: That it leaves the disbursement of this enormous expenditure, without the least specification,within the uncontrolled discretion of one department, at the mercy of one man. 'five hundred thousand pounds' said Edmund Burke, animadverting on the appropriations for unspecified civil expenses, 'five hundred thousand pounds is a serious sum. But it is nothing to the prolific principle upon which the sum was voted, a principle that may well be called, the fruitful mother of an hundred more. Neither is the damage to public credit any great consequence, when compared to that which results to public morals, and the safety of the constitution, from the exhaustless mine of corruption opened by the precedent, and to be wrought by the principle.' The principles of this great Statesman are peculiarly applicable here: for the expenditure of this money must of necessity occasion a scene of corruption in the herd of public officers, and of degradation in the public morals, beyond all example.

'Here we have a vast operation,' we again quote from Mr. Everett's able speech,'extending to tribes and nations,to tens of thousands of souls, purchasing and exchanging whole regions,building fifteen thousand habitations in a distant wilderness, and putting seventy-five thousand individuals in notion across the country, and not an officer or agent specified; not a salary named; not one item of expenditure limited; the whole put into the pocket of one Head of Department, to be scattered at his will!'

Twelfth: that the execution of this proposed measure would be attended, not only with a vast expenditure and loss to the United States, but in regard to the Indians, with an amount of misery utterly incalculable; and to be terminated only in their total extinction. The heart sickens at a bare attempt to conceive or delineate the scenes which must ensue.

' A community of civilized people of all ages, sexes, and conditions of bodily health are to dragged hundreds of miles, over mountains, rivers, and deserts, where there are no roads, no bridges, no habitations; and this is to be done for eight dollars a head, and done by contract.  The question is to be, What is the least for which you will take so many hundred families, averaging so may infirm old men, so many little children, so many lame, feeble, and sick? What will you contract for?'- 'I will not,' said Mr. Everett, 'vote a dollar for this dreadful contract. Send these Indians off by contract, and their removal will present a scene of suffering unequalled by that of a flying army before a triumphant foe.'

The agitation, the terror, the tumult, the misery of such a march to the dead waste beyond the Arkansas cannot be described; it is a consequence of this measure, which most persons do not seem to have thought of.

But the sufferings of the march are nothing to the misery in store at its end. The curse of perpetual desolation rests upon the greater portion of country to which they are to be driven. there, hardly a flower grows, or a brook runs, or a tree strikes its root into the soil, or lifts its branch to the sun-light. A great part of the region is nothing but untamed and indomitable barrenness; the rain and the sun, and the soft dews of heaven, and the processes of human culture, would be alike wasted on a marble marl or a naked sand desert, which nature resolved should never be reclaimed from its sterility. The herd of bisons that sweep over the dreary scene for leagues, scarcely touching a blade of green grass or even a tuft of moss with the hoof, supply, by their ordure, the only fuel with which the wandering hunter can light up his fire.  Man can live where the wild beast would perish with famine; but in part of this country, human ingenuity, cannot be sustained. The most powerful tribes, in its richest tracts, and the nearest our own border, 'during several seasons in each year,' are in a state of starvation. 

'The living child is often buried with the dead mother, because no one can spare it so much food as would sustain it through its helpless infancy!' After so shocking a recital, no other feature can be added. Yet to this region, where the hardiest savages die through hunger, and in which there is not room, even for the babe that is born there, we propose to send seventy-five thousand new inhabitants, accustomed hitherto to the plenty, and many of them to the luxuries of civilized life!

Think of the change to the Cherokees, from the exuberant fertility of their pleasant native lands, from their ripe orchards and cultivated cotton fields and gardens and farms, to such a scene of incurable and inevitable dearth!

Nor, in the real world, could anything of vigor and beauty spring up; amidst such a region, and in the endurance of such privations, every good habit, every good feeling must soon die. 'It is in vain,' says the official report, 'to talk to people in this condition about learning and religion.' And this is the truth; a school of morality might almost as well be established in the prison of despair, as amidst these troops of starving barbarians. But the subject is too painful. It is to painful to think that a Christian nation should conceive such a project,- to break up and disorganize the government, the schools, the churches, of a whole civilized people; expatriate thousands of families from a delicious climate, a generous soil, a Christian neighborhood, from the mounds that cover the bones of their fathers, from every thing known, loves, ' valued, many miles beyond the extremist outposts of advancing civilization, to be set down on a spot utterly barren in itself, and surrounded by famishing savages who live in perpetual war!  In such a situation, even with all their present institutions in vigor, they must soon be exterminated or relapse into barbarism.  But with passions excited, and habitudes and institutions broken up and commingled in the confusion of removal, social and Christian discipline would disappear; nor could religion, or knowledge, or domestic manners ever regain their power. Multiply instructors and missionaries indefinitely, and set up the proposed territorial government, and draw a cordon of troops round every ferocious tribe, and still the obstacles would be utterly insurmountable. Yet all this vast and dreadful operation of removal is to be undertaken, that the Indians may have scope and leisure for uninterrupted improvement!

An imagination which could paint the desolation of the Carnatic and the horrors of the French Revolution, might undertake to grapple with a detail of the frightful consequences attendant on this measure. It is beyond our power to five a faithful picture of a single one of them.  The exterminating hostilities of the Indian tribes beyond Arkansas have been partially described by one of the strongest partisans of this bill. He says that through the whole of that vast region, there is not a tribe that has not an hereditary enemy to flee from or pursue.  Those uninhabitable wilds, that are scarce disturbed the year long by the footstep of other living thing, echo the war whoop and shake with the tramp of conflicting savages. As if it were not misery enough to endure, season after season, the horrors of famine, they make each others' destruction the principal business of life. But they have room enough to fight with their native caution, and to exercise all their ingenuity of stratagem in the onset and escape. They have unoccupied deserts to sweep over in each others pursuit.  Now, however, we propose to narrow their battle grounds, to compress them together, and to place new tribes, to the amount of seventy-five thousand individuals, in their midst. It reminds us of the ampitheatrical exhibitions in Imperial Rome; where, for the sport of the people, naked slaves were cast in upon the arena, and the doors of the dens of wild beasts of all descriptions, thrown wide open upon them.

The progress of this bill teems with warning to the United States. It tells, with a power which no eloquence could have commanded, the awful necessity of an enlightened and well principled public mind, for the perpetuity of our institutions. In all countries, where despotism has not stamped the soul of the subject with imbecility, popular vigilance must be the only safeguard to the public freedom.  Just in proportion as the people become unwary, indifferent, or uninformed civil liberty will be broken down, and disorders rush in and accumulate on every part of the Constitution.  In our Republic, where predicaments may occur and questions arise every month, which, without a clear, informed, and regulated mind in the whole country, and a very delicate management on the part of those to whom they are entrusted for decision, may shake the union to its center, popular ignorance and apathy will be freedom's grave. The tendency of the Executive to an unwarrantable extent of its prerogative should keep us on the watch, and cautious in the extreme, how we commit the highest trusts in the Republic to unprincipled hands.

A deep religious spirit, and a morality found on this; a universal, and growing acquaintance with the principles and operation of the Constitution; a guardianship, like that of the lioness to her whelps, over every particle of the rights of the poorest and most defenseless communities within our limits; a suspicious eye to the conduct of every individual in public authority; a restive, intractable opposition to everything that looks like despotism, or that attempts to shroud the measures of government in mystery; a disposition 'to judge of the pressure of a grievance by the badness of the principle' and to crown all, a steadfast regard to the sacredness of the national faith;--these should be our features as a people. As Burke said of us, while ye dependent on Great Britain, we should 'augur misgovernment at a distance, and snuff the approach of tyranny in every tainted breeze.' These were our characteristics as colonies; these were the traits of our youthful independence.

Under the administration of Washington, the people were more watchful of governmental movements, and better acquainted with the Constitution, than they are now, when knowledge and vigilance are more deeply necessary. The Constitution had then been just formed; every paragraph was familiarly known; it was an experiment which they resolved should be fairly tested. The essays of Hamilton, Madison, and Jay, were widely circulated; the whole country was alert; no act in the slightest degree unconstitutional could have imposed upon the people. Now, we are sluggish, incautious, confident in the success of our republic, and easy as to the operations of government. Amidst the dissemination of all other knowledge, the study of the Constitution has diminished; in regard to most public measures, the mass of the community are absolutely ignorant what is their character in the light of republican principles, what their immediate influence, or what their future consequences. Sophistry blinds them, and becomes persuaded, in very important instances, that inhuman and unconstitutional measures are right.

No question like this, touching the rights of a large portion of the community, ought ever to enter Congress, till it has undergone a thorough consideration in the public mind. Then should occasion require, the people will be ready to interpose, and with a prompt, decided, energetic authority.  They will not need to be urged into remonstrance against a meditated act of injustice; it will be their simultaneous movement, from Maine to the Texas. No government, in the slightest degree considerate, would dare, by any illegal step to encounter the energy of such an enlightened public opinion. But if the people sleep, a dangerous measure may be passed, and its consequences irretrievable, before they can be brought to a solemn consideration of the subject. To guard effectually against such a state of things, the only sure provision is a correct moral sentiment, combined with a universal knowledge of the Constitution.

The Indian question has been suffered to take us by surprise, and to find us, as a community unacquainted with its merits.  The sophistry of the enemies to Indian rights seemed to blind for a time the whole public mind, and distort the moral sense of the country. The bill in Congress was suffered to be carried as a party measure. The efforts made by the friends of humanity to wake the country into seasonable action, fell clogged by the ignorance and perversion of feeling so generally prevalent. Memorials were neither sufficiently quick a nor numerous to exert a powerful interposition. Many believed and argued there was a fatality in this whole business; that it was a fiat in God's providence that the Indians mst die; and that all we could do to resist it would be in vain. Such a belief was scarcely accompanied with pity; the thing was talked of with as much indifference as if the Indian tribes were but a great herd of buffaloes. Few individuals in the country had any knowledge whatever of the actual condition of the Cherokees; all the Indians were looked upon as savages; and a man hazarded the charge of enthusiasm if he was warm in their defense or came up in any degree as he ought to the performance of duty. People were really ashamed to memorialize; they shrunk from cold looks and sneers, if urged to engage with ardor in the task of procuring petitioners. Christians were afraid of the cry of church and state; others declared that such an excitement at the north would only prejudice the cause, and all, being ignorant of the character and rights of the Indians and of the true merits of the case, and of course having no stable principles to guide them, entered on the measures in their favor with reluctance, and even then half repented of the little they had done. There was this evil also, that most of those who signed memorials did it without expecting success; they did it with a sort of melancholy, hopeless resignation, accompanied with many doubts in regard to the necessity of the measure, that 'cast ominous conjecture,' or in the more expressive conventional, 'threw cold water,' on the whole thing. 'I will sign, but I don't think it will be the least use to memorialize,' was the common strain of remark. Nothing good, or to any purpose, will ever be done in such a state of feeling. On the part of Christians, there was a sad want of firmness and moral courage. 'What will the political world say of us' Shall we not be derided?' Or if these were not the questions,conscience was so little enlightened, that it did not tell them the great duty of humanity incumbent on them to discharge. There was likewise a general disposition to act too exclusively as individuals; a dread of exciting odium and sarcasm by combining in this benevolent cause; and unwillingness to acknowledge the responsibility of making our neighbors act and feel right, as well as of doing right ourselves. We might be ready to sign in our own persons, but were unwilling to use self-denial, or make sacrifices, for the purpose of obtaining additional signatures. but did we do right, if we merely recorded our own solitary protest, and refused to carry the paper to others, or to persuade those within our influence? The great law of Christian love enforces its claims upon us collectively as well as individually; to a certain extent we are responsible for the belief and practice of all with whom we associate.  If the friends of the Indians had exerted themselves as they ought, there would have been five thousand signatures where there were five hundred; and the memorials, as have often been the fact in Great Britain, would have literally covered tables of Congress; accomplishing, as their result,a triumphant vote in behalf of suffering humanity. But our habit of regarding the Indians as a degraded race, destined for extinction, our indifference as to their fate, and the obstinate disbelief of their advancement in civilization,in addition to the prevailing want of acquaintance with our country's Constitution, treaties and history, prepared us to receive the scheme of the President with no very sensitive marks of displeasure,and to witness the despotic course in the proposed expulsion of the Indians with an apathy most criminal and alarming. Because the oppression did not enter our doors, we ceased to regard it as unjust.

The duty of memorializing in this country is not understood. The people are unacquainted with their own best interests, too confident in the wisdom and patriotism of government, and so selfish as to be politically blind. The English are better acquainted with this duty, and more ready for its performance.  The form of our government is so much more favorable to freedom than theirs, that we seem to think the Constitution will preserve our liberties, instead of remembering that nothing but our utmost vigilance can preserve the Constitution. In the year 1791, when exertions were vigorous for the abolition of the slave trade, 'there was not a day for three months, Sundays excepted, in which five or six petitions to parliament were not resolved upon in some places or other in the kingdom.' In that year, five hundred and nineteen were presented for the total abolition. If we are not mistaken,Mr. Clarkson himself, in the space of four weeks, obtained seventy thousand signatures. Who here could have gained such a result for the Sabbath, of the Indians' Those who know anything about English history, remember what multitudes of petitions and memorial poured in upon the House of Commons about the period of our Revolution; some among the most forcible, written by Mr. Burke and Sir George Saville, who were not thought to be out of their station in this employment. But here, active petitioners for objects of benevolence are styled meddling enthusiasts; and one would really think,from the tone which many have not been ashamed to use, that we are out of our place when attempting to influence the measures of our own Representatives, by the expression of our own wishes. It will be a new thing indeed when the people of this republic are interdicted from an interference in the proceedings of government by the expression of their views, whenever and in whatever manner they please. the manner in which na excitement for objects of public benevolence is said to be 'got up,' is also exclaimed against with great fury.  On the floor of Congress last winter,  severe strictures were urged in regard to the circulars in behalf of the Indians; as if benevolent men in this country have not a right to use all the constitutional measures in their power to promote their objects. The outcry is precisely similar to that raised in England, wherein on the eve of our Revolution, meetings became frequent and full for the redress of our grievances, and spirited circulars were issued throughout the colonies. We are indeed degraded, if we will be kept back from our privilege and duty of petitioning, by the clamors or sneers, either public or private, which in a good cause we ought to be forward to encounter.

An unwillingness to memorialize, when the business is not too inconsiderable to be noticed, ought never to be felt or manifested in the Republic. Yet every one knows the apathy which has existed, and the extreme difficulty with which anything like a general expression of the public feeling can be obtained. There is also a disposition to relax, after the first effort; an unwillingness to return to the trial; an idea that the movements are useless, which do not at once accomplish their purpose. We will not keep our sinews girded to renew the struggle year after year; as if the subject were not worthy of perseverance, a second attempt can hardly be procured; as if intimidated by ill success or ashamed of our first ardor, we give up the purpose, creep off in silence, and the cause dies away.

Yet in other respects, we are acknowledged to be enterprising. We have as much industry and steadfastness of purpose as the English. Surely the cause of public morality does not demand less zeal, than the accumulation of public or private wealth. I is not less important to maintain the sanctity of one day in the week, than it is to hoard up riches during theother six. It is not less necessary to keep the public faith and preserve a whole Indian community from annihilation,than it is to dig canals, to build light houses, or to vex the sea with our fisheries. Had the patriots of Great Britain, when they set their shoulders to the abolition of the Slave Trade, been so fickle-minded, so half persuaded, so backward in their efforts, that great work of benevolence had still remained unaccomplished.

This important topic forces another on the mind;--the criminal neglect of the Indians and their interests, as an object demanding the prayers of Christians. We might speak of this neglect as extending to all civil interests of the land. If a stranger from another sphere should light upon this globe and enter our churches, he would be apt to imagine that in this part of the universe God has the arrangement only of our religious prosperity, and leaves the political and civil affairs of the country to take care of themselves; or, what would amount to the same, gives us in this department the exclusive jurisdiction.  In Episcopal churches, the Liturgy has provided supplications for the weal of the realm; a very happy foresight, considering the tendency of all Christian communities to practical political atheism.

Especially is it necessary to humble ourselves in prayer to God, when the nation is on the very brink of a crime, which all might justly fear would bring down some speedy and terrible infliction of the vengeance of Heaven. If men of piety do not feel for the Indians; if Christians desert them at the throne of grace, then may they indeed weep in despair.  The truest patriots have ever maintained the deepest sense of dependance upon God. Would Christians now do this in regard to the fate of the Indians,their own feelings would be kept alive, their minds clear, and they would be ready to act with energy. We should no longer see them enter coldly and reluctantly into this subject; they would put to it a strong hand and in the very striking scriptural expression, come up to the help of the Lord against the mighty.

The prayers of 'the solitary saint' should always go up for the oppressed; and if ever any human beings needed them, the Indians od now.-- Defenseless, abandoned, submissive, with what solemnity and pathos do they speak to the people of the United States.  Their patience is indeed wonderful.  God grant them an unfailing supply of this virtue.

In whatever light we view this bill, it is portentous in its aspect, and pregnant with ruin. But there is one part of its consequences, that should make the Christian deprecate its curse as he would the pestilence; which should add intensity to his prayers that God might utterly avert it. It is the blight with which it would wither the hopes, now so teeming with promise, of the full evangelization of these interesting remnants of the Aborigines. In vain,if we break up their schools, and scatter their churches, and drive them out amidst the wilds and savages beyond the Arkansas, may we hope ever to rebuild the desolation of this rising Zion. Already,the influence of the distractions caused by this bill is felt in the decay of religious anxiety,and we might almost fear, in the departure of God's Spirit. What can be expected, in the very nature of things, from a tumultuous removal to the pathless wilds beyond the Mississippi, even could they exist there a few years, surrounded by murderous hordes, but a rapid retrograde march in civilization and a relapse, as to all piety,into worse than the savageness of past centuries.  If we uproot them now, we uproot at the same time every plant of morality and piety which the dews of heaven have cherished, and render it impossible, to all human appearance,ever again to behold their fruits. It is perfectly vain to imagine, that if we start them off towards the Pacific, a single one of their improvements would ever arrive with them to abide at their destination. Hopeless, miserable, abandoned, what heart could they have to put themselves again to the work of building up the institutions which a Christian people had laid waste, and which, if again erected, would in all probability be ere long overwhelmed again, and swept down, by the rushing tide of a republican population. What heart, if we cast them out from their own native Eden, could they have to nourish in a strange soil the plants, so long to grow, so hard to cultivate, but of which, -'their early visitation and their last,'-they had already experienced and loved the value.

We appeal to the Christian public, and ask if they can suffer, that, through the rapacity of one State, and the connivance of our Executive, not only our national faith shall be made a byword of contempt, but the rights of a whole people annihilated, and all that is flourishing in their institutions hopelessly destroyed? If it be so, they had better be at the mercy of the Turks, and have the whirlwind of war sweep over them, as it did over Scio. They would have the consolation to reflect, that nothing better could have been expected from infidels and slaves. But to be thus treated by Christians and freemen-the possibility makes us thought-sick.- May it never be said of our country, that when the blessings of Christianity had dropped upon an Indian people, and the light of civilization was already illuminating ever cabin, we rose up to extinguish it, and drove them out to chase the buffalo and echo the war whoop, to 'curse God and die,'- in the wilderness.

There is no American but must tremble for his country, who looks back with a reflecting mind on the indications presented by public events in the past and passing year. That the demon of party should have gained such possession of the souls of our Senators and Representatives, as to permit them, in the eyes of all the world, to set their hand and seal to the violation of the Faith of the Republic, plighted in multiplied and most solemn treaties, and lend their aid to carry forward a measure which if executed to the full intention, must annihilate the rights f seventy-five thousand freemen, and plunge them into irretrievable misery, is indeed a most dark and dreadful fact. It speaks volumes of danger to our free institutions. The danger remains: but that measure,we trust in God, will yet be stayed. There is a court of judicature, a light amidst all the storms that may threaten to wreck our liberties, aloof almost, from the possibility of prejudice, and elevated above the commotions of party zeal.  Before that tribunal, this great question is soon to be brought. Let the people of the United States prepare themselves firmly to support its decisions, and the rights of the Indians may yet be secured. But there may be delay; and if there should be, then must these unfortunate people remain, exposed to the galling oppression of the laws of Georgia, without the possibility of a redress of their grievances. It is well remarked by Mr. Wirt, that every officer of Georgia, who attempts to serve a civil process within the Indian territory, stands amenable for violating the laws of the United States. But the laws are a dead letter without an Executive; with an unprincipled one, they are instruments of oppression. We need not disguise from themselves-that so long as our present Executive maintains the opinions and the line of conduct he has adopted, there is no hope for the Indians but in the virtue of the people at large, to whom they have appealed. From the people, therefore, enlightened and determined that they will not suffer the stain of such cruelty, but that full justice shall yet be executed, a redeeming influence must enter, and be all-powerful, in the Congress of the coming winter. The Indians must be protected;l the laws must be executed: if there be not virtue enough in the peopled to make their National Legislature see that this is done, then we are lost indeed.

*The writer here refers to the Hon. Hugh L. White, who is a Senator from Tennessee who reported the famous Indian Bill in the Senate.- Ed. Cher. Phoe.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA OCT.30, 1830

The two Houses of the Genl. Council of the Cherokee Nation adjourned last Tuesday evening after a session of little more than two weeks. We did not think it a matter of great importance to publish a full journal of their proceedings-we have furnished our readers with the most interesting part, the Message of the Principal Chief, and the correspondence with the Special Agent.

_____________________

During the latter part of the first week of the Council, a gentleman by the name of Bogan, from Gwinnett County, Georgia,  was at this place, engaged, as he said, in taking census under an act of Congress. As this act, and the Constitution of the U.S. expressly exclude Indians not taxed, we felt very little inclination to give in. He met but a poor success here. It appears on his return home, he was arrested by the United States' troops, after being stabbed in the breast with a bayonet. This was done at Phillips' on the Alabama Road, where, we are told, he spoke rather harshly on the conduct of the troops towards the intruders, declaring that he would not allow himself to be taken by them, for they were but a set of robbers-that if they did take him, he would take them in turn, by collecting the militia of Gwinnett County, and if one County could not do he would muster six.  A Lieutenant heard all this, and soon after had him arrested. So the report goes, which we presume is substantially correct. It appears Mr. Bogan has been up to his words in some respects, for a gentleman who left Laurenceville last Monday says, that a company was about to be formed in the county of Gwinnett, for the arrest of those men by whom he was taken. We shall soon know the result.

_______________________

CHOCTAWS.

By this week's mail we received a letter from a gentleman of the highest respectability, residing in the Choctaw Nation, from which we learn further particulars respecting the late treaty effected by the Secretary of War and General Coffee.- The consequence of such a treaty, effected at such a time, ' by such means, as we have reason to fear, the Choctaw treaty has been, may well be dreaded. The following facts communicated by the gentleman alluded to above ought to claim the particular attention of every reader.

This nation is, at this time, in a wretched situation, as are also the Chickasaws. Treaties have been made with the Chiefs of these nations, by which they are to relinquish their country and remove to the western wilderness. The common people are almost universally dissatisfied and distressed. A few of the principal men are quieted. Should the treaty with the Choctaws be ratified, and no further provision made for the poor, there will be great injustice and great suffering; and numbers will no doubt perish. I cannot but feel a confidence that a redeeming spirit will yet be found in the justice and humanity of our national legislature. They have it in their power to wipe off the foul stain that is about to be fixed upon the American character.

Intemperance is again sweeping through this part of the nation, and the Chickasaw Nation, as with the besom of destruction; and there are none to arrest its progress. In the last named nation, it is said by people who have long resided there, such a scene of intoxication was never before witnessed, as was exhibited during the distribution of the annuity, a week or two since. Many in despair, seen to have given themselves up as lost; and seek to drown their sorrows by intoxication. The chiefs are either afraid, or indisposed, to use any efforts to suppress it.

After the treaty was made with the Chickasaws, the agent of that nation issued a printed circular in which he says, 'Instructions which must be regarded have been received from the Secretary of War, directing me to prohibit any person from settling upon the Indian land, it will of course become my duty to arrest and place in the hands of the Marshals of Alabama and Mississippi all who becoming intruders shall thereby violate the provisions of the Indian intercourse act of 1802.' About the same time, the Choctaws were told if they did not make a treaty,the agent should be removed, and they could have no protection from the United States.

________________

The two following notes, addressed to Col. John Lowrey, Special Agent of the government, were omitted last week--they form a part of the correspondence we published.

New Echota,, C.N.

19th Oct. 1830

Sir:- Your note of this date has been submitted for the consideration of the General Council, and in return I have received a note through the President of the Committee, a copy of which I enclose for your information--permit me to add that I am ready at any time to receive such communication as you may think proper to present for the consideration of the General Council.

I am sir, respectfully your obedient servant.

Jno. Ross.

____________

New Echota, C. N.

Oct. 22d. 1830

Sir:- The General Council have deliberated upon the subject of your propositions submitted through me for their consideration,and the enclosed document contains the result of that deliberation, which is submitted for your information. The Cherokees have long since come to the conclusion never again to cede another foot  of land, and of this determination there is abundant proof to be found among the public documents in the offices of the General Government. The President was addressed upon this subject fully at Nashville last summer, thro' the Agent; and they now only ask from the General Government the protection of those rights which have been solemnly guarantied to them under former treaties. The offer of new guaranties can be no inducement to treat.

I am sir,very respectfully your obedient servant.

Jno. Ross.

___________________

The Political Clarion gives the following as Toasts drank at a Public Dinner in Berrien County (Georgia) on the last anniversary of Independence. They are savage enough, certainly, and, if at all charcateristic of the People of that county, the county ought certainly to be baptized by a more appropriate name. Nat. Int.

'Frelinghuysen of New Jersey-May he be executed by an Indian, and buried by his dictator, Daniel Webster.'

'Daniel Webster, of Mass. May his passage to Washington City, to the next Congress, be obstructed by thorns and should he arrive, may his food be Indian's flesh, and served up by an African.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NOTICE

ALL persons having business with the Clerk of the Supreme Court of this nation,are hereby notified to call on Mr. John Candy, residing in this place, as he is duly authorized to do business for me in the Clerk's office.

Stand Watie

Clerk S. Court

New Echota, October 26th, 1830

___________________

WILL be sold to the highest bidder on the 28th inst. at the Ahmohee court house,a likely negroe (sic) boy named

GEORGE

levied on as the property of Ambrose Harnage, to satisfy a judgement against said Harnage, in favor of William Richardson. The above property will be sold unless redeemed according to law.

J. M. Lynch

Marshal

October 4th 1830.

___________

LETTERS

REMAINING in the Post Office New Echota, October 1 1830

Elias Boudinott

John R. Garland

Elijah Hicks

Jefferson Lanier

George Layman

Dan'l McCoy

Benj. Paton

S. A. Worcester, P. M.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Mr. Eaton, in his letter we published lately, very exultingly referred to the condition of the Senecas, to prove the utter unpossibility (sic) of civilizing the Indians. He probably had seen the wretched portion of the tribe, for that the northern Indians are not so degraded as he would represent them, we believe is evident from the following very satisfactory account of a visit to the Stockbridge Indians on the Grand Kaw-kaw-lin. It is contained in the nineteenth number of a series of 'Letters From the West,' addressed to the editors of the New York Observer.

Yesterday was the Sabbath; and a blessed day it was.  I had never expected to be obliged to come into this wilderness so called, among savages so esteemed, to enjoy a Christian Sabbath, without witnessing a single impropriety among a whole people--to see the congregation, the parents with the children, and the stranger within their gates, going up to the house of God in company; seating themselves with a reverence and decorum that might shame a civilized people; listening with fixed and unrelaxed attention to all the public services, many of them demonstrating a thorough religious abstraction and absorption,and when their consciences and hearts were appealed to in the application of discourse, showing a depth and quickness of feeling which agitated their bosoms, and forced its passage through the watery channels of the eye. And then to attend the Sabbath school, reduced to all the order of discipline, which characterize the best schools of this sort in our white settlements; superintended, indeed, by the missionaries, but employing as many as were necessary of the adult natives for instructors, who engaged in their work with a ready aptitude and with apparent satisfaction. This, too, was a scene unexpected and grateful beyond my power to express. And all done in the English language, so pure, that if any eyes had been shut, ' I could have forgotten where I was, my ears would have assured me, that I was at home, and listening to the common exercises of a Sabbath school among the whites.

In the afternoon the preaching is done through an interpreter, as a small part of the people cannot readily understand English.  I had always been told, that the Indians are good singers. It is an exercise for which they have great fondness. But the half had not been told me. They seem all of them to be singers: and the mellowness and sweetness of their voices, together with the accuracy of their ear and their horror of discord ensure the sweetest harmonies in their chorus. This tribe have been so long practiced in the art of sacred music, and their taste os so good in the selection of tunes and set pieces, that they are perfectly familiar with the mst extensive range of English Christian Psalmody. I heard about 30 of them that evening, male and female, after the conclusion of a prayer meeting, sing an hour and a half without interruption, passing from one tune and from one set piece to another, without repetition--all done without a book, in good style of performance, and in pure English, except occasionally when requested in their own tongue. They have many psalms and hymns translated into the same meter, so that a part often use the English, and a part their own tongue, simultaneously, without confusion.  It seems impossible for Indians when they sing together, to avoid a simultaneous movement--a fault so common and incurable among the whites. This, I think, must be owing to a natural superiority in the nicety and quickness of their musical perceptions.

I noticed yesterday two interesting features appertaining to the order of their public worship; one was the staff and office of the tithing man of the olden times of New England; which doubtless came down from that source. The staff of office in the present instance is a long switch, about eight feet, which the functionary cuts from the woods as he comes to church-and woe to the boy that plays, or the man or woman that sleeps. The former is switched over the ears with a smartness which, I think, from the sound of its whizzing, must make them tingle. When a man or woman dozes, the big end of the switch makes the stove pipe overhead ring again, accompanied with the startling cry, in Indian, 'Wake up there.' And this in the midst of the sermon. Now although this may excite a smile among the whites, who, in these republican times, have abandoned this good sort of discipline, it all passes off here, by the power of custom, with the utmost gravity, and produces apparently a very quickening and salutatory effect. The prerogatives of this functionary also extend to the keeping of order out of doors during the intermission of public worship, and while the congregation are assembling and retiring, so that no boy or youth dares offend in his presence. And I am told there is no partiality shown by this officer, even to his father or mother; and that a stranger must take care he does not offend. Certain it is, I discovered no disposition to levity among the children and youth either within or without the house. But all was decency and gravity, comporting with the solemnities of the day. The other peculiarity which I noticed was, that after the benediction was pronounced, the congregation resumed their seats, not for the purpose of a short and silent prayer, as is the custom, with some sects, but to give opportunity for those nearest the door to retire gradually,without crowding and bustle, the moral effect of which is very pleasant.

In the evening a prayer meeting was held at the mission house, at which I had the pleasure of hearing two Indians pray in their native tongue, with fluency and with great apparent fervor and importunity.  There were about fifty present.  All kneeled down in prayer. At the request of the missionaries. I had addressed the Indians in the day on the common topics of religion. In the evening I spoke to them again, and advised them of their own interests as a people, especially to defend themselves and their people from the evils of intemperance. They were very attentive. And to my surprise, one of the principal men rose to reply, apologizing for not speaking in English, and called upon an interpreter. He thanked God that I had come so far to visit them, and for all the good words I had spoken to them that day and evening. He thanked all the well wishers and benefactors to the Indians among the white people. He reflected, with great feeling, upon the goodness of God in having sent them the Gospel at so early a period, and in turning the hearts of Christian white people to their spiritual welfare so long time. The depravity of man was very great, and they (the Indians) had abused their privileges, and yet God had not taken them way. He said his heart was penetrated, when I spoke to them of the dangers of intemperance, and declared they were ready to do all in their power to prevent its prevalence and progress, and concluded by saying, 'I have no more to say.' I do not pretend to give his address, but have only indicated some of its principal topics. I found myself unexpectedly listening to an eloquent impromptu of an Indian, formally and most respectfully addressed to myself-a thing I had never anticipated-and with a manner and tones of voice; which spoke directly from the heart. All that I had ever heard or imagined of Indian speeches, instantaneously rushed upon my mind, and I saw the living reality before me, without detracting in the least from the vividness of the romantic ideal.  The deference and respect which the Indian pays to others, when put upon the interchange of good feeling is unrivalled. No art of civilized life can pretend to keep company with his politeness. The white man feels his littleness and bows in silence to such moral greatness.

On the whole, the Sabbath I have spent at the Grand Kawkawlin is one I can never forget.  While listening to the songs of Zion, so sweetly attuned by these children of the forest last evening, accompanied with all its associations, I found myself repeatedly and involuntarily exclaiming within myself, Have I lived so long and enjoyed so many privileges, to come here, where it is supposed no such privileges are had, to be raised in feeling nearer to heaven than I ever found myself before? Many times did I think, in the midst of the scenes brought before me yesterday, could the whole Christian world see and hear this, they would forget all else they were doing, and run and come bending, like the angels of heaven who delight in errands of mercy, over these guileless children of the wilderness, and never leave them, till they were all converted to Christ. It would open their hearts and all their treasures, and nothing would be wanting to advance and consummate so benevolent a design. With what expressions of good feeling and gratitude do they crowd forward, old and young, male and female, without any formality of introduction, to shake hands with a stranger, whom they believe to be kind towards them. And never did a Christian people cherish their pastor with kinder affections and offices, than these do their missionaries.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






$80 REWARD

STOLEN from the subscriber's stable on the night of Monday the 16th instant alight sorrel gelding, about five feet high , nine or ten years old, with a flax mane and tail. He paces, canters and trots pretty well, and had on when stolen, good shoes before, but had lost the shoe of his right hind foot. He has several small scars, occasioned by the biting of mules, one of which is on his right hind leg a little above the fetter lock joint.  The thief may cut his tail and roach his main, in order to disguise him. He also took a Saddle, (nearly new) with common Stirrup hops, a bridle, Martingales, and a new cross barred blanket.--Any person securing the horse and thief, so that the latter can be brought to justice shall receive the above reward or Ten Dollars for the Horse alone, with reasonable expenses, if delivered to the subscriber residing near the road leading from Washington to Augusta, seven miles above Haysville.

N. B. The thief is supposed to be a man about 5 feet 8 or 10 inches high, sallow complexion, thin visage, about 30 or 35 years of age, and wore a quaker hat, old striped round about, light colored pantaloons, right and left shoes, and ribbed socks blue mixed.

SAMUEL BROOKS

Washington, Geo. August 19, 1830

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














This issue of the Phoenix is published in four columns only.

INDIANS

MESSAGE

OF THE GOVERNOR OF GEORGIA

The following is that part of Governor Gilmer's Message which related to Cherokee affairs.

The great number of persons who have taken possession of the Cherokee territory in search of gold, in defiance of the authority of the State, to the injury of the public property and the rights of the Indians, has made it necessary that you should be assembled together sooner than the time appointed by law for the meeting of the Legislature.

In the early part of the year, gold was discovered in great quantities in the Indian lands. The act of 1829 having fixed upon the first of June, as the time when the laws were to be extended over that part of the State, all persons seemed to consider themselves at liberty, in the mean time, to appropriate as much if its mineral riches to themselves as possible. The whole community became very much excited. The profits of those engaged in searching for gold, were reported to be very great. The love of gain, always one of the strongest passions, became stimulated to excess. All classes of people, but especially the idle and profligate, pressed into the mineral region, with the hope of acquiring great wealth with little labor. The thousands of persons thus collected together, all operated upon by motives which lead to most of the disorders of society, and freed from those restraints which the laws impose upon the evil dispositions of men, exhibited a scene of vicious indulgence, violence and fraud, which would not have been tolerated for a moment if the means could have been used to prevent it. The Indian right of occupancy was wholly disregarded. The Indians themselves were not even permitted to have an equal enjoyment of the riches of the earth, which circumstances had thus for a time made common to all. The Cherokee government, of the importance of which to the Indians so much has been lately said, proved utterly powerless to protect any rights or punish any wrongs.  The magnitude of the evil was such, that it became a matter of consideration, whether the Legislature should not be called together to provide for it some proper remedy. At this time the bill for the removal of the Cherokees beyond the Mississippi, was depending before Congress. The Government of the United States was, for the first time, earnestly endeavoring to execute the contract of 1802. The manner proposed was believed to be the only practiced one, consistent with humanity, to the Indians, and justice to Georgia.  Unfortunately for the country, the opposition to the Administration determined to make the proposed removal of the Indians a part question. The facts connected with the subject were found to be so far removed from the knowledge of the people, as to afford ample opportunity for the instruments of party strife to mislead the public judgment. It was considered proper not to call the Legislature together, until the result of this extraordinary struggle in Congress was known. A hope was also entertained, that when the laws of the State went into operation, our citizens would be disposed to respect their authority; and such would probably have been the case, had not a larger number of the persons engaged in searching for gold been from other States. Their refusal prevented the obedience of the people of this State. Before information was received of the passage of the Indian bill, the United States' troops had, in the enforcement of the non-intercourse law removed all persons, whether from this or other States, as intruders upon the Indian lands.  Although the most confident opinion was entertained, that the United States' troops had no such authority, its exercise was so beneficial for the time, that no opposition was made to it.  The correspondence with the President and War Department, will explain more fully the opinion and policy of the Executive upon this subject.

The calling the Legislature together at an unusual time, is so inconvenient to the members, and so expensive to the people, that the design of doing so was relinquished, from the belief that it might not be necessary. On the first of June, the laws of the State were declared in force over the Cherokee country by public proclamation. A distinct proclamation was at the same issued, declaring the right of the State to all the gold, and other valuable minerals, in its ungranted lands occupied by the Indians. The right thus asserted was supposed to be established by the customary law of all the European nations, who made discoveries, or formed Colonies on this Continent, by the fee simple or allodial title which belongs to the State, to all lands within its limits not already granted away; and the absence of all right in the Indians, they never having appropriated the mineral riches of the earth to their own use. Immediately after the issuing of this proclamation, a competent and faithful agent was appointed, with directions to preserve the rights, thus asserted, from violation by all the means which the forms of the law and the process of the courts would sanction. This duty was promptly attended to, and although it was known that occasionally many persons were engaged in taking gold, yet it was hoped that the efforts of the agent, and the force of the United States' troops, would finally prevail in stopping them, if not entirely, at least so far as to prevent the necessity of resorting to other means: Nor was this opinion changed until it became too late to call a session of the last Legislature. The militia would have been employed in protecting the rights of the State to the gold, and removing those who were trespassing upon that right, if the constitution and laws had given me that authority. The law which attached different portions of the Cherokee Territory to several counties, so as to include the whole within the organized limits of the State, contained no prohibition against white persons mingling with the Indian populations, or entering upon the lands occupied by them, neither subject to arrest nor any criminal process. Under such circumstances, if an attempt had been made to remove them by the use of extreme force, should death have ensued, it would have been murder in the actors. If orders had not been given to use that kind of force, the employment of the militia would have been worse than useless. The Governor, however, has no power over the militia, except in cases of insurrection, invasion, or the probable prospects thereof. But if I had been invested with ample authority to have called out the militia, and the intruders had grossly violated the penal statutes, or trespassed upon the acknowledged rights of the State in its possession, yet no appropriation of money had been made by law, by which I could have armed, equipped, and supported, for a single day, a sufficient body of militia to have effected the desired object. Perhaps the public interest would have been advance, if the Legislature had been called together, as soon as it was discovered that the Executive was insufficient to protect he public property. One advantage, however, we have the right to expect from the course which has been pursued. All persons every where must be now convinced of the necessity which impels the State to exercise jurisdiction over its Indian territory, not only for the protection of the property of the State, but the rights of the Indians, and that the Cherokee Government, if it had been permitted to exist, would have been wholly incompetent, under present circumstance, to discharge any of the duties for which Governments are organised.

Your attention is requested to be given, as early as possible, to the passage of such law, as you may suppose most effectual, for the removal of the persons at present upon the public lands searching for gold, as well as to prevent any future entries thereon for that purpose.  Such is the tempting nature of this employment that highly penal enactments will be necessary to effect this object. Very few would engage in it, if it exposed them to confinement for years in the Penitentiary. As the evil to be prevented is of a great magnitude and requires an immediate remedy, it will be expedient that the provisions of whatever law you may pass, should be few and of obvious necessity, and operate as soon as possible.  No doubt is entertained of the submission of the citizens of this State, to the requirements of any law which may be passed, but as a great number of the intruders have been from other States, and said to have been of lawless character, and to have evinced the disposition to set at defiance the power of the State, it may be necessary to authorize the use of the militia for its enforcement. The great value of the gold mines, render it proper, that you should not only provide for some other means for securing them from trespass, but also to render them profitable to the State. They are found throughout the territory occupied by the Cherokees, but, of the greatest value to the section between Chestatee and Etowah rivers.  That part of the country is so broken and inaccessible, so near the boundary of the State, and the means of enforcing the laws so difficult to be commanded; that neither of those objects can be properly effected, without taking possession of the mines. To do this in such manner as to have them wrought profitably and safely to the State, and at the same time to guard the Indian right of occupancy from violation, it may be necessary to obtain an accurate survey of the whole country. By doing this, those tracts which contain gold may be ascertained, and leases made with more certainty of confining the tenants of such within their bounds, and of distinguishing between the rights granted to the tenants of those tracts which may be occupied by Indians, and those without that incumbrance. This measure may also be necessary to enable this State to ascertain with certainty, the number of the Indians within its limits, the extent of their improvements, the quantity of their unoccupied lands, the places which had been occupied by emigrants, the residence of white persons, and distinguished Chiefs -- the location of the towns and their population, with various other information of the same character, all of which must be known, in order that appropriate laws may be passed for the government of our Indian people. No doubt is entertained of the right to survey the entire Cherokee territory, if such measure should be considered expedient. The rights of jurisdiction and soil are essential attributes of government, and were acquired by the State upon the acknowledgement of its independence, sovereignty and territorial limits, by Great Britain. These rights have never been relinquished. For, although the jurisdiction of the States, is restricted by the constitution from operating upon a few specified object, ' persons, yet it is unlimited in all other respects; and the constitution contains a special provision that it shall not be construed to the prejudice of the claims of the States, to territory. Various cessions of these rights of soil and jurisdiction over Indian tribes, and the territory which they occupied, have been made by different States, to the United States, by virtue of which it has created territorial governments, and granted the right of soil to individuals. Virginia, Georgia, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, N. Carolina, and S. Carolina, have made such cessions. Although the whole extent of this country was in the possession of the Indian tribes when the first settlement was made by the Colonists, and most of it has been ceded by Indians in the form of treaties to the Colonists or States, yet not one foot of land is believed to be held by the force of an Indian title. Each State in the Union, as did every Colonial Government, claims to be the proprietor of all the lands within its limits. The courts recognize no titled unless it be derived from the State, Colonial or British Governments. Such is also the doctrine of the Supreme Court. The Indian tribes have no where been considered as forming such communities as could be recognized as Governments, and having the power to act nationally.  The principal objection, which has been made to the exercise of the right of soil and jurisdiction by the State over the Cherokees, has been drawn from the phraseology of the treaties between that tribe and the United States. If such treaties were to be considered as compacts between independent nations, as has been asserted, they would be void, so far as they pretended to limit the sovereign rights of the State. But treaties have been made with the Indian tribes, at all times, since the first settlement of this country, without having been considered such instruments as conveyed political power or rights of territory. They have been the expedients by which ignorant, intractable and savage people, have been induced, without bloodshed, to yield up what civilized Governments had the right to possess, by virtue of that command of the Creator delivered to man upon his formation -- 'be fruitful, multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it.' So far, therefore, as the United States, our sister States, and foreign governments are concerned: the rights of jurisdiction and soil are perfect, as exercised by the State over the Cherokees, and the lands occupied by them. These rights have however, their correspondent duties. if you subject the Indians to our laws, they have a right to our protection. If the exigencies of the State require that the gold mines in the country occupied by them, should be taken possession of, such exercise of power should not be extended further than the public interest requires. The desire of acquiring land for individual profit, ought not be the operative motive in directing the policy of the State. It is also due to our own character that we should have a jealous care, lest we press the necessity of taking possession of the minerals in the Indian lands beyond what the public interest, the preservation and use of the public property, and the enforcement of our laws, may require.  even the measure of surveying the Cherokee territory, however necessary for the proper administration of the laws, securing the public property from trespass, and protecting the Indians, is on account of the sensitive feelings of the humane, excited as they have been, by the interested and improper statements of political partizans upon the subject our policy towards the Cherokees, so liable to the misconstruction, that it would, be magnanimously forbearing, in the Legislature, perhaps wise, to delay the adoption of that measure for the present.

In removing intruders, it will be expedient to consider all white persons such, without regard to their length of residence or the permission of the Indians. The citizens of this and other States, who have either taken refuge in the Indian country, to escape from the punishment due to their crimes, or connected themselves with their society from unfitness to live in civilized communities, have not thereby acquired any claim upon the State to peculiar privileges. Much of the opposition of the Cherokees, to the extension of the laws of the State over them, and to the offers made by the United States, to induce their reunion with that part of the tribe who have removed to the West of the Mississippi, has proceeded from the influence of these persons.  At the same time that we acknowledge that it would be unjust to compel the Indians to leave the country which they have always occupied, yet believing that their removal to the West would be advantageous both to themselves and the people of the State, it is proper that you should take away any extrinsic causes which prevent their voluntary action upon this subject. It may however be just as well as expedient to exempt individuals of good character, from the operation of such a general regulation, upon their taking the oath to support the constitution and laws of the State, or giving other security that they will discharge the duties of citizens of the State. The number of white men residing among the Cherokees, within the limits of the State, are estimated at two hundred and fifty, exclusive of Missionaries, traders and peddlers. About one hundred are living with Indian women: fifty have permits from the Cherokee Chiefs, and one hundred from the Cherokee Agent. Out of the number of fifty-four, whose names, places of residence, and property are described in a letter from the Agent twenty-four are possessed of negro slaves.

The law extending the jurisdiction of the State over the Indians, contains no provision prohibiting white persons from entering upon their lands. The Indians will be exposed to continual vexation and disturbance, unless their rights are so secured as to enable them to obtain certain redress for their violation. Hitherto intruders have been kept off their lands by the force of the General Government. However justifiable the exertion of this power may have been formerly, it cannot be continued any longer, consistently with the right of jurisdiction which has been assumed by the State. It becomes therefore an imperative duty to afford to the Cherokees by your enactments, the same protection, from intrusion which they formerly received from the United States.

It is also due to our Indian people that provision in the law of 1829 should be repealed, which prevents Indians, and the descendants of Indians, from being competent witnesses in the courts of the State, in cases where a white man is a party. The present law exposes them to great oppression, whilst its repeal would most probably injure no one. Attempts have been made to strip them of their property by forged contracts, because of the impossibility of defending their rights by the testimony of those who alone can know them. And although the moral feelings of our frontier community has been too correct to permit such infamous proceedings to effect their ends, yet the character of our legislation for justice, requires that the rights of these department people should not be exposed to such danger. Our Judges are qualified to determine upon the competency of witness, and our Juries to weight their credibility.

That part of the law of 1829 which disannulled all the laws and ordinances of the Cherokee Government, has been entirely disregarded by the Indians. The chiefs have continued to meet together as a Legislative body, have passed laws, and carried on all the operations in the same manner as if they were really the representatives of an independent nation. I have had no authority to prevent such conduct, because the law which repealed all their ordinances and punished their chiefs for any act done for the purpose of preventing emigration, attached no penalty for any other exercise of power. Although ambition is not more censurable, when exhibited by an Indian, than a white man, and the situation of the Cherokee tribe renders it but natural that a strong effort should be made, by those who had by their wealth and intelligence obtained the absolute control over it to retain their power, yet it is not therefore the less proper that the State should compel them, by the use of the necessary authority, to desist from their pretensions. They have had sufficient notice to do so. Further delay would but encourage disobedience.  Instead of making their legislative, judicial or other pretended acts of Government reasonable, the milder punishment of the Penitentiary will probably be an ample guard against any future ambitious purposes.

The passage of the Indian bill by Congress, created a strong hope that through the means which was thereby placed at the disposal of the President, the State would be relived from the embarrassing difficulties which have so long harassed it, arising out of its relations with the Cherokees. As yet our expectations have been disappointed. The Indians have refused to listen to any terms offered by the president for their removal, or even to meet him at his request for the purpose of consultation. They have addressed a memorial to the people of the United States, complaining of the oppression of Georgia, and faithlessness of the administration of the general Government. They have been persuaded, that the Cherokee tribe is an independent foreign nation, and the Supreme Court will sustain it in assuming sovereign powers, and the State of Georgia be restrained from enforcing its laws upon them. I have received a formal notice, a copy of which it is understood has been served upon the President of the United States, of the intended application to the Supreme Court for this purpose. The correspondence of the Executive Department upon this subject is submitted to you. Whatever difference of opinion there may exist among good men, as to the policy of removing the Indians, all must agree in condemning this effort to enlist the Supreme Court in the violent party question which now agitates the whole Union. The State never can become a part before any court for the determination of the question, whether it has the right of subjecting the people who reside within its acknowledged limits to the operation of its laws. Although the first effort of the President to extinguish the Indian, title has not proved successful, yet the promptness with which they have been made, and the unreserved manner in which our rights have been acknowledged require of the state the fullest confidence in the present Administration upon this subject. It may be expected that the contract of 1802 will not be honestly executed, if the neglect of former administrations, and the opposition to this, has not rendered it impossible. But policy on our part, and respect for the Government, demand that we should wait patiently, without acting, for the result of the exertions of the President in using the means provided by Congress, for that purpose. If unfortunately for us, he should fail entirely, it will be proper for the State to look no longer to the Contract of 1802, for the extinguishment of the Indian title to its lands. But to exercise its own powers for the management of its own internal concerns.

One of the means used by the General Government to execute the contract of 1802, has been by paying individual Cherokees the full value of their improvements and possessions upon their emigration.  Upon application to the War Department, I have received a schedule of the names of the emigrants from this State, with an account of the improvements left by them, and their value, copies of which are laid before you. It is important that these improvements, should be placed in the possession of citizens of this State as early as possible, not only for the purpose of preserving them for future disposition, but as the means of more readily enforcing the Laws upon the Cherokees. As it is probably that the President will find that the appropriation made at the last session of Congress for the removal of the Indians, may be more successfully expended to effect that object, by operating upon individuals, families and towns, than upon the whole tribe through their Chiefs, it sill therefore be proper that you should prescribe some general regulations, which the places left by the emigrants may be immediately occupied by citizens of the State. Many of the houses which the places left by the emigrants may be immediately occupied by citizens of the State. Many of the houses which have been left by the emigrants may be immediately occupied by citizens of the State. Many of the houses which have been left by the emigrants have been taken possession of by other Indians. Authority ought to be given to remove such occupants in a summary way. Others were destroyed by order of the principal Cherokee Chief, John Ross, under circumstances of the most savage cruelty to our people, who were in possession. The jurisdiction of the State had not at that time been extended over the Cherokees. The copy of my letter to the War Department upon this subject accompanies this Message.

The decision of the President, upon the right claimed by the State to the immediate possession of a consideration tract of country, now in the occupancy of the Cherokees, but which was formerly owned by the Creeks, has been less favorable than we might have anticipated, from the clearness of the testimony which was submitted to him. The Secretary of War, in a letter upon this subject, states, that the Commissioner appointed by the President to examine into the facts, in relation to that claim, had reported in favor of a line beginning at the Shallow Ford, on the Chattahoochee, and running south westwardly, along the ridge as represented in a map which he had transmitted to the Executive Department, and that the President had confirmed the report and ordered the Cherokees to be removed from the land so assigned to the State. This map accompanies the other papers submitted to you upon this subject. The report of Gen. Coffee alluded to in the letter from the Secretary of War, was not received until a short time since, and then without being accompanied by the decision of the President. Upon examining the report, it was ascertained that General Coffee had never seen any part of the Testimony which was taken by order of the last Legislature. A letter was immediately addressed tot he President, through the then acting Secretary of War, requesting re-examination of General Coffee's report, and the evidence which was transmitted to him from this department.

The tract of land from which the Cherokees, have been removed, by order of the President, is supposed to contain 464,646 acres and is now subject to be disposed of in such manner as you may think expedient. The great object to be effected by the State, in the appropriation of its lands, is the increase of its population, and the excitement of its people to industry, and the accumulation of wealth. The lottery system which has been hitherto adopted, is believed to have been better calculated to attain these ends than the disposition by public sale. In an unimproved country, where capital is scarce, interest high, and every trade and employment demand labor and wealth, the surplus money in the possession of the people, can be expended more usefully by them, in improving the lands, and otherwise adding to the riches of the country, than if drawn from them to be placed in the public Treasury. It has always been found more difficult to restrain improper expenditures arising from a full Treasury, than to obtain through the powers which belong to the government the means which may be really required for public purposes. It is reported that there are valuable gold mines in the lands to be disposed of.  The public interest requires that the lots of land, which contain gold should be exempted from distribution by lottery. The spirit of speculation which the disposition of the lands by lottery is calculated to excite, has always been the greatest objection to that system.  The knowledge that the lands contained valuable mines of Gold, would increase that spirit to the most injurious extent. The community would become highly excited, by the hope of acquiring great wealth, without labor. The morals of the country would be in danger of corruption, from the temptation which would be held out by law, to the commissions of enumerable frauds.  Regular industry and economy would for a time be suspended by restless idleness, and imaginary, expenditures. In most instances, even the successful owners of the rich prizes would not be really benefited. Prodigality is the usual result of riches, suddenly and easily obtained.  Mines are like the accumulation of the people's money in the public Treasury. The Government should manage them for general and not for individual advantage. If they should prove exceedingly profitable the State would thereby be enabled to relieve the people from taxation, improve all the roads, render its rivers navigable, and extend the advantages of education to every class of society.

It will be necessary for you to provide by law, for carrying into effect so much of the seventh section of the first article of the constitution, as requires, that an accurate enumeration of the people should be made at the end of every seven years after the first enumeration.  In doing this, special provision will be required for taking the Census of these counties to which the Cherokee Territory has been attached, at least so far as relates to the Indians. It is very desirable to have as minute information as possible, of their entire numbers, as well as the number of the different classes among them, such as the number of the white men who are natives, those who are not natives, the number of the white women, of the half breeds, of the slaves, and of the Indians. it may be also important to ascertain the location of all those persons, and the extent of their cultivated, cleared and enclosed land.

We lay before our readers the Governor;s message.  It is an able document, which gives to the public a plain, clear, and elaborate exposition of the present condition of the political affairs of Georgia. The Cherokee Indians form, as it was expected, the principal subject of the message. Other subjects of importance also are placed before the Legislature by the Governor.

The subject of the Cherokee Indians has already attracted the attention of the Legislature. On Wednesday last, in the House, Mr. Haynes asked leave to introduce instanter a bill respecting that subject. The matter was debated, and postponed to the next day, when the debate was resumed, after which the House decided to refer the matter to the committee on the State of the Republic.

From the broad hints given in the course of the discussion, we believe that the temper of the legislature is for bold and decisive measures. Yet, there are prudent men in the Legislature, possessing influence, who, though willing, perhaps, to take decisive steps with regard to the Cherokee territory, will endeavor to combine at the same time with those steps, a proper degree of deference, for the known disposition of the federal administration, to satisfy Georgia, and comply with the contract of 1802. It is to be hoped that the Legislature will not proceed hastily in this business; that whatever may be determined on, will be done after mature deliberation, and after calculating the probable effects of the measures to be adopted. The members of the Legislature will, no doubt, bear in mind, that the administration of Gen. Jackson is with Georgia, and that we can expect that every thing will be done, which can be done, to induce the Cherokees to emigrate. It is the first time that an administration of the Federal Government has shown friendly dispositions towards Georgia.  Let us not, by incautious and injudicious steps, paralyze the attempts to treat with the Cherokees, and render indifferent towards us, an administration which feels so much for us.

Milledgerville Recorder

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is published in four columns only.

CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: NOV. 6, 1830

We are compelled this week, and perhaps shall be for two or three weeks to come, for want of suitable paper, to issue a small sheet.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is published in four columns only.

We devote a large portion of our paper to that part of the message of the Governor of Georgia which relates to Indian affairs.  We do so because among our home readers, there appears to be a general anxiety to see this document and to learn what recommendations have been presented before the legislature. Not that they expected to be more favored by Governor Gilmer, than they have been by his predecessors, but it was supposed that there was a perfect understanding between the executives of the United States and the state of Georgia, in the contemplated proceedings of the latter, and that this understanding would be fully developed in the Message. So it turns out to be the case. Who that has read the remarks of the Government agent, made, not long since, in this place, and addressed to the Cherokees, will doubt such an understanding? Let the reader compare these remarks with the message of the Governor -- he will be satisfied. The executive of the United States knows very well that Georgia intends to survey the Cherokee territory, and it appears to us that it acquiesces in this intention, or we must be induced to disbelieve what the Government agent explicitly told us.  The state does not only intend to survey the country, but to take possession of the gold mines. Although as yet these measures are only recommended by the Governor, yet we have not the least doubt that the legislature will do more that what is recommended.

We really did believe that the President would afford us protection when measures were carried to such extremity by the state of Georgia, more especially, when we had his declaration frequently made to us, that 'he would protect our territorial possession.' In what way would these possessions be protected if surveyors are permitted to come and cut up our country, and if our gold mines are to be wrested from us by force? Perhaps we do the President wrong in supposing that we are about to be thrown altogether from his hands into the hands of our neighbors, who are seeking our lands and are determined to have them in defiance of all law and justice. We would still hope, but, according to present appearances, and the course of measures now in progress, it seems to be hoping against hope. The time will, however, soon arrive, when everything on this subject will be put to the test -- we will then know what sort of protection it is which the President has promised to give, and what are the territorial possessions which he has declared shall be secured to the Cherokees.

Gov. Gilmer seems not to have reflected, when he intimates that the Cherokee Government would have been incompetent to remove the intruders, that is by treaty stipulation the bounden duty of the United States to do this, and that this duty has heretofore been faithfully performed by her. He seems not to have known that the Cherokees have paid the United States well for this portion of their engagements. Was he altogether unaware that every intruder was driven from the gold mines, just the other day, in fulfilment of this same treaty engagement? There is now no intruder for His Excellency to drive away.

In removing intruders, the Governor recommends that all white persons should be included, whether they be connected with the Cherokees by marriage, or residing among them as mechanics, or who live in the nation in any capacity. He would therefore drive away our school teachers, our religious teachers, our mechanics, and many of our worthy white citizens with their Cherokee families, or else he must separate them from their wives and children. This will be very magnanimous indeed! But why this harsh treatment? 'Much of the opposition of the Cherokees, to the extension of the laws of the state over them, and to the offers made by the United States to induce their reunion with that part of the tribe who have removed to the west of the Mississippi, has proceeded from the influence of these persons.' So says the Governor. Has the law of Georgia then, which makes it a penitentiary offence to prevent or endeavor to prevent any Cherokee from emigrating to the west of the Mississippi, become so impotent that it cannot be enforced against even one of these white transgressors? But the Governor is widely mistaken if he supposes the white people are the cause of the opposition of the Cherokees to the laws of Georgia. It is well known here that those who have turned their heels against the interest of this nation, and united themselves with Georgia, are white men. To have them out of the country, we believe, no one would object.

The Governor makes an assertion utterly false when he says the Cherokees have refused to meet the President even for the purpose of consultation. Every body knows this is not so. The invitation of the President to the Cherokees to meet him at Nashville was accompanied with this qualification: They need not come unless they can come with full powers to treat. If the invitation had been without such qualification, it would have been acceded to very cheerfully, but as it was, they could not do otherwise than refuse.  They could not go with full powers to treat.

The reason given in the message why the Cherokees have not been prevented from meeting in Council, and carrying on their government is, no provision was made for that purpose in the law extending the jurisdiction of the state over them. This certainly comes with very ill grace from a Governor, who not long since issued a flaming proclamation, calling upon the military and civil authorities of the state, to bring to condign punishment any Cherokee chief or chiefs who may pretend to exercise authority under the pretended laws or usages of the nation. The Governor either was ignorant of the provisions of that law himself, or knowing them, he bought a proclamation, unsupported by law, would do just as well to frighten the Cherokees.

There are other parts of the message on which we should like to extend our remarks, but we cannot for want of room. The reader can make his own comments. We presume all the measures recommended will be adopted by the legislature -- perhaps they are not already adopted.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is published in four columns only.

From Niles' Register.

MR. WIRT AND GOV. GILMER

We publish certain letters between Messrs. Wirt and Gilmer, relative to the 'Cherokee case,' about to be brought before the supreme court of the United States, and to which even the 'sovereign state' of Georgia, though it may refuse to plead, will be expected to submit, as Virginia, Maryland, and other states have done.  Without some high and common arbiter for the settlement of disputes of this character, the union is not worth one cent, and Dr. Cooper has our approbation to put it down at a ha'penny, English, without going into any calculation of its value. We judge not the case -- that belongs to others who will determine it faithfull -- and fearlessly. The thunders of Georgia will not be regarded by that lofty tribunal, more than the wailings of the poorest and most miserable of the Cherokees -- the power of the one will no more influence an unjust decision, that the wretchedness of the other cause a sympathy running into error; and the decision will be supported by the people.  A desire on the part of many, and long entertained also by ourselves, to lessen the power or reduce the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States, and a resistance of its authority, are very different things. If its organization be wrong, or its power illegally exerted, there is a remedy for either -- and the people will apply it for correction -- not destruction. And in any event -- there must needs be some tribunal of a last resort: something which the common sense of all men, for self-preservation, shall accept, not as infallible, but as being the nearest possible approach to perfection. Without it, what shall prevent Massachusetts from trespassing on Rhode Island, New  York on New Jersey, Pennsylvania on Delaware, and so on, to the extremes of the union? If the legislature of New York for example shall pass a law claiming the entire jurisdictioin over the lower Hudson, may not the right of thatlaw be questioned- the titles examined into, tne the case settled by other means than an appeal to force? What a fearful matter is here presented to consideration--and yet uch is exactly the stand that Georgia has taken. She claims the right of sovereignty over the Cherokee lands-she may or may not possess it; but if we understand the law of Goergia or the indecorous taunt of Gov. Gilmor, it is highly criminal to doubt such claimes by the institution of a legal process!  The Governor disavows any right to intervene with Mr. Wirt, 'as long as he keep beyond the jurisdiction of the state.' How generous! It is as much as to say that no one within the territory of Georgia shall dare to question the ingallibility  of the legislature of that state-and that if Mr. Wirt ventures on Georgia land, he shall be arrested and punished because he is acting as council for a numerous people, having among them aboriginal rights of the soil, with a (?) to ascertain how far, or in what manner these rights have been reduced or parted with. That the 'sovereign' power was in the Indians, cannot be disputed-and may not the claim to dispossess them of that sovereignty be examined in a court of law?  Is force to be the only arbiter? What then shall become of the small states? Take this case-suppose the great state of New York, with her two millions of people and abundant means shall calim a 'sovereignty' over the harbor of Savannah, as convenient for her navigaton and comerce, and pass a law making it highly penal i any one within her jurisdicton to doubt the legality of her claim-what would Georgia do? And New York, if left to herself, might just as certainly hold jurisdiction over the harbor of Savannah as Georgia can over the lands of the Cherokees.

The whole question is one of profound interest.  Its very nature should forbid a passionate discussion of it. The law must be determined according to the provisions and principles of the constitution, and neither party can estblish these porvbisions andprinciples. A nullifying power is unadmissable unless exerted in a constitutional way. A majoritymay err-has erred; but who shall decide in that case? Shall the sword be unsheathed, or reason be allowed a do-dominion. 'Angles in the form of men have not taken up their abode with us to guide us-and until they do, the voive of the people must be accepted as the 'voice of God.' We have no other standard of political truth than the public judgment--which though it may be wrong, involves in it the necessity of submission. The union can exist only upon such terms. If there be a right in a state to nullify the acts of the United States each county of a state has the same right as to the acts of its own state. 'Chaos must come again;' and this fair republic 'the hope of all men who love liberty,' become what Poland was, the prey of contending chiefs-among whom the sharpest sabre wss the best interpreter of the law--and indeed, the only one. Georgia cannot claim anything that she will yield to Delaware, or either what must not be granted to any other state in the union--and, with twenty-four differing constructions of the Consitution and the law, it is utterly impossible that any other medium, than through the shedding of blood, can be devised by which to appease, or put down parties, and generals as in Columbia and Mexico, instead of judges will make and execute the law.

The people are not ripe for such a state of things, and until they are, the authority of the Supreme Court wil be supported.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is published in four columns only.

CHOCTAW TREATY

Through the politeness of an acquaintance who attended the treaty just concluded with the Choctaw Indians, we gather the following details from notes taken at the reading of the treaty.

There shall be reserved to those who cultivate 50 acres each, not to exceed 40 persons 640 to those who cultivate 30 acres each, not to exceed 400 persons 320; to those who cultivate 30 acres each, not to exceed 400 persons, 480; to those who cultivate 20 acres each not to exceed 350 persons; 180 (?) to those who cultivate 12 acres each, not to exceed 350 person. 80 acres to persons who may not otherwise obtain one section to have each an additional half section.

All fatherless and motherless orphans will be entitled to acquire a quarter section to be selected by the President of the United States.

All families that may reside on the lands five years, will be entitled to a patent for one section to the head of the family  (indecipherable line) child over ten years of age and a quarter section for all under ten years.

Three Chiefs are to have four sections each two of which shall join ' include their present residence ' two of (indecipherable) in unappropriated lands. Some 50 or 100 sections are specially granted to other individuals of the nation some of which shall include their improvements.

Two sections are granted to Allen Glover and George S. Gaines to be located on any unappropriated lands, to be sold and the proceeds to be credited on their Indian debtors accounts: the poorest Indian's account to be first paid off, then the balance, if any, to be credited on other Indian accounts in just proportions.  An appropriation of 50,000 dollars is made for the support of common schools in the nation. 400,000 dollars, in twenty annual instalments of 20,000 each, is to be paid to the nation. Four Chiefs are to receive $250 each per annum, for 20 years.

If a republican form of government be adopted, one Chief is to receive $500 for twenty years. Three council houses and three churches to be paid for. The government agrees to support three preachers and three teachers for sixteen years; and to keep up three smith slaps for the same length of time. One wheel wright is to be supported for five years, while some other smaller payments are to be made to Speakers, Secretaries and Captains. The United States agree to secure to the Choctaw Nation their Arkansas purchase in fee simple, so as to exclude any State or Territory, hereafter to be laid off from the Choctaw reservation; while the Nation so formed is to be governed by its own laws, and protected from foreign invasion and strife by the United States. Each warrior is to be provided with a good rifle; and there is to be distributed among them 1000 wheels, 1000 ploughs, 1000 pair of cards, 1000 axes, and 1000 hoes.

The removal is to take place in three years; and the government is to pay for their stock at valuation: They are to be removed at the expense of the United States to their new country in steamboats and wagons, and support one year after their arrival.

Tuscaloosa Intel.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














This issue of the Cherokee Phoenix is published in 4 columns only.

INDIANS

From the North American Review.

REMOVAL OF THE INDIANS--

CASE BROUGHT HOME.

So many plausible words have been used, and there has been so much parade of reasoning on the subject of State rights, and conflicting powers, that some respectable and honorable men have been misled.  The scene is distant from the northern States. A dimness is cast over the whole subject, in many minds, as to the condition, and rights of Indians living in the woods.

We have thought it might be useful therefore, to change the scene, and to state a case perfectly parallel, though relating to a different tribe, and a different State, in order to make the matter so plain, that it cannot be misunderstood.

Let us suppose, then that one of the New England tribes of Indians, the Mohegans, for instance, were found on the arrival of the pilgrims, in possession of all the territory now contained in Massachusetts; that they permitted the first settlers to land, and received them as friends;--and that they made new cession of territory, as the settlements were extending. The whites encroached, difficulties arose, and wars succeeded; yet peace was repeatedly made, on equal terms, and by the establishment of a known boundary. This was the progress of things, we will suppose, till the commencement of the revolutionary war, when the Mohegans, having placed themselves under the protection of Great Britain, and being persuaded by agents of the mother-country, took up arms against the colonies.

We will proceed with the supposition, as though it were history, and without further interruption.

In 1777, Massachusetts held a negotiation with the Mohegans, by commissioners with full powers, when a peace was made and bound areas were fixed. Other treaties were made between the State and the tribe to 1783 and in subsequent years.  Massachusetts, being a member of the confederation, a treaty was made with the Mohegans by the United States, in 1785, by which peace was established, prisoners were exchanged, reciprocity was observed on other important points, and an implicit guaranty of territory was given. Massachusetts protested against this treaty, on the ground that she alone ought to negotiate with Indians occupying a part of her chartered limits, but not denying the right of the Mohegans to their own country and governments. Congress was not in the least moved from its purpose by this protest; but held that the United States had the sole power, by the Articles of Confederation of making treaties with Indian nations, situated as the Mohegans then were. In 1788, Congress issued a proclamation against intruders with the express object of enforcing the treaty.

After the adoption of the federal constitution; General Washington declared the treaty of 1785 to be in force, and that he should use all the powers intrusted to him by the constitution to have it maintained with good faith. At the moment of making this declaration, he sent a special message to the Senate proposing this question: 'Does the Senate advise and consent solemnly to guaranty to the Mohegans, the lands which they occupy?' To which the Senate (the members from Massachusetts being present) unanimously answer in the affirmative. A treaty was formed in the year 1791, between the United States and the Mohegans, by which the Connecticut River was made the eastern boundary of the Indian country, which then embraced what is now the western part of Massachusetts, the southern part of Vermont, the northwestern corner of Connecticut, and the part of New York which lies east of the Hudson River. In this treaty, 'the United States solemnly guaranty to the Mohegan Nation all their lands not hereby ceded.'--Many stipulation are made, and, among the rest, the Mohegans engage, that they will not form any treaty with a separate State. They grant to the United States the privilege of a road from Albany to Springfield, and permit boats to navigate the Housatonic River. The United States promise to give them implements of husbandry, that they may become herdsmen and cultivators, and with a view to their permanent attachment to their soil. The United States also engage, that, if any citizen of the United States shall go into the Mohegan country ' commit a crime there, or do any injury to a peaceable Indian, such citizen shall be punished by the courts of the United States, in the same manner as if a similar crime had been committed within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, or within any territorial district of the United States. The Mohegans, on their part, agree to deliver up for punishment any of their people, and any who take refuge in their nation, who have committed trespasses upon neighboring whites; and, in consequence of the various stipulations in their favor, they agree to be under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign whatever.

This treaty was ratified by the Senate unanimously, no member from Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, or Vermont making any objection; and Massachusetts never having objected to the guaranty of 1791 down to the present day.

Seven years afterwards, another treaty was made with the Mohegans, negotiated by a eminent citizen of Massachusetts, acting as a commissioner of the United States, which expressly extends the guaranty of the Mohegan country forever.

Massachusetts having long had claims to western lands which the United States would not acknowledge, a compact is formed between that State and the United States, in 1802. By this compact, Massachusetts, cedes to the United States all her claim to the western lands, accepting as an equivalent, a large sum of money and an engagement that the United States would extinguish the Mohegan title as soon as it could be done `peaceably, and on reasonable terms', several clauses in the compact implying that the title was to be extinguished by treaty with the Indians, and that the treaty was to be made between them and the United States, Massachusetts, having no agency in any such transaction.

After this compact, ten treaties were made between the United States and the Mohegans, all with the acquiescence of Massachusetts, and some of them at her solicitation. By these treaties, she acquired lands of the Mohegans, not then territory, so far as Massachusetts is concerned, was reduced to what lies west of the counties of Franklin, Hampshire, and Hampden, where the Mohegan Nation still remains, upon the ground derived from the immemorial occupancy of preceding generations. In one of these treaties, the Mohegans granted to the United States the privilege of a road, which should pass through their country from Rutland, Vermont, to Litchfield, Connecticut. In another it was stipulated, that the agent of the United States, residing among the Indians for their benefit, might cultivate land for a field and garden, so long as he should reside there in that capacity. In the last of these treaties but one, a treaty negotiated by the individual, who is not President of the United States, provision was made for the permanent residence of the Indians upon their hereditary possessions, and all preceding treaties were confirmed; and the very last, negotiated by the individual, who is no Vice-President of the United States, is declared to be formed for the preservation of the Mohegan Nation; provision is made in it for a permanent school fund, to be expended in the country now occupied by that nation; and the Intercourse Law of the United States is permanently pledged for the protection of the Mohegans against the whites.

In the War of 1812, the Mohegans sent a larger proportion of warriors than any State in the Union according to their numbers, volunteering their services under the banners of the United States.  They fought by the side, and under the orders of the commander, who is now President of the United States. Some of their bravest and best men fell on the field of battle; and those, who survived, were cheered and applauded as faithful allies, and generous disinterested friends, fully deserving the guaranty, which they had received.

The State of Massachusetts, however, importunately presses the United States to extinguish the Mohegan title. The legislature all the white acknowledges, that treaties must be made by the United States, before the title can be extinguished. The Governor of Massachusetts, in 1825, proclaims treaties with the Mohegans to be the supreme law of the land. The Representatives in Congress from Massachusetts, as late as the spring of 1827, leave upon the records a formal protest against a law, which assumed that a certain treaty with Indians, was void on account of fraud. The reason assigned by these Representatives was, that a treaty was an instrument of so high a character that rights vested immediately on its execution, and it could not be set aside, even by a subsequent treaty, and for manifest corruption.

In the mean time, while these treaties, and laws, for their execution, were carried into effect with the universal acquiescence of the rulers and people of every State in the Union, the Mohegans were making rapid improvements in civilization. The Secretary of War (Mr. Crawford) whom we will suppose to be an eminent citizen of Massachusetts, and afterwards the idol of that State, took the lead in promoting the best interests of the natives. He wrote and official letter to invite the co-operation of benevolent societies with the government in measures for the intellectual and moral improvement of the Indians. From him the first impulse was received toward the support and establishment of schools, by the General Government, for the instruction of Indian children.  Various efficient causes of improvement were in operation; and the Mohegans formed a regular republican government, upon the best models.

All these things were perfectly known to the inhabitants of all the northern states. If a gentleman was travelling from Boston to Albany, he knew he was to pass through the Mohegan Nation. He did pass through it. He knew when he crossed the limits. He saw the natives at work on their farms. He lodged at their houses. He visited their schools. He spent the Sabbath with them, and engaged with them in the most solemn ordinances of public worship. He read their newspaper, which was sent weekly into all parts of the United States.  They told him what their relations with the United States were, and that they were accurately and minutely described in treaties. The added, that, in the execution of these treaties, white intruders had been repeatedly driven off, by the armed force of the United States.

The people of Albany, of North Hampton, of Hartford, and of Rutland, came into the Mohegan Nation to witness the improvement of the Indian pupils; and the teachers returned these visits. All the people knew what the Mohegan Nation was, and what its rights were, as solemnly guarantied by the United States. Not a State in the Union had its limits more exactly known, or it separate existence more positively guarantied.

But, while things were in this condition, Massachusetts, suddenly resolves in December,1827, that she has waited long enough for the Mohegan lands; that she cannot get them by negotiation, she has a right to take them by force; that she will not resort to violence, however, till other means shall have failed; that the Mohegans never had any right to their country; that they are the tenants at will of Massachusetts; that their lands belong to her; that the King of England gave them to her two hundred years ago; and that she wants the Mohegan lands, and will have them. These things Massachusetts solemnly declares, before the world, in the year 1827, by resolutions adopted in both branches of her legislature; and she directs her governor to send a copy to the President of the United States, which duty was faithfully performed.

The next year, 1828, Massachusetts extends her laws over the Mohegans; and annexes all that part of their territory, which lies with her chartered limits, to the counties of Franklin and Hampshire, and Hampden. She enacts at the same time, that no Mohegan, nor any descendant of a Mohegan, shall be either a party or a witness in a court of justice.

These measures she follows up, in 1829, by enacting, that if any Mohegan chief shall attempt to prevent the people of the tribe from emigrating he shall be liable to imprisonment four years; and if any member of the tribe shall endeavor to prevent any chief from selling the whole Mohegan country, he shall be imprisoned not less than four years, nor more than six years.

When the civilized world began to express astonishment at those remarkable doings; Massachusetts bestirs herself to produce arguments in justification; and her arguments are these.

1. She alleges, that the American aborigines were in a state of nature, when New England was first settled from Europe, and men in a state of nature can neither be entitled to property, nor to the protection of law; from whence she infers, that the Mohegans may justly be driven from their patrimonial inheritance, although they are not in a state of nature, but have lived by her side under the protection of international and municipal law for two hundred years.

2. She alleges that according to Vattel, erratic tribes, savages in the hunter state, may be required to give up a part of their land to their more civilized neighbors for cultivation; therefore the Mohegans, who are not an erratic tribe, and not in the hunter state, but herdsmen and cultivators, may justly be ejected from all their lands, which they have derived from their ancestors, which they have neither forfeited, nor sold, and which have been guarantied to them forever by the United States.

3. She says, that it is an established principle, that barbarians should yield to civilized men; and therefore the Mohegans, who are not barbarians, who have demeaned themselves peaceably towards the United States for the last forty years; who have learned to read and write; who have a printed language of their own, and send forth a newspaper weekly, shall leave their native land and seek a residence elsewhere.

Not appearing to be altogether satisfied with these reasons, Massachusetts says, that she is to be the only judge of her own limits; that she shall defend her exclusive right to her own territory; and that writers of pamphlets, and reviews, had no business to meddle with her affairs; that therefore, she is bound by her assent to the constitution of the United States, which says, that the meaning and effect of treaties and laws are to be decided by the courts of the United States; nor by her own compact of 1802, which admits the Indian title, and prescribes the manner in which it is to be extinguished, if extinguished at all. In short, she declares roundly that she will interpret all her obligations herself, without asking the opinion of any one; or, in other words, that her present inclination is her only rule of duty.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Cherokee Phoenix is published in 4 columns only

PURCHASE OF INDIAN LANDS

It might be curious to ask these scrupulous men, who say that the Indians ought to have received a greater price for their lands. 

How the proper standard could be fixed? Our ancestors were no prophets. They were not certain but that their settlements would fail, as other settlements had failed before. If they should succeed, the settlers could not tell what the intermediate difficulties would be; nor how many reverses must be experienced before they should be successful. But suppose they had been assured, when Boston was settled by the pilgrims in 1630, that lands on Ann Street would sell for ten pounds an acre in 1670; that lands on Washington Street, between Summer and Bedford streets, would rise to the same value before 1700; that lands in the west part of the peninsula would be taken up for building lots soon after 1800; and that the site of an insurance office in State street would be sold for fifteen pounds a square foot in 1825.  How would all this affect the price, which they were bound to offer to the Indians? By which of these prices were they to regulate their offers?  These facts, seen with absolute certainty before hand, would not have proved that the land on which Boston has been since built, was worth a farthing in 1630.

There are millions of acres of land in the Carolinas, which would not at this moment be accepted as a gift; and yet, as a planter of credit and character assured the writer of this article, much of this land will produce, with very little labor, one hundred and fifty bushels of sweet potatoes to the acre. Two hundred years hence, it will probably bring a hundred dollars an acre. Perhaps some of those kind hearted gentlemen who think that their ancestors dealt hardly by the Indians, in giving them so small a price for their lands, would like to purchase some of the best tracts on the Columbia River or, if they prefer an inland district, some of the best intervals near the head waters of the Yellow Stone. These tracts are now in the possession of Indians, and if any man thinks he ought to give the same price for them, as he would be obliged to give the present owners of lands on the Connecticut, or the Susquehanna for an equal number of acres, he can doubtless act accordingly. The probability is, that within two hundred years, every acre of land in North America, which shall then be capable of cultivation, will command a good price.

Dr. Dwight has, somewhere in his travels, perfectly vindicated our ancestors from any just imputations on this subject.  Among other facts, he mentions the following-One of the first settlers of Northampton, a few years after the settlement began, and the Indian title was extinct, made a bargain in which it was left optional with the other party to take five shilling or several hundred acres of land in that town-the money being deemed a fair equivalent for the land, which was then the undisputed property of a white man. The whole matter is summed up by Dr. Dwight, in the very sensible and forcible remark, that land in America, when our fathers first came hither, `was like water;- too abundant to be the subject of price.-' North American Review.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Cherokee Phoenix is published in 4 columns only

AMERICAN BOARD

The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions commenced their annual meeting in this city on Wednesday. The operations of this Board were more extensive than any other Missionary Society in our United States. Its expenditures in the last year were $93,540.00, and in receipts 87,878.00. 20 years have elapsed since the Board began its operation and 19 since the first Missionaries to the heather were sent out under its patronage. The reasons for Missions, as stated by the Corresponding Secretary in his Report, appear stronger every year, as the work progresses in its effects; and it is evidently apparent that the Gospel gives the only hope of an enduring blessing to the world. The operations of the Board in Bombay, in Ceylon, in Western Asia, 'c. are attended with numerous blessings. The publications of the Gospel, the circulation of the Scriptures and of Tracts, the education, both literary and religious, which the schools are communicating, are producing surprising changes in the idolatrous world.  The superstitions inculcated on the populace by the Brahmins are losing their effect, as the light of revelation and of conscience opens on their minds; and though the Roman Catholic priests are sedulously guarding their devotees against reading the scriptures and religious tracts, there are occasional and happy instances in which even the Roman Catholic, discovering the impositions practised on them, break the chains in which they had been held, and come forth into the light and liberty of the gospel. The Press is sending forth its precious pages, in all directions, and in different languages, and there is the best reason to believe that the good seed is now sowing, which will ere long produce a harvest of souls saved, and of blessings diffused through the earth, which will be preparatory to the glorious days seen in vision by the patriarchs and prophets, who spoke under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost.

In the evening, the Rev. Dr. Dewitt preached in Park street Meeting House, from Matt. ix 37.38- The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few:- Pray ye, therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that He will send forth laborers into His harvest. The leading propositions of the discourse were 1.- The motives to Christian effort, and 2. The duty of persevering exertions in the promotion of Christian Missions. The harvest is great, and the field of labor extensive. The castes and prejudices of India must be destroyed, and the wall of China, which shuts out the gospel must be thrown down. The superstitions and despotism which enslave the human race must five place to light and liberty, and the mind must be free in its search after truth. Another motive to encourage labor in the work is the gospel confers immense blessings.  In the countries where it is unknown, darkness reigns. Where, but in Christian lands, are to be found real refinement of mind, civil liberty, or domestic purity?- Take the map of the world and reply. But what gives the gospel its brightest glory is its saving efficacy, redeeming the soul from the bondage of sin. The instrumentality required in this work is great. Preachers called of God, and qualified by his grace, must be employed.  God will not, as in the first creation, speak his church into existence by a single fiat. Means must be employed, and these he will succeed. In giving pastors, teachers, 'c. he has committed to his church the means of its perpetuity ' its indefinite multiplication. The facilities and prospects now furnished are another high incentive to holy effort.  Providence opens the way and path of the friends of Missions. The day of Pentecost cave life and energy to the primitive disciples; but it was not a miraculous influence, but the common operations of the Holy Spirit, which effected the conversions under Peter's preaching, as under that of Paul and others afterwards. And when darkness and superstition had again overspread the world, and the degrading doctrine had obtained currency, that ignorance was the mother of devotion, the invention of the mariner's compass, and the art of printing by which the Bible was spread, again pierced the gloom in which our race was involved, and the glorious reformation followed. In later times, however, Infidelity raised its brazen front of profaneness; but Bible Societies, and Missionary Societies, and other associations, divided the labor of counteracting the evil, and we now see a glorious day. On the duty of persevering in the promotion of Missions, the Doctor was ardent and eloquent. The Christian edifice, he said, must be raised by human instrumentalities, but all their dependence is on God. This dependence must be deeply felt, and it must pervade ministers and churches.- Prayer, ardent and incessant, must be made for the Holy Spirit's influence without whose sacred energies nothing can be done.  Missionaries must be trained to their work in our theological seminaries, and it must be felt that we need in this labor, men both of piety and science. A diffusive benevolence must pervade Christians of all denominations; and though they may labor in different spheres, their pole-star must be the glory of Christ and the world's salvation.

Ch. Watch.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Cherokee Phoenix is published in 4 columns only

DOMESTIC

Indian Cession of Lead Mines in 1829. We have been favored by Lucius Lyon, Esq United States' Civil Engineer, with an account of the boundary line surveyed by him the last summer, of the country purchased in 1829, of the Winnebagoes, Chippeways, Pottawatomics, and Ottaways, at Prairie du Chien.

'The boundary line between the ceded and unceded lands, commences near Grosse Point, on Lake Michigan, about 12 miles north of Chicago, and runs thence, due west 84 miles to Rock River; thence up Rock River 41 miles, to the mouth of the Peek-a-tan-oke, up the Peek-a-tan-oke 7 miles to the mouth of Sugar Creek; up Sugar Creek 63 miles, to the road leading from the Blue Mound to Fort Winnebago, by the most northerly of the Four Lakes; thence, along that road 41 miles to Deek Creek, 4 miles from the fort; and thence, north 37 deg. east 21 miles, in a direct line to the most southerly bend of Lake Puck-away, through which Fox River or Green Bay passes. The boundary of the purchase runs from Lake Puckaway up Fox River to Portage, thence across to the Ouisconsin, and down that river to the Mississippi. The length of the Portage, from the landing on Fox River to the landing on the Ouisconsin, is one mile and 150 rods. This fixes with certainty several points that have been variously laid down on maps.  Fort Winnebago, for example, at the Portage of the Fox and Ouisconsin rivers, is an important point, and is found to be distant from Chicago 142 miles, in very nearly a northwesterly direction, and 45 miles from the Blue Mound, in a northwesterly direction.

'The country is the neighborhood of the boundary surveyed and to the south and west of it, is almost universally of that description usually dominated upon except between Lake Michigan and Rock River, where there is so small a portion of woodland, that it may more properly be called a prairie country. The prairies are covered with grass and a great variety of wild flowers, constantly succeeding each other with the change of the seasons. The timber of the woodland is principally burr, black and white oak- the first species however, predominates. The surface of the country is rolling, and in some places hilly, but there are no mountains.  All the principal streams seem to have worn their beds considerably into the calcareous sand rock from Lake Michigan to the Mississippi, and contains the great deposits of led ore from which about forty million pounds of lead have been made since 1825, while at the mines in Missouri, once thought to be the greatest in America, only about eight millions have been made in the same time. How far this lead formation extends southward, in Illinois, is not known; to the north it extends beyond the Ouisconsin; and all, or nearly all, the lead now manufactured at the mines on Upper Mississippi comes from this territory.  The population of the mining district in 1823, was estimated at ten thousand; it is not so great now, yet the quantity of lead manufactured in the three first quarters of the present, exceeds that made in a corresponding time in any former year.' Detroit Journal

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Cherokee Phoenix is published in 4 columns only

CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: NOV 13, 1830

THE CHOCTAW TREATY.

In another part of our paper we copy from the Port Gibson Correspondent, an article on the Choctaw treaty, which more than corroborates the information conveyed to us by two gentlemen residing in that nation, extracts of whose letters have already been published.  When we first heard that a treaty was affected, we had our suspicious- now we have not a particle of doubt left that this treaty has been brought about by means which honesty, justice, and humanity cannot sanction. We sincerely believe the whole affair is a piece of corruption, not even surpassed by the famous case of McIntosh. The Hon. Secretary of War seems to have carried into practical issue his celebrated instruction to his agents, to move upon the chiefs in the line of their prejudices and to offer them extensive reservations and other rewards. We are astonished, utterly astonished, that a high officer of the General Government should descend from his elevated station, and effect in person a treaty with a few chiefs of a defenseless tribe of Indians, contrary to the expressed wishes of their people,  and by compulsory means. Oh, how has the honor, the magnanimity of the United States degenerated!

It will be recollected that Mr. Eaton has frequently expressed his opinion that it was the influence and power of the chiefs of the Southern Indians which deterred the common Indians from emigrating or treating, and that it was owing to the same causes that these common Indians were so degraded and poverty stricken. But we see this same republican Secretary, who abhors everything

aristocratical - in the Indians, disregarding the voice of the people, and courting, and buying with extensive reservations, the assent of the chiefs of the Choctaw Nation. Here is a demonstration of the kind regard and benevolence entertained towards the poor Indians. If he has heretofore been so solicitous that these degraded people should have their rights and be relieved from the despotism of their chiefs, indeed so very regardful of their interest, that each Cherokee must in future receive his rateable share of forty-one cents of the annuity, why did he not when he had it in his power, make ample provisions for the comfort of the poor Choctaws, instead of giving to each of the great Chiefs FOUR RESERVATIONS, and an annuity of $250 per annum for twenty years; and this contrary to the will of the nation! Let the candid reader turn to the provisions of the treaty and remember these were made when four fifths of the five thousand Choctaws on the treaty ground had rejected the propositions of the Commissioners, and most of them had returned home-let him then, if he can, lay his hand on his heart say, the Choctaws treaty is honorable, effected by honorable means, will becoming the moral rectitude of the United States.

A question of solemn import here arises- will the Senate of the United States ratify the treaty We think not, if the aggrieved Choctaws will protest against it, ' make it evident to the Senators that it has been brought about by unjustifiable means. We cannot believe that two thirds of that august body will sanction anything which will fix a stain upon the American character.

___________

Mr. Eaton in his letter to the editor of the Natchez Gazette, says of the Choctaws, 'They are solicitous to depart-many of them immediately.' Now this must have been intended for effect merely, for why should a large majority of them refuse to remove? and when an arrangement was finally made with some of the chiefs and warriors, why were provisions made for so many reservations?  It is too evident that the Choctaws do not desire to remove, and that if some of them have consented to remove, it has been by means of the strong talk he gave them, with extensive reservations and other rewards to their chiefs.

_____________

We understand quite an unhappy circumstance occurred at Hightower the other day. Two Cherokees were arrested by a party of white men from one of the adjoining counties and taken towards Georgia, with some of their property.  They were pursued by a party of Cherokees, when either they were rescued or a compromise was made. The two prisoners returned to their homes. On the evening of the same day, before bed time, four white men, whether they were a part of the first company is not known, came into the premises of one of these Cherokees, and stole a horse out of a lot. The owner discovered them just as they rode off and pursued them with a gun. He overtook them and shot the foremost one of the two who were riding his horse.-The man died instantly.

We sincerely regret this circumstance has occurred, but it is only an individual case, and can have not effect on the nation.  We would, however, here advise our countrymen to forbear every rash measure in defending their property from thieves and robbers, who are constantly annoying them. Let our horses and other property go, but let not human blood be shed. The perpetrator of the above deed would be amenable, according to the treaties, to the federal courts of the United States. But there are new lights now, and we presume Georgia claims exclusive jurisdiction over him.

_____________

The A. B. C. F. M. held their annual meeting in Boston. From the minutes of their proceedings we copy the following:

The Committee to whom was referred that part of the annual report which relates to the American Indians reported the following preamble and resolutions, which after a long and interesting debate, were adopted.

In adverting to the painful and important subject of the claims of the State of Georgia to the absolute right of property, as well as the exclusive jurisdiction over the territory of the Cherokee Indians, within that State, the projected removal of those Indians together with the Creeks, Chickasaws, and Choctaws to a region beyond the Mississippi, this committee report, for the consideration of the Board, the following resolution, viz.

'Resolved. That, from the peculiar relation in which those unoffending Indians stand to this Board, we feel it to be our indispensable duty at this crisis of their destiny, to express our sympathy in their distressed condition; and also our deep sense of the solemnity of the obligations which treaties, superadded to the claims of the natural justice, have imposed on the government of our country in behalf of those interesting people; and we earnestly implore the blessing of Almighty God to enlighten and to guide the deliberations of the constituted authorities of our country, so as to secure the just rights of those Indians, and preserve the faith and honor of the government.'

The following resolution also was discussed and passed:

'Resolved, That the Prudential Committee be instructed to prepare and present to both Houses of Congress, a memorial, earnestly and respectfully expressing the views and sentiments of this Board on the subject of the proposed removal of the Indians, residing in the states of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, to a region beyond the Mississippi, in reference to the benevolent plans of extending to those Indians the blessings of civilization and religious instruction.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Cherokee Phoenix is published in 4 columns only

For the Cherokee Phoenix

GEORGIA AND THE CHEROKEES.

When the time approached for the operations of Georgia laws over the Cherokees, we had good reasons to presume that these assumed powers were intended to accomplish the downfall of the Cherokees and their expulsion from their indefeasible inheritance. The character of the laws thus to be forced over a separate community of people, without being represented in the legislative department from whence such acts emanated without ever having contributed to the support of the same, but ever remained distinct and in the enjoyment of such rights as they always possessed, and such laws and usages as the genius of the people could relish, could not otherwise but inevitably create apprehensions of the ill treatment of the Cherokees. The anticipation of these events has been fully verified in numerous instances, by the operation of those measures, which cannot now be enumerated in the short communication. But I considered it due to myself, and justice to the public to lay before them in as brief a manner as the nature of the case will admit, a bill of costs assessed on us by Judge Clayton when B. F. Thompson, Johnson Rogers, and myself were arrested by a writ of attachment for disobeying a Bill of injunction to stay waste for digging gold in that country, which the treaties of the United States say belongs to the Indians.

We were arrested on the Monday morning Aug. 7 by the Sheriff of Hall County with a guard of men, carried to Wadkinsville seventy miles before Judge Clayton, who had at the commencement of the court at that place, submitted a charge to the Jury, proposing a policy which it was advisable to observe to enable the state to establish its jurisdiction over the Cherokees, and thereby prevent any succor that might be afforded to the Cherokees, by the federal tribunals of the Government. This charge could be considered by us in no other light, but a supercilious declamation which denounced the sympathies of the Philanthropist and the Christian, excited in behalf of the suffering Indians; and as intimating that Georgia alone was in the bright path of rectitude in forcing over the Cherokees the soul-grinding edicts of that State. But however severe the sentiments of his honor were in this unprecedented charge, it contained one passage of the principle, 'the Indians had nothing to fear from the character of their laws; where the same justice which is meted out to their citizens will also he meted to the Indians.'

We were then brought before his honor, for the offence of digging gold, when there were at the same time and place where we were arrested about two thousand Georgians employed in the mining operations without any restrictions. It was on the following Thursday, August 11th, when the bill of costs here annexed was the substance of justice meted for the first time to the Indians. This bill of costs was paid on Friday August 12th, on which day we were released.

After this we were bound in a bond to appear and answer to the bill of injunction on the 3d Monday in September, which Case involved the question of sovereignty. We accordingly appeared at court. When the case was called, one of the counsels for this nation delivered a speech of some length, founded principally on the laws of the United States in bar of the jurisdiction of that court over this case. But the case was laid over to the next day, and when returned, Judge Clayton dismissed it, or in other words threw it out of court, and without a restoration of the costs imposed upon us.

My object now is to show the public the high handed acts of injustice that are practiced on the Cherokees by the courts of Georgia since the operation of their laws. On the fifth day of our arrest, Judge Martin treasurer of the Cherokee Nation, who had accompanied us to see the fate of our prosecution, paid up the costs, and it will be perceived by the bill awarded by Judge Clayton, which you will please publish, he has allowed seven days pay for each of the guard. This item as it stands Judge Martin refused to admit, as it was known by all parties that they served only five days. The Sheriff traced the error to his honor the author of the bill.  The guard were willing to deduct one day's services and no more, which of course had to be done, and discounted out of the amount as the bill shows below; and yet made us pay them each one day more than they had actually served. But the Sheriff, as the bill stands, compelled us to pay him for seven days services, two days more than he had positively served. Is Judge Clayton here meting to the Indians his promised justice? This is not all. In the item of expenses at Wadkinsville of $14.00 the Sheriff had included Judge Martin's expenses who was not one of the party under arrest, and which Martin had paid himself, and still his bill was included with ours and rendered to the Judge by the Sheriff, which of course could not be rejected at a Judiciary bench, which was blended with political expediency. This act of the court to compel the prisoners to pay the expenses of a person not involved in the case sustained the fact that oppression was the original design of the laws.

The last item of 12.50 allowed for the returning expenses, will prove to every friend of justice that the Cherokees are exposed to an authority that is prepared to crush their rights forever.  Out of this sum, only $3.75 was the amount of expenses incurred by our return, which Judge Martin was willing to admit; but the whole amount of this item was claimed by the Sheriff as a right and admitted by the Judge, but after a long altercation a deduction was reluctantly made as the bill shows, at $3.75.

ELIJAH HICKS.

The State vs. Benj. F. Thompson, Elijah Hicks, John Rogers- Attachment under Injunction.

COST

Arresting defendants under order of Judge $3.77

Bringing defendants before Judge 70 miles $3.50

4 guards 7 days at $1.25 each per. day       $5.00

Do. Do. Sheriff $8.75

Expenses at Gainsville $4.25

Do. at Hayes $5.00

Do. at Athens $4.25

Do. at Farrs $8.75

Do. at Wadkinsville $14.00

Do. returning home $12.50

____

Overcharge $93.75

$8.75

______

$85.00

By errors in charge of guard 5.00

______

$80.00

Received of John Martin Eighty Dollars the amount of the cost in the above case.

A CHATTEIN.

Dep. Sheriff.

August 12th 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

CHOCTAWS

By the following paragraph, which we take from a Baltimore paper, it appears that the Secretary of War, after nearly a fortnight's hard labor has succeeded in bringing the Choctaw Indians to subscribe a treaty, the general terms of which are stated in the article-

Republican and Gazetta Extra.

NASHVILLE, Tenn. Oct. 4.

CHOCTAW TREATY CONCLUDED.

To gratify the anxiety, which, we are aware, prevails with a great portion of our readers to learn the result of the negotiations late pending with the Choctaw Indians, we this day issue an extra.  After thirteen days of most fatiguing duty, the Secretary of War and General Coffee succeeded in the object of their mission. On the 27th ult. a Treaty was agreed to and signed.

The Choctaws cede the country they occupy; and within three years are to move beyond Mississippi.- Those who choose to remain, take reservations, and after residing five years to possess them in fee.  The country is to be at any time surveyed when the Government please, but no sale is to take place, previous to removal; until then, no person is to settle in the country. About 5000 Indians were in attendance.'

What, under the new order of things in our government is expected to grow out of thie 'arrangement,' we do not pretend to know. Treaties with Indians are considered by the disciples of the modern school in politics, as of no obligation. We have been taught by the new 'law of nations,' promulgated by the statesmen of Georgia, and adopted by the present Administration of the national government, and their partizans in both houses of Congress, that the Indians are inhabitants of the states in which they reside,(though without the privileges of other inhabitants) subject to their laws, possessing few rights, and no property-that they can hold no more lands than they enclose and cultivate, and if perchance they discover a little gold under the surface, that it belongs to the state of Georgia-that treaties with Indians, notwithstanding they may have been entered into with all the constitutional forms of diplomatic contracts, and ratified by the President and Senate of the United States, are still not binding upon the latter, that when the chief magistrate is called upon under the provisions of those treaties, and of the laws of the Union, to protect the Indians against the encroachments, plunderings, and spoilations of white men, or of the states in which they live, he is not bound by his constitutional duty to see the laws executed, but like a certain monarch renowned in English history, he has a dispensing power to exercise; and that when called upon, under a new 'arrangement' with Indians for their emigration in which a part consent to go, and others refuse, that he has the power to withhold the money appropriated for the very purpose of assisting such as will remove, because they will not all go-meaning in the exercise of his humane and benevolent disposition to starve them into submission. Under the operation and influence of such principles as these, we should hardly have thought that any tribe of Indians could have been brought, unless indeed they were reduced by starvation, or something equivalent, to trust our government under any arrangement. The want of integrity in the fulfilment of former treaties, and the equal destitution of principle in all our recent conduct towards them, might have taught them a salutary lesson, under the influence of which they might have profited in their further intercourse with our government.

And yet, if the Choctaws have no higher notions of the obligations of treaties than our government have, they have it in their power, if the foregoing paragraph states the case correctly, to get the advantage of us most materially. It appears that those Indians who choose to remain, are to retain reservations of their lands, and after residing upon them five years, they are to receive a title to them in fee simple. Who is to make the conveyance, and whether the deeds are to contain covenants of warranty, is not stated. But according to the phraseology of the paragraph if the whole nation should conclude to remain, they will be entitled to the benefit of this stipulation in the treaty.- N. Y. Dai. Adv.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

CHOCTAW TREATY.

Copy of a letter from the Secretary of War to the Editor of the

Natchez Gazette.

CHOCTAW AGENCY, Sept. 29, 1830

'Yesterday a Treaty was concluded with the Choctaws and signed.- They cede their entire country: They are solicitous to depart-many of them immediately: They are to remove with three years. I give you the information,not doubting it to be a matter of solicitude to the people of Mississippi.'

From the Port Gibson Correspondent.

Major Stockton:-

SIR: The citizens of Mississippi no doubt feel considerable interest in the Treaties which have been recently concluded with the Chickasaws and Choctaws, and any information in relation to either of them, I take for granted, will prove acceptable to yourself, and to the readers of the Correspondent.

I was at the Choctaw Treaty from first to last; I had occasion to remain among the Choctaws nearly a fortnight after the conclusion of the Treaty: and in travelling leisurely from the Tombigbee to the line, I have made particular enquiries as to the feeling prevailing among the people.

I have not met among the Choctaws a single individual that seems to be satisfied with their Treaty. Even of those that signed it, all that I have conversed with appear to have done it with reluctance; some simply because their chief had set the example: others, because the Secretary of War had given such 'strong talks' that they believed no option was left them but a Treaty, or inevitable destruction.

One great source of dissatisfaction, however, arises from the fact, that the Treaty was signed by the Chiefs and others, after the majority of the people- and not only the majority, but I will go farther, and add four-fifths of the people- had voted against the Treaty, and left the ground. There were at one time about

five thousand  people on the ground. At the signing of the Treaty there were scarcely five hundred. A detailed history of the proceedings of this Treaty would prove curious and interesting to the public: But my purpose at present is to give a brief sketch, only of prominent occurrences.

The Dancing Rabbit Creek, within about 5 miles of Mingo Mooshulatubbe's was the spot selected for holding the Treaty;-the time, the 15th September. On that day, the Hon. The Secretary of War, and Gen. Coffee, the commissioners of the United States, arrived on the ground. Business, however, did not commence until Saturday the 18th. There were, then, about four thousand Indians on the ground. Col. Greenwood Leflore and Col. David Folsom, with their followers, were encamped on one side of the Dancing Rabbit Creek, (a small but beautiful stream of water); Mingoes Mooshulatubbe and Nituckachee, with their followers on the other. Those parties were hostile to each other, and a reconciliation between their leaders was not effected till Monday the 20th.

The first step taken by the commissioners was to order all the Missionaries to retire from the Treaty ground. The Presbyterian Missionaries, having addressed a communication to the commissioners, stating the reasons which had induced them to attend, complied with the order. The Methodist Missionaries, having also stated the reasons which influenced them refused to retire. The original order had excited surprise; but having been given, it was anticipated that strong measures would be taken to enforce it. The commissioners, however, thought it prudent to desist.

On Saturday the 18th Sept. the Commissioners delivered a written talk to the Choctaws, and copies were furnished to the several Chiefs, to be fully interpreted and explained to the warriors.  On the Monday following, a general council was again convened, and through the interference of the Secretary of War, the rival parties were reconciled. The Choctaws on this day appointed a National Committee, (20 from each of the three districts) to transact their business with the commissioners.

On Tuesday, a great ball play took place, and no business was done.

On Wednesday and Thursday, the National Committee were engaged in deliberation on the basis of a Treaty submitted to them by the Commissioners.

On Friday, the National Committee unanimously rejected the propositions of the Commissioners. They went further, it is understood, and declared their unwillingness to sell their country on any terms. This elicited from the Secretary of War what Indians would call a very 'strong talk'. Some idea may be formed of the 'strength' of the Secretary's arguments, when, among other things, he declared unequivocally, that the Agent and interpreters of the United States should be removed from among the Choctaws- that the President would hold no further intercourse with them, but would abandon them wholly to the laws of Mississippi.-- This threat produced a powerful impression.

At the time the decision of the National Committee was taken, there were about five thousand people on the ground; but, from that time they began to break off hourly. The National Committee and the Chiefs meeting in council, and revising their previous decision, appointed a sub-committee to draft propositions to be submitted to the Commissioners. Accordingly, on the next day, (the 25th September) propositions were submitted on behalf of the Choctaws.- The Commissioners, in the afternoon, called a general council, and submitted fresh propositions, and demanded an immediate decision on the part of the Council.  Night coming on, however, no decision was had. Sunday (time being precious to the Commissioners) councils were convened in the several camps, and the prevailing feeling seemed to be to reject the propositions of the Commissioners, and break for home. In Col. Leflore's camp the vote was taken, and the decision was unanimous in favor of holding on to their Country.  Leflore's utmost exertions, and his bold declaration that he would sign the Treaty at all hazards, could not prevent two-thirds of the people from leaving the ground. The remainder, being attached to their chief, would not forsake him. This chief (Leflore's) singular course of conduct, has been the subject of much remark. Before arriving on the Treaty ground, he is understood to have exhorted his followers in the strongest terms to hold on to their country. He is said to have told them that if he consented to a Treaty they might cut his head off. On the Treaty ground, and on the day the vote was taken, he is said to have addressed his people to this effect:- 'These are the propositions of the Commissioners.  Decide for yourselves--I know not how to advise you. Don't say now or hereafter,' continued he, ' that I sold your country. The country is yours, not mine, and to you belongs the disposal of it.' The people decided they would not sell, and a large majority immediately left the ground.  Leflore remained, and with a small minority the next day signed the Treaty.

Monday, the 27th Sept. The Treaty was signed by three Chiefs, a number of the Captains, and as many of the warriors as could be led to the 'scratch.'

Tuesday, the 28th. A supplemental Treaty was signed, making provision for various individuals. On this day, the murmurs of some of those who had remained became more distinct and audible, and some confusion took place, which had nearly eventuated in serious consequences. The commissioners left the ground the same evening.

Such is a succinct history of the proceedings of the Treaty, and you may rely upon its correctness so far as it goes.

If I am asked my opinion of the Treaty, I will say it is a cheap one for the government:- Not such, however, as it became the United States to grant to a people like the Choctaws. The Treaty, as a whole, lack liberality, and many of its provisions will be found to be deceptive. When it shall come to the public, it will be seen that this opinion was not lightly given.

Yours with respect.

Oct. 18th 1830

P.S. This day ten years since, Gen. Jackson himself concluded a Treaty with the Choctaws. He then promised he would never ask them again for land, and called up his nephew, young Donelson, as a witness. This circumstance was frequently referred to at the late Treaty.  The Choctaws are, indeed, greatly disheartened.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

From the N. Y. Daily Advertiser.

INDIAN CUSTOMS.

We were politely furnished, some weeks since, by a friend, with the following extract of a letter, dated 'Wheeling, January 1830,' the publication of which, has been delayed only by a press of matter, that has at the same time excluded many other articles.

'I took passage at Cincinnati, in the same boat with the Indian Chiefs composing the delegation of the Creeks to the President of the United States, on the subject of their apprehended ejectment from the land of their fathers.

'I was made acquainted, during the time I was with them with some very curious Indian customs, which may be new to you.  The Creek Indians have a religious rite, called the busk which they observe regularly in the month of July. The celebration of it appears to be thus: The inhabitants of a township having carefully collected and removed the ashes from their hearths, proceed formally to occupy four Council Houses, which are erected so as to form a hollow square.  In the center of this square, on the first of the Busk, a pile of wood is placed, the pieces being laid in radiating positions, which is their usual mode of building a fire.

'The officiating Chief, who united the offices of Priest and Physician, takes two pieces of wood prepared for the purpose, and by rubbing them together produces fire by which the pile is ignited; ' then the Indians unite and move around it in a kind of religious dance. From this fire each family in the township is supplied afresh, with what they esteem

new and pure fire; and on that morning commences the seven day fast, which is kept with religious care and fidelity. During the fast they drink the Yapon tea, (called the black drink) which they believe to be purifying and healthful, together with their bitter herbs, administered by their priest. Bitter herbs and the inner bark of trees are taken to sustain them during the fast, which they are enabled to continue for nine or ten days without much suffering.

'At the village of Chatahoochie are deposited the six Copper or Brazen Vessels, some circular and some oblong, and stamped AE on the outside which according to their tradition, were given for holy purposes by the Master of breath, (God).

'On the first day of the Busk, the Priest delivers them to be washed. They are then carried by six bearers around the fire, and afterwards deposited, to remain unseen, until the following year. This day is the beginning of the season when it is permitted to eat of the new fruits of the earth, (corn, wheat, 'c.) and in cases where the custom has been violated, the conscientious regard the house in which the food was prepared with abhorrence. At this period also certain offenses are pardoned; so that with absolution for past offenses, the purification of their fast, with new fire and new food, they begin the year with intentions of reformed ' better lives.

'Then follows a kind of Carnival- a general feasting,( from which ardent spirits are excluded) to which all contribute. The whole is terminated by a game of Ball, a sport of which the Indians partake with a ardor and delight not surpassed in the games of ancient Greece. The game is generally played by the best men of two different tribes.

'Tripping up and throwing down are permitted, and crippling and killing are not unfrequently the result; but their law of blood for blood (at other times so rigidly enforced) is not enforced under such circumstances.

'On the Chattahoochie (sic) River there are some rocks marked with letters or hieroglyphics, (from which the river takes its name) but the Indians cannot be prevailed upon to show them to white men.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

NOTICE

ALL persons having business with the Clerk of the Supreme Court of this nation, are hereby notified to call on Mr. JOHN CANDY, residing in this place; as he is duly authorized to do business of me in the clerks office

STAND WATIE.

Clk. S. Court.

New Echota, October 26th , 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














This issue of the Phoenix is published in four columns only.

INDIANS.

RIGHTS OF THE INDIANS.

At a late political meeting at Fanend Hall in Boston, the treatment of the Indians by the present Administration being under discussion, Mr. Eearts, the author we believe of the essays signed 'Wm. Pen,' thus forcibly and eloquently set forth their claims, and our responsibilities. Let his concluding words be deeply pondered: N.Y. American.

The claims of the Indians rest on the following foundations.

All communities have a perfect right to territory, of which they have been in immemorial possession. The southwestern tribes have been thus in possession of their countries respectively, within known boundaries. Thus their original right is perfect, whether we have acknowledged it or not. And there never was an instance, from the first settlement of the British colonies to the year 1817, of the government of the parent country, or of a colony, or of a state, asserting that the lands of the Indians might be taken from them without their consent; nor was there an instance, within the period mentioned, of any such government extending, or claiming a right to extend, the laws of the whites over tribes of Indians living on their original territory, and under their own laws and customs.

From the commencement of our national existence, the rights of the Indians were fully admitted by the general government.

When the federal constitution went into operation, one of the first exercise of the treaty-making power, if not the very first, was a formal proposal to the senate, by the President of the United States, asking the advice and consent of that body, whether the United States should guaranty to the Creek Nation of Indians all their lands within certain boundaries? To this question the Senate gave a unanimous answer in the affirmative. This was in August, 1789. The next year a treaty was made, on the basis thus deliberately approved, containing a article of express guaranty; and the treaty was unanimously ratified by the Senate. The President then proposed the same question to the Senate, with reference to the Cherokees, and received the same affirmative answer. A treaty was accordingly made with that tribe, on the same basis, in the year 1791, which was also unamiously ratified. Thus, in the course of two years, that illustrious body of men had the subject of Indian rights under consideration at least four times; and four times they decided that the United States ought to guaranty, and would guaranty, to the Indians, an inviolable territory, carrying with it, of course, all the privileges of self-government. It is impossible to doubt as to the meaning of the word guaranty; and this word was repeated in the year 1798, and declared to be forever. In numerous other compacts, these fundamental articles are sanctioned, and reaffirmed in the most solemn manner.

In a word, Gen. Washington and his cabinet, after the most thorough consideration and discussion were perfectly united and decided in favour of protecting the Indians in their rights of territory and government. There is not the slightest evidence that any member of any cabinet, under the six first Presidents of the United States, ever doubted on this subject; or ever supposed, for a moment, that it would be right for the separate states, or the general government, to extend laws over the Indians, without their consent. Thus during forty years, the decisions and measures of all administrations were uniform in regard to the rights of the Indians.

Every Senate of the United States and every House of Representatives, have sanctioned these principles, down to the close of the last Congress; and, in all the research which has been applied to the Indian question recently, it has not been found that ever a single member of either house of Congress, anterior to the year 1827, asserted or maintained doctrines opposite to those which have now been explained.

The Supreme Court of the United States has expressed an opinion to the same general effect, by saying that the original inhabitants of American have 'a legal as well as just claim to their country, and a right to use it according to their discretion.'

Thus, all the co-ordinate branches of our government have settled the question; and, by the legislative and executive branches it has been settled as solemnly, as deliberately, and as uniformly, as any question can be settled.

Indeed, it is admitted, universally, and was expressly admitted on the floor of the Senate, by the chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs, that the meaning of the treaties is plain, and that they were understood by the parties according to the obvious meaning of the words. Let us look a moment at this admission.  Washington and his cabinet supposed that the United States were bound by treaties with the Indians. Mr. Jefferson and his cabinet supposed we were bound.  Every Senate and every House of Representatives supposed were bound. All our public functionaries and especially the Secretary of war and Indian Agents, were perpetually representing to the Indians that we were bound.  The Indians thought so: the American people thought so; ' and the world thought so.

And why are we not bound? It is now discovered, forsooth, that the Government of the United States cannot bind the people of the United States, in regard to our intercourse with the Indians; and that a separate State can defeat and annul the most solemn stipulations made with these aboriginal communities. Will the world believe this? Will any honest, disinterested man believe it? What! shall the most solemn transactions of the twenty-four States united under one Government, and thus forming one nation, be defeated by the doings of one State out of the twenty-four? Shall this be done, when to the National Government is committed the power of peace and war, treaties, and foreign intercourse; and when all these powers are expressly surrendered by the separate States; and when every State is solemnly bound by its own act not to exercise any one of these powers?

It remains, Mr. Chairman, for the people of the United States to say whether their engagements with the Indians shall be violated, or whether the public faith shall be preserved. It is a great moral question, and the people are to decide it; and they are to decide it by declaring, through their representatives, that the laws of the land shall be executed. Why should not a stand be taken here? If our honor is to remain untarnished, if our national character is to be sustained; if the union of the States is to be preserved; it must be done by the sovereign authority of law, by a faithful execution of compacts, which are the supreme law of the land.

A saying of the great Roman orator found its way very properly into one of the newspapers yesterday, to this effect:  LET IT BE WRITTEN ON THE FOREHEAD OF EVERY CITIZEN WHAT HE THINKS ON THIS QUESTION. Never was there an occasion on which the remark was more applicable to the people of the United States than it is in regard to our treatment of the Indians. If the electors do not write on their forehead, HONOR, INTEGRITY, FIDELITY TO OUR ENGAGEMENTS, other influences will prevail, and we shall be obliged to receive a brand upon our foreheads, deep, indelible, infamous, -- a band not merely transmissible to posterity, but certainly to be transmitted, -- which all men will read in words like these: PERFIDY TO WEAK AND DEPENDENT ALLIES; PERFIDY TO SOLEMN OBLIGATIONS A HUNDRED TIMES REPEATED; PERFIDY COMMITTED DELIBERATELY AND FOR THE SMALLEST CONCEIVABLE TEMPTATION.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is published in four columns only.

Indian Meeting in New York. The New York papers of Saturday inform us that on Friday Evening last there was a meeting, at the Masonic Hall in that city, of the citizens who are opposed to the Indian Bill, to concert what measures should be adopted in relation to the election of representatives in Congress. As soon as the doors of the Hall were opened, their was a rush, and from twenty five hundred to three thousand citizens found their way into the Hall. Colonel Trumbull was then called to the chair, and a very eloquent address was delivered by Mathew C. Patterson, Esq. in which he gave a history of our connection with the Indian tribes, from the commencement of government to this day.  In strong and respectful terms, he censured the course of the present representatives from the city to Congress.  We extract from the Commercial advertiser an abstract of this part of Mr. Patterson's remarks:

Nat. Journal

'For Mr. Chambreleng, he said some excuse might be found -- that it was a law of our nature, that our attachments and affections should rally round the place which gave us birth -- that, bred in the Southern country, it was natural that his feelings should accord with its wishes and its interests -- that we could no more expect him to be absolved from the constant recollection of his own country and its morals and institutions.  From Mr. G. C. Verplanck, a native of this city, he said he had hoped better thing. It was but recently that with his pen this gentleman had eloquently paid his tribute to the statesman who memory is hallowed among us all, and who espoused the cause of the poor Indians. Yet when the insult above spoken of was committed, Mr. Verplanck was silent; and when the party vote was taken, he voted for the measure of oppression and tyranny, which, if carried into effect, will bring down the judicial vengeance of Providence. After speaking of these gentlemen, born on the American soil, who had thus disappointed the honest hope of all the lovers of justice, he spoke of Mr. Campbell P. White, a native of Ireland. On the struggles of the oppressed people of that glorious land for their freedom, all lovers of liberty have looked with the deepest interest; and this country has been the place of refuge for the exiles of Erin. Flying from persecution at home, it was expected that, they of all men would be the last to indicate oppression in the country of their adoption.  But in this instance too we have experienced a most melancholy disappointment.'

The following resolutions were then adopted by the meeting:

'Resolved. That the Tribes of Southwestern Indians are qualified sovereignties in alliance with, and under the protection of the United States by express treaties; that they are competent to treat and contract as States, and having a perfect and absolute title to the soil, and entire power and authority to make laws and ordinances for their own internal government and regulation; that such sovereignty has been recognized from the settlement of this country until within a very recent period; that the right of Indians to their own lands was always acknowledged during our colonial existence, and has been openly and distinctly confirmed by more than two hundred treaties made with them by the United States; that Congress, on innumerable occasions, the Father of his country, and the author of the declaration of independence, all concurred in a sentiment equally conformable to the just rights of the Indians, and the dictates of justice and humanity.

Resolved. That we have witnessed with intense pain and mortification, the recent attempt, to wrest by force, from their lawful proprietors, the Indians lands within the States of the Union, by laws unprecedented in their provisions, delusive as to their proposed object, and unconstitutional and unjust in their character; that we have witnessed with alarm the official communications of Government to the Indians, by which the attempt of the States to extend their jurisdiction over them is directly sanctioned; that the General Government, in thus lending its influence to those pretensions, has abandoned the sound and humane maxims of every preceding administrations, and given just ground of offence to every advocate of humanity, ' the preservation of the faith of treaties.

Resolved. That inasmuch as the General Government have, by the terms of fifteen treaties, 'solemnly guaranteed to the Cherokee nation all their lands' not previously ceded, that inasmuch as by the treaty between the Cherokees and the United States, July 1817, it is stated, that with a view to the establishment of fixed laws and a regular government the Cherokees ceded certain of their lands, the United States guaranteed the remainder form the intrusion of the whites; that any attempt to take these lands from the Cherokees without their free consent is a flagrant violation of the faith of treaties a dishonor to our republican institutions, and an example of national perfidy not equalled in the annuals of history.

Resolved. That the project of removing 75,000 Indians beyond the Mississippi, exclusive of its injustice and inhumanity, is novel in its character, unnecessary, because we already possess more than 200,000,000 of unsold public lands, and a prodigal waste of public treasure committed to their disbursement.

Resolved. That the rights of petition is one of the safeguards of liberty, and when reproach and contumely is cast upon the petitioners by the body whom they address, that right is violated, and that liberty so far jeopardized, that we repel with indignation a recent attempt in Congress to stigmatize a respectable body of citizens lately convened in this place, as an infringement of our privileges, unworthy of the occasion on which it was made, and highly affrontful to those to whom it was applied, and that the conduct of our Representatives, the Hon. C.C. Cambreleng and Gulian C. Verplanck, (whatever might have been their private sentiments on the bill before the House) in not promptly repelling the offensive aspersion, was spiritless and inconsistent with the independence of the representative character, and a disregard of their duty to their constituents.

Resolved, That the votes of the Hon. C.C. Cambreleng, Gulian C. Verplanck and Campbell P. White on the bill providing for an exchange of lands with the Indians, are, in our opinion, not in accordance with the sentiments of their constituents, and we ascribe them rather to a blind zeal for party, than a comprehensive view of our duties and obligations to the Indians, and a deep sentiment of the national dishonor which will inevitably fall on the breach of solemn treaty stipulations.

Resolved therefore, That the present Representatives are not entitled to our support, as conscientious men, at the present election, and that we will give our suffrages to Adoniram Chandler, Abm. R. Lawrence, and Thos. R. Smith, their views of this important subject being in entire conformity with those of this meeting.

Resolved, That the thanks of this meeting be presented to those members of Congress from this State, who opposed the bill for an exchange of Indian lands, and the sinister measures connected with it, for their firmness and zeal in support of the national honor, and the cause of humanity.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

From the Cincinnati American.

THE INDIANS

The treatment the Indians have received from the present administration is most cruelly unjust. It is the duty of every one, who feels for his country's honor as if his own character was at stake, to protest against such proceedings. We cannot believe they are sanctioned even by the respectable portion of the citizens of Georgia, and the time, it is to be hoped, is not far distant when exact justice will be awarded this most unfortunate race, by those who have hitherto been considered its oppressors.

A letter is before us from a friend, who has had the most favorable opportunities for observing the present condition of the Southern tribes, having travelled and resided among them for a considerable time.  The following extract is made from it, which we commend to the attention of our readers. It informs us of the measures which have been resorted to for the expression of the Creek Indians. Will the people of Ohio sanction such inhuman treatment as they have received from the present Executive?

To the Editors of the American.

GENTLEMEN, Knowing the people of the U. States are not apprised of the manner in which the Indians have been treated by the Present Administration. I take the liberty of giving you some of the important outlines of the course pursued, from which, you will be able to make such statements to the public as you may deem proper.

The first step of President Jackson was, to use every exertion in his power to induce the Indians to emigrate. In fact, no means were spared on the part of the Government and its Agents to effect his object. Influenced by these inducements with the firm pledge of the President, a great number have become willing to move; and have made every arrangement to do so this fall.

They sacrificed every thing like citizenship to the Nation; and in fact a great number did not plant one grain of corn, under a firm conviction that the President would not falsify his pledge to them.

And

now it is, when hundreds -- I might say, thousands -- are ready and willing to move, they are told, no means will be furnished them; and they must remain where they are, unless the whole Nation consents to enter into a treaty. By this last act of the President starvation stares numbers in the face. What will be the final result, I am unable to say. If they had been let alone, and had not been interfered with, noting of this would have happened.

It is enough to arouse the feelings of every American to behold the treatment this people have received.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only

THE CHOCTAW TREATY. A correspondent who has the best means of information, and in whose integrity we place the highest confidence, informs us that the late treaty with the Choctaws, in which they agree to sell their country and remove west of the Mississippi, was made in the most unjustifiable manner. The following statement, which was published in the Daily Advertiser of this city on Wednesday last, we have reason to believe is correct; and if it is correct, we sincerely hope, with the writer, that the Senate of the United States will refuse to ratify the treaty. It is a happy circumstance that no treaty can be ratified by that body without the consent of two-thirds of its members. The friends of the Choctaws, therefore, need not yet despair of seeing justice rendered to this much-injured race. N. Y. Observer.

It is understood, from a source which is deemed perfectly authentic, that the Secretary of War, in his late negotiations with the Choctaws, pursued the most arbitrary and unjustifiable course. The Indians, after many days spent upon the treaty-ground, came to a determination, that they would not sell their country and remove. This determination was generally acquiesced in; and many of them went home, expressing the highest satisfaction, that they were to remain in their country.

Maj. Eaton, finding that he was likely to accomplish nothing, called the chiefs and people together, and talked to them in a very sharp and overbearing style. He told them, that, unless they made a treaty, he would recall the United States' Agent living among them and thus all intercourse would be cut off between them and the government; that he would withdraw the blacksmiths' shops and other patronage, and leave them to themselves; that he would take from them their land west of the Mississippi, so that they would have no place, to which they could remove; and they must then come under the Laws of Mississippi.

All these things, which he said should be taken from them, are secured to them by former treaties. The poor Choctaws felt, therefore, that all former engagements were trampled in the dust:  that they themselves were in the most abject condition; and that they must accept of such terms as should be given them. They signed a treaty, though in a state of the greatest despondency. The treaty thus imposed upon them stipulates, that they will remove in three years after the treaty is ratified. But it is to be hoped there is sufficient virtue and honor in the Senate of the United States, to render the ratification of such a treaty an impossibility. If not, we must prepare ourselves to suffer a disgrace more odious and intolerable than words can express.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This issue of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

THE CHOCTAWS. It is stated in an extra from the office of the Nashville Republican, that, after a session of 13 days, the Secretary of War and Gen Coffee had succeeded in concluding a treaty with the Choctaws. About 5,000 Indians were in attendance. The Treaty was signed on the 27th of September.

'It is said that according to its provisions, the Choctaws cede the country they occupy, and within three years are to remove beyond the Mississippi. Those who choose to remain, take reservations, and after residing upon them five years are to possess them in fee.' The country is to be at any time surveyed when the Government pleases, but no sale is to take place previous to removal; until then no person is to settle in the country.'

It is well known that the Choctaws have been extremely averse to removal, and that some of their leading men have said repeatedly, in substance, that if they do go, it will be because they cannot enjoy in their present residence the rights of a free and independent people. We trust, therefore, that when this treaty comes before the Senate, proper inquiry will be made respecting the means used to obtain it. We commenced our national existence with high professions of regard for the rights of man, and often has diplomatic intercourse with other nations been referred to with pride, as doing honor to our character by its fairness and plain-speaking. We stand before the world as a nation specially obligated to be honorable and just. The public and repeated pledges that we have given to the world, will increase at least the apparent heinousness of our crime, should we sanction a treaty obtained by misrepresentation. That the Choctaw Treaty has been thus obtained is probable from the feeling of the Choctaws, as mentioned above, and from the known views of the Secretary of War, who maintains that the Indian cannot be protected against the laws of a state, within the conventional limits of which they dwell. If, as we believe, this doctrine of the Secretary is false, and if, as is probable, he made use of it in order to obtain the treaty, then the treaty was obtained by misrepresentation and cannot be sanctioned without national dishonor. Jour. of Hum.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






4 column format

CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: NOV. 20, 1830.

INTERESTING TRIAL.

On Tuesday last, James Graves, James Baldridge, James McDaniel and L. Daugherty, all young Cherokees, arrested on suspicion for committing murder upon the body of an unknown person, supposed to be a white man, were brought to this place before George Hicks, District Judge of Coosewaytee, for the purpose of examination, that if found guilty of murdering a citizen of the United States, they might be committed to the Agent according to treaty stipulation. The following persons composed the jury: Major Ridge, Elijah Hicks, James Foster, Oosahnahlee, C. Wolf and Oocoosee, who were duly sworn. Jos. J. Lynch, Marshal of the nation, who appeared as the prosecutor, stated in substance the charge alleged against said Graves, Baldridge, McDaniel and Daugherty -- It was for murder committed upon the body of an unknown citizen of the United States, sometime during the last summer.  The Judge then put two questions to Graves, viz: 1. Did you and Baldridge, at a certain time, pass James McDaniel's house, early in the morning, in company with a white man?  2. Did you ever mention to any person that you had killed a man? To the first question Graves answered, that he and Baldridge did pass McDaniel's house on their way to hunt horses, and that at the time a white man was in company with them -- they kept together for some distance and then he [Graves] and Baldridge turned from the road and left the white man. As they returned towards home, they parted -- he (Graves) went west of the road, still busting horses. As he was about turning into the road, within view of it, he found the remains of a human body -- he saw only the bones. This was the substance of Grave's statement in regard to the first question. As to the second question, he did not know whether he did say so or not -- he probably did when he was drunk, but was not in earnest. The following testimony was then rendered in:

William Downing -- upon oath stated, that sometime last summer, Graves told him that he had found the remains of a human body on the road leading from Salequoyee to Coosewaytee, near the head of a spring below the old ball ground -- witness asked Graves, who had killed the person? to which he replied, 'I,' and then observed, 'no, I only found the bones when Baldridge and I went to hunt horses -- I found them after we parted.' Downing then asked him whether he knew it was a white man? he supposed it was for he saw some of the hair -- it was curled.

Moses McDaniel -- The same night after a council held at the Rabbit Trap, I and James McDaniel, (one of the defendants) started towards home -- it was late and we had been drinking -- while we were travelling. James McDaniel told me that there was a very unpleasant object near my house -- I asked him what it was -- he told me that the remains of a human body were lying near my house, and described the place. James McDaniel told me he did not think that James Graves and James Baldridge would be guilty of such an act, for they were but boys.  James Graves had revealed the secret to him. Witness then went next morning to see the place, and did find the body -- he saw the bones only -- there was no flesh on them -- the bone (sic) were in a pair of drawers and black pantaloons -- this was about twenty days before the Council.  Witness saw the back part of the scull, but the fore part was gone except a very small piece -- he found at the place a piece of pine -- his impression was he was killed -- could not tell whether it was a white man or not -- witness told his wife what he had seen, ' his wife ' mother went afterwards and set fire to the place -- he did not know when they did this.

Jane McDaniel stated that she and her daughter-inlaw, (M. M'Daniel's wife) went and set fire to the place -- they saw the bones in the situation described by M. McDaniel.

Aggy McDaniel confirmed the statement of Jane McDaniel, and testified further, that the bones which could not be consumed by fire they took and buried at some distance from the place.

Upon the foregoing testimony, the jury retired and brought in a verdict, that the evidence produced did not implicate James McDaniel and L. Daugherty -- they were therefore discharged. James McDaniel was then called upon to testify, and gave the following statement.

James McDaniel saw Graves and Baldridge come along the road by his house early in the morning -- it was three nights before the play which was to take place between Oongillegy and Dirt Town -- he asked them where they were going -- they said they were going to Doonahwee's after a horse -- he saw a white man in company with Graves and Baldridge -- The white man was on foot. Two or three nights after the play was to have taken place, there was a dance at the Town house, and witness went to it. Next morning his wife requested him to go with her to her mother's. While they were opposite Negoodahyee's residence witness saw Graves at the house, who called to him by name in English. He went up to the house and found Graves with one Dick Carey drinking -- he joined them. Witness further stated that after they had been drinking for sometime, Graves and Carey fell out and were about to right -- he [witness] hindered Graves and took him out; Graves observed he was much of a man for he had killed a man; J. McD. told G. he need not say so for he had also killed a man near Jas. Daniel; of course they must be brave men. Witness further says, 'I then asked Graves when he killed this man? G. answered, do you not recollect the time when Baldridge and I passed by your house before the play? I asked him where -- he said, beyond your house, near the spring, at a certain log -- you can go ' examine the place. After I came home, the next day or day after, I went to examine the place -- I found the place and also the body of a man -- I then thought to myself, G. told me a lie for this person has been dead some length of time; I thought he had been dead good while before the time Graves told me, for the flesh was entirely destroyed. I saw a black pair of pantaloons, but did not examine what kind of cloth it was, and the body had been covered with a piece of bark -- I did not see the head.' James McDaniel further stated that after the Cherokees left the gold mines, he had a conversation with James Baldridge, who denied knowing any thing about it, except that Graves had told him (Baldridge) that he had found the bones of an unknown person -- Baldridge further stated to witness, that so for himself he could not be guilty of such a crime, for his parents advised him to do nothing that was wrong; and as for Graves, he (Baldridge) supposed he said so merely to make people believe, and just to be talking.

When cross examined, witness said the white man he saw with Graves and Baldridge was above the middle size, and that it was but six nights from the time he saw Graves and Baldridge pass his house, to the time he saw the bones, and supposed, from the appearance of the bones, they must have lain considerably longer than six nights. He saw no drawers, but saw a pair of pantaloons a short distance form the place -- he saw no buzzards, for there was nothing there but the bones -- he could not tell whether it was a white man or not.

Moses McDaniel was again called, and testified further that the bones were very small and short -- he supposed the person to have been below the middle size.

David Bell said he and Judge Martin found a pair of drawers, and a black hat with some papers in it about four hundred yards below where the bones were found -- but did not find the bones.

John Martin confirmed the statement of David Bell.

The drawers were then produced, the same found by Messrs. Martin and Bell -- they were very small, so likewise the hat.  The papers found in the hat were much torn, but by putting the pieces together they were found to be, a certificate given to one John_____ for his good conduct as stage driver from E_____ Court House towards Augusta. One was a part of a number of the Journal of Health -- and another was a printed copy of the Address of the Carrier of the Carolinian, 1830.

After a few observations the case was committed to the jury, who retired and returned with the verdict that the testimony was not sufficient to justify the committing of James Graves and James Baldridge to the agent for trial. They were therefore discharged.

Major Ridge then rose and delivered a speech which we are sorry we cannot present to our readers. It was an eloquent speech, urging on the attention of his hearers, the importance of maintaining the faith of treaties with the United States, in which the Cherokee nation had surrendered the right of punishing their own citizens who should commit murder upon a citizen of the United States. He was rejoined to perceive the excitement and interest manifested on the present occasion; and although these young men have been discharged as innocent of the crime alleged against them, yet it will show to our white brothers, that we are determined to discountenance any unjustifiable act of any of our citizens towards citizens of the United States.  He believed the verdict of the jury was correct according to the testimony. It may be, if a foul murder has been committed upon the body of a stranger sojourning among us, it has been perpetrated also by a stranger -- we have many such in this nation -- It is hard to tell.

The speaker also urged the importance of maintaining good will and friendship towards all white people; especially with those who travel on our roads -- let them be safe, he said, in our houses and in our highways -- if we are mistreated by some we will treat them

all as brothers.

Our object, in being as particular as we have been in the foregoing paragraphs, has been to counteract any misrepresentation which many, no doubt, would be willing to circulate to the prejudice of the nation.  The reader will have all the facts on the case. The subject has created considerable excitement among our citizens, supposing the young men who have been charged with murder were really guilty, but the reports were found to have been greatly exaggerated.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






4 column format

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

In the second paragraph of my communication and 27th line, top word principle should be preceded by the world 'republican,' so as to read republican principle.

In the third paragraph, the eleventh line, where the word Indians terminates with a period, the fourth paragraph should have followed, so as to read, that were bound in a bond on the 11th of August, and not after the 12th of August.

In the last paragraph last line instead of $3.75 read, $8.75.

ELIJAH HICKS.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






GEORGIA LEGISLATURE.

SENATE.

Friday, Oct. 29.

In the Senate of the legislature of Georgia, the joint Committee on the state of the republic made the following report:

The propriety of effecting an entire abolition of the exercise of governmental powers, by the Cherokee Indians, your committee consider as settled. The State, by an act of her legislature, has extended her law, both civil and criminal; over the territory and persons of said Nation indiscriminately, and thereby virtually abolished all government over such territory, save her own; and any further legislation, having for its object the prevention of the exercise of sovereign power of the Indians, would have been rendered by such act unnecessary, had any or sufficient pains and penalties been annexed to the enforcement of Indian laws or regulations. Those who claim the right of managing the affairs of the Indians, having availed themselves of such omission on the part of the Legislature, and continue to assemble in Council from time to time, for the purpose of making new laws and enforcing them, and others already adopted, or said tribe has rendered it necessary, in the opinion of your committee, to enact such laws as will prevent in future, the exercise of such assumed powers. The Government of Georgia or the Cherokee Nation, alone has the undoubted right of jurisdiction over the territory and persons of said nation within the chartered limits of Georgia. Both cannot possess it. And if such co-equal right could exist, the exercise of such right, by both powers, would be cruelty in the extreme to the Indian. What would be required by the one authority, might be rendered highly penal by the other. The same act being declared criminal by both, would inflict severe punishments twice for the same offence -- a state of things not to be desired by any civilized community. Such, however, is not the situation of the Cherokee Indians. They live exposed to the penalties and requisitions of the codes emanating from sources different in their origin, different in their principles, and different in their exactions. In determining which power should yield this contest of jurisdiction, your committee have no difficulty, nor can they perceive what violence can be done to the feeling of humanity, when they recommend the abolition of a severe and tyrannical code, and propose to substitute in its place, a human and republican government. For the purpose therefore of more effectually preventing the exercise of power by the Headmen and Chiefs, of said Nation, they recommend the following bill: A bill to be entitled an act, to prevent the exercise of assumed and arbitrary power by all persons under pretext of authority from the Cherokee Indians and their laws -- Which was read the last time.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






4 column format

As will be seen under the proper head, the joint committee on the State of the Republic, have begun to report their proceedings. The first report they have made is, on the exercise of assumed and arbitrary power by the Cherokee Indians. With the report a bill is introduced, the provisions of which are:

The 1st section forbids any person or persons, warriors, or chiefs of the Cherokee tribe of Indians, to cause the meeting of any Council or other legislative body of said Indians. The penalty for the offence is confinement in the Penitentiary for four years.

The 2d section forbids any person or persons to meet in council, assembly convention, etc., for the purpose of making laws, orders, or regulations for said tribe. The penalty for the offence is confinement in the Penitentiary for four years.

The 3d section forbids any person or persons to hold courts for the purpose of hearing and determining causes, issue, process, etc. Penalty, four years confinement in the Penitentiary.

The 4th section forbids any ministerial officer to execute any precept from any court in the Cherokee tribe, etc.  Penalty, fine and imprisonment in the jail or in the Penitentiary not longer than four years.

The 5th section makes it a penalty of four years confinement in the Penitentiary, for any person to confiscate, the property of any Indian in consequence of his enrolling for emigration, or offering to enrol for emigration, etc.

The 6th section allows the headmen or chiefs of the Cherokees to meet any agent or commissioner of this State, or of the United States, for any purpose whatever. S. Rec.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






4 column format

From the New York Observer.

LETTERS FROM THE WEST.

GREEN BAY, Sept. 7, 1380

MESSRS. EDITORS -- On the 24th ult. Erastus Root, John T. Mason, and James McCall, commissioners form the President of the United States, organized and opened a council at Green Bay, composed of themselves, of chiefs of the New York Indians lately removed to Green Bay, and chiefs of the Menomenie and Winnebago nations, for the purpose of settling certain differences between the New York Indians on one side, and their brethren the Menomenies and Winnebagoes on the other. It is not my design in this letter to enter upon the subject matter of this council particularly, (for that is a very grave and momentous concern, and deserving the most grave consideration of this whole nation, and I shall, therefore, consider it in a separate place,) but only to give some brief description of its manner and circumstances. The commissioners arrived at Green Bay on the 10th ult. by steam-boat; and immediately despatched runners to notify the parties concerned, of the time and place and business of the council, and ordered the chiefs and principal men too in attendance. It is a custom of government, when they call a convention of Indians for public purposes, to deal out rations to all who attend during the council; men, women and children. And as the ultimatum of an Indian's desires, in his wild condition, is to get wherewithal to eat and drink for the time being, such a convocation is sure to bring together all who can conveniently attend. Those Indians especially, who keep upon the margin of the waters, carry their all in their canoes -- their house and all their furniture of life and war; and wherever they set up their lodge, which they do with as much expedition as a soldier erects his tent, there is their home. At this council, about 2,000 were convened: three-fourths of whom were Menomenies, the settlement of Green Bay being in the heart of their country; the other fourth being nearly equal numbers of New York Indians and Winnebagos and Chippeways. Of the chiefs and principal men, the New York Indians had the most numerous representation, as their tribes, though small, are several; the Menomenies next, and the Winnebagos fewest, their country being more distant. In all there were thirty chiefs -- a grave assembly of red men, sitting before their fathers, the commissioners in solemn and eventful council. A temporary booth was erected in the open plain, the commissioners having their seat at the head, surrounded with stenographers and citizens; in front and facing them, sat the chiefs of the nations represented. And such another motley congregation of human beings, one would suppose had never got together, as the commonality of the Indians, who crowded round as spectators: some naked, few with any covering but a blanket, carelessly drawn around the body below the waist, and ready to fall; looking as if they had never been washed or combed since they were born; bedaubed with paints of all colors, some in shades as black as Erchus; their eyes sparkling and flashing like snakes in anger, a fair representation of the worst pictures of the evil one; some with one side of the face red and the other black; others showing many colors, most fantastically arranged: one with one feather in the hair, another with two, and another with twenty or less; some sitting, some standing some lying upon their breasts with their heads sticking up like snakes in the grass each furnished with a pipe, and tobacco pouch of the skin of some animal, the pipes varying in length from four feet to four inches; every one girt with a cincture about his loins, to which is suspended a knife, in a leathern case, devoted to all the imaginable purposes of a knife; and nameless other appearances, which language is inadequate to describe, all waiting to see and hear.

But there was another group, called Indians sitting by themselves, whose dress, manners, countenance, and whole appearance exhibited all the decencies of common civilized life. They looked and acted like men, who respected themselves and were respected by others. Their presence and demeanor would not have been unsuited to any grave parliamentary assembly. These were the New York Indians. I had often seen them at their own villages in the state of New York, but I never knew how to respect them before. I never knew it was possible for other human beings to be sunk so far below them, as to place them upon such a proud pre-eminence. All wore the same natural complexion, and all were evidently of the same stock. But here was a class elevated -- distinguished by such marks of superiority, as to make the difference between them and their wild, untutored brethren, wider than would appear by bringing together the highest rank and meanest class, that could be found in Europe. And during the whole session of the council, for a period of eight days, the New York Indians rose higher and higher, and their wild brethren sunk deeper and deeper, by comparison. Indeed, the scenes of Green Bay, since I arrived, have been so absorbing, that I seem to have forgotten the rest of the world; the wickedness so great and the manners so corrupt, that any mind, not altogether reprobate to virtue, would sigh and seek for a more healthful moral atmosphere. For my own part, I have found it a refuge and a luxury to fall into the society of the chiefs and principal men of the New York Indians.  Among them I could be sure of exemption from any thing vulgar, profane, indecent, or intemperate. For moral worth for good manners, for politeness, they have risen and towered above every thing around them, during this long protracted, public occasion.

To a spectator and stranger to Indian councils, the most interesting part was the extemporaneous speeches of the chiefs, which were delivered, longer, or shorter, by more or less, on every day of the public deliberations. The principle speakers were four of the Menomenie chiefs; two of the Winnebagos; and two or three of the New York Indians. Those who distinguished themselves were, The Brave, Josette, and Bear's Grease. of the Menomenies; Four Legs, the far famed chief and warrior of the Winnebagoes; John Metoxen and Daniel Bread, the former a Stockbridge, the later Oneida.  I have here given their names in English. The elocution of the New York Indians was unadorned in style, and mild in manner.  Resting principally upon their written communications, they had not much to say. Their education and longer intercourse with the white has entirely disrobed them of their native wildness of Indian eloquence. John Metoxen, however, on the last day of council, as all attempts at reconciliation and adjustment of differences had failed addressed himself sentimentally to his brethren the Menomenies and Winnebagos, and also to the commissioners, in a strain most sublime and touching; and with respect and delicacy towards the feelings of all concerned, unrivalled. Metoxen is about sixty years of age, an exemplary Christian of uncommon meekness, and a chief ruler in the civil and religious concerns of his tribe. By the language and manner, he first brought us all into the presence of God, so that we felt ourselves to be there. He then appealed to the solemn engagements between the New York Indians, on the one hand, and the Menomenies and Winnebagoes, on the other:  he called the commissioners to witness the repeated ' solemn pledges of government to secure the fulfilment of these engagements: he depicted the unfortunate progress and result of the present council; with inimitable delicacy and with becoming manliness, he feelingly confessed his diffidence in the present measures of government relating to this affair; solemnly declared, that his only confidence now rested in the God of nations, who had propounded himself the guardian of the oppressed, and the avenger of their wrongs; and whatever might become of himself, this family, and his people, he felt that it was not his last only prerogative to surrender their cause into the hands of this god. 'God is witness,' said he, lifting up his eyes to heave. 'Brothers, I have no more to say.' And with the public deliberation terminated, and the council was dissolved.

It is understood, of course, that the chiefs in all cases spoke in council in their native tongue, and waited for their speeches to be interpreted, sentence by sentence; sometimes passing through two and three languages. The people interested in these deliberations, and who claimed to understand them, speak five different languages. When the commissioners spoke, their addresses passed directly into the languages of the New York Indians, which are two; but mediately through the French into Menomenie and Winnebago. When a Menomenie chief spoke -- for the commissioners, it passed through French into English; for the Winnebagos, through French into Winnebago; for the New York Indians, through French and English into their languages. And vice versa. The necessity of employing the French language arose from the want of an interpreter immediately between English and the languages spoken by the Menomenies and Winnebagos. The Chippeway language is more or less common to all the Indians of this region; but they do not like to trust it in public negotiations, as some of their chiefs do not understand it well. This language would have made the communication more direct; and has, heretofore, been employed in public treaties, with these nations. The New York Chiefs generally speak English, but are not at home except in their own tongue. The Brotherstown nation, having been formed of the small remnants of several tribes, have left their original languages in entire desuetude, and speak and understand not but English.

It is due, that I should say something of the speeches of the wild Menomenies and Winnebagoes. No conception of romance, in my own mind, had ever reached the wildness and extravagance of their thoughts, or of their manner of expressing them. And besides this, when occasion demands, they are as close and rigid matter-of-fact people as any that can be named. And, that they are not wanting in parliamentary cunning and wit, I need only refer to the two instances already recited, in which they brought the commissioners to a complete pause, and compelled them to adjourn. The few facts in their possession, they knew well how to manage; and they are certainly possessed of unrivalled skill in magnifying trifles and dignifying nothings. They will deliver themselves of the following sentence, which by the by, is only one word: 'Yeresotavakaranyetakowa,' in a manner to astound all your senses, and raise the highest expectation; and when it comes to be interpreted, it reads: The largest fiddle possible.  The Menomenie and Winnebago chiefs uniformly commenced their addresses, and (after waiting for the interpreter to perform his office) almost every sentence, with a strong mono-syllabic exclamation, involving very emphatically the guttural and aspirate elements, signifying: 

Attention -- hear -- I am about to speak. It would be mockery for any but an Indian to attempt to exemplify it.  The chiefs would always address themselves directly to the commissioners, as if they understood.  And when they had finished a sentence, wait for the interpreter. And I do not remember to have heard a single sentence of a Menomenie, or Winnebago chief, in council, whether the subject were important, or trifling, or in whatever degree it might have either of these characters, when it was not superlatively marked with a loud and vehement elocution, an impassioned and violent manner, as if the fate of the world, or the universe, were depending. And if the sentiment uttered met with the approbation of their people, a deep and loud guttural, or ventral grunt, expressed their applause at the end of every sentence, which was more or less clamorous, through the multitude, according to the degree of interest they felt. And I question whether any orators of a civilized people, ancient or modern, were ever better supported by the generous applause and loud acclamations of their auditors. And it was impossible not to observe the increased animation of the speakers by this cause, as also the quick sympathy between themselves and their people. If the thought, when interpreted, seemed trifling to us, it was not always so to them. Indians, like children, are often amused with trifles, and exhaust their gravest meditations on tribes. Like children they can be pleased, and even delighted with a toy. But sometimes they stand up and show themselves like men, and men of the highest order. They are not great by education, but on the instant, for an occasion. 'There is a spirit in man, and God hath given him understanding.' Nature is in the Indian, ' when a high demand, an imperious call challenges its proof, it comes like the lightning, astounds like the thunder. And now and then we had such proofs during the deliberations of this council. The Indian, when occasion puts him to it, is unrivalled for a sentimental appeal, a delicate allusion, or a sublime flight. For the severity of sarcasm, and the keenness of wit, he is not wanting.  For the generosity of his nature, it is without bounds in his better moods. He knows no inheritance but the wide world, and all he has he will give to him who want it.

Of sarcasm and wit, of the moral sublime, and of superlative delicacy, I have already given examples, or made sufficient references. Of power over sentiment, I would quote the following: It was intimated to the Indians, by the commissioners, towards the close of the deliberations, that the usual presents from government on such occasions would be withholden, because they had refused to come to an adjustment of difference.  One of the Menomenie chief's saw at a glance the desolateness of their prospects, and rose instantly from his seat and made the following speech, 'Fathers' said he, 'when you sent to call us to this council, we were building canoes to gather the wild rice, that our families might have bread to eat in the winter. But, as soon as we heard your voice, we left our canoes upon stocks unfinished, and came directly to this place. Fathers, the rice harvest is now come, our canoes are not built, and we shall have no bread for our families.' And when it is understood, that the first wind that comes after the wild rice is ready for harvest, will waste it all, the force of this appeal can better be appreciated. It was overwhelming. As an instance of their generosity: When the New York Indians came here and opened negotiation for some of their lands, they freely offered their whole territory, and they would never have quarrelled about the division, but for the meddling interference and wicked policy of the whites.

Indian speeches in public council, always abound in religious sentiments, or a grateful recognition of divine Providence, and in friendly congratulations. This sort of religion may be accounted for, perhaps from their own child-like improvidence, and their more immediate dependence on the providence of God. Their other affections are also so child-like, that friendship and kindness are dear to them. I may say, in one word, that the speeches of the Indian chiefs on these occasions demonstrated almost every attribute of greatness and littleness, much to admire and much to laugh at. The consistency of the Menomenies and Winnebagoes, in all the positions they assumed from the beginning to the end of the deliberations, was remarkable. They never swerved an iota, nor could they be dislodged. This firmness, I supposed, was very much owing to the counsel they received behind the curtain.

Of all the interesting scenic exhibitions of this convention of Indians, their war dances are especially worthy of note. But I must reserve this feature of Indian character to a future opportunity.

Yours gentlemen, etc.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














Note- this edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

INDIANS

CHOCTAW TREATY.

A treaty of perpetual friendship, cession, and limits, entered into by John H. Eaton for and in behalf of the Government of the United States and the Mingoes Chiefs, Captains, and Warriors of the Choctaw Nation begun and held at Dancing Rabbit Creek on the 15th September, in the year 1830.

Whereas the general assembly of the State of Mississippi has extended the laws of said State on persons and property within the chartered limits of the same; and the President of the United States says he cannot protect the Choctaw people from the operation of these laws; now therefore that the Choctaws may live under their own laws in peace with the United States and the State of Mississippi, they have determined to sell their lands East of the Mississippi River, and have agreed to the following articles.

ARTICLE 1ST.

Perpetual peace and friendship is pledged by and between the United States, and the Mingoes Chiefs Warriors and Captains of the Choctaw Nation of red people, and that this may be considered the only treaty between the parties all other treaties are hereby declared null and void.

ARTICLE 2d.

The United States under a grant specially to be made by the President of the United States, shall cause to be conveyed to the Choctaw Nation a tract of country west of the Mississippi River. Beginning near Fort Smith where the Arkansas boundary crosses the Arkansas River, running thence to the source of the Canadian fork, if in the limits of the United States, or those limits; Thence due South to Red River and down Red River to the west boundary of the territory of Arkansas; thence North along that line to the beginning--The boundary of the same to be agreeable to the treaty made and concluded at Washington City in the year 1825.  The grant to be executed so soon as the present treaty shall be ratified.

ARTICLE 3d.

In consideration of the provisions contained in the several articles of this treaty, the Choctaw Nation of Indians consent and hereby cede to the United States the entire country they own and possess east of the Mississippi River, and they agree to remove beyond the Mississippi River as early as practicable, and will so arrange their removal that as many as possible of their people not exceeding one half of the whole number, shall depart during the falls 1831 and 1832, the residue to follow during the fall of 1833, a better opportunity will in this manner be afforded the government to extend to them the facility and comforts which it is desirable should be extended in conveying them to their new homes.

ARTICLE 4th.

The government and people of the United States are hereby obliged to secure to the said Choctaw Nation of red people the jurisdiction and government of all the persons and property that may be within their limits west; so that no territory or state shall ever have a right to pass laws for the government of the Choctaw Nation of red people and their descendants; and that no part of the laws granted them shall ever be enforced in any territory or state; but the United States shall forever secure said nation from and against all laws except such as may from time to time be enacted in their own national councils not inconsistent with the constitution treaties and laws of the United States and except such as may and have been enacted by congress to the extent that Congress under the constitution is required to exercise a legislation over Indian affairs--But the Choctaws should this treaty be ratified, express a wish that Congress should grant to the Choctaws the right of punishing by their own laws any white man who shall come into the Nation and infringe any of their national regulations.

ARTICLE 5th.

The United States are obliged to protect the Choctaws from domestic strife and from foreign enemies, on the same principles that the citizens of the United States are protected, so that whatever would be a legal demand upon the United States for defense, or for wrongs committed by an enemy on a citizen of the United States shall be equally binding in favor of the Choctaws, and in all cases where the Choctaws shall be called on by a legally authorized officer of the United States to fight an enemy such Choctaws shall receive the pay and other emoluments which citizens of the United States receive in such cases. Provided no war shall be undertaken or prosecuted by said Choctaw Nation but by declaration made in full council and to be approved by the United States unless it be in self defence against an open rebellion or against an enemy marching into their country, in which case they shall defend until the United States are apprised thereof.

ARTICLE 6th.

Should a Choctaw, or any party of Choctaws commit acts of violence upon the person or property of a citizen of the United States, or join any war party against any neighboring tribe of Indians without the authority in the preceding article, and except to oppose an actual or threatened invasion or rebellion, such person so offending, shall be delivered to an officer of the United States if in the power of the Choctaw Nation, that such offender may be punished as may be provided in such cases by the laws of the United States. But if such offender is not within the control of the Choctaw Nation, then said Choctaw Nation shall not be held responsible for the injury done by said offender.

ARTICLE 7th.

All acts of violence committed upon persons and property of the people of the Choctaw Nation, either by citizens of the United States, or by neighboring tribes of Indians, shall be referred to some authorized agent by him to be referred to the President of the United States, who shall examine into such cases and see that every possible degree of justice is done to said Indian party by the Choctaw Nation.

ARTICLE 8th.

Offenders against the laws of the United States or any individual State, shall be apprehended and delivered to any duly authorized person, where such offender may be found in the Choctaw country  having fled from any part of the United States. But in all such cases, application must be made to the agent or chief, and the expense of his apprehension and delivery provided for and paid by the United States.

ARTICLE 9th.

Any citizen of the United States who may be ordered from the Nation by the agent, and constituted authority of the Nation and refusing to obey, or shall return in to the Nation without the consent of the aforesaid persons, shall be subject to such pains and penalties as shall be provided for by the laws of the U. States in such cases. Citizens of the United States travelling peaceably under the authority of the laws of the United States shall be under the care and protection of the Nation.

ARTICLE 10th.

No person shall expose goods or other articles for sale, as a trader, without a written permit from the constituted authorities of the Nation, or authority of the laws of the United States Congress: under the penalty of forfeiting such articles. And the constituted authorities shall grant no such license, except to those who reside in the Nation, and are answerable to the laws of the Nation. The United States shall be particularly obliged to assist to prevent ardent spirits from being introduced into the Nation.

ARTICLE 11th.

Navigable streams shall be free to the Choctaws who shall pay no higher toll or duty than citizens of the United States. It is agreed further that the United States shall establish one or more post offices in said Nation, and may establish such military post roads and posts as they may consider necessary.

ARTICLE 12th.

All intruders shall be removed from the Nation and kept without it, private property always to be respected and on no occasion to be taken for public purposes without just compensation being made therefore to the rightful owner. If any Indian unlawfully takes or steals any property from any white man a citizen of the United States, the offender shall be punished. And if a white man unlawfully takes or steals anything from an Indian, the property shall be restored and the offender punished. It is further agreed that when a Choctaw shall be taken up to be tried- for offense against the laws of the United States if unable to employ council to defend him, the United States shall do it, that his trial shall be impartial.

ARTICLE 13th.

It is consented that a qualified agent shall be appointed for the Choctaws every four years, unless sooner removed by the President. And he shall be removed on petition of the qualified authorities of the Nation, the President being satisfied that there is sufficient cause shown. The agent shall fix his residence convenient to the great body of the people, and in the selection of an agent immediately after the ratification of the treaty, the wish of the Choctaw Nation the subject shall be entitled to great respect.

ARTICLE 14th.

Each Choctaw head of a family being desirous to remain and become citizen of the State shall be permitted to do so by signifying his intention to the agent within six months from the ratification of this treaty and he shall then be entitled to a reservation of one section of 640 acres of land, to be bound by sectional lines as survey in like manner, he shall be entitled to one half of that quantity for each unmarried child which is living with him over ten years of age, and a quarter section to such children as may be under ten years of age, to adjoin the location of the parents, if they reside upon said lands intending to become citizens of the United States, for five years after the ratification of this treaty, in that case a grant in fee simple shall issue; said reservation shall include the present improvement of the head of the family or a portion of it, persons wishing to claim under the article shall not lose the privilege of Choctaw citizenship, but if they ever remove are not to be entitled to any portion of the Choctaw annuity.

ARTICLE 15th.

To each of the Chiefs in the Choctaw Nation to wit: Greenwood, Laflore, Netuckachee, Mushulatubbee, granted a reservation of four section of land two of which shall include and adjoin their present improvements and the other two located where they please but on unoccupied unimproved land, such sections shall be bounded by sectional lines and with the consent of the President they may sell the same. Also to the principal Chiefs and their successors in office there shall be paid two hundred dollars annually whilst they shall continue in their respective offices except to Mushulatubbee, who as he has an annuity of one hundred and fifty dollars for life under a former treaty shall receive only the additional sum of one hundred dollars whilst he shall continue in office as chief--and in addition to this if the nation should think proper to elect an additional principal Chief of the whole to superintend and govern upon republican principles he shall receive annually for his services five hundred dollars which allowance to the chiefs and their successors in office shall continue for twenty years. At any time while in military service by authority of the United States, the district Chiefs under and by selection of the President shall be entitled to the pay of Majors, the other chief under the same circumstances shall have the pay of Lieutenant Colonel.

The speakers of the three districts shall receive twenty five dollars a year for four years, each, and three secretaries one to each of the chiefs fifty dollars for four years, each captain of the nation the number not to exceed 99----33 from each district shall be furnished upon moving west with each a good suit of clothes and a broad sword as an outfit and for four years commencing with their removal shall each receive 50 dollars a year for their trouble for keeping their people in order in settling, and whenever they shall be in military service by the authority of the United States shall receive the pay of captains.

ARTICLE 16th.

The United States agree to remove the Indians to their homes in wagons or with steam boats as may be found necessary at their expense and under the care of discreet and careful persons, and they agree to furnish them with ample corn and beef or port for themselves and families for twelve months after reaching their homes.--- It is agreed further that the United States will take all the cattle at the valuation of some discreet person to be appointed by the President, and the same shall be paid for in money at their new homes or other cattle such as may be desired shall be furnished them notice being given through their agent of their wishes on the subject before their removal that these may be given to supply their demand.

ARTICLE 17th.

The several annuities and sums secured under former treaties to the Choctaw Nation shall continue as though this treaty had never been made, and it is further agreed that the United States, in addition will pay the sum of $20,000 for twenty years---commencing after their removal to the West of which in the first after their removal 10,000 shall be divided and arranged to such as may not receive reservations under this treaty.

ARTICLE 18th.

The United States shall cause the lands ceded to be surveyed and surveyors may enter the Choctaw Country for that purpose conducting themselves properly and not disturbing or interrupting any of the Choctaw people, but no person is to be permitted to settle within the Nation or on the lands to be sold before the Choctaws move and for the payment of the several amounts secured in this treaty the lands hereby ceded are to remain a fund pledged to that purpose until the debt shall be provided for and arranged, and it is further agreed that in the construction of this treaty wherever a well founded doubt shall arise it shall be construed most favorably towards the Choctaws.

ARTICLE 19th.

The following reservation of lands are hereby admitted to Colonel David Folsom, four sections, two of which shall included his present improvement, and two may be located elsewhere, on any unoccupied unimproved land. To J. Garland, Col. Robert Cole, Tuppanahomer, John Pytchlan, Charles Juzan, Fokeletubbe, Eachahubleoffahoma, two sections each, to include their improvements, and to bounded by section lines, and the same may be disposed of and sold with the consent of the President, and that others not provided for, may be provided for. There shall be reserved as follows: 1st, one section to each head of family, not exceeding forty in number, who, during the present may have had in actual cultivation, with a dwelling house thereon, fifty acres or more: 2d. three fourths after the manner aforesaid to each head of a family not exceeding 460, as shall have had in cultivation thirty acres and less than fifty, to be bound by quarter section lines of survey, and to be contiguous and adjoining: 3d. one half section as aforesaid, to those who shall have cultivated from twenty to thirty acres, the number not to exceed 400; 4th. a quarter section as aforesaid to each, as shall have cultivated from twelve to twenty acres, the number not to exceed 850, and one-half the quantity to such as shall have cultivated from two to twelve acres, the number also not to exceed 350 persons. Each of the class of cases shall be subject to the limitations contained in the first class, and shall be so located as to include that part of the improvements which contains the dwelling house. If a greater number shall be found to be entitled to reservations under the several classes of this article, than is stipulated for under the stipulations prescribed, then in that case, the chiefs separately and together shall determine the persons who shall be excluded in their respective districts. 5th. any captain the number not to exceed 90 persons, who under the provisions of this article shall remain less than a section, shall be entitled to an additional quantity of a half section adjoining to his other reservation. The several reservations secured under this article may be sold with the consent of the President of the United States---but should any prefer it or omit to take a reservation for the quantity to be entitled to, the United States will, on his removal pay fifty cents an acre, after reaching their new homes; provided that before the first day January next, they shall adduce to the agent, or some other authorized person to be appointed proof of his claim and the quantity of its 6th, likewise. children of Choctaw parents residing in the Nation who have neither father nor mother a list of which, with satisfactory proof of parentage and orphanage, being filed with the agent within six months, to be forwarded to the War Department, shall be entitled to a quarter section of land, to be located under the direction of the President and with his consent the same may be sold, and the proceeds applied to some beneficial purpose for the benefit of said orphans.

ARTICLE 20th.

The U. S. agree and stipulate as follows, that for the benefit and advantage of the Choctaw people, and to improve their condition, there shall be educated under the direction of the President, and at the expense of the United States, 40 Choctaw youths for twenty years. This number shall be kept at school, and as they finish their education others to supply their places shall be received, for the period stated. The U. S. agree to erect a Council House for the Nation at some convenient central point, after their people shall be settled, and a house for each Chief, also a church for each of the districts, to be used also as school houses until the Nation may conclude to build others, and for these purposes ten thousand dollars shall be appropriated, to wit, 2500 annually shall be given for the support of three teachers of schools, for 20 years; likewise, there shall be furnished to the Nation, 3 blacksmiths one for each district, for 16 years, and a qualified mill- wright , for 5 years; also, there shall be furnished the following articles---2100 blankets.  To each warrior who emigrates, a rifle moulds, wipers and ammunition; one thousand axes; ploughs; hogs and  cards---also 400 looms. There shall be furnished one ton of iron and 200 weight of steel, annually to each district; for 16 years.

ARTICLE 21st.

A few Choctaw warriors yet survive who marched and fought in the army with Gen. Wayne, the whole number stated not to exceed 20, these it is agreed, shall hereafter, while they live, receive $25 per year, a list of them to be as early as practicable and within 6 months to be made out and presented to the Agent, to be forwarded to the War Department.

ARTICLE 22d.

The Chiefs of the Choctaw Nation, having represented that their people are in a state of rapid advancement, in education and refinement, and have expressed a solicitude, that they may have the privilege of a delegate on the floor of the House of Representatives extended to them: The Commissioners do not feel, that they can under a treaty stipulation, accede to the request but at their desire, present it in the treaty that Congress may consider of, and decide the application.

Done, signed and executed by the Commissioners of the United States and the Chiefs, Captains, and Headmen of the Choctaw Nation, at Dancing Rabbit Creek, this 27th day of September, 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This issue of the Phoenix is printed in 4 columns only.

From the New York American.

A New Chapter in the History of the Indians.-- We publish to-day the history of what is called the Green Bay Treaty, to which we ask the attention of all considerate men.

The New York Indians were induced to move, as an effort is now making to induce the South-western Indians to remove to a distant territory, under all the solemn assurances guarantees, and pledges, which are again prodigally displayed, and which were scrupulously violated! In the condition of the New York Indians at Green Bay, may be seen the destiny of those tribes whom the injustice of Georgia, and the General Government combined, is now seeking to drive beyond the Mississippi. Already the settlements around Green Bay render it 'expedient' that the red men should be driven further back; and again the same course of fraud and force, which effected their first removal is resorted to, to induce their removal to a more distant wilderness! Similar will be the fate of the Creeks and Cherokees, in the region beyond the Mississippi, whenever they shall have so improved the country, as to render it the object of the white man's rapacity!

The information we thus communicate if from one who was a spectator of all that he relates, and who speaks the truth for its own sake. From the same source we received the annexed copy of a letter addressed by the New York Indians to those members of Congress, who in defending the Cherokees from the aggressions of the United States vindicated the claims of the American Indians.

LETTER OF THANKS.

To the Hon. Messrs. Frelinghuysen, Sprague, and Robbins, Senators of the United States; and to the Hon. Messrs. Storrs, Everett, Bates, Elsworth, Evans, Huntington, Johns, and Test, members of the House of Representatives; and to any others who have distinguished themselves in the councils of the nation, as the advocates of Indian rights.

Honorable Sirs: The New York Indians, resident at Green Bay, have noticed with peculiar satisfaction, and with fervent gratitude the honorable and dignified part you have taken in the Congress of the United States, during their discussion of the last session, in relation to the affairs of Indians; and although they may seem to be late in this particular mode of expressing their thanks, yet they beg you to be assured, that your names from the earliest intelligence of these your public and official acts, have been written upon your hearts, as the friends of Indians and the friends of man. The New York Indians, by the very degree of intellectual and moral elevation, to which they have been raised by the persevering kindness and culture of their benevolent friends among the white people, have been forced to feel more sensibly and more keenly the pressure of their own condition and that of their brethren, as 'a people scattered and peeled'- a nation of outcasts, doomed as if by a decree of Heaven, to be disenfranchised of every natural right, and driven before the face of the white man, till they shall find no peace, but by the extinction of their race; no resting place but in the grave; and now that the public councils of the great nation of the United States are agitated with the question, 'What are the rights of the Indian? and what shall be done with him?' an unexpected and bright gleam of hope has dawned upon our dark horizon by a bold and manly declaration of our rights from so many quarters, and from such a multitude of voices; and especially by that leading and high toned influence which through your instrumentality, has been carried into the public councils of the nation, and so nobly sustained by yourselves and coadjutors; and although the particular objects moved and supported by you, in either house of Congress, and which gave opportunity for the demonstration of this disposition, were lost for the time, yet hope is not lost, but revived. It shows a virtue in the nation, which we had feared was wanting; a susceptibility of being formed into a redeeming influence which may yet make a brighter page in the history of our abused race.-- We thank God, the God of providence and the God of nations.

You will soon be advised, sirs, of a most critical and painful situation into which the New York Indians, resident at Green Bay, have been recently brought. A brief history, with some comments will ere long be laid before the public. Our last hope hangs upon the Congress of the United States. We do not doubt, sirs, that you will make yourselves acquainted with the merits of this cause, and be prepared in the proper juncture for that proof of your personal and official probity, of which we have already received so hopeful an earnest. Ours is, indeed, a new and particular form of Indian rights; but it must prove the general temper of the people of the United States towards our race.  And we feel, that our fate, and that of our people are now pending, and must soon be sealed. May God avert from us the issue we have feared, and from the United States its responsibility.- As the public advocates of the sons of Ham in their abused and degraded condition, we have learned in sympathy to cherish the names of Wilberforce and Clarkson; and as our own advocates, and the advocates of our brethren, raised up by the same kind Providence, we have already learned to cherish the names of those men to whom we have addressed this letter.

By order of the Chiefs of the New York Indians resident at Green Bay.

Green Bay, Sept. 1st 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note. This issue of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

From the Journal of Commerce.

INDIAN WRONGS IN THE NORTH!

Surely, we know not what Chapter of State policy, devoting Indians to ruin will next open; we know not what scene of the great tragedy of their wrongs, which is now acting, will next claim our attention.

The

first act has been laid in the South, as we all know; and scene after scene has been opened upon us, developing concerted mischief, systematic and legalized injury--and injury of the most vital character, whether we regard their existence as communities, or their life and comfort as individuals--until our very heart's blood has been challenged to sympathize with that devoted people.

The

next act is now opening from acted scenes of injury, we have been outrage. I mean on right-official violence committed on the most sacred compacts-compacts born at the highest possible consent.

And the interest, the sympathies, and the honor of the State of New York are alike and equally concerned in this matter. Her own Indians, whom she has reason to love and cherish, if for no other reason, yet for that reason, which endears a disabled and unfortunate child to its solicitous and ever watchful parent--a parent, who finds his affections allied to a tender and helpless object, because he is tender and helpless. Yes, her  own Indians--to whom, less than ten years ago and interesting and hopeful door was opened at Green Bay,--where it was thought that the St. Regis, the Munsees, the Stockbridges, the Oneidas, the Brotherstons, and the Six Nations, indeed, all the Indians of the State of New York, might find a peaceful and permanent home;

those Indians, in 1821 and 1822, under the suggestion of benevolence and under the sanction and guidance of the supreme authorities of the nation, went, by their delegation, and purchased to themselves a home in the North West. The compacts were duly solemnized by the parties, (the parties being the New York Indians on the one hand and the Menomente and Winnebago nations, owners of the soil, on the other) and sealed by the hand of the President of the United States. And in reliance in on the faith of these compacts, and on the pledges of Government for protection, these Indians removed some hundreds of them, a little less than a thousand--planted themselves on their new territory at Green Bay, erected houses and villages, cleared and cultivated farms, and made many valuable improvements, expecting to present inducements to all their brethren in the State of New York to follow them.

And what has been the sequel? Why it has been discovered that the North Western Territory will make a good and an important member of the Confederacy-that Government were too hasty in pledging that region to Indians. And inasmuch as the New York Indians, by their deeds of purchase, and by removal upon the premises, had got actual possession of the very part and heart of the country, and the most important water power to North America;- and inasmuch as, if their title should be acknowledged, it was somewhat doubtful, whether they would readily negotiate away so valuable a country and property, it was obviously the convenient way to march and take it by violence.

And so it has been taken by a Commission from the Genl. Government in 1827. And to consummate the purposes of that aggression, another Commission of 1830 has but just returned from that violated ground, and remitted their enactments to the President for affirmation. And this, be it remembered,was not done by Georgia-

No  Georgia herself is here outdone by the Nation! The crimes of Herod are blanched in comparison of deeper crime! From Georgia there is an appeal. From the Nation, there is no appeal, but to heaven. If the nation shall seal this- it is the consummation of guilt and perfidy.  More of the same kind may, and on such condition, will be done. But there is no going beyond it in principle.

And thus a full, fair, and thorough experiment of the value of the faith of Government, now offered to Indians, removing from States into the unchartered territories, has been made in less than ten years. And at this very moment, this acme of public interest on this subject-this

new chapter of Indian wrongs, this new Apocalypse  of Indian doom, is ready to be opened. And if there be a man among us, who has hitherto vacillated with diffidence as to how this course of treatment would turn out, it is reasonably expected, that this new disclosure will enforce him to a confirmation of opinion, and to decision of purpose.

I esteem it fortunate, that the great and powerful State of New York is so deeply concerned, both in interest and sympathy, in this violation of the public faith. It if her own Indians that have been thus abused- and that, too, after having received the most solemn pledges of the certain tenure of their lands, and of protection in their rights. Not another Indian ere again trust himself to the faith of the General Government.  And not only so--but those already planted at Green Bay, in consequence of the perfidy which has been practised on them, and the consequent vexations and uncertainties, are now gravely meditating to throw themselves back on the charities of this Commonwealth. But had the faith of the Government been kept, there was every prospect, that this State might disburden herself of this delicate and embarrassing encumbrance, with justice and honor.

The

preemptive right company may now shut up their office. No auction hammer will get a bidder for their stock.

And the standing policy of the nation, woo on this subject, is literally balked. For how can it go forward, in the face of such transaction--of such experiment? 'Murder will out.' Mischief, left to its own policy, will ultimately defeat its own aims. And so it is hoped, by these timely developments, there will be reformation, or formation of public sentiment in the land, sufficient to save the Indians from their destiny, which has seemed to impend them.

While present at a Council of the Chiefs of the New York Indians at Green Bay a few weeks ago, I heard one of them say--a man, too, who for intelligence for moral worth, and for the common virtues of life, would not suffer in comparison with any man in this proud community--a man, whom no one, reverencing 'the human face divine,' could look upon, but with respect. I heard such a man in public council, recommending the removal of all his brethren into Canada because the British keep their faith with the Indians! And he quoted facts, and adduced reasons to which I passionately desired, but was utterly unable to reply. I had the privilege of speaking being admitted to council. Mortified and abased as a citizen of the United States, I was compelled to submit in silence. For the first time in my life I was ashamed of my country! and in such presence: before the Indian, agonized under a sense of his wrongs, and giving vent to feelings, which it is not in man, or God to despise!

N. B. A detailed expose of the injuries done to the New York Indians at Green Bay, will soon be laid before the public. Some other particulars and a general index of this subject were published in the Daily New York American on Saturday, Oct. 20th , and in the same paper for the country, on Monday, the 1st instant--together with a letter of thanks from the Chiefs to all, who have advocated the rights of Indians.

A Spectator of the late doings of the Commissioners at Green Bay.

New York, Nov. 3d, 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This issue of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only,

Notwithstanding the contemptible opinions entertained by many, of the degree of refinement and civilization of the Cherokee Indians, we find they are not much behind their coffers, in the encouragement of 'societies for the spread of religion and morality.' They have amongst them Missionary Societies, Tract Societies, Sunday School Societies, Benevolent Societies and Temperance Societies,

A letter to the editor of the Adams Sentinel, from a friend in the Cherokee Nation, dated Oct. 14 mentions that the General Council of the Nation was then in session; that 'they were quite resigned, and say they will go without any trouble, if the Supreme Court decide against them; if not, they will remain--and should Georgia attempt force, as they are not able to contend with them, should they not get assistance, they will die on their own soil, and leave their bones with their Fathers!' The writer adds: 'To see them talking about the matter, would make you shed tears; old men, who have not seen one another for sometime, when they meet, you can tell by their gestures, it is their first topic, and their tears will flow, not for themselves, they say, but for their children. Oh, it is cruel, to think of driving them off!'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, NOV. 27, 1830

The Editor is not at home, this week, to give to the public his thoughts on passing events.

_________________________

A report has reached this place, that the United States Troops, which have been stationed a while in this Nation for the purpose of removing intruders 'c. have been withdrawn by order of the War Department. It may or may not be confirmed.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This issue of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

To the Editor of the Connecticut Observer.

DEAR SIR.- It was with pleasure, that I read in your paper of October 11, a letter from a gentleman, who has resided for a considerable time in the midst of the Cherokee Nation.- The facts which he mentions in his letter respecting the nation, are evidence which may be relied on, with greater safety than the unfounded assertions of interested persons or political intriguers.

But it is possible, that some of your readers may imagine even the writer of that letter, to have some interest at stake in this matter; and that for this reason he thinks unfavorably of removing the Cherokees west of the Mississippi.- There appears however, to be no ground for such a suspicion, as he deals wholly in those stubborn things called facts. His testimony respecting what are facts in the case I can see no reason for regarding otherwise than impartial.

But to relieve the minds of such, if any such there be, who imagine it to be otherwise, permit me to say a few things in corroboration of his testimony. And here I wish to premise, that I have no interest, either political or pecuniary in the decision of the question respecting the Indians. Living as I do, in Hartford County, Con. none can suppose me to have any pecuniary interest at stake; and as for politics, with them I never wish to meddle. All the interest that I have in this matter, is what every friend of justice and humanity ought to feel.

A number of months since, I had occasion to travel somewhat extensively, in that region of country which lies contiguous to the Cherokees; and was several times in different parts of the nation, and took special pains to satisfy my own mind respecting this condition. Before going among them, I made it an object to inquire of their white neighbors, respecting the conduct and character of the Indians.

I will mention some of my questions, together with the answers which were given.

Do not the Indians frequently trouble you, by coming over the line and stealing your property? No; they rarely if ever take anything without liberty. Do not people frequently pass through the nation?  Yes; there is a great deal of travelling through the nation, especially on the Federal road. Can travellers be comfortably accommodated in the nation?  Yes, there are good houses of entertainment on the roads. Are they kept by white people, or by Cherokees? By Cherokees. There are some white families living in the nation; but travellers generally call at the houses kept by the former. But is it entirely safe, for a person to put up for the night, at the house of an Indian?  Will he not be likely in the morning to miss his horse or saddlebags or pocket book? No; you need have no fear of that. You and your property will be perfectly safe in the care of an Indian host.

These, and similar questions were put to many different individuals, and were answered by them all in substantially the same manner.  My fears were all removed. I ventured through the domains of the Indians, for the first time in my life, and though travelling alone, I had not the least apprehension of danger. Had I before entering the nation, seen some statements which I have seen since, I should have expected to starve myself, or at least to leave my horse to be consumed by the buzzards. It proved however, to neither of us a land of famine.  I made it my practice, to put up at the houses of the Cherokees; and was uniformly well entertained, and my horse bountifully fed with corn and fodder. I also saw large droves of cattle and hogs going to Georgia; and they had the appearance of being well fed, and capable of convincing the Governor himself, (provided they could find their way to his table) that they had not come from a land where everything was in a state of starvation.

Many of the Cherokees have good houses, as good if not better than most of their white neighbors. Others of them informed me that they would have built new houses, had it not been for the uncertainty, whether the nation would long be permitted to remain on their land. Their farms are well cultivated, and are productive; their children and people generally are well clothed. In some of the contiguous counties, I saw many ragged children, but next to none in the nation. Two Cherokee schools which I visited, would not suffer in comparison with some of the best primary schools in New England. I saw but one drunken Indian, in the limits of the nation, but did see within the same limits more than one drunken white man. There is a large Temperance Society among the Cherokees.  I also learned that they have a law that no ardent spirits shall be brought within a given distance, of an election or a court of justice. A person informed me, that he was a little time before at a court, and the judge learned that some whiskey had been brought into the neighborhood. He directed the Sheriff to search for it, and dispose of it according to law.- He did so.  After finding it, he poured it all upon the ground, as the law directs. I had an opportunity of conversing with families, indifferent parts of the nation, and found them much more intelligent than I expected. The claim which Georgia pretends to have on the Cherokee land, in one of the topics, upon which I heard them remark with a force of argument which I could not resist. Take the following as a specimen of Indian logic, and compare it with the long and crooked reasonings of many who glory in their superiority over these ignorant savages.

'What right has Georgia to our land? The government of the United States did indeed, promise that this land should belong to Georgia, as soon as the general government could peaceably, and on reasonable terms, extinguish the Cherokee title. When this is done the land will belong to Georgia and not before. The United States has not made an absolute gift of our land to Georgia, for she felt that it was not hers to give; but has merely promised that it shall be given to that State, whenever (should the time ever arrive) the Cherokees are willing to cede it to the U.S.'

My astonishment was excited, by reading the Cherokee Phoenix, and comparing it with many other papers which are published in the adjoining counties among the whites. I hesitate not to say, that in point of ability, it is far superior to many papers, which I had the opportunity of examining, during my travels.  I made inquiry if the Editor did not receive assistance, in the duties of his department, from some well educated white man; and if many of the original articles, which he published were not furnished by such men. But I was assured and feel satisfied, that neither is a fact.

Another circumstance which awakened peculiar interest in my mind, is the following. When travelling in Tennessee, I put up for the night at the house of a respectable family; and in the course of the conversation inquired whether there was a school in that neighborhood, and who taught it?' They informed me that their school was taught by a Cherokee.  My next question was, does he teach a good school? The best we have had for many years, was the reply. It seemed strange to me, that white people should find it necessary to employ Indian teachers; but stranger still, that the representative of these very people, should strongly urge in Congress the importance of removing the uncivilized Indians farther into the wilderness. When this is done, where will his constituents find school masters for their children?

Permit me to mention another fact which came to my knowledge. Before going into the nation, I heard much said on the subject of removing the Indians west of the Mississippi. Almost every one who spoke of their removal, intimated that the private members of the nation, and the full Cherokees especially, were willing and even anxious  to go; but were kept back, by the influence of their chiefs, and of the whites living among them. The reverse of this I found to be the fact, when I came to examine for myself. I was repeatedly informed both by full Cherokees and by others, that most of those who had enrolled to go to the Arkansas, were either white men having Indian families, or half breeds, and that but very few full Cherokees had enrolled. This class are evidently the most opposed to a removal. A memorial to Congress, against the removal of the nation, was at the time circulating among the people; and the full Cherokees were the most forward to sign it. The opposition to a removal appeared general and strong among them. Many times did I think of the remark which the Cherokees, who several years ago removed from the Hiwassee District in Tennessee, used to make; We will not leave our land. If the white people want it, they may shoot us, and manure their cornfields with our bodies; but we will not go away.' Something of the same feeling is manifested by a large part of the nation now living east of the Mississippi.

While in the nation, I heard of a base white man, who hired a native to claim him as her husband, that he might enroll, and secure the bounty which government offers to the Indian removing to the west.  Report says that he gave her forty or fifty dollars, enrolled, got into the boat, and went off with the emigrants at the expense of government; but the woman remained behind.

The withdrawing of the Indians from the pernicious influence of the whites, has sometimes been urged as a powerful reason for removing them to the Arkansas Territory. I was not a little surprised therefore when in the Western District, Tenn., many informed me that the Arkansas was the common resort of criminals. If a person had done anything which would expose him to the law, the common speech of people was, 'the next you will hear of that man will be, that he has gone to the Arkansas.' The commission of crime is regarded as a signal for removing to that favored land, where the Indian is to avoid every influence which is hostile to morals and religion, and learn everything that is lovely and good report.  An intelligent gentleman of Tennessee, who had visited that Territory, when inquired of, how he liked it, replied thus.--'On my return I resolved, that if I could reach Nashville before the rising of the Legislature, I would petition that body to abandon the establishment of a Penitentiary, and as a substitute, to pass a law, banishing criminals to Arkansas for I am sure that a residence of six months in that Territory, would atone for any crime which a mortal can commit in this life.'  I forbear to mention the fraud, and robbery and murder with which travellers coming from that region have filled my ears. You will no doubt agree with me, Mr. Editor, that the poor Indians will not find that a very safe retreat. Yet I fear they must go there. They are so oppressed in their own land, by their white neighbors, that unless some friendly power interposes, and that soon, their sufferings will be past endurance.  I heard them tell of their wrongs, will the blood boiled in my veins. They told me how a mill, built and owned by a Cherokee, was taken from him, and kept by an armed force; while he made no resistance but suffered the white savages to retain their booty. They told me how the people from another neighboring State, frequently came into the nation, and drove off hogs and cattle, and when the owner pursued and complained to the civil authority, he could get no redress. They told me how when a white man commits a crime, and is punished by the constituted authority in the nation, with only half the severity with which an Indian would be punished for the same crime, judge and jury are liable to a heavy fine, or imprisonment; and the white offender returns with an armed company, to wreak his vengeance on the nation. They told me how the white man came to the house of the Indian in his absence, and flung his furniture into the street, kicked his children out of the door, and took possession. These things, and many more like them, were related in my hearing.  The wrongs suffered by the Indians have not been told. It is time to arraign their oppressors before the bar of the civilized world, and put their conduct under the ban of an enlightened public opinion.

Yours respectfully, A traveller.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

INDIANS.

From the New York Advertiser.

A large portion of the Message of the Governor of Georgia to the legislature of that state, delivered on the 19th of October, is devoted to the affairs of the Cherokees. He begins with complaining of the cupidity of the Georgians, and people from other states, in searching for gold among the Cherokees. The evil arose to such a pitch that it became a matter of consideration whether the legislature should not be called together to provide a remedy. The Cherokee government, he says, of the importance of which so much has been said, proved utterly powerless to protect rights or to punish wrongs. This must have appeared very extraordinary to His Excellency, especially since the first of June last, when the act of Georgia, declaring a total repeal and abrogation of all the laws, usages, and customs of the Cherokees was proclaimed, by this same Governor to be in force, and in no case, civil or criminal, could the same be given in evidence in any suit whatever. It seems that neither the Governor's proclamation, nor the United States troops, were sufficient to keep the gold-diggers away; and his Excellency says he should have employed the militia of the state for that purpose, but there was no provision in the laws or constitution authorising him to do so, nor was there any appropriation of money to pay them if called out. One advantage, however, he thinks will be derived from the not calling the legislature together. It must have convinced all persons, every where, of 'the necessity which impels the state to exercise jurisdiction over its Indian territory, not only for the protection of the property of the state, but the rights of the Indians; and that the Cherokee government, had it been permitted to exist, would have been wholly incompetent, under present circumstances, to discharge any of the duties for which governments are organized.' The process of reasoning by which Governor Gilmer comes to this conclusion, will probably be questioned by those persons who recollect, that at the very moment when the experiment might have been made, the Cherokee government had been annihilated, so far as it was in the power of the state of Georgia to destroy it. What it would have accomplished, 'had it been permitted to exist,' cannot be known to His Excellency, or any other man, because the experiment has not been made; and it is not with a very good grace that he should, under the circumstances, undertake to declare the question.

'The principal objection,' says His Excellency, 'which has been made to the exercise of the right of soil and jurisdiction by the State over the Cherokees has been drawn from the phraseology of the treaties between the tribe and the United States. If such treaties were to be considered as compacts between the independent nations, as has been asserted, they would be void so far as they pretended to limit the sovereign rights of the state. But treaties have been made with the Indian tribes, at all times, since the first settlement of this country, without having been considered such instruments as conveying political power or rights of territory. They have been the expedients by which ignorant intractable and savage people, have been induced, without bloodshed, to yield up what civilized governments had the right to possess by virtue of that command of the Creator, delivered to man upon his formation -- 'be fruitful, multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it.'

This passage contains some very important doctrines, particularly as coming from the chief magistrate of a state, when in his official character addressing the legislature of that state. Is it then so, that all the innumerable treaties which we have negotiated with the Indian tribes have been mere gull traps to delude those unwary confiding nations into the forms of treaties; with all the parade of considerations, stipulations, and agreements, for the mere purpose of defrauding them, in a peaceable way, our of their property and territories? If our government has from the beginning resorted to such mean, base, and dishonest 'expedients,' to cheat the Indians out of their possessions for such we understand to be the true meaning of Gov. Gilmer's language, merely because they were 'an ignorant, intractable, and savage people,' words cannot be found strong enough to express the vileness and wickedness of the conduct referred to. As the Indians are unmanageable, and at the same time a fighting race, it has been found easier, cheaper, and less hazardous, to defraud them of their property and their rights, in the form of bargains, than to rob them in manly warfare. Such we understand to be the true translation of Governor Gilmer's language on this subject. This is a reproach of too deep a hue to be submitted to, especially if we ever mean to lay claim to the character of a just and equitable nation.

Governor Gilmer remarks that 'It is also due to our Indian people that that provision of the law of 1829 should be repealed, which prevents Indians and the descendants of Indians from being competent witnesses in the courts of the state, in cases where a white man is a party. 'The present law' says he 'expose them to great oppression, whilst its repeal would most probably injure no one. Attempts have been made to strip them of their property by forged contracts, because of the impossibility of defending their rights by the testimony of those who alone can know them.' It may be considered fortunate for the Indians, that the chief magistrate of Georgia has discovered, in the course of nearly a twelve month, that a provision of the act of that state, which would probably have found few advocated in Turkey, on in Algiers, was upon the whole oppressive, and had better be altered. And we cannot but greatly admire the acute sense of justice, as well as the high tone of moral rectitude in an evening paper of this city, the editor of which, after having slept cooly for so long a time over this iniquitous measure, without venturing to utter the slightest sentiment of disapprobation, but emboldened by the example of Governor Gilmer, now boldly and magnanimously says, 'this was the only feature in the law of Georgia of which the Indians themselves could reasonably complain, and the terms in which Governor Gilmer speaks on the subject, evinces that there is not the slightest disposition in Georgia to oppress the men within the limits of that state.' According to the sentiments of this editor, then, the Indians have no cause of complaint at the order of the state of Georgia to abrogate all the laws, usages and customs of their nation, of the extension of the laws of Georgia over them, of the claim of that state to the absolute property in the Cherokee lands, of the prohibition of giving counsel or advice to each other against parting with their lands, and removing beyond the Mississippi, under the severe and unexampled penalty of confinement in the state prison at hard labor. Perhaps, however, when the feelings of the Governor of that state, shall relax a little more, and he shall discover some further iniquity in this Algerine(sic) statute, the editor of the same paper may follow suit, and fall in with His Excellency, keeping pace with him, as far as he may go.

We believe Governor Gilmer is the first commentator upon the scriptures who ever discovered in the general direction to Adam and Eve to be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, a latent authority, at the end of six thousand years to oppress, plunder and destroy the North American Indians. We have no idea that our first parents so understood it, and we much doubt whether Cain himself, even when bound to the land of Nod ever adopted so unjust and licentious a sentiment. It certainly cannot be contained in the general order to 'be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth,' for the Georgia policy has directly contrary tendency. And the expression 'subdue it' probably referred to its cultivation, rather than to the conquering of Indians at so remote a period of time, as there were then no Indians to subdue. Surely it would be a loose construction of the text to suppose that the authority for passing the legislative act of Georgia of 1829 is fairly derived from it.

____________________

From the National Intelligencer.

First impressions on reading the Message of the Governor of Georgia-and the Indians.

The Indians have occupied the lands from time immemorial; yet the Governor of Georgia claims these lands by right of discovery!

The Government of the United States has guarantied the lands to the Indians by numerous treaties. Yet, says the Governor, it is a mere right of occupation!

But the right of occupation is a perfect right, and exclusive, and is incompatible with any other possession or occupation.  Yet, says the Governor, 'no doubt is entertained of the right to survey the Indian territory.'  'The rights of jurisdiction and soil are the essential attributes of government.' Therefore, Georgia, being a Government, has a right to the jurisdiction and soil of the Indian territory, and, as the sovereignty, independence, and limits of Georgia were acknowledged by Great Britain; therefore the pre-existing rights of the Indians, also recognized by Great Britain, by treaty, are abrogated!

The Governor of Georgia issued, upon his own authority, a proclamation declaring 'the right of the State to all the gold ' other valuable minerals in the ungranted lands occupied by the Indians.' Thus the Indians, having the right of occupation, shall have no right to the gold found in the soil they

occupy. The right thus asserted was supposed to be established, says the Governor 'by the allodial title which belongs to the State to all lands within its limits, not granted away, and the absence of all right in the Indians they never having appropriated the mineral riches of the earth to their own use.'

Thus, by the laws of the civilized world, the original occupants of the soil whom God planted there for his own wise purposes, have no right to the soil they inhabit, but a sort of right of occupation; and, in the absence of all right in the Indians, the state of Georgia is entitled to take it, 'and the Indians never having appropriated the mineral riches to their own use,' they having been just discovered.- And when discovered, says the Governor, 'the Indians themselves were not even permitted to have an equal enjoyment of the riches of the earth, but their title was utterly disregarded.' Therefore, the right belongs to Georgia! And, he adds to the Legislature, 'That the great value of the gold mines renders it proper that you should not only provide some other means for securing them from trespass, but also to render them profitable to the State.'



By the intercourse law, the Government of the United States is bound to protect the Indians from trespass and intrusion by the whites. But the Governor says,' the Cherokee Government proved utterly powerless to protect any right or to punish any wrong.' Now, as the State had declared that she had the jurisdiction,soil, and the mineral treasures, what right remained to protect, or what wrong could be done them by entering on the lands and carrying away the gold?

But, the Governor says, he also was without authority to protect any right, or punish any wrong. No law had been passed--no appropriation made--the Governor had no authority to call out the militia, and was quite as powerless as the Cherokee Government.

The President decides that the Indians have a property in the soil, which he will protect, and then sends a military force into the country to execute the intercourse law, and that force is directed to prevent the Indians from digging for gold on the soil which he promises to protect.

The President decides that the State of Georgia has a right to extend her laws over the Indian territory, and the State having extended her laws over the country, the President sends a military force into the territory, now become a part of Georgia, to arrest the citizens of Georgia under the protection of her laws for digging the gold, and the Judges of the State release their citizens from the arrest, because the troops of the United States have no right to make arrests in the State of Georgia for trespass on their own lands.

Thus, the Indians have a right of property which the President promises to protect, yet the property, he says, must be subject to the laws of Georgia--because he says, it lies within a State, and he cannot protect them from the laws. If the property is in Georgia, and under the laws of Georgia, how does he send troops into that State to drive off intruders? And if the gold belongs to Georgia, why does he drive off the Indians?  If he is right in enforcing the intercourse law, and protecting the Indians, why does he not protect them effectually?

The Governor says 'the Indian tribes have no where been considered as forming such communities as could be recognized as Governments, and having the power to act nationally.' Yet, almost all nations have treated with them, made war and peace, and acquired territory. They seem to be perfectly competent to cede lands, although they cannot act nationally, and have no rights to cede; and yet Georgia stipulated that the United States should extinguish the title of the Indians: 'Treaties,' says he, 'being only expedients by which ignorant, untractable and savage people have been induced, without bloodshed, to yield up what civilized Governments had a right to possess.' That is, in fine, civilized men have established a customary law of nations for themselves, by which they have a right to all the land which they discover inhabited by Indians. But, as the Indians will not peaceably surrender their country, they have a right to drive them out by force. But as this would be expensive, and cost some bloodshed, a cheap and humane expedient has been adopted of getting possession, by a thing called a treaty, in regard to which, when it ceded land, the Indians have full power to act nationally; but if any of this land (to which the Indians are said to have no right) happens to be guarantied to the Indians, they can acquire no rights, because Indians are not competent to form contracts or compacts.

Thus, by one of those expedients, the Indians are induced to cede to the United States a large territory, in consideration chiefly that the Government undertake to guarantee them the remainder.  But then the Indians ('an ignorant and intractable set') are told, the treaties are very good to sell your lands, but then we have no power to guarantee to you the remainder, because the State of Georgia has a right to your lands by right of discovery; what you have sold to us is ours; what you have reserved we cannot guarantee to you-it belongs to Georgia: you have a right to occupy the lands, but as God commanded man 'to be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and to subdue it,' it follows that the white man is entitled to it all, especially all on this side the Mississippi. The command of God to subdue the earth is certainly fulfilled by subduing the Indians-whether it is done by force or fraud.

The Governor says,' The jurisdiction and soil belongs to the State'- the Indians have a mere right of occupation.  But what right of occupation, when he says, 'Civilized Governments have the right to possess' the lands? The State having the soil and the right as a civilized government to possess, treaties are mere expedients to get from these ignorant people, without the necessity of killing them, the possession of the land.  And having taken from them all that can be obtained by treaty upon promising a guarantee of the remainder, you now tell them, Georgia as the fee simple and the right to possess those lands,and all the gold; that she has a right to govern them; and that they must submit.

The Secretary of War tell them they are savages; that they cannot change their nature any more than the Leopard his spots: that they are incapable of civilization; that they cannot live under the laws of Georgia, and therefore, they ought to give up their lands to Georgia.

RED JACKET.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

CHEROKEES OF THE ARKANSAS.

Dr. Palmer, who is connected with the mission of the American board to the Arkansas Cherokees, thus writes under date of July 15th:- Jour. of Humanity.

Many in our neighborhood, especially in that part of it which borders on the white settlements, are giving themselves up to dissipation and drunkenness. Indeed, intemperance with all its horrid train of evils, seems to threaten a speedy destruction of the nation. A few weeks ago, I found at Mr. Price's one morning as I went to preach, several drunken persons very loud and noisy, but they moved off out of sight when divine service began. After the close of the exercises, Mr. Price informed me that these drunken fellows, with several others, had been round the house all night, that near by there had been on Saturday, a large collection of idle people to attend a shooting match; and that some of them continued drinking and carousing all night, to his great annoyance. He said it was a grief to him to see the people so much given up to dissipation, and he asked, 'What can be done?' I told him of the temperance societies at the east, and what great good was effected by them.  He said he thought such a society might do good among his people. I told him, if he thought so, we should make a trial of it.- Several others sitting by were equally well pleased with the suggestion, and engaged to become members.  The formation of a temperance society was what I had in contemplation for several months, but never before had I seen so fair an opportunity to propose it with success. Mr. Washburn thought that now was the time to make the attempt. Accordingly, I embraced opportunities to converse with many of the most respectable persons in the neighborhood on the subject, and at length a public meeting was appointed five days ago, for the purpose of organizing the society. On the day appointed, a good number of persons of both sexes convened at one place, and Mr. Washburn delivered an appropriate discourse. The constitution, requiring total abstinence, was then read, and after several addresses in Cherokee, thirteen respectable persons came forward and subscribed to it. This number may be thought small, but all the friends of the society are confident of its ultimate success. It is now proposed by the females to form a similar society among themselves, which will be encouraged. Over these prospects we rejoice with trembling.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: DEC. 4, 1830

(note the difference in the day dates)

The Bill reported by the 'joint Committee on the State of the Republic,' in the legislature of Georgia, provides for the surveying of this country, so much we mean as lies within the charter of the State, into districts of nine miles square, and not into smaller lots until 'the Indian right of occupancy is extinguished.' It would seem then, in the opinion of the Committee, that the Cherokees are not tenants at will. But it is one step after another the State intends to take, just so far as President Jackson will give her license, and the very act of withdrawing the troops, when the question of surveying the land, and taking possession of it, is agitated in the legislature, shows that he is willing to go all lengths with her. The recent act of the President is virtually giving, not only the gold mines but the whole country, into the possession of Georgia.  Can a free and enlightened people permit such an outrage upon the rights of a weak and dependent ally? We wait for time to give us answer.

________________

CHOCTAW TREATY.

The treaty lately entered into by the Secretary of War with the Mingoes, Chiefs, 'c. of the Choctaws, and which we published in our last, is a curious document in its provisions and in its composition. We copied it as we found it in a Mississippi paper. If it came out thus from the hands of the Honorable Commissioners, it will occupy a prominent place in the list of Cabinet Literature.

A certain editor lately observed that he had but a confused idea of the treaty, not having seen the document itself, but we fear, after all, he will be but little enlightened with he sees it. For our own part, our ideas are more confused since reading it than they were before.

The first article declares all other treaties null and void--yet the doctrine of the Sec. of War is, that treaties with Indians are not binding, of course null and void in themselves. What the first kills, the 17th article revives.--'The several annuities and sums secured under former treaties to the Choctaw Nation shall continue as though this treaty had never been made.'

In article third, it is said, 'In consideration of the provisions, contained in the several articles of this treaty, the Choctaw Nation of Indians consent and hereby cede.' 'c. To what do the Choctaws consent?

In the 19th article it is said, 'If a greater number shall be found to be entitled to reservations under the several classes of this article, than is prescribed, then in that case, the chiefs separately and together shall determine' 'c--- We cannot prescribe to ourselves the meaning of all this.

In the 20th article the following provision is made- 'To each warrior who emigrates, a rifle, moulds, wipers and ammunition; one thousand  axes; ploughs; hoes, and cards--also four hundred looms.' After all the Hon. Secretary of War has been mindful of the poor Choctaws for although he has not fed them with individual annuities and rich reservations, yet he has well supplied them with axes and looms.

But we forbear noticing this document further--it is a bungling piece, throughout. If what has been published is a correct copy of the one which was signed at the Dancing Rabbit, the Senate would do well to reject it at once, until it is made a little more intelligible, and comes in clothed with better English.  If an incorrect copy has been published, Mr. Eaton may well cry out, 'save me from my friends.'

_________________________

A letter has been published in the United States Telegraph, from Greenwood Leflore to the Secretary of War, in which it is said that the Choctaws are very anxious to remove, and that they are ready to go in large bodies, without waiting for the ratification of the treaty.  It is just such a letter as we should expect would be addressed by that Choctaw Chief to Mr. Eaton, it nevertheless does not prove that the treaty has been effected by honorable means. Many of the Choctaws may be now desirous to go, after they have been betrayed by a portion of their countrymen, and expecting no redress from the Government of the United States. Leflore, it will be recollected, was an efficient individual in bringing about the treaty, and is highly interested in its issue-it is therefore natural that he should have written just such a letter as has been published in the Telegraph--He is not a disinterested testimony.

______________________________

In our last it was stated that a report had reached this place, that the U. States Troops, who have been stationed in this nation for the purpose of removing white intruders, were recalled. This report has since been fully confirmed, and the several detachments of these troops are now fairly on their march to their former stations. We are told they had hardly passed the boundary line, when gold hunters and gold diggers flocked in by hundreds. The motive for this sudden movement is best known to the powers that be. We recollect, however, distinctly, the former declaration of our Father, the President of the United States, that the intruders would be kept out, that he did not speak with a forked tongue, and that he would not deceive his red children. But perhaps we fail in common understanding, for we cannot discern the practical demonstration  of those assertions.

The removal of the troops has been sudden and unexpected.- The following letter from the Principal Chief was addressed to Col. Hugh Montgomery, United States Agent, under the hope of deriving some information and explanation from that quarter.

CHEROKEE AGENCY,

Nov. 25th 1830

Col. H. Montgomery,

United States Agent.

SIR- In a former communication from the War Department you were instructed to say to the Cherokees, that the President was their friend and would not deceive them, and that it was his wish that there should be no misunderstanding between himself and them, nor between them and yourself, and that the intruders would be removed and kept off their lands, and that so far as he possessed the power to extend to them protection, it will be done, but he could not interpose his interference with Georgia in the exercise of jurisdiction within her chartered limits, 'c. After this a military force was sent, and arrived in this nation as has been said, for the purpose of removing the intruders agreeably to the President's orders; this force having become formidable and efficient by the reinforcement of an additional arrival of troops, it was confidently believed that the complaints against intruders would be effectually removed. In the removal of the white intruders from the gold mines, the Cherokees who were engaged in the mining business were also ordered to desist, and were in part treated as intruders, and upon being told that the prohibition was only intended a temporary suspension, for the more effectual removal of the whites, the Cherokees all quietly and peaceably agreed to comply with the orders of the President. It is now stated that the troops are about to be recalled from the nation, that the protection of the Cherokees is to be transferred to the Government of Georgia,- this extraordinary movement, if true, is astonishingly strange, especially when it is known that the intruders on the frontiers of the other adjoining States are unremoved ' that the Cherokee Nation is by treaty acknowledged to be under the protection of the United States exclusively.

I now call upon you for a full explanation of this report, and also of the views of the General Government in conjunction with that of Georgia, in regard to this nation, so far as you may possess information, either from the War Department or the Executive of Georgia, to the end that there should be no misunderstanding between the President and this nation nor between this nation and yourself, as the Cherokees do not recognize any other relations between them and the people of the United States than those established by treaty with the United States.

I will further add that the Cherokees greatly complain against the intruders who are in the occupancy of the places abandoned by the emigrants, as well as against those living upon Cherokee lands elsewhere-and likewise against you not taking any legal steps to bring the murderers of Chuwoyee to justice, who may be found on the frontier of Georgia or in Carrol County.- Your attention to these subjects and reply is respectfully requested.

I am, Sir, Your Obedient Servant,

JNO. ROSS.

To the foregoing the Agent replied as follows:

CHEROKEE AGENCY;

25th Nov. 1830.

Sir:

I have just read your communication of this date, and in answer to your enquiries in relation to the removal of the United States Troops from this nation, I am unable to give you the explanation which you require. It is so reported that they are to return, or perhaps by this time have set out for the Cantonments from whence they came, and candor requires me to say to you that I am inclined to believe it; not because that I have any official information on that subject from any quarter, (for I have none) but from the general tenor of communications from the War Department (with all of which you have been made acquainted) we have a right to expect that the time is fast approaching when the General Government will not interfere between you and the Governments of the States in which you reside, ' who have assumed the jurisdiction over you; but what arrangements have been made (if any) between the General Government and State Governments with regard to the protection of the Indians individually, and their property I know not.  You have the promise of the President of the United States that intruders will be kept off your lands, and I am authorized to assure you that it will be punctually complied with, and I have no doubt but that other arrangements will be made for that purpose, but what those arrangements are or will be, I have not as yet been informed, but that the President's pledge will be redeemed I have no doubt.

As to the persons who are settled on those improvements abandoned by emigrants, you have no doubt noticed the provisions of the Indian Bill (so called) that no Indian of the same tribe are to occupy them afterwards, and I suppose the order to give them permits is founded on that law.

As to the persons who are charged with the murder of Chuwoyee, you know that I have sent the Sub-agent twice with orders to take warrants, and have them apprehended and brought to justice, and to prosecute them- But that he has returned both times without effecting it.  His first report was forwarded to the War Department or I would enclose it. The last time he made no report upon that subject, but stated verbally, that the two men concerned in the murder had fled to Alabama, but no warrant was taken, nor has any deposition been furnished me, showing who they are, and where they are, so as to enable me to make the application to the proper authority to have them demanded and delivered to justice.

Respectfully your obedient servant.

H.MONTGOMERY.

We presume the reason which the executive would be disposed to give, for the withdrawal of the troops, is that hinted at by the agent, viz: to avoid interfering with the state governments. Supposing this was the reason, and there can be no other, we invite the attention of the reader to the following facts:

1. The President of the United States has given a solemn assurance to the Cherokee Nation that he will protect their right of occupancy to the land, and remove all intruders from it, and this assurance has been made, verbally, and under the hand of the Secretary of War, without any qualifications.

2. In accordance with that assurance and with the repeated petitions of the Cherokees, the troops were ordered into the nation, when it was known to the executive that Georgia had appointed the first day of June 1830 for the extension of the assumed jurisdiction over the Cherokee territory, and when the President had declared he would not interfere with the operation of the State laws.  Notwithstanding this declaration of the President, the laws of the United States, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, was enforced by the troops as well after as before the first day of June 1830.

3. The Cherokee Nation does not lie altogether within the limits of Georgia, but nearly half is within the charters of Alabama, Tennessee, and North Carolina, which States have not yet assumed jurisdiction over this nation, and the military is as necessary to protect the rights of the Cherokees within these limits as within the limits of Georgia.

4. We may add that there is no other provision made in the intercourse law of the United States, for the effectual removal of intruders upon Indian lands, but by the military.

We have indeed 'the promise of the President that intruders will be kept off,' but we ask in the name of common sense, how is it to be 'punctually complied with,' when the only means by which this promise may have been fulfilled are withdrawn?  Will it be said that it will be complied with through the medium of the State of Georgia, that Governor Gilmer will become our step-father, to take the place of our deceased parent, and that we will be effectually protected from that quarter? It will be a sufficient answer to observe, that Georgia is a sovereign State, will do as she pleases and will have no man to interfere with her rights and prerogatives. Who then has a right to speak for her in this matter, when the inhuman principle of taking the Cherokee lands by force has been admitted by her highest authority? But supposing the promise of the President, which the agent, is authorised to assure us shall be fulfilled, is to be redeemed, fully redeemed by the Governor of Georgia, within the limits of that State, who will redeem it within the chartered limits of Alabama, Tennessee, and North Carolina? There is a mist of inconsistencies in these proceedings of the executive of the United States, through which our limited understanding cannot penetrate. If our readers can comprehend them, they are more fortunate than we are.

We have room only for one more remark on our agent's letter. If he is correct in supposing the persons settled on the improvements abandoned by emigrants, are permitted under the provisions of the late act of Congress, commonly called, Indian Bill then that act is unconstitutional, for it is an expost facto  law. The reader will bear in mind that these places were abandoned and settled before the passage of the act in question. But if the agent is mistaken, which, we presume is the case, than he can give no reason why these persons are permitted to reside on these places, and the Government, through its representative, is unable to satisfy the Cherokee people.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

MARRIED- At Oougillogee, on last Thursday, by the Rev. H. G. Clauder, Mr. Thomas Bigbey to Miss. Catharine daughter of Samuel Adair Sr.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

From the American Spectator

ELOQUENT, IMPRESSIVE, AND JUST.

The Society for commemorating the landing of WILLIAM PENN, celebrated the 148th Anniversary of that memorable event on the 25th ult. in great splendor, in Philadelphia. Among the many excellent speeches delivered on the occasion, was the one which we extract on the condition of the Aborigines of this country.  Mr. BERRIEN, United States' Attorney, having been invited to attend the Anniversary, sent with an apology for his absence, the following as a toast for the occasion:

'The Freeman of Pennsylvania-successors of William Penn, and legitimate Lords Proprietary of his woodland domain.  Before the advance of civilization, the red man of the forest has retired from the graves of his ancestors.  Is it the dictate of humanity to deplore the result?'

Mr. INGERSOLL having read the above, eloquently observed-

'If this inquiry be directed to the condition of Pennsylvania alone, it is susceptible of a ready answer. But if it seek, in the conduct and example of William Penn, a sanction for proceedings which are contemplated elsewhere, we who are here present are obliged to demur to the analogy. Taking up the question hypothetically in the latter sense, and apologizing to the distinguished gentleman who has proposed it, if I have mistaken his meaning, I propose to give it a moment's consideration, it is now for the first time distinctly put to Pennsylvania, by a representative of those who are pursuing a course of policy, of which the justice and humanity are open to scrutiny before the tribunal of the civilized world. It is natural that, in collecting opinions upon a delicate question, they should turn, not without solicitude, to the descendants of William Penn. He felt, like his great prototype Columbus, and unlike Columbus, he transmitted to his posterity a deep and devoted interest in the concerns of the original inhabitants of the country, of which the one was the intrepid discoverer, and the other a humane and wise lawgiver.  The 'woodland domain' has been fairly and lawfully acquired by them. But they are called on, in effect, now to say, whether it is not humane to compel the scattered remnants of the children of the forest to quit the graves of their ancestors, and follow the course of the setting sun- they know not whither-but far beyond where he seems, from their present abodes, to sink into the bosom of the distant waters!

If by humanity, be meant a policy disavowed by justice, it must be received with hesitation, however, palatable may be its exercise, or profitable its results.  While humanity continues to act under the guidance of steady and uniform principles, it will be, in all probability, faultless in its impulses. But, the humanity which turns aside from justice, must be uncertain in its origin, and capricious in its movements, and must vary in its direction, as well as force, exactly as interest leads, or passion drives. If the measure proposed be sanctioned by no usage, founded in no right, opposed by treaties, and at war with will understood and long established principles, it must be not merely a questionable, but a perverted humanity, that can thus suggest a violation of laws, human and divine.

'The idea is, in effect, to take their lands from the Indians, without paying them. Not indirect and avowed terms, but to withdraw the protection of the General Government, pledged by solemn treaties and leave them to the mercy of the States, who may choose to become the possessors of them, by fair means or foul.  This is rank injustice, and it would be admitted everywhere to be so, did it stand alone! The necessity of a purchase has now been too long and too invariably recognized and acted on to admit a doubt. It was perhaps first introduced as a part of the wise and honest policy of William Penn. It has been always adopted since, by royal proclamation, by legislative decrees, by executive orders and instructions, and by the unwearying conduct of every State that has had occasion to succeed to the occupancy of the Indians. It is as firmly rooted as the foundation of their native hills.

'But the humanity which is supposed to cover the proceeding, consists in the offer of a supposed equivalent, in extensive hunting grounds beyond the Western Mountains. This unjust humanity,however, this humane injustice, declines to make parties to the exchange those who are mainly interested in it. It contemplates a novel kind of contract, which is voluntary upon the one side, and involuntary upon the other. 'The whole tide of national feeling,' we are assured, 'sets, in one strong and unbroken current, against a removal.' They are opposed to it from the bottom of their hearts.  They cling to their habitations with a firmness proportioned to the strength of their convictions of the clearness of their existing rights, and the enormity of their threatened wrongs.

'If neither justice nor consent sustains the plea of humanity, perhaps there may be kindness in the manner of effecting the removal, which softens the severity of the thing itself. Turn to the statute book, and you will see the tender mercies for which they are indebted.  Arguments of persuasion are there inscribed with an iron and relentless hand. Their laws, and ordinances are declared null and void. They are not permitted to testify against the whites, and are therefore condemned to be the victims of the most atrocious crimes.  Even those who venture to counsel or advise them for their good, are branded with infamy, and loaded with chains.  A whole nation is outlawed. Cut off thus from mutual protection, and fellowship with others, the door opened wide to admit every species of assailants, through their prejudices or their crimes, the finger of scorn pointed at their dwellings, the consolations of friendship denied access to their bosoms, their worst passions fomented: and the last best relief of suffering man, the bright beams of hope, extinguished--the injustice of the measure is exceeded by the cruelty which accompanies its infliction.

'Compare this course of treatment with that adopted by William Penn, when Indian wrongs were measured by no other standard; and Indian rights redressed by no other appeal, than, that provided for the white man--when no invitations were given to 'win upon them in the line of their own prejudices,' to their own destruction--when none were permitted to minister to their evil propensities, which, they share with the rest of mankind:---but penalties were inflicted for leading them into temptation, and they received especial and paternal protection from the wiles of their more sagacious neighbors.

'We are still at fault in our searches to detect the lurking humanity of the contemplated proceedings.

'But perhaps, the end--though in violation of justice, treaties, and established laws--in opposition to the wishes of one of the parties--in manner cruel as in principle without excuse--perhaps the end will vindicate the motive, and sanctify the means. Is a separation from the white man a measure of humanity towards the Indians? Who created the contact and who rendered it disastrous?--- Did the Indian leave his forests to seek the white man, or did the white man cross the waters and penetrate the wilds, to force himself upon the happy retreats of the Indians? Has the contamination of the savage infected, with barbarous habits, the sons of Europe? Or has the evil communication of European manners corrupted the simplicity, without enlightening the ignorance of the savage? If authentic history be not all a fable, they were, for the most part, a guileless, generous, confiding, people; given, fatally given, as it seems to hospitality--amiable and grateful in the extreme--firm in their friendships, and not inexorable in their hate. They seem to have been providentially blessed with many of the gospel virtues, without having been visited by the glad tidings of its name.  If these virtues have indeed been exchanged for opposite qualities, it is because of an association which the natives neither desired nor sought. Feeble, then, is the pretext for their removal, founded in the suppose corruption occasioned by those who insist upon a separation.

'But possible they will be happier elsewhere. Their fancied heaven is perhaps beyond the hills, or on the borders of the distant waters. There their boundless desires may expand without restraint. There they may roam at pleasure over interminable plains, unmolested by the vicinity of the white man. Will it really conduce to present or future happiness to be withdrawn from the light of civilization and a knowledge of the living God? To be restored to primeval habits, with an exposure to all the imputed horrors of savage life? If, as Christians, we could believe it; if, as citizens of a happy country, living under the benign influence of mild and equal laws, we could admit the moral propriety of the course proposed, still there are natural difficulties which are absolutely insuperable. You must teach them to forget the lessons of civilization which you have taught them. You must give back their comparative purity, with their absolute ignorance. You must re-invigorate the sinews which you have deprived of strength, and replace the courage and activity that would pursue and delight in the gigantic pastimes of the wilderness.

'Suppose them however, removed, and happy: engaged like their ancestors in the occupations, and breathing like them the atmosphere of a state of nature: stripped of the garb with which civilization had clothed them, and yet happily blind to the consciousness of their own nakedness, what security is there against the farther encroachments of the white man?- Wherever temptation leads, cupidity will follow: and as casuists have discovered a new species of humanity in the removal beyond the mountains, future casuists will find a newer still in a removal beyond the waters.

'Besides, these are no longer savages. The propensities for the life designed for them, have vanished with their capacity to enjoy it. They have, if official reports be credited, every thing which can distinguish them as civilized men. They have schools, and churches, and printing presses; government and laws.  They are herdsmen, agriculturists, mechanics, 'c. They have attained the last glorious test which marks the broad line between civilized and savage life--respect for the female character, tenderness for the female person, and a proper separation of their pursuits. They are not, as Lord Chatham once expressed it, 'the cannibal savage thirsting for blood, torturing murdering; devouring, drinking the blood of his mangled victims.' It will be remembered that the burst of eloquence to which I have alluded was uttered in reply to a similar plea in the name of humanity.  Every succeeding President has proclaimed their improvement in the arts of civilized life. Ancient customs have been abolished. We are distinctly informed, 'that it may be doubted whether any considerable portions of the civilized world present specimens of equal improvement' in the same space of time.'* The question is whether these men, 'our brethren by every tie that can sanctify human nature,' shall be deprived of what they have, and driven by force or fraud--as some of their ancestors were by the blood hounds of the Spaniards--among unknown regions, not to seek their original habits, for we have deprived them of their practical hardihood, and dexterity, but to suffer, and languish, and die, and have their race and name exterminated and forgotten. Their clergy has been well expressed in a recent production of a Northern poet:--

The doom's Indian leaves behind no trace

To save his own or serve another race:

Nor lofty pile, nor glowing page,

Shall link him to a future age.

His heraldry is but a broken bow,

His history-but a tale of wrongs and wo (sic).'

'I will ask leave to conclude, with requesting you to receive as a toast,

'The learned, eloquent and accomplished Attorney General of the United States.'

*Rev. Mr. Kingsbury's letter to Col. M'Kenny, 8th February, 1830, as to the Choctaws.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

INDIANS

From the New York Observer.

GREEN BAY, Sept. 9, 1830

Messrs. Editors- The Menomenies and Winnebagoes are powerful and rival nations, and extremely jealous of each other. The recent convention necessarily brought their chiefs and warriors and common people into near and intimate contact. They very prudently and naturally, however, made the river a division between them, in setting up their lodges or encampments. On the west side of the river, on the plain in rear of Fort Howard during the three days previous to the opening of the council, was seen rapidly rising, first a sparse, and soon a thick and smoking town of the Menomenies. It required but a little stretch and play of the imagination to conceive it a large city, on their scale of reckoning. And once or twice on a morning, in looking through the breaking up of a fog from the river, the first glimpses of the white tops of the lodges, and the curling of the smoke through the interstices of the cloud, have for a moment practised a complete illusion, and there seemed a large and beauteous town opening to the eye. On the east side was the encampment of the Winnebagoes. but every day, by the constant passing and repassing of such a scene, by the intermingling of the crowd at the council booth, the Menomenies and Winnebagoes were brought side by side, and without interruption crossed each other's tracks. The mutual hatred and jealousies of the English and French are proverbial. And it is well known they are not remarkably civil and courteous towards each other, they are scrupulous of their own prerogative, and not indisposed to construe the slightest inadvertence into an insult. So are the Menomenies and Winnebagoes. This state of feeling was pretty clearly demonstrated in the getting up of a war dance which was first done by the Winnebagoes for the amusement of the white people and others assembled on this occasion. The sport went off so well, and so much to the credit of the actors, that the Menomenies resolved they would not be behind nor outdone in a feat of this kind.  Accordingly on the next day after the first exhibition, great preparations were making on both sides for a rival war dance. And the motives of emulation were so powerful, the excitement of national pride so great, there could be no doubt that an acting off of this terrific scene was about to be displayed in the highest style and under the most striking and impressive representations.

The Winnebagoes are a proud, high bearing race, exhibiting more of the native wildness and savage independence of Indian character, than any nation around them-looking down with perfect contempt on all other tribes, especially upon their neighbors. The Menomenies, on the present occasion, were by far the most numerous, and under the special excitement of the fresh return of the war party from the Mississippi, who, in alliance with Sioux, have this summer been waging war with the Sacs and Foxes; and brought into the camp of their nation here at the council the head of a Fox Indian, which was daily exhibited on a pole, and tossed about as a trophy of their recent victories.

One of the accompaniments of a war dance, is music-or what the Indians call music-instrumental and vocal. And although Indians, civilized are found to have the most melodious voices of all of human kind, and to be the most passionate lovers of harmony, yet in their wild and savage condition, the character of their music is in perfect keeping with that of their heart--wild, discordant and harsh. (I have noticed however one instrument among them of their own invention, the structure and tones of which are not unlike the flageolet, adapted to the softer passions, and designed no doubt for quiet, domestic scenes, the music of which at a little distance is plaintive beyond anything I have ever heard. A nice observation, however, soon detects a total want of regular intervals) But especially the war dance, would seem to demand a kind of music, making the strongest appeals to the ruder passions of so rude a race. The most prominent instrument is a drum, for the construction of which, an old cast-by keg of three gallon capacity, or a hollow trunk of a tree of the same dimensions will do. I have seen one of each. For the present occasion the Winnebagoes took the former, knocked out one of the heads, stopped the bung hole with a cob, put a little water in the bottom, and stretched a wet deer skin over the other end, attached to pegs, rudely drove into the elongated parts, and as rudely twisted by the rudest sticks, making so many levers, one end of which for permanency, found a place under the before mentioned pegs.  I stood for some time to witness the skill and progress in the construction of this instrument. And verily, to see half a dozen of men, gravely and passionately employed in such a piece of work and stretching their wits to make it perfect; showing all the simplicity of so many children of two and three years old, and equally absorbed as such children are in building a cob house, was humiliating and affecting. But to see those very men in a war dance in the evening was a far different scene. When the instrument was supposed to be perfect, one took his knife, and knotty green stick which lay by his side, and in two minutes whittled out the only drum stick, eight inches long, which is necessary for the service. And then, applying it to the drum struck up the customary beating. Instantly every countenance brightened, and a sudden and clamorous shout of applause mingling with the sound of the drum, told most emphatically, that their whole heart was satisfied, and that the instrument was perfect. The sound of it is very like the common bass drum, if it is supposed to be reduced to the same dimensions. It is the beating of this which regulated in time all the movements of the dance. And the quickness of that movement is somewhat more brisk than that displayed in the common ball room of the whites. The leader of the band of the war dance is a Stentorian vociferator, who seems to take his pitch by rubbing violently a long notched wooden pole by another piece of wood. Then by great muscular effort of his whole system, inflating his lungs by a kind of convulsive gasp, he gives a token, and the band and dancers all begin--drumming, singing, shouting, yelling, dingling of metallic rods-at one time running a sort of chant in a low bass monotony, then suddenly passing a wide discrete interval into a sharp falsetto, or scream, which makes the Indian yell, or war-whoop. And no one could believe, did not his eye and ear together certify him, that the two kinds of voice proceed from the same beings. The Indian war whoop is a sharp, piercing falsetto, as elevated as the highest scream of a woman in a fright, broken and trilled, or male tremulous, by the mechanical play of the fingers on the lips. This whoop is repeated by all the dancers every two or three minutes, and seems to be a kind of letting off, or explosion of the highest possible degree of excitement. It is startling and frightful beyond description, breaking, as it does, unexpectedly, from a multitude of voices. Even though one has heard it a thousand times in succession, in the same dance, it always came unexpected. The transition of voice is so sudden and violent, so characteristically diverse from the low and monotonous movement which precedes and follows so unearthly, so like the ideal conception of the sudden breaking loose of hell itself in triumph, that one involuntarily trembles and shudders.

And the other accompaniments of this scene: the naked savage, painted in the most horrible forms, with a crown of feathers shooting from his head, his eye and every feature mad with, and dark as hell, wielding and brandishing in his hand the weapons of death, his body in perpetual and simultaneous movement with the music of the band and his own voice, together 'grating harsh thunder,' himself at the same time inclined, half bent, like a man under a heavy burden, darting with his naked and uplifted weapon through a multitude of others, all accoutred like himself and like himself performing the same indescribable evolutions, sometimes like fighting, and then more circumspect; a spectator fears every moment that they will wound and kill each other, and while absorbed in this anxiety or some other feeling they have excited, they suddenly break into their horrid yell, resembling what one would imagine to be the laughing triumph of fiends, mingled with screams of the agonizing sufferer they have got in their power. Then again immediately resuming their low and monotonous chant and the wild fierce dance, they work up their own passions and the interest of spectators to the highest possible pitch, till, with a surprise as great as ever, their horrid yell bursts again upon the ear, and all for a moment is still as death. And so with the introduction of a thousand successive novelties they continue for hours and for a whole night.

One part of the war dance, which for us would be called beating for recruits, is peculiarly significant and impressive. Those already enlisted or pledged to the war, which in solemn council has been decided on, together with the music, take their seats in a close group upon the ground. A rifle, tomahawk, or some other weapon of war is laid upon the ground a little distance, changing whoever will go and take it up for the war already resolved. And the act of grasping and lifting the weapon is a pledge of enlistment.  Then, the group upon the ground, striking up a war song with their voice and instruments, are supposed by this act to challenge the lifting up of the weapon, seeming to say, who will take it up?  And they grow more and more impassioned and violent, till someone from the crowd steps out, with his eye fixed upon the weapon, dancing to the music, pointing with his finger, and performing innumerable and most extravagant feats of jumping and significant gesticulations, urged on by the still increasing din of the clamor from the group of challengers.  He is naturally reluctant, seems to think of the possible results to himself, to his family and friends, counts the cost of every shape, and then hears the call of his nation to battle. He comes nearer to the weapon, and then retreats. He dances round it and round it; he comes near again, extends his hand, as if to take it up, and then starts back by some sudden and forbidding thought.  Like as a bird spellbound and charmed by a serpent, flutters and circles in the air, struggling to escape, but still drawing nearer and nearer, he makes a sudden and desperate plunge, grasps the weapon of death, and lifts himself erect. Then, in an instant, shouts of exultation rend the air, and his name and hand are pledged. Next, to the same music, he performs all the feats of discovery, shooting and scalping and enemy. This done, he replaces the weapon where he took it up, takes his seat with the challenging group, till the same round has added another to their number, and another, and so they fill the ranks for war.

While all this was doing on the east side of the river by the Winnebagoes, the same things were in progress on the west side, among the Menomenies. But unluckily for the latter, their side of the river was not so public, and not receiving their share of attention, they suddenly resolved upon a stratagem, to cross the river in silence, under cover of the dusk of evening, and surprise the Winnebagoes and all their spectators by a feigned attack. In the midst of these sports of the Winnebagoes, which to us had already grown sufficiently grave and frightful, and seemed to mean something more than sport; in an instant, and like the lighting of heaven, a tremendous war-whoop rent the air from behind, and as soon as the thunder follows a flash which wakens it, a horde of savage warriors, in their most hideous forms,and armed with the weapons of death, pounced into the midst of the throng, scattered them like startled sheep, every one for his life; and the aggressors stood in triumph upon the very ground kept vacant for the sports of the Winnebagoes, and commenced their war dance. It was an insult, an outrage.  The Winnebagoes felt it, and stood for a moment in sullen silence, till their famous warrior chief, Four Legs kindled into wrath, laid aside his blanket and beckoned in a most significant and menacing manner, the retreat of those rude invaders of his ground. The Menomenies marched without the circle of the Winnebagoes, and in the immediate vicinity recommenced their war dance, seeming to bid defiance to their rivals, and challenge their share of attention. The resentment on either part was manifest and alarming. The Winnebagoes instantly renewed their challenge for recruits and behold, their warrior chief stepped forth, as was well understood for this particular occasion. He fixed his javelin, already laid upon the ground to be lifted up by himself, then looking upon his men in the group, then pointed to the Menomenies who had dared to insult them, them displayed the symbols of his chieftainship about his person, and then commenced a wild and frantic dance, with a muscular energy which made the ground tremble beneath his feet, approached the weapon and repeated in the usual forms with many others peculiar to himself, then seizing the javelin with a mad and convulsive grasp, he darted like lightning into the midst of the Menomenies, and instantly returned leading two of their warriors prisoners, and presented them in triumph before his own. It was unexpected and resistless feat, and full of portentous meaning. The Menomenies were compelled to one of two alternatives; either to suffer it as an atonement for their insult, or quarrel on the instant. And for a moment by the significant and angry murmurings which passed between the parties, it seemed doubtful which way it would turn. The prisoners however, affected to take it in sport, submitted to a brief detention, and were then dismissed. And I am told, that more trifling incidents than this inspired Indian wars.

Truly glad was I and many others, when this affair was over. It gave to the sports of the evening a most grave and serious aspect. And all expected quarrel during the night. Till morning came the whole region rung with the most frightful savage yells; yells which begun in sport, threatened to end in blood. So untamed, fierce, and ungovernable are the passions of these wild children of the forest.  But especially was it a perilous hour, in consequence of a preceding and generous distribution of strong drink, dealt out by those who had instigated the exhibition. And an Indian, mad with liquor and passion combined, is of all beings the most uncertain and dangerous. I do not, for one, desire to witness the renewal of such a scene.

The amazing power of pantomime was most wonderfully displayed in all these exhibitions of the war dance. For all the interpretations here given, I am indebted alone to the intelligible and indubitable language of this art. To satisfy myself of the correctness of these interpretation, after having concluded this description, I have made particular inquiry of those who know, and do hot find occasion to alter or correct a single feature of the whole picture.

Yours, gentlemen, respectfully.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

On our last page, we have inserted the letter of the Secretary of War to the Southern Indians. We need not say that the doctrines it inculcates are doctrines which from the very bottom of our souls we abhor. We are republicans, we believe that all men are born free and equal- and we cannot admit, that the citizens of any district in this country have a right to disfranchise and cruelly oppress 70,000 men, without provocation, and without the pretence of any other crime than the color of their skin.- We are Christians-we believe that God made of one blood all men that dwell upon the face of the earth, and we cannot consent to stigmatize as Utopian all efforts for the civilization and improvement of the Indian tribes.

In his second paragraph, the Secretary says that the Indians are bound to submit to the laws of the states; and in the same breath he tells them that they cannot live under these laws that it is idle to think of it, that every white man and every Indian knows that it is impossible. At the same time he tells them that the United States government are under no obligation to render them any aid in removing, that if such aid is rendered, it is mere mercy-uncovenanted mercy! Is it possible that the people of this country can hear with apathy such sentiments from the lips of one of the high officers of their government? Is this America-the boasted land of liberty-the asylum of the oppressed? --And are there in this land, 70,000 men who are bound to submit to laws which they had not voice in making and in which they cannot live! 70,000 men who can have no home but one which they must owe to the mercy of their brethren.  And are these men (Oh! base ingratitude!) the only descendants- the last remnant of that race which welcomed our pilgrim fathers, and gave them a home for themselves and their children? Are the aborigines of America the only men on the continent who have no right to a quiet resting place within its limits?  It cannot be that the American people will submit to see such principles, avowed and incorporated into the standing policy of their government! Religion--Consistency--Gratitude--will speak--they will be heard--they will triumph--they will triumph speedily and gloriously.

N. Y. Obs.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

From the Village Record

COUNTY MEETING:

At a meeting of a number of the citizens of Chester County at the house of Samson Babb, in West Chester, on the first day of November, 1830; convened for the purpose of consulting as to what course would be most advisable and competent to obtain a full and fair expression of the sentiments of the citizens of this country, in relation to the address and prayer of the Cherokee Nation of Indians to the people of these United States; asking the friendly aid and intercession of all liberal and humane citizens to save them from violence and threatened destruction ; it was

Resolved, That in the opinion of this meeting, on taking a view of the existing relations between the United States and these Indians-and their threatened expulsion by the state of Georgia; we are bound by the most sacred engagements to protect them in their right of soil and sovereignty against intrusion from any state, or any of our citizens of the United States.

And. That as this subject is of such high and unlimited importance-involving the honor and good name of the whole American people-justice to ourselves, to our own character, ' a proper regard for all the charitable and endearing attributes of our name demand a clear and full expression of the public sentiment thereon;

It is therefore- Resolved. That a public meeting of the citizens of this country, friendly to the rights of the Indians, be invited to behold at the County Court House, in the borough of West Chester, at 11 o'clock A.M. on Monday, the 22d day of November inst. for the purpose of taking into consideration the aforementioned address, and promises and recommending such measures in relation thereto as in their collected judgement the urgency and importance of the case may require.

On behalf of the Meeting.

JAMES M'ILVAIN

GEORGE MASSEY

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: DEC. 11, 1830

We regret we cannot as yet present the Phoenix to our subscribers in its usual size. We cannot account for the delay of our supply of paper.

_____________

The present Secretary of War has distinguished himself above all his predecessors, in traducing the character of the Indians, and in representing them as utterly incapable of improvement in the arts of civilized life. We have only to refer the reader to the documents which have emanated from his hands for the truth of this assertion. It was but the other day we published a long letter, originally addressed to the Creek Agent, wherein he said, it was but a utopian thought to think of civilizing the Indians,  and compared them in their intractableness to the wild turkey, leopard, and Ethiopian. After his having asserted such things, we were not a little surprised to notice his refutation of all he had formerly said, by inserting in his celebrated treaty, the representation of the Choctaws that they were rapidly improving. He must have believed them, or why insert it? We have reference to the last article, which reads as follows:

The Chiefs of the Choctaw Nation, having represented that their people are in a state of rapid advancement, in education and refinement, and have expressed a solicitude, that they may have the privilege of a delegate on the floor of the House of Repre-sentatives extended to them.  The Commissioners do not feel, that they can under a treaty stipulation accede to the request but at their desire present it in the treaty that Congress may consider of and decide the application.

_____________

There appears to have been a great deal of feeling manifested in the legislation of Georgia, on the subject of surveying the Cherokee Territory, but we have not as yet learnt the result. The legislature is divided into two parties, the moderate,

and the violent. The former is for temperate measures, it is said-but the latter goes for the 'whole hog'--They (or the latter) are for taking possession of the country at once. We are rather inclined to think this part is strongest in the House, but the other in the Senate.

A discussion on the subject of the Cherokees took place on Wednesday, Nov. 17. Among the speakers was one, Mr. Turner, who went into the argument on the main question. Mr. Turner is of the moderate party. We insert the substance of some of his remarks.

The Indian right of occupancy had been questioned: he would prove the existence of that right. Mr. T. here read the opinion of Doctor Morse, an authorized agent of the general government as contained in his report published by authority, page 67, which constantly recognized the Indian right of occupancy.- Should it be said that Dr. Morse was more of divine than a lawyer, let it be remembered, that his opinion was founded on, and sustained by, the opinion of an eminent lawyer, published in his appendix, p. 279.

The right was also sustained by the decisions of the Supreme Court. In the case of Fletcher and Peck, the court declared that the 'right was to be respected by all courts will it was legitimately extinguished.' See also the case of Johnston vs. McIntosh- Wheaton's Reports.

The doctrines of the Supreme Court had also been recognized and enforced by our own courts. See the decision in the cases of certain reserves under the treaties with the Cherokees in 1817-19.

It might be supposed, that no act of the Legislature, as was now proposed would lawfully extinguish the Indian right.  This would not be the fact; for, although a former act of the Legislature subjected the reserves aforesaid mentioned to disposition by lottery, yet this did not, even in the estimation of our own tribunals, extinguish the Indian title.

But the declaration made by the President, in his Message at the commencement of last session of Congress, had been relied on, as the strong ground to sustain the advocates of immediate survey. The President had said, that the Indian could not be supposed to have a valid title to all the land he had seen from the mountain or passed in the chase. Little as General Jackson was in the habit of indulging in flourished, it appeared to Mr. T. that this was a mere rhetorical flourish, and would be found unsusceptible or very difficult of practical application.

Besides, since the date of the President's Message, Congress have spoken authoritatively upon this point. To the 7th section of the Indian bill, passed near the close of their late session, is attached a 'provision, nothing in this act contained shall be construed as authorizing or directing the violation of any existing treaty between the United States and any of the Indian tribes.' The treaties, then, and not General Jackson's enunciations, are the measure of Indian right which Congress has assumed. These designate certain limits, and these, together with the laws, we are informed by Gen. Eaton's letter to the Governor, under date of 1st June last, the President 'will consider it a duty faithfully to execute.' The President to be sure, made this declaration in view of intrusions and irregular settlements upon Indian lands: yet he has given us a general rule applicable to all the rights of the Indians under treaty stipulations.

Adverting again to the concessions which Georgia has made in favor of the Indians, the General Assembly, in ratifying the articles of agreement and cession, entered into by those distinguished citizens, James Jackson, Abraham Baldwin, and John Milledge, engaged the United States to extinguish the Indian title to land within our limits; thus recognizing the right asserted. This right is also expressly admitted in Governor Gilmer's message. Mr. P. said there were other authorities before him, but it was unnecessary to read them. Thus then it appeared that the right of occupancy was recognised by all the departments of the general government, and by every department of the government of Georgia.

But not only had the constituted authorities recognized the Indian right of occupancy; but all our representatives, and all our friends in Congress, had disclaimed the idea of force. Mr. Wilde, said, 'the laws of Georgia neither contemplate driving the Cherokees from their lands, nor any other act of injustice or oppression against them.' Col. Foster, Mr. Forsyth, and others, gave similar pledges, and without such pledges, the Indian bill could not have passed.

Besides these pledges, it has been recently announced from one of our highest tribunals, in a charge which has met the sanction of the juries and the citizens, that the Indians 'have nothing to dread either from the character of our laws, or the mode of their administration.'

Mr. T. said, the President had given the most explicit and repeated guarantees. In a letter of October 14th, 1829, Gen. Eaton said to Gov. Forsyth, among other things which would sustain Mr. T's views, the President 'regards it as an obligation of the most sacred character to maintain a faithful guardianship towards the Indians, and to preserve his administration of their affairs from the slightest imputation of injustice.' In a letter under date 18th April, 1829, to the Cherokee Delegation, the Secretary of War says, 'an interference (mark an interference) to the extent of affording you protection and the occupancy of your soil, is what is demanded of the justice of this country, and will not be withheld.' It has already been seen, from Gen. Eaton's letter of 1st June last, that the President would consider it his duty faithfully to execute the treaties and laws.' The probability, then is, that the President would resist an attempt to dispose of Cherokee lands to which the Indian right has not been extinguished.

Mr. T. averted to the late arrangement with the Choctaws whose example would probably be followed by other Southern Indians, as affording ground to hope, that our rights might be realized in due time by treaty.

Mr. T. was 'well assured' that the President believed, from information collected in the course of the present year, that he could at an early period, induce the Cherokees to remove; and that the President greatly desired a little further time to operate in his own way.

Besides, there was great reason to fear, if Georgia should take her remedy into her own hands, the United States may feel absolved from their engagement under the compact of 1802, and may resist the measures of Georgia, or at least decline the expenditures necessary to remove the Indians, and may thus leave them, as 'permanent inhabitants' within our limits; and may also refuse to reimburse the State for the lands that may be permanently occupied by the Indians who may remain on our lands.

In regard to the Federal Court, too, before which, Mr. T. did not wish Georgia to become a party, it would be better, therefore to avoid collision, if possible with every department of the general government.

The Augusta (Geo.) Chronicle, speaking upon this subject, says:

There appears to be a strong disposition on the part of the Legislature, which is with difficulty restrained by the more temperate and prudent efforts of a few leading members, to take immediate possession of our Indian territory, and allot to the Indian occupants, a small portion of land to each family. We regret to see such a disposition exist, and trust that it will be entirely eradicated by the arguments of those opposed to it, believing as we do, that it is neither sanctioned by reason or justice, nor in accordance with the wishes of the people.

The editor is opposed to the Lottery System, and calls it a 'scandalous suicidal policy'- 'an insatiate vampire, continually sucking the very life-blood of the state, and at the same time flapping its wings over its wretched victim, and lulling it into dreams of 'more land,' 'more land'---'more land for nothing!' He advises the Georgians to let the Cherokee lands alone for the present.---It is for the interest of the State.

The following is sound logic, and very  acceptable coming as it does from a Georgian.

'Suppose A agrees with B that, for a certain consideration, which is paid down, he will purchase C's House and let, as soon as it can reasonably be done, and put him in possession of it- that A neglects to do so, till at last C positively refuses to sell--and that he cannot, therefore, comply with his contract to B-will this give any right over C-the right for instance to take forcible possession of his House and lot? Or, is not his only claim one against A for damages, for non-compliance with his contract? If this be answered in the affirmative, as we presume it must be, the claim of Georgia is clearly of like nature, and in like manner, against the United States ' not against the Indians.'

__________________________

We have received a letter from an intelligent Cherokee of the Arkansas, from which we make some extracts.

You will please to indulge me with a few remarks upon the state of your nation, and the situation of our people in it. There are but two choices as I understand left for you to reflect upon- to remove or remain- to remain is miserable, to remove is destruction. If you remove where will it be to? Will you light upon our little timbered spot here sixty miles square, and crush us to death, or will you make choice of the barren desert joining us, which the agents of Government represent to be a paradise? If you do, your case is desperate--there is a strip of timber varying from forty to sixty miles in width lying above the territorial and State lines beginning on Red River, and running north to Missouri River, 'c.  On the strip of timbered land are strung the Choctaws, Cherokees, Osages, Delawares, Shawnees, Kickapoos, 'c.- now here is the ample and sufficient country, which you are told of to come to.--all else west of this strip of timbered land is one continued prairie, and barren desert.

The writer says they have made two treaties since the last treaty entered into by this nation with the United States, and that from them they have learned two essential points which he recommends to the people of this nation, if they consent to treat,(which by the way they have no notion of doing) to observe- to have the lines run and established before removal. He says,'we have been trying to get our lines run ever since the treaty of 1817- but nothing effected yet, and the best portion of the country promised to us by the late treaty is now contended for by the Creeks.'

Our correspondent further says,- 'The little country we have now got (meaning the timbered part only, for they have seven millions of acres) is variegated with skirts of prairies, and where large mountains break off into small ones, it is thereby rendered pleasant and delightful--the waters are handsome and generally plenty. Tillable land is reasonably plenty.'

Our national affairs are at present very conflicting.--The plan of speculation has been introduced into the different nations here by the former United States Indian agents, and in order to effect their plans, were obliged to employ natives of the nations as emissaries-thus the whole nation has become a continued scene of speculation--Justice is overruled, regulations forgotten, while the most daring impositions have been palmed upon the nation and people. General S. Houston is the first who has dared to expose such daring violation of trust--he seems to have pried into the most secret part of their plans, from the fact of his having been able to give so true a statement of their arrangements.

Speaking of the late emigrants the writer says,'Some of them are whimsical enough to wish themselves back again,' and then observes-

They were hardly welcome at first, and some coldness did exist against them for coming here without land or money. But the blame of this evil must rest upon the United States, and the delegation who made the late treaty; for the delegation were so insensible to the wishes of the nation and the nature of their instructions, that instead of settling a few claims of the nation, and getting its boundaries run off and made permanent, the first echo we got from them was they had treated us all away; and bore hard upon our Brothers

of the old nation.

He thinks there are strong indications of the existence of precious minerals in the country, and that silver mines can be discovered by competent persons, who would make diligent search. He thinks it very probable that individuals have made such discoveries, but they are waiting to know who will eventually hold the land.

We learn from the same source, that James Rogers has been displaced as United States Interpreter, and that John Brown ( a late emigrant) has been appointed in his place.

_______________

In another part of our paper, the reader will find a correspondence on the subject of the removal of the Troops. We do not feel disposed to add anything further to the remarks we made last week. We believe the strange course of the executive in this affair does not require any comments to make reflecting men see and understand.

______________

Legislative- The Indian Land bill has been under warm debate for several days in the House. Mr. McDonold of Bibb has offered a new substitute to both the previous Bills.  It contains a provision for reservations, the full fee simple value of which are to be paid to Georgia by the Government. We learn that this substitute is predicated upon information from Washington. The prospect for the removal of the common mass of the Indians appears to be brightening.-- Fed. Union.



This is a great mistake-the prospect for the removal of the common mass of the Cherokee is as dark as ever. We say again, nothing but force will remove them.

Ed. Phoe.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

NOTICE

WILL BE SOLD TO THE HIGHEST bidder, at the late residence of Thomas B. Adair, on the second Monday in January next, all the property belonging to the estate of T. B. Adair, deceased viz: three negroes, JOE, his wife NELLY and CHILD, from five to six hundred bushels of CORN, four stacks of FODDER, four head of HORSES, eleven head of CATTLE, fifty head of HOGS, one ROAD WAGGON (sic), one yoke of  OXEN, one LOOM, one RIFLE GUN,-together with household and kitchen FURNITURE.

ALSO

That a valuable improvement belonging to said estate, lying on the road leading from the lower part of Georgia to Tennessee, one mile north of Etowah River beautifully situated for a stand, containing seventy acres of cleared land, a good house with a garden and other necessary buildings. As for the land, for quantity of quality, inferior to none in the nation.

Terms- Twelve months credit for all amounts over five dollars, and for all under five dollars, money paid down. Good security will be required.

JOS. M. LYNCH, Executor.

Dec. 11, 1830.

_______________________________________________________________

A STRAY COW AND YEARLING have been running with my cattle for more than a year. The Cow is of a bright dun color, marked with an under bit in both ears. The yearling is a dunn with a white back. The owner is requested to come forward, prove property, pay charges and take them away.

GEORGE HICKS

Dec. 11

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This edition of the Phoenix is printed in four columns only.

CORRESPONDENCE.

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT

Milledgeville, Nov. 20

I transmit in both Houses of the General Assembly, copies of a communication received from the War Department, in answer to a letter requesting of the President the withdrawal of the United States Troops from the Territory of the State, occupied by the Cherokees. The Legislature will perceive in the conduct of the President in this matter, as well as all others, the disposition to accord to Georgia all her rights. The removal of the United States troops from the territory occupied by the Cherokees, creates an immediate and pressing necessity for the passage of such laws as may effectually restrain all persons from entering into that territory, for the purpose of taking possession of the public land, or the taking valuable minerals therefrom, without license from the State.

GEORGE R. GILMER.

__________

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT.

Milledgeville, 29th Oct. 1830.

Sir: By an act of the Legislature of Georgia, passed at its last session, all the Cherokee territory and the persons occupying it, were subjected to the ordinary jurisdiction of the State, after the 1st of June, than next ensuing. This act has gone into operation. The acknowledgement of the President of the right of the State to pass such an act, renders it unnecessary to say anything in its justification. The object of this letter is to request the President that the U. S. troops may be withdrawn from the Indian territory within Georgia. The enforcement of the non-intercourse law within the limits of the State, is considered inconsistent with the rights of jurisdiction which is now exercised by its authorities, and must if continued, lead to difficulties between officers of the United States and State Governments, which it is very desirable should be avoided.  No doubt is entertained that the object of the President in ordering the U. States troops into the Cherokee territory, was the preservation of the peace of the Union. The motive is duly appreciated. The Legislature is now in session. The special object of its meeting is the enforcement of the laws of the State within the Cherokee Country, and the punishment of intrusion into it by persons searching for gold. Its powers are amply sufficient for that purpose. As it is expected that the law for the punishment of trespassers upon the public lands, will go into operation within a few days, the President is therefore requested to withdraw the troops as soon as it can be conveniently done.  The Commander Maj. Wager has been very severe to the gold diggers. In some instances unoffending citizens have been made the subject of punishment in violation of their rights, and the authority of the State-Complaints have been made in this Department and redress asked for. The removal of the troops is believed to be the most effectual means of preventing the repetition of such injuries. Information has also been received at this Department, that the digging for gold is still carried on in various parts of the Cherokee territory, and that the extent of country containing mines is so great, that it is wholly impossible to prevent it by the use of the military alone. It is said that the Indians are even more extensively employed in taking gold than before the arrival of the troops. The fear of the whites had restrained them previously.

The President is assured that whatever measures may be adopted by the State of Georgia in relation to the Cherokees, the strongest desire will be felt to make them accord with the policy which has been adopted by the present administration of the General Government.

Very respectfully, 'c.

GEO. R. GILMER.

To the President of the U. States.

________________

WAR DEPARTMENT.

Washington, Nov. 10, 1830.

Sir: The President has returned to this Department your letter of 29th of last month, advising him that the act of the Legislature of Georgia, passed at its last session, subjecting all the Cherokee territory and the persons occupying it to the ordinary jurisdiction of the State, has gone into operation, and in reply I have the honor to inform you that previously to the receipt of your letter an order was issued to Major Wager, a copy of which for your information and satisfaction, is here enclosed. By it, you will perceive he is instructed, as the winter is approaching, to retire with his troops into winter quarters. It is expected that the emergency which induced the troops to enter the Indian country has ceased.

Your Excellency entertained a just view of the motives which led to the ordering the troops into the Cherokee territory, as expressed in your communication. It is much to be regretted that in the execution of his orders, the commanding officer should have found himself constrained to resort to measures which may have operated hardly upon some individuals.

The President is happy in the assurance which your Excellency is pleased to give, that the measures which the State of Georgia may adopt in relation to the Cherokees, will accord with the policy which has been adopted by the General Government.

Very respectfully, 'c.

JNO. H. EATON.

His Excellency

G. R. Gilmer.

________

HEAD QUARTERS OF THE ARMY

Washington, 8th Nov. 1830

To Brevet Major P. Wager, 4th Reg't Infantry Commanding Troops in Cherokee Nation:

Sir: The purpose for which the Troops were ordered into the Cherokee Nation having in a great measure been answered, the Secretary of War deems it advisable, upon the approach of winter, that you retire to some position where the troops can be comfortably accommodated, and where they will be in striking distance to meet any contingency that may arise out of our Indian relations, which cannot at this time be perceived. It is hoped however, that no circumstance will occur which will render it necessary again to employ the troops among the Cherokees, particularly as the Legislature of Georgia now in session, will doubtless take the proper and necessary steps to preserve tranquility along the Indian border.  You will therefore with the detachment of the 4th Regiment of Infantry, retire upon Fort Mitchell. The Artillery with the exception of Captain Barden's company, now at Fort Mitchell, will retire to their respective stations, viz: the men belonging to Lieut. Col. Fannin's Company to Augusta Arsenal; Captain Legate's Company to Charleston; and Captain Taylor's Company to Savannah.

I have the honor to be, 'c. 'c.

A. MACOMB.

Maj. Gen. Commanding the Army.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














five page format

From the New York Observer.

HISTORY OF THE INDIAN BILL. -- NO. VI.

The last number of this series brought down the history of the Indian bill, till it passed the Senate, on the 24th of April.

The inquiry has often been made, why Mr. Webster did not put forth his great powers, while this question was pending in the Senate. It is proper, therefore, that it should be stated, that he was confined by ill health to his chamber, during the earliest and most important part of the discussion; and that, after he had resumed his seat, his strength was not adequate to any effort, which he would have deemed worthy of the subject. His views were perfectly well known, and were as firmly and decidedly in favor of the claims of the Indians, as were the views of any member of the Senate. His name, among the yeas on Mr. Frelinghuysen's amendments, and among the nays on the passage of the bill, is a sufficient indication of what he thought on the merits of the question.

When the bill came into the House of Representatives, the subject of the tariff was under discussion, and was not finally disposed of till more than a fortnight had elapsed.

At last, Thursday, May 18th, on motion of Mr. Bell, Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs, the bill was taken up.  There was an effort to take up each of several other subjects; but this prevailed.

Mr. Bell proceeded to state the grounds of the bill, and to show that it was reasonable and proper. He first asserted, that the contemplated measure would be advantageous to the United States. To prove this, he went into some detail. The land to be obtained from the Indians would sell for more money than the removal, and all the subsequent charges, would demand. He declared that the whole Choctaw Nation is willing to remove, that the Creeks are willing to follow; and the he believed a majority of the Cherokees will also remove voluntarily. He added, that the only effect of exertions in behalf of the Indians in the House, and especially out of it, will be to make it necessary to pay a large sum for their lands. After reading a passage from Mr. M'Coy's pamphlet on the removal of the Indians, be pronounced a strong encomium on that gentleman's knowledge, piety, and success as a missionary.

Mr. Bell had spoken an hour and a half, when he declared himself unable to proceed for want of health and strength. He would not ask the committee to rise on his account; but would avail himself of some future opportunity to finish what he had to say.

Mr. Lumpkin, of Georgia, rose and was commencing a speech, when it appeared that many members wished the committee to rise, so that Mr. Bell might go through with his statements and reasonings. The cries of 'go on, go on,' seemed about equal to those of 'rise, rise,' and Mr. Lumpkin knew not whether to stop or to proceed. He was so much interrupted, however, that he soon gave way to a motion for rising, and the committee rose accordingly.

On Friday, May 14th, there was an effort to devote the day to private bills. The friends of the Indians were not united on the point, whether it was wisest and best to continue the discussion of the Indian question, or to occupy the time with other subjects. Had they been perfectly united in preferring other subjects of legislation, they probably would have defeated the bill. It was exceedingly difficult, however, to know what was the wisest course. The Indian bill was taken up, and Mr. Bell proceeded, and occupied the floor from a quarter before one to a quarter after five.  During this period, he uttered many things which had no relation to the subject; stated many things as facts, of which he could have had no proofs, and some of which are notoriously false; and laid down various principles of national conduct, which are totally indefensible in a moral point of view.

Some of his pretended facts are the following:  In all attempts to civilize the Indians, for 200 years, it has been found that the Indian will always relapse.  All attempts to prevent the introduction of ardent spirits have proved ineffectual. With Cherokees, there has been a systematic arrangement for years, to deceive the public. The press was established for this purpose. It has been conducted with considerable ability, and the paper has been exchanged. It is not conducted by Cherokees, except in part, but 'by some of our own species.' [Mr. Bell doubtless meant by whites.] In 1817, the missionaries became settled among the Cherokees. The next year, the Indians decided, in council, that they were not under the government of the United States. The determination to remain, and to claim entire sovereignty originated with missionaries and their employers. He did not suppose that the religious public knew this. The motives of the mass of religious people might be good. It was the leaders, who urged forward the Indians to make these claims.  The common Indian is in a state of degradation in the view of the chiefs. The common Indian was the prey, and claimed to be the lawful prey, of the chiefs. He had never heard the Cherokees complained of the laws of Georgia.  Referring to the essays of William Penn, he said, 'There appeared during last summer, week by week, in a central paper widely circulated, a series of numbers, which have since been laid upon our tables in a pamphlet ingeniously written, (ex parte, to be sure,) plausibly written, (giving one view of the subject,) and written with great ability, (though all on one side;) and in all the papers into which these number were copied, scarcely a single paragraph appeared by way of correction of explanation.' In this way, as Mr. Bell supposed, the question had been misrepresented, and the public mind perverted.

Now, as to these pretended facts, it is sufficient to say, that one of them, which has any material bearing on the question, has a particle of evidence to support it, nor any foundation in truth. It seems very cruel that a feeble, and dependent community should first be deprived of their character by the grossest slander, as a reason why they should next be deprived of their country by the grossest injustice.

Some of the principles, which were laid down by Mr. Bell, are the following. I will mark them as quotations, for they will be given in nearly the exact words of the speaker, and will represent his meaning fairly.

'As to the difference between a law and a treaty dictated, I leave it to the modern philanthropist to decide:' which, in plain English, is as follows: I assume it as a fact that we compelled the Indians, by our superior power and skill, to make such treaties as we pleased; and therefore we gave the law to the Indians, and as we gave the law we may repeal it: that is, we may abrogate treaties with Indians at pleasure. Or thus: We made just such a bargain with the Indians, as we pleased, and therefore we are not bound to fulfil the very which we proposed, and they accepted. If a general should overpower his enemy, and thus compel a capitulation, he is not bound by the terms which he himself proposed.  As he obliged the adverse forces to surrender, he may now, since he has gotten the arms our of their hands, turn upon them and cut off their heads. For, as he had power to enforce what terms he pleased, who can deny that he may violate those terms as soon as he pleases. Whoever doubts the morality and fairness of this course, is, without question, 'a modern philanthropist.'

Again: 'The time for speculative reasoning has long since passed; we must be guided by experience:' that is; we are not to inquire what is right, what is fair, what is honorable; but what has been the practice hitherto. If we find, that it has been the custom to cheat Indians, it is very idle to talk of relinquishing so venerable a custom. To this doctrine of Mr. Bell, we may add, that if we cannot prove that our ancestors ever violated a solemn treaty with the Indians, we can assert that they would have done so, if it had been for their interest; and, in many cases, assertion against all evidence answers just as well, as if the proof were unquestionable. No maxim has been more frequently in the mouths of the anti-Indians, than this same declaration, that the time for inquiry into abstract right is past. This is said with as much gravity, as if nobody could doubt it; whereas, it is totally without support from reason, or even from expediency itself.

Again: 'The right of discovery, as claimed by Europeans, is sensible, it is rational -- whether it is right or wrong, is another question.' These are the exact words of the orator; by which we are to understand, that the claim of a European king to grant to his subjects a belt of land across the continent of North America, and to dispossess the original inhabitants because one of his shipmasters discovered a certain shore from the deck of his ship, (for this is the claim of discovery defended by Georgia) is sensible and rational; but whether it is right or wrong thus to dispossess the original inhabitants, we need not trouble ourselves to inquire.

Mr. Bell quoted from the opinion of the Supreme Court, as delivered by Judge Marshall, the following words: 'The original inhabitants of the continent were admitted to be the rightful occupants of the soil, with a legal as well as just claim to retain possession of it, and to use it according to their own discretion.' On this sentence Mr. Bell remarked, that, 'according to its broad meaning, the Indians had a perfect title, but,' said he, 'we must give the passage a common sense interpretation.' What that interpretation was in this case, he did not inform the committee. He merely intimated, that Judge Marshall and Chancellor Kent had entered into speculative reasoning, and that their arguments were dictu, not decisions. It happens, however, that the American people know very well how to estimate the deliberate opinion of these eminent jurists, and of the Supreme Court as a whole.

Once more: Mr. Bell said 'he was not required to go into the divine right' -- by which he is supposed to have meant, that if God had given the Indians a perfect right to their country, it would not change our desire to obtain more Indian lands; and therefore it was not worth while to ascertain, whether God had given the Indians any rights, or not.  'We sit here,' he added, 'by a commission from the white societies around us, that is, the states:  we can go no further.' In other words, we are sent hither to take care of the interest of the whites.  If the Indians have any rights, or interests, it is not our business to take care of them; even though our nation has engaged to do so a thousand times over.

These are the principal points of Mr. Bell's speech.  I do not know, whether it was published, in any form. The words marked as quotations are his own words; and the comment upon them is fair and natural, assigning them the true meaning, which the speaker intended they should convey.

The voice and manner of Mr. Bell, and the expression of his countenance, are agreeable. It would not be fair to judge of his powers of reasoning by this experiment.  He was most evidently conscious that he had a bad cause, and that all attempts to support it by argument must be hopeless. Indeed, there was no speech made in favor of the bill, in either house, which was not utterly contemptible as an argument.

At the close of this opening speech, Mr. Storrs obtained the floor, and the committee rose. A high expectation was excited in regard to the morrow.

VERITATIS AMANS.


Mr. W. has recently delivered his sentiments on this subject to thousands of his fellow citizens assembled in Boston. He asserted the claims of the Indians in the most decided manner, and closed by declaring that he had read Mr. Wirt's opinion lately published, and approved of it entirely, and without exception.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Five column format

From the Virginia Patriot.

THE CHEROKEES.

John Ross (principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation) submitted a letter to the late convention of the General Council, from the Secretary of War which is said to contain the sentiments of the President concerning the removal of the Cherokees, and the course intended to be pursued towards them in future, in case they do not remove.

For want of room, we cannot publish the letter in full, and will only make a few extracts from such parts of it as strike us most forcibly, and comment as we go along.

The Secretary asserts that there is no cruelty or inhumanity in requiring the Cherokees to emigrate, or submit to the laws of Georgia, and only reason which he can assign is that they have a choice.  We cheerfully admit that they have an alternative, but that by no means removes the imputation of cruelty. We are compelled to differ widely with the Secretary as to the character of the alternative. We maintain the measures of the government have imposed on the Cherokee, a necessity of choosing one of two

evils. The Secretary admits that the government of Georgia is not suited in its application to the manners, habit and dispositions, the wants and necessities of the Cherokees; because they are so different from those of the former, and consequently, the Cherokees cannot be happy under such a government. But there is another still stronger reason which the Secretary seems to have overlooked: the unequal terms which are imposed on the Cherokees. The prohibition to representation in Legislature,  which figures the laws by which they are to be governed, and an inability to give evidence in a court of justice, where a white man is a party. In the language of Ross (the chief magistrate of the nation) 'by the laws of Georgia, the lives, liberty and property of the Cherokees are left exposed to the mercy of the assassin, the tyrant and the robber, provided the foul deed can but escape the eye of an honest white man.' A compulsion to submit to laws of Georgia, would be to the Cherokees an evil almost insupportable, yet the Secretary of War contends that there is no inhumanity in requiting the Indians to submit to this evil, or to remove from the land of their birth -- the scenes of their infancy and the homes of their riper years -- their improved possessions, and the forests rendered familiar by the chase; to seek a strange land among barbarians, whose language and character are to them unknown. And is this freedom? It is an election to be sure. So has he an election who has a choice between death and the penitentiary.  Suppose the Cherokees should prefer removal to slavery, their emigration would be none the less constrained ' compulsory. They look upon emigration as an evil, notwithstanding the seductive inducements held out to them by government to remove, and they, as an independent nation must be allowed to decide on this question for themselves.

But the Secretary of War maintains that it is right we should remove the Indians, because they are unsusceptible of civilization.  Waiving our objections to the fallacy of his conclusion, though his premises were admissible, let us hear his reasoning in support of the opinion, that the Indians are incapable of civilization.  Here it is:

'It is at least but a Utopian thought to think of civilizing Indians. Nature must be first changed. One or two generations at least must pass away under a rigid culture, before these people can be much benefitted by science and education. The wild turkey, though you shall take the egg and hatch it in your barnyard, will not forget his nature, but at maturity will seek the tallest forest tree, at night fall, for his roosting place. Of this there are abundant evidences. And what does it prove, but that the 'leopard cannot change his spots, nor the Ethiopian his skin.' An Almighty hand has stamped upon every creature a particular genius, propensity and leading traits of character. The polish of education may improve, but cannot change, for the imperishable seal is there; bars and dungeons, penitentiaries and death itself have been found insufficient, even in civilized society, to restrain man from crime, and constrain him to the necessity of moral and virtuous action. How then are we to look for, or expect it, in a community made of savage and illiterate people. Theory and fancy may prate of such a result; but, before reality gives impress to it, years must roll by and a new and improved order of things arise.  Then, and not till then, may hope, in her visions, dream of success in reforming and improving the red man of the forest. Their improvement is certainly greatly to be desired, but for the present, it must be given up into the hands of care and time. At any rate, it should not be essayed at the expense of the Constitution, which secures and promises to every State of the Union a republican form of government within her prescribed limits.

We shall at this time make no further comments.  We are willing that this argument shall pass for what it is worth.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

From the Massachusetts Journal and Tribune.

The following letter from one of the most intelligent and respectable citizens of this Commonwealth, afforded us so much gratification and encouragement, and was so pleasing to the friends of Indian rights, who have perused it, that we think proper in compliance with their wishes as well as our own, to publish it.

AMHERST COLLEGE,

Nov. 16, 1830.

Dear Sir. In your remarks upon the late Message of the Governor of Georgia, I observe a sentence, which seems to indicate that you are somewhat afraid of exhausting the patience of your readers, by your continued attention to the subject of the Indians.  Now my Dear Sir, although I am very much pressed with business, I cannot any longer refrain from sending you my tribute of cordial approbation, for the noble spirit, with which you have espoused the cause of the Cherokees. I do not know how the rest of your subscribers and patrons feel; but for myself I can say, that your efforts to save an oppressed people from the machinations of ferocious avarice, have given me a most thrilling satisfaction. A plainer case in respect to natural right, plighted faith, common humanity, to say nothing of the obligations of gratitude and religion, never was presented for the decision of a community, than is now furnished in the controversy with Georgia and the Cherokees. The argument is truly, 'all on one side.' How is it possible, then, that so many editors of respectable journals can be almost if not altogether silent, when measures are in operation, which if successful, will denationalize an independent community, and the people of the U. States a proverb of perfidy and a standing them of derision through the whole civilized world? It is not without much reading and reflection, that I assert, that the Georgia policy is utterly indefensible, except by men who breathe the spirit of a Cortez or Pizarro, or who have thrown their reason, conscience, and humanity under the wheels of our American Juggernaut. If there ever was a crisis, which demanded a full and unequivocal expression of the public sentiment, a crisis exists now. All that is dear to us in the associations of justice, of independence, of patriotism, of philanthropy, of religion, is involved in the decisions of the question, whether Georgia shall be suffered to accomplish her designs of ROBBERY AND EXTERMINATION. I say ROBBERY, for she has no more right to the lands of the Cherokees, than the pirate has to the goods of the merchant whose vessel he plunders.  And I say EXTERMINATION, for there cannot be a 'shadow of a shade' of doubt, that the 'recent legislation was deliberately planned to effect the complete expatriation of those, whose lands she must and WILL HAVE.'

I do not despair of success in opposing the measures of Georgia. The cause of the Indians is not yet hopeless; by no means,  Let the public mind be properly aroused, and the Indians will be saved. Go on, then, and cease not 'to call upon the Government and people of this country, for protection to those ill-fated, defenseless, confiding children of nature!'

I have said enough to secure the object of this letter. My heart is full to overflowing, and I could easily occupy much more of your time.  But I forbear. May God reward you and all others, who labor to save the oppressed from destruction.

With sentiments of high respect,

Yours, etc.

David Lee Child, Esq.

P.S. I would just add, that I read your paper with increasing interest. I had thought of stopping my subscription, on account of my heavy expenses. But I have concluded, that I must not leave you yet, especially as 'my better half' would ply me with very urgent remonstrances, if I should not encourage a weekly visit from the Journal.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

From the National Intelligencer Extra.

EXTRACT FROM THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.

It gives me pleasure to announce to Congress that the benevolent policy of the Government, steadily pursued for nearly thirty years, in relation to the removal of the Indians beyond the white settlements, is approaching to a happy consummation. Two important tribes have accepted the provision made for their removal at the last session of Congress; and it is believed that their example will induce the remaining tribes, also, to seek the same obvious advantages.

The consequences of a speedy removal will be important to the United States, to individual States, and to the Indians themselves. The pecuniary advantages which it promises to the Government are the least of its recommendations. It puts an end to all possible danger of collision between the authorities of the General and State Governments, on account of the Indians. It will place a dense and civilized population in large tracts of country now occupied by a few savage hunters. By opening the whole territory between Tennessee on the north, and Louisiana on the south, to the settlement of the whites, it will incalculably strengthen the southwestern frontier, and render the adjacent States strong enough to repel future invasion without remote aid. It will relieve the whole State of Mississippi, and the western part of Alabama of Indian occupancy, and enable these States to advance rapidly in population, wealth and power. It will separate the Indians from immediate contact with settlements of whites; free them from the power of the States; enable them to pursue happiness in their own way, and under their own rude institutions; will retard the progress of decay, which is lessening their numbers; and perhaps cause them gradually, under the protection of the Government, and through the influence of good counsels to cast off their savage habits, and become an interesting, civilized, and Christian community. These consequences, some of them so certain, and the rest so probable, make the complete execution of the plan sanctioned by Congress at their last session an object of much solicitude.

Toward the aborigines of the country no one can indulge a more friendly feeling than myself, or would go further in attempting to reclaim them from their wandering habits, and make them a happy and prosperous people. I have endeavored to impress upon them my own solemn convictions of the duties and powers of the General Government in relation to the State authorities. For the justice of the laws passed by the States within the scope of their reserved powers, they are not responsible to this Government. As individuals, we may entertain and express our opinions of their acts; but, as a Government, we have as little right to control them as we have to prescribe laws to foreign nations.

With a full understanding of the subject, the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes have, with great unanimity, determined to avail themselves of the liberal offer presented by the act of Congress, and have agreed to remove beyond the Mississippi River. Treaties have been made with them, which in due season, will be submitted for consideration. In negotiating these treaties, they were made to understand their true condition; and they have preferred maintaining their independence in the Western forests to submitting to the laws of the States in which they now reside. These treaties being probably the last which will ever be made with them, are characterized by great liberality on the part of the Government.  They give the Indians a liberal sum in consideration of their removal, and comfortable sustenance on their arrival at their new homes. If it be their real interest to maintain a separate existence, they will there be a liberty to do so without the inconveniences and vexations to which they would unavoidably have been subject in Alabama and Mississippi.

Humanity has often wept over the fate of the aborigines of this country; and philanthropy has been long busily employed in devising means to avert it. But its progress has never for a moment been arrested; and one by one have many powerful tribes disappeared from the earth. To follow to the tomb the last of his race, and to tread on the graves of extinct nations, excites melancholy reflections. But true philanthropy reconciles the mind to these vicissitudes, as it does to the extinction of one generation to make room for another. In the monuments and fortresses of all unknown people, spread over the extensive regions of the West, we behold the memorials of a once powerful race, which was exterminated, or has disappeared, to make room for the existing savage tribes. Nor is there any thing in this, which, upon a comprehensive view of the general interests of the human race, is to be regretted. Philanthropy could not wish to see this continent restored to the condition in which it was found by our forefathers. What good man would prefer a country covered with forest, and ranged by a few thousand savages, to our extensive republic, studded with cities, towns, and prosperous farms embellished with all the improvements which art can devise, or industry execute; occupied by more than twelve millions of happy people, and filled with all the blessings of liberty, civilization, and religion!

The present policy of the Government is but a continuation of the same progressive change, by a milder process. The tribes which occupied the countries now constituting the Eastern States were annihilated, and have melted away, to make room for the whites. The waves of population and civilization are rolling to the Westward; and we now propose to acquire the countries occupied by the red men of the South and West, by a fair exchange, and at the expense of the United States, to send them to a land where their existence may be prolonged. and perhaps made perpetual.  Doubtless it will be painful to leave the graves of their fathers; but what do they more than our ancestors did, or than our children are now doing? To better their condition in an unknown land, our forefathers left all that was dear in earthly objects. Our children, by thousands, yearly leave the land of their birth, to seek new homes in distant regions. Does humanity weep at these painful separations from every thing, animate and inanimate, with which the young heart has become entwined? Far from it. It is rather a source of joy that our country affords scope where our voting population may range unconstrained in body or in mind, developing the power and faculties of man in their highest perfection. These remove hundreds, and almost thousands of miles, at their own expense, purchase the lands they occupy, and support themselves at their new home from the moment of their arrival. Can it be cruel in this Government, when, by events which they cannot control, the Indian is made discontented in his ancient home, to purchase his lands, to give him a new and extensive territory, to pay the expense of his removal, and support him a year in his new abode? How many thousands of our own people would gladly embrace the opportunity of removing to the West on such conditions! If the offers made to the Indians were extended to them, they would be hailed with gratitude and joy.

And is it supposed that the wandering savage has a stronger attachment to his home, than the settled civilized Christian? Is it more afflicting to him to leave the graves of his fathers, than it is to our brothers and children? Rightly considered, the policy of the General Government towards the red man is not only liberal but generous. He is unwilling to submit to the laws of the States and mingle with the population. To save him from this alternative, or perhaps utter annihilation, the General Government kindly offers him a new home, and proposes to pay the whole expense of his removal and settlement.

In the consummation of a policy originating at an early period, and steadily pursued by every administration with the present century -- so just to the States, and so generous to the Indians, the Executive feels it has a right to expect the co-operation of Congress, and of all good and disinterested men. The States, moreover, have a right to demand it. It was substantially a part of the compact which made them members of our confederacy. With Georgia, there is an express contract; with the new States, an implied one, of equal obligation. Why, in authorizing Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Mississippi, and Alabama, to form constitutions, and become separate States, did Congress include with their limits, extensive tracts of Indians lands, and, in some instances, powerful Indian tribes? Was it not understood by both parties that the power of the States was to be co-extensive with their limits, and that, with all convenient dispatch, the General Government should extinguish the Indian title, and remove every obstruction to the complete jurisdiction of the State Governments over the soil?  Probably not one of those States would have accepted a separate existence -- certainly it would never have been granted by Congress -- had it been understood that they were to be confined forever to those small portions of the nominal territory, the Indian title to which had at the time been extinguished.

It is, therefore, a duty which this government owes to the new States, to extinguish, as soon as possible, the Indian title to all lands which Congress themselves have included within their limits.  When this is done, the duties of the General Government in relation to the States and Indians within their limits are at an end. The Indians may leave the State or not, as they choose. The purchase of their lands does not alter, in the least their personal relations with the State Government. No act of the General Government has ever been deemed necessary to give the States jurisdiction over the persons of the Indians. That they possess, by virtue of their sovereign power within their own limits, in a full a manner before as after the purchase of the Indians lands; nor can this Government add to diminish it.

May we not hope, therefore, that all good citizens, and none more zealously than those who think the Indians oppressed by subjection to the laws of the States, will unite in attempting to open the eyes of those children of the forest to their true condition, and, by a speedy removal, to relieve them from the evils, real or imaginary, present or prospective with which they may be supposed to be threatened.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

From the National Intelligencer Extra.

EXTRACT FROM THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.

It gives me pleasure to announce to Congress that the benevolent policy of the Government, steadily pursued for nearly thirty years, in relation to the removal of the Indians beyond the white settlements, is approaching to a happy consummation. Two important tribes have accepted the provision made for their removal at the last session of Congress; and it is believed that their example will induce the remaining tribes, also, to seek the same obvious advantages.

The consequences of a speedy removal will be important to the United States, to individual States, and to the Indians themselves. The pecuniary advantages which it promises to the Government are the least of its recommendations. it puts an end to all possible danger of collision between the authorities of the General and State Governments, on account of the Indians. It will place a dense and civilized population in large tracts of country now occupied by a few savage hunters. By opening the whole territory between Tennessee on the north, and Louisiana on the south, to the settlement of the whites, it will incalculably strengthen the southwestern frontier, and render the adjacent States strong enough to repel future invasion without remote aid. It will relieve the whole State of Mississippi, and the western part of Alabama of Indian occupancy, and enable these States to advance rapidly in population, wealth and power. It will separate the Indians from immediate contact with settlements of whites; free them from the power of the States; enable them to pursue happiness in their own way, and under their own rude institutions; will retard the progress of decay, which is lessening their numbers; and perhaps cause them gradually, under the protection of the Government, and through the influence of good counsels to cast off their savage habits, and become an interesting, civilized, and Christian community. These consequences, some of them so certain, and the rest so probable, make the complete execution of the plan sanctioned by Congress at their last session an object of much solicitude.

Toward the aborigines of the country no one can indulge a more friendly feeling than myself, or would go further in attempting to reclaim them from their wandering habits, and make them a happy and prosperous people. I have endeavored to impress upon them my own solemn convictions of the duties and powers of the General Government in relation to the State authorities. For the justice of the laws passed by the States within the scope of their reserved powers, they are not responsible to this Government. As individuals, we may entertain and express our opinions of their acts; but, as a Government, we have as little right to control them as we have to prescribe laws to foreign nations.

With a full understanding of the subject, the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribes have, with great unanimity, determined to avail themselves of the liberal offer presented by the act of Congress, and have agreed to remove beyond the Mississippi river. Treaties have been made with them, which in due season, will be submitted for consideration. In negotiating these treaties, they were made to understand their true condition; and they have preferred maintaining their independence in the Western forests to submitting to the laws of the States in which they now reside. These treaties being probably the last which will ever be made with them, are characterized by great liberality on the part of the Government.  They give the Indians a liberal sum in consideration of their removal, and comfortable sustenance on their arrival at their new homes. If it be their real interest to maintain a separate existence, they will there be a liberty to do so without the inconveniences and vexations to which they would unavoidably have been subject in Alabama and Mississippi.

Humanity has often wept over the fate of the aborigines of this country; and philanthropy has been long busily employed in devising means to avert it. But its progress has never for a moment been arrested; and one by one have many powerful tribes disappeared from the earth. To follow to the tomb the last of his race, and to tread on the graves of extinct nations, excites melancholy reflections. But true philanthropy reconciles the mind to these vicissitudes, as it does to the extinction of one generation to make room for another. In the monuments and fortresses of all unknown people, spread over the extensive regions of the West, we behold the memorials of a once powerful race, which was exterminated, or has disappeared, to make room for the existing savage tribes. No is there any thing in this, which, upon a comprehensive view of the general interests of the human race, is to be regretted. philanthropy could not wish to see this continent restored to the condition in which it was found by our forefathers. What good man would prefer a country covered with forest, and ranged by a few thousand savages, to our extensive republic, studded with cities, towns, and prosperous farms embellished with all the improvements which art can devise, or industry execute; occupied by more than twelve millions of happy people, and filled with all the blessings of liberty, civilization, and religion!

The present policy of the Government is but a continuation of the same progressive change, by a milder process. The tribes which occupied the countries now constituting the Eastern States were annihilated, and have melted away, to make room for the whites. The waves of population and civilization are rolling to the Westward; and we now propose to acquire the countries occupied by the red men of the South and West, by a fair exchange, and at the expense of the United States, to send them to a land where their existence may be prolonged. and perhaps made perpetual.  Doubtless it will be painful to leave the graves of their fathers; but what do they more than our ancestors did, or than our children are now doing? To better their condition in an unknown land, our forefathers left all that was dear in earthly objects. Our children, by thousands, yearly leave the land of their birth, to seek new homes in distant regions. Does humanity weep at these painful separations from every thing, animate and inanimate, with which the young heart has become entwined? Far from it. It is rather a source of joy that our country affords scope where our voting population may range unconstrained in body or in mind, developing the power and faculties of man in their highest perfection. These remove hundreds, and almost thousands of miles, at their own expense, purchase the lands they occupy, and support themselves at their new home from the moment of their arrival. Can it be cruel in this Government, when, by events which they cannot control, the Indian is made discontented in his ancient home, to purchase his lands, to give him a new and extensive territory, to pay the expense of his removal, and support him a year in his new abode? How many thousands of our own people would gladly embrace the opportunity of removing to the west on such conditions! If the offers made to the Indians were extended to them, they would be hailed with gratitude and joy.

And is it supposed that the wandering savage has a stronger attachment to his home, than the settled civilized Christian? Is it more afflicting to him to leave the graves of his fathers, than it is to our brothers and children? Rightly considered, the policy of the General Government towards the red man is not only liberal but generous. He is unwilling to submit to the laws of the States and mingle with the population. To save him from this alternative, or perhaps utter annihilation, the General Government kindly offers him a new home, and proposes to pay the whole expense of his removal and settlement.

In the consummation of a policy originating at an early period, and steadily pursued by every administration with the present century -- so just to the States, and so generous to the Indians, the Executive feels it has a right to expect the co-operation of Congress, and of all good and disinterested men. The States, moreover, have a right to demand it. It was substantially a part of the compact which made them members of our confederacy. With Georgia, these is an express contract; with the new States, an implied one, of equal obligation. Why, in authorizing Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Mississippi, and Alabama, to form constitutions, and become separate States, did Congress include with their limits, extensive tracts of Indians lands, and, in some instances, powerful Indian tribes? Was it not understood by both parties that the power of the States was to be co-extensive with their limits, and that, with all convenient dispatch, the General Government should extinguish the Indian title, and remove every obstruction to the complete jurisdiction of the State Governments over the soil?  Probably not one of those States would have accepted a separate existence -- certainly it would never have been granted by Congress -- had it been understood that they were to be confined forever to those small portions of the nominal territory, the Indian title to which had at the time been extinguished.

It is, therefore, a duty which this government owes to the new States, to extinguish, as soon as possible, the Indian title to all lands which Congress themselves have included within their limits.  When this is done, the duties of the General Government in relation to the States and Indians within their limits are at an end. The Indians may leave the State or not, as they choose. The purchase of their lands does not alter, in the least their personal relations with the State Government. No act of the General Government has ever been deemed necessary to give the States jurisdiction over the persons of the Indians. That they possess, by virtue of their sovereign power within their own limits, in a full a manner before as after the purchase of the Indians lands; nor can this Government add to diminish it.

May we not hope, therefore, that all good citizens, and none more zealously than those who think the Indians oppressed by subjection to the laws of the States, will unite in attempting to open the eyes of those children of the forest to their true condition, and, by a speedy removal, to relieve them from the evils, real or imaginary, present or prospective with which they may be supposed to be threatened.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: DEC. 25, 1830.

We were in hopes we should have received our supply of paper before this time, but we have been disappointed. After stopping the press one week, we are compelled to collect the remnant of our old stock, and print on it, such as it is.

____________________

PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE

We publish this week the whole of that part of the President's Message which relates to Indian affairs. We may notice it further next week.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Five column format

It appears, from the following letter addressed to the editor of the August Chronicle, from a correspondent in Milledgeville, that many of the people of Georgia are not prepared to go at all lengths in regard to the Cherokees. Although the bill which the writer deprecates so much finally passed the House, not by a very great majority, and in the shape in which it was first introduced by Mr. Haynes.  We will not say much until we hear what the Senate has done on the subject. We believe the Cherokees are indifferent so to speak, what course the legislature takes. If those for coercive measures prevail, be it so. If the moral sense of a Christian State, and the moral sense of the people of the U. States, will permit them to see the Cherokees expelled from their fire sides, and if they resist, to see them slaughtered, we say, be it so.

MILLEDGEVILLE, NOV. 27, 1830.

I avail myself of a few leisure moments, to give you a sketch of the business prevailing here. The Indian question is the all-absorbing subject of the time; and since it was taken up, scarcely any thing else has been talked of or thought of, in the House or out of it. It has been discussed in the House, almost without interruption, for several days past, and the consideration of it was postponed there this afternoon, a short time before adjournment, till Monday next, when it will no doubt be under debate, in some shape or other, for the whole of the week. The particular question now, and for several days past, before the House, is the adoption of MR. HAYNE'S substitute to the bill reported by Judge SCHLEY, from the committee on the state of the Republic. This contemplates, as you are aware, the taking immediate possession of the Indian lands, and forcibly driving the Indians therefrom. How such a bill can be the subject of a moment's consideration in a christian land, is to me a subject of the deepest astonishment -- and yet many intelligent men believe and fear that it may be successful! For my own part, I will not believe it possible -- and, indeed, should scarcely credit the evidence of my own senses if such were the fact. God forbid such a fatal consequence, and I will confidently rely on his over-ruling goodness and protection, to avert it -- to save the Indians -- nay, tenfold more, to save our own State from the serious evils which must inevitably follow it.  I must not trust my feelings farther on this point they are perhaps too deeply and unnecessarily wounded. We will at least hope so. One thing is certain, that no effort is or will be spared to prevent the adoption of the measure; and I am proud to see among its opponents many, very many, of the first and ablest men of the Assembly, of both parties. Indeed, it is by no means a party matter; none of the old land marks of party are to be discovered in any of its considerations; and one would almost suppose, from the pertinacity with which member os each party indiscriminately oppose one another, that those land marks were entirely rooted up and thrown away.

Numerous as are the advocates of this measure, the array of talent against it is very powerful, and the arguments exerted by it opponents are sound and incontrovertible. To say nothing of humanity, the want of necessity or expediency, the ingratitude of opposing the President and the administration, which have long been and still are making every possible effort in our behalf; the follow of now necessarily arraying them against us, contrary to their will, and of indirectly giving their and our enemy, Mr. Clay still further and greater power against them; and the eminent danger of a direct and violent controversy with the General Government -- all of which are directly opposed to this measure -- the faith and honor of the State stands openly and irrevocably pledged against it! But for this pledge, given by our Representatives, Mr. Wilde ' others, on the floor of Congress, last session, against the exercise of any force against the Indians -- any effort to drive them forcibly from their lands -- the bill to encourage their emigration to the west of the Mississippi would not and could not have been passed. This then, I must believe, though it were the only argument against it, will be all sufficient to save us from the measure, when it comes to its last test; for surely few, I would fain say none will violate this sacred pledge of the State.  However, the subject is a serious one, and demands the opposing efforts of every citizen of the State, who is sensible of the dangerous consequences of the success of this measure. As I have already observed, many intelligent men, who look upon it as one of the most important and dangerous questions that has ever agitated the State, are deeply fearful of the result; and therefore, every citizen, however small his influence, should instantly exert that influence of writing to the Representatives of his country and urging them to forbear. There is certainly no danger in forbearance -- no possible injury, but infinite good, may very shortly result from it.

I think the great danger lies in this -- that a large portion of the people, not fully aware of the exact nature of the Indian question in all its various important intricate considerations, have decisively instructed their representatives to make every possible effort to effect the survey and occupancy of the land, and ultimate settlement of this long troublesome and perplexing question, as speedily as possible; and that the Representatives so instructed, who might otherwise, possibly have pursued a different course, do not feel themselves at liberty to vote against a measure which they consider in accordance with the expressed will of their constituents. The people, then, should arouse themselves, and examine the subject carefully, and if any of them find that they have given such instructions on too hasty and erroneous opinions, they should instantly hasten to correct the error before it be too late.

The members of the House, from Richmond, Judge SCHLLEY and Mr. JENKINS, have acquitted themselves on this subject most ably, and to the highest admiration of their friends and coadjutors. Of the former, it is almost supererogatory to speak.  His ability, prudence, moderation and excellent judgement, have long been well known to his constituents and to the State; and it is therefore needless to say, that they have acquired for him, in the Legislature, the utmost respect and confidence, and given far more than ordinary weight to his opinions and arguments. And of the latter, I can say with pleasure -- and, perhaps, as one of his constituents, not the less pleasure, impartially, and justice, because I did not vote for him -- that he has more than realized the high anticipations of those who did. He has supported the interests of his county, in all questions of a general or local nature in which they are involved, with an ability, faithfulness, discretion, industry and unassuming modesty, which have gained him many admirers and warm friends, even among those who differ from him in state politics -- and though I too differ from him in that respect, as a citizen of his county, I could not but be proud to hear its representative so often and so highly spoken of. His speech on the Indian question, and against the right of Georgia to take possession of the land, and the expediency of doing so now, even if she had such right, has often been mentioned to me, since my arrival here, which was since its delivery, and uniformly as one of the best, if not the best, that has yet been delivered on the subject.

On Thursday, the 25th, Judge McDonald offered, as a substitute for Mr. HAYNES' bill, a memorial to the President, and a bill founded on the memorial, suggested, it is said by information received from Washington City, that the Indians will probably remove on condition that they shall be permitted to retain a some extensive reserves -- but he withdrew them today, reserving to himself the privilege of bringing them forward at a future time, should he desire to do so.

I have not seen the bill, but understand that it provides for the survey of the land, immediately after notice from the President, of the location of the reserves, and the consent of those Indians who will not occupy them, to remove -- that the reserves, in common with the other part of the territory, shall be laid off into lots and drawn for by lottery, in like manner; but that each lot in the reserves shall be marked R. and the value of it, when drawn, shall be paid to the drawer in money, instead of the lot -- the whole amount of such payments to be paid by the General Government to Georgia, and by Georgia to the drawers of such lots, individually -- the Indians to hold the reserves as long as they or their children may choose but restricted from selling them to any one but the State of Georgia, or to the General Government for its use. I do not know whether nor not it provides what rights shall be given to those Indians who remain on the Reserves.

In the Senate, on Thursday, Gen. ANDERSON, of Franklin, introduced into that body, a bill on the Indian question, exactly similar to that of Mr. HAYNES in the House, and it has since been read twice and committed. I am gratified to find, that many think it certain if this measure should succeed in the House, that it will be defeated in the Senate. Our Senator, Mr. RHODES, with his well known excellence of judgement and discretion, and much past experience in legislation, holds a high rank among the members of this body, for his zeal and industry in behalf of the interests of his country and the State. I hope much from his influence, moderation, and foresight, on the subject of the Indian question. He feels as a true Georgian, deeply interested in the future honor and welfare of the State.



CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: DEC. 25, 1830.

We were in hopes we should have received our supply of paper before this time, but we have been disappointed. After stopping the press one week, we are compelled to collect the remnant of our old stock, and print on it, such as it is.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE

We publish this week the whole of that part of the President's Message which relates to Indian affairs. We may notice it further next week.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Five column format

It appears, from the following letter addressed to the editor of the August Chronicle, from a correspondent in Milledgeville, that many of the people of Georgia are not prepared to go at all lengths in regard to the Cherokees. Although the bill which the writer deprecates so much finally passed the House, not by a very great majority, and in the shape in which it was first introduced by Mr. Haynes. We will not say much until we hear what the Senate has done on the subject. We believe the Cherokees are indifferent so to speak, what course the legislature takes. If those for coercive measures prevail, be it so. If the moral sense of a Christian State, and the moral sense of the people of the U. States, will permit them to see the Cherokees expelled from their fire sides, and if they resist, to see them slaughtered, we say, be it so.

MILLEDGEVILLE, NOV. 27, 1830.

I avail myself of a few leisure moments, to give you a sketch of the business prevailing here. The Indian question is the all-absorbing subject of the time; and since it was taken up, scarcely any thing else has been talked of or thought of, in the House or out of it. It has been discussed in the House, almost without interruption, for several days past, and the consideration of it was postponed there this afternoon, a short time before adjournment, till Monday next, when it will no doubt be under debate, in some shape or other, for the whole of the week. The particular question now, and for several days past, before the House, is the adoption of MR. HAYNE'S substitute to the bill reported by Judge SCHLEY, from the committee on the state of the Republic. This contemplates, as you are aware, the taking immediate possession of the Indian lands, and forcibly driving the Indians therefrom. How such a bill can be the subject of a moment's consideration in a christian land, is to me a subject of the deepest astonishment -- and yet many intelligent men believe and fear that it may be successful! For my own part, I will not believe it possible -- and, indeed, should scarcely credit the evidence of my own senses if such were the fact. God forbid such a fatal consequence, and I will confidently rely on his over-ruling goodness and protection, to avert it -- to save the Indians -- nay, tenfold more, to save our own State from the serious evils which must inevitably follow it.  I must not trust my feelings farther on this point they are perhaps too deeply and unnecessarily wounded. We will at least hope so. One thing is certain, that no effort is or will be spared to prevent the adoption of the measure; and I am proud to see among its opponents many, very many, of the first and ablest men of the Assembly, of both parties. Indeed, it is by no means a party matter; none of the old land marks of party are to be discovered in any of its considerations; and one would almost suppose, from the pertinacity with which member os each party indiscriminately oppose one another, that those land marks were entirely rooted up and thrown away.

Numerous as are the advocates of this measure, the array of talent against it is very powerful, and the arguments exerted by it opponents are sound and incontrovertible. To say nothing of humanity, the want of necessity or expediency, the ingratitude of opposing the President and the administration, which have long been and still are making every possible effort in our behalf; the follow of now necessarily arraying them against us, contrary to their will, and of indirectly giving their and our enemy, Mr. Clay still further and greater power against them; and the eminent danger of a direct and violent controversy with the General Government -- all of which are directly opposed to this measure -- the faith and honor of the State stands openly and irrevocably pledged against it! But for this pledge, given by our Representatives, Mr. Wilde ' others, on the floor of Congress, last session, against the exercise of any force against the Indians -- any effort to drive them forcibly from their lands -- the bill to encourage their emigration to the west of the Mississippi would not and could not have been passed. This then, I must believe, though it were the only argument against it, will be all sufficient to save us from the measure, when it comes to its last test; for surely few, I would fain say none will violate this sacred pledge of the State. However, the subject is a serious one, and demands the opposing efforts of every citizen of the State, who is sensible of the dangerous consequences of the success of this measure. As I have already observed, many intelligent men, who look upon it as one of the most important and dangerous questions that has ever agitated the State, are deeply fearful of the result; and therefore, every citizen, however small his influence, should instantly exert that influence of writing to the Representatives of his country and urging them to forbear. There is certainly no danger in forbearance -- no possible injury, but infinite good, may very shortly result from it.

I think the great danger lies in this -- that a large portion of the people, not fully aware of the exact nature of the Indian question in all its various important intricate considerations, have decisively instructed their representatives to make every possible effort to effect the survey and occupancy of the land, and ultimate settlement of this long troublesome and perplexing question, as speedily as possible; and that the Representatives so instructed, who might otherwise, possibly have pursued a different course, do not feel themselves at liberty to vote against a measure which they consider in accordance with the expressed will of their constituents. The people, then, should arouse themselves, and examine the subject carefully, and if any of them find that they have given such instructions on too hasty and erroneous opinions, they should instantly hasten to correct the error before it be too late.

The members of the House, from Richmond, Judge SCHLLEY and Mr. JENKINS, have acquitted themselves on this subject most ably, and to the highest admiration of their friends and coadjutors. Of the former, it is almost supererogatory to speak.  His ability, prudence, moderation and excellent judgement, have long been well known to his constituents and to the State; and it is therefore needless to say, that they have acquired for him, in the Legislature, the utmost respect and confidence, and given far more than ordinary weight to his opinions and arguments. And of the latter, I can say with pleasure -- and, perhaps, as one of his constituents, not the less pleasure, impartially, and justice, because I did not vote for him -- that he has more than realized the high anticipations of those who did. He has supported the interests of his county, in all questions of a general or local nature in which they are involved, with an ability, faithfulness, discretion, industry and unassuming modesty, which have gained him many admirers and warm friends, even among those who differ from him in state politics -- and though I too differ from him in that respect, as a citizen of his county, I could not but be proud to hear its representative so often and so highly spoken of. His speech on the Indian question, and against the right of Georgia to take possession of the land, and the expediency of doing so now, even if she had such right, has often been mentioned to me, since my arrival here, which was since its delivery, and uniformly as one of the best, if not the best, that has yet been delivered on the subject.

On Thursday, the 25th, Judge McDonald offered, as a substitute for Mr. HAYNES' bill, a memorial to the President, and a bill founded on the memorial, suggested, it is said by information received from Washington City, that the Indians will probably remove on condition that they shall be permitted to retain a some extensive reserves -- but he withdrew them today, reserving to himself the privilege of bringing them forward at a future time, should he desire to so.

I have not seen the bill, but understand that it provides for the survey of the land, immediately after notice from the President, of the location of the reserves, and the consent of those Indians who will not occupy them, to remove -- that the reserves, in common with the other part of the territory, shall be laid off into lots and drawn for by lottery, in like manner; but that each lot in the reserves shall be marked R. and the value of it, when drawn, shall be paid to the drawer in money, instead of the lot -- the whole amount of such payments to be paid by the General Government to Georgia, and by Georgia to the drawers of such lots, individually -- the Indians to hold the reserves as long as they or their children may choose but restricted from selling them to any one but the State of Georgia, or to the General Government for its use. I do not know whether nor not it provides what rights shall be given to those Indians who remain on the Reserves.

In the Senate, on Thursday, Gen. ANDERSON, of Franklin, introduced into that body, a bill on the Indian question, exactly similar to that of Mr. HAYNES in the House, and it has since been read twice and committed. I am gratified to find, that many think it certain if this measure should succeed in the House, that it will be defeated in the Senate. Our Senator, Mr. RHODES, with his well known excellence of judgement and discretion, and much past experience in legislation, holds a high rank among the members of this body, for his zeal and industry in behalf of the interests of his country and the State. I hope much from his influence, moderation, and foresight, on the subject of the Indian question. He feels as a true Georgian, deeply interested in the future honor and welfare of the State.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Augusta Chronical

We have received the Land Bill, as printed before amendment, and all the proceedings on it since, but its length precludes us giving it in this day's paper. The amendments in the proceedings of Thursday, which we publish, are the most important.

MILLEDGEVILLE, Dec. 2, 1830

In the House, this morning, Mr. CLEVELAND moved to reconsider so much of the journal of yesterday as relate to the vote against striking out the 15th section of the Land bill; which motion was rejected; yeas 56, nays 72.

The Land bill was taken up, and 16th section read.  An ammendment providing that no person who has been connected with a certain vicious association called the Poney Club, shall be entitled to a draw in the Lottery, was offered and adopted.

Mr. RYAN offered an additional section, reserving to the State and the people, the free use of all water courses, for purposes of naviggation: which was adopted.

The 17th and 18th sections were read. 19th section read. A notion to strike out the word six, before months and insert four, was adopted.

The eight continuing sections were read, and passed without amendment. The 28th section was amended, by inserting after 'Governor is required,' the words, 'as soon as he shall deem it expedient.'

Mr. HOWARD of Baldwin offered a substitute to the 29th section, providing that the surveyors shall make a return of all lots on which the Indians reside; that such lots shall be put in a separate wheel and not drawn for till the Indian title thereto shall be extinguished, and the Indian occupants shall remove; which was rejected -- yeas 41, nays 86.

Mr. RYAN offered an amendment to the section, providing that the lots occupied by Indians, shall be drawn for, but not taken possession of by drawers, till the Indians shall remove; which was adopted.

The 30th section was stricken out.

The caption to the bill was amended, so as to express the protection of the Indians in their improvements.

The question was afterwards taken on the passage of the bill, and decided in the affirmative -- yeas 76, nays 55, as follows:

YEAS -- Adair, Aiken, Bacon, Bates, Beall of Franklin, Clack, Blackshear, Bowen, Bozeman, Brewster, Brown, Burnes, Calhoun, Carnes, Cleveland, Curry of Lincoln, Dikson, Drew, Easly, Fannin, Gholson, Griffin, Gropss, Hatcher, Hatten, Haynes, Hilliard, Hodges, Holland, Houston, Howard of Baker, Howard of Baldwin, Jackson, Johnson, Jones of Thomas, Jones of Warren, Kelly, King, Liddell, Long, Lovett, Lowe, Lucas, Mann, Mays, McDonald, McElvy, Murray, Neal of Newton, Neal of Wilkinson, Padget, Patrick, Perude, Powell, Rawlss, Reeves, Richardson, Robson, Ryan, Sheats, Smith, Snellings Stribbling, Taylor, Terrell, Terry, Towns, Townsend, Tuggle, Weitman, Wellborn, Welchell, Wilson of Warren, Winn, and Wofford. -- 76

NAYS. Adams, Atkinson, Barr, Blackwell, Bryan, Byne, Cartledge, Collier, Cone, Curry of Washington, Day, Dougherty, Finnie, Flewellen, Flourney, Graybill, Greene, Gresham, Hampton, Hardee, Hardman, Hazzard, Holt, Hopkins, Hudson of Jefferson, Hudson of Putnam, Jenkins, Jones of Jones, Jones of Liberty, Kellum Leonard, Lester. Loyall, Matthews, McClendon, McCraven, McRae, Northern, Oliver, Pearman, Pope, Price, Rea, Reid, Robertson, Simmmons, Strickland, Tankersley, Thomas, Thompson, Turner, Williams, Wilson of Early, and Young. -- 55.

The bill has consequently passed the House, but it is hoped by its opponets, that it will be lost in the Senate.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

COMMUNICATED.

Passed Head of Coosa, Cherokee Nation, on the 17th Inst. for Washington City, upwards of forty Choctaw Indians, all on foot.  Of this number there were two women.  They are accompanied by two whitemen, and intend taking the large Towns of the Southern States on their route.  Their conductor represented the mass of the Choctaw people to be in a state of great confusion and dissatisfaction, owing to the late treaty which has been negotiated by the Hon. Secretary of War with their Chiefs, and that three attempts were made by the people to convene a council of the whole nation, for the purpose of remonstrating to Congress against the ratification of the treaty, but their chiefs whose private interests have been advanced in the making of the treaty, tool: steps to thwart their wishes by preventing the convention of the council, and form the ignorance of the common people their intentions were thus frustrated, and in consequence of which, the whole nation exhibits a scene of drunkenness and confusion, ' that three or four hundred Indians had left the nation with disgust and hard feelings against their own chiefs, and the officers of the General Government and declared that they would not stop within the limits of the United States, but would seek protection under the Mexican Government. A large number had strolled off to Natchez, New Orleans and elsewhere--and many of them burnt their houses, destroyed their improvements and killed their cattle, and said that they would accept of no compensation from the United States under the treaty -- and the lives of the chiefs who negotiated the treaty had been strongly threatened.

This party states that since they have been sold out of house and home by their chiefs, trouble and vexation surrounded them, and as it was impossible for them to experience any more joy and happiness upon the land of their birth, they determined upon travelling through the United States as a resort of alleviating the grief with which their nation has been overwhelmed by their treacherous chiefs, and to pass away the days of their trouble by amusing their white brethren with exhibitions of their native dances and ball plays.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

The celebrated Indian, Capt. John Brant, Esq. son of the chief, has been returned to the Provincial Parliament of Upper Canada for the Haldimand.

____________________

William Bartlett, Esq. of Newburyport has, at different times, given to the Theological Seminary at Andover, Mass. upwards of two hundred thousand dollars.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

The celebrated Indian, Capt. John Brant, Esq. son of the chief, has been returned to the provincial parliament of Upper Canada for the Haldimand.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

William Bartlett, Esq. of Newburyport has, at different times, given to the Theological Seminary at Andover, Mass. upwards of two hundred thousand dollars.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

NOTICE.

WILL BE SOLD TO THE HIGHEST bidder, at the late residence of Thomas B. Adair, on the second Monday in January next, all the property belonging to the estate of T.B. Adair, deceased, viz: three negroes, JOE his wife NELLY and CHILD, from five to six hundred bushels of CORN, four stack of FODDER, four head of HORSES, eleven head of CATTLE, fifty head of HOGS, one ROAD WAGON, one yoke of OXEN, one LOOM, one RIFLE GUN, together with household and kitchen FURNITURE.

ALSO

That valuable improvement belonging to said estate, lying on the road leading from the lower part of Georgia to Tennessee, one mile north of Etowah river beautifully situated for a stand, containing seventy acres of cleared land, a good house with a garden and other necessary buildings. As for the land, for quantity or quality, inferior to none in the nation.

Terms -- Twelve months credit for all amounts over five dollars, and for all under five dollars, money paid down. Good security will be required.

JOS. M. LYNCH, Executor.

Dec. 11, 1830 30 3.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Five Column Format

PRESENT STATE OF THE INDIAN QUESTION.

To the editors of the National Intelligencer

.

GENTLEMEN: Your readers need not be informed that the Indian Question, as it is familiarly called, has been deeply interesting to the American public for more than a year, and that it was particularly so during the whole of the last session of Congress.  This subject does not directly affect the private concerns of our citizens, nor does it bear immediately on the foreign relations of the country, nor ought it to be entangled with the wishes and designs, the hopes and fears, of political intriguers or partisan editors.  No other subject, so far removed as this is from the ordinary causes of excited feeling, has taken so firm a hold of the public mind and the public conscience, since the United States became a nation. This general interest can be accounted for in no other way than by supposing that a large portion of our inhabitants, including many of the most intelligent, virtuous, and public spirited in the community are seriously apprehensive that justice is to be trampled on, humanity outraged, and the national character deeply stained, by the treatment which the defenseless tribes upon our borders are to receive at our hands.

The Indians are now, if compared with ourselves, a feeble race of men. They are far removed from the populous part of our country. They have but a scanty means of access to the minds and hearts of our people. Ignorance of their condition casts an obscurity over their rights and claims.  They have no patronage to bestow, no votes to give or withhold, no resources adequate to even a moderate and stinted defence of their righteous cause. Their opponents can wield a great patronage, have many votes to give, and hold great political power at their disposal; and all the influence thence resulting is exerted to stifle inquiry, to misrepresent the character and claims of the Indians, and to make their cause appear despicable and hopeless.

Yet, though their cause labors under all these disadvantages, the people of the United States generally, so far as correctly informed in regard to facts, are on the side of the Indians. The cry of the Indians has been heard: their claims are thoroughly understood by many; and all fairminded honorable men, by whom these claims are understood, are extremely desirous that the Indians should receive that protection, which our nation has solemnly, and many times, covenanted to afford.

Another session of Congress is approaching; and it seems proper to enquire, what is the present state of the Indian Question? and what are the people of the United States bound to do, in regard to it?

I propose, Messrs. Editors, to answer these two inquiries, in two essays; and as but a single number will be devoted to each, I respectfully solicit the attention of yourselves and your readers to a discussion of so moderate a length, on a subject, which, however it may be disguised for the moment, will at last be universally acknowledged to be one of momentous import.

To ascertain what is the state of the Indian Question? it will be necessary to bear in mind the following particulars.

The present Chief Magistrate of the United States, soon after entering upon the duties of his office, gave the Cherokees and the other southwestern tribes to understand, that they must submit to the laws of the States in their neighborhood. While he professed a willingness to extend his protection to these tribes, in some undefined manner, and to some uncertain extent, he explicitly and repeatedly declared, that he could do nothing, which should interfere with State Laws, or should imply that the separate States have not the absolute and uncontrolled power of legislating over Indian tribes, residing on their original territory, if that territory happens to fall within the chartered limits of any State. Of course, the President must have assumed the power of suspending the law of Congress, regulating intercourse with the Indian tribes; a law the principal provisions of which have been in force since the year 1790, and which now stands on the national statute book unrepealed.  If the right of the States to legislate for the Indians be admitted, it is absurd for the General Government to talk of protecting them; in any respect whatever.

The President has not only supposed himself invested the power of suspending or repealing laws, but has, in the case of the Cherokees, suspended the intercourse law, which had been made perpetual for their benefit by an express treaty stipulation. He has also assumed the power of vacating treaties, on the ground that all his predecessors in office, and ever Senate of the United States, had transcended their constitutional authority.

The fact that the President has theoretically and practically assumed the power of suspending or repealing a law of Congress, which had been enforced by every one of his predecessors, and the power of vacating treaties, which had been uniformly held sacred among them, is one of the most remarkable things which have taken place since the origin of our Government. However very remarkable it is, may be seen by any one who reflects, that the Constitution has given the President no power to pronounce an existing law unconstitutional, much less to repeal or suspend a law. He does not embody in himself all the legislative and judicial functions of the Government.

The interpretation of laws, and the power of deciding as to their constitutionality, belong to the judiciary, by which branch of the Government these powers have exclusively been exercised. Even in hereditary monarchies, wherever there is any thing like a limited Government, the King cannot abrogate, alter, or suspend a law. The King of England, for instance, has no power of this sort. The representatives of the French people inserted in the recent charter a declaration, that the King should never suspend the operation of a law and this was one of the first, and one of the most important additions which they made to the old charter.

Such being the known opinions and conduct of the President, the Indian Bill passed at the close of the last session of Congress.  The act would be perfectly harmless, were the executive of it confided to a Chief Magistrate, who entertained the views of General Washington and Jefferson, in relation to this whole subject.  It recognizes the national character of the Indian tribes, and expressly guards against the violation of treaties.  Yet, both its friends, and its opposers know very well, that the Indian tribes were denationalized by those State laws, with which the President had said he could not interfere, and that, under the operation of these State laws, every treaty, though made for the very purpose of protecting the Indians, would become a dead letter. I speak of the friends of the bill generally. There many have been a few who voted for it, in the belief that it would be impossible for the President to disregard the plainest stipulations of treaties, under the auspices of an act of Congress, which expressly guarded their sanctity.

The effects of this act of Congress have been precisely such as its opposers predicted they would be. The Indians have all been told, that the opinions of the President, as they had been previously stated and explained, are approved by Congress, and that now there is certainly no alternative for these tribes, but a removal beyond the Mississippi, or subjection to the laws of the States.

Attempts to negotiate with the Southwestern tribes have been renewed under the auspices of the Indian Bill. The Cherokees and Creeks have refused to treat. The Chickasaws have agreed to remove, provided a country can be found, which shall be satisfactory to them, a condition which they do not believe it possible for the United States to comply with. The Choctaws have recently signed a treaty, under the very urgent influence of the Secretary of War, with the law of Congress, as explained by him, and the laws of the State of Mississippi, and all the unknown power of State legislation, suspended over them; the whole forming a system of duress, which the Choctaws could not withstand, and which is equally unjust to them, and dishonorable to the country.

When the Indian Bill had passed, the Cherokee deputies, then at Washington, employed legal counsel. Now, for the first time since this controversy arose, they availed themselves of professional aid. Mr. Wirt, long and advantageously known to the American public as an eminent jurist and a powerful advocate, was engaged by them to defend their cause, and to take proper measures for bringing it before the Supreme Court of the United States.

The announcement of this advance in the controversy was received with tokens of high gratification. The sad countenances of the Cherokees were universally lighted up.  All friends of the Indians, and all who love to see justice administered with an equal hand to the weak and the strong.  To the Supreme Court of the Constitution has assigned the duty of deciding questions, which arise in regard to the constitutionality, as well as the meaning and effect, of laws enacted by Congress, and by the Legislatures of the several States. If the Indian Question can be fairly brought before this tribunal, and deliberately argued and adjudicated there, the public will undoubtedly be satisfied with the decision. If, however, there should be unavoidable delay in the obtaining judgment of the Court, so that the Cherokees cannot soon avail themselves of that legal protection, to which they believe themselves entitled, and which has been solemnly guarantied to them by the sovereign authority of the Nation, it will be matter of deep sorrow and regret to them, and may prove fatal to their cause.

Soon after Mr. Wirt was employed as counsel for the Cherokees, he prepared for their use and guidance a written opinion, embracing all the material points of difference between them and the State of Georgia. In this opinion, which was drawn up with great ability and candor, and sustained by unanswerable arguments, the following positions are established, viz:

1. That the Cherokees are a sovereign nation.

2. That the territory of the Cherokees is not within the jurisdiction of the State of Georgia, but within the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the Cherokee Nation.

3. That, consequently, the State of Georgia, has no right to extend her laws over that territory.

4. That the law of Georgia, which subjects the Cherokees to the jurisdiction of that State, is unconstitutional and void.

5. That improvements, for which individuals among the Cherokees have received a compensation from the United States, in consideration of their emigrating to the country on the Arkansas, do not pass to the United States; much less does the soil, on which these improvements are found, pass to the United States for the use of Georgia; but these improvements and the soil belong to the Cherokee Nation.  And.

6. That the President of the United States has no constitutional power to fix the boundary between the Cherokee Nation and the State of Georgia.

In these positions, many of the most distinguished lawyers in the United States have fully and deliberately concurred.  Indeed, it may be doubted, whether a lawyer of my reputation can be found who will seriously undertake to controvert them. I do not learn that any answer has been attempted.

If any confidence can be given to the opinion of Mr. Wirt, thus expressed and published in the view of the whole civilized world, an opinion, which, as Mr. Wirt very well knew, must inevitably either elevate or depress his own character, as a professional adviser, and a man of intelligence and integrity; an opinion, formed under circumstances of peculiar responsibility to his clients, whose dearest interest are involved in the issue: if any confidence is due to the opinions of many other eminent jurists in our land -- men of experience and sagacity, neither seeking nor holding public offices, not entangled with political parties, but looking at the subject only as connected with the permanent interest of the country; if any credit can be yielded to the solemn asservations of some of the ablest and most respected members of both houses of Congress; or to reasonings, which have been pronounced unanswerable by men of great intelligence in Europe and America; or to the declarations of dispassionate and patriotic citizens, many of whom regard the matter in the single light of common sense and common honesty; if these things, or any of them, are worthy of consideration, the people of the United States are soon to decide a most extraordinary question. It is -- Shall our nation violate its faith? The question is no less than this. It cannot be made less. No sophistry can disguise it. No art can conceal it. No party clamors can drown the voice of reason and conscience, which incessantly cries, Beware of National perjury.

The question then for our young and boasting Republic to settle, is, shall we deliberately make up our minds to forswear ourselves? Shall we calmly, and coolly, and after many months for consideration and reflection, proclaim to the world, in the face of Heaven, that we deem very lightly of our faith; and that we can break treaties by scores and by hundreds, without a pang, and without a blush? Shall we, the People of the United States, who formed all our constitutions of Government; who do act not forget that we govern ourselves; and who expect our will, and not the will of a few privileged men, to be obeyed; shall we perpetrate an act, which combines all the baseness and guilt of the meanest fraud, the most barefaced falsehood, and the most deliberate perjury? Shall we perpetuate such an act, while, in all our intercourse with foreign Nations, we are talking of justice, and honor, and integrity? and are demanding in a high tone of morality, as if conscious of rectitude, that all our rights should be admitted, and our claims, should be regarded as unquestionable? Shall we perpetuate such an act, by encroaching upon the rights of the weak and defenseless, merely because they are weak, and we are strong? Shall we do this with reference to the descendants of men, who listened to the persuasions and entreaties our fathers, who consented to a peace at the earnest solicitations of Washington and other worthies and heroes of the Revolution? who received from Washington, as Chief Magistrate of the newly formed Union, the very first pledges of the pure and uncontaminated faith of the rising Republic? and who accepted oiur solemn guaranty, as the great equivalent for large and rich domains, which they relinquished to our expanding population? After expressing, for forty years, our determination to abide by these very engagements; after reaffirming these engagements by the mouths, and under the seals of all the venerable and honored men who we had selected as most worthy to hold the highest offices in the State; shall we suddenly have the hardihood, the audacity, the impudence, to absolve ourselves from all the obligations, which rest with such accumulated weight upon us? Was the man of probity and honor ever transformed, all at once, into a knave, a swindler, a case-hardened villain, taking no pains to hide his villainy? Was it ever heard of, that a chaste matron became, all at once, regardless of common decency? The Romans had a maxim, Nemo repent fit turissimus.  And shall we, in this early age, of our growing Nation, after exhibiting to the world most illustrious examples of public virtue, suddenly examples of public virtue, suddenly cast away, as a worn-out Government, all regard to our national character, all respect for the opinions of mankind, all respect for ourselves, all consideration of our permanent interests, and all fear of God the Avenger of the oppressed?

Is it possible that the People of the United States should hesitate on this question? No; they would not, if they saw that this was the question distinctly proposed to them, that they must answer it; and must be held responsible to the world for answer. The danger is not, that a majority of the people will do wrong, with a full understanding of the case; but that apathy will prevail; and the question will be decided the wrong way by interested voices; and thus the character of the country will be lost; before the country is aware of it.

The alarm should be sounded by all who can write, and all who can speak; an alarm more earnest and thrilling than would be required to guard against the approach of an invading army, the breaking forth of pestilence, the conflagration of fifty cities, or the loss of half the property in the Nation. If property were only destroyed, after the lapse of a few years the loss would not be known, and posterity would neither see nor feel it. But the loss of character is irreparable. Who would not rather have a son or a brother deprived of his last farthing, with his reputation uninjured, than see him placed in the pillory for manifest fraud and wilful perjury, though he might console himself, in his infamy, with the wealth of both the Indies? The ordinary calamities of life are soon past and forgotten; but the deep wound of a ruined character -- the ruined character of a nation -- after ages are gone, is just beginning to show how disgusting and intolerable the gangrene is.

If this Nation, the People of the United States, shall commit, or, which is the same thing, allow their public agents to commit an act of flagitious and enormous wickedness, in a perfectly plain case and without any excuse or palliation, the disregard of public morals and public decency will be more shameless, the injury done to weak supplicating tribes more wanton, the disgrace brought upon the cause of free government more deep and more extensively pernicious, and the guilt incurred more frightful and appalling, than it is in the power of language adequately to describe. History furnishes no parallel case of palpable injustice and cruelty, committed, or allowed, by the mass of the inhabitants of a great country, after ample time for deliberation.

A thousand voices ask, What can be done to avert the evil? Is the case without remedy? Can we find no place for repentance, though we seek it carefully with tears?

These questions have already been answered, in effect, by the public doings of various, assemblies of our fellow citizens, in different parts of the country; but it may be a matter of convenience to have the answers embodied in a single paper. This I shall attempt in my remaining number.

WILLIAM PENN

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the National Intelligencer.

What are the People of the United States bound to do in regard to the Indian Question?



 Gentlemen- In my former number, I endeavored to exhibit the present state of the Indian question, and I now proceed to embody in this paper several things, which the people of the United States are bound to do in regard to it. In this attempt, I make no claim to originality, but freely avail myself of suggestions made o various public occasions by numerous patriotic citizens residing in different parts of the country.

Let it be borne in mind that the evil apprehended is no less than this: That the people of the United States will deliberately, for a small temptation, commit a wanton and flagitious violation of the public faith; that in doing this, they will oppress weak and dependent allies; and that they will thus bring upon themselves great disgrace and guilt, and upon the country never ending reproach and shame. This is the evil to be averted, and is not the occasion worthy of the most strenuous exertions, which every friend of the country can make. Is not the exigency extreme, and the necessity of immediate effort imperious? All who thin with the writer of these paragraphs must answer in the affirmative, and will be inclined seriously to consider the following suggestions:

1. The people of the United States are bound to regard the Cherokees and other Indians as men; as human beings, entitled to the same treatment as Englishmen, Frenchmen; or ourselves would be entitled to receive in the same circumstances. Here is the only weak place in their cause. They are not treated as men; and if they are finally ejected from their patrimonial inheritance by arbitrary and unrighteous power, the people of the United States will be impeached and condemned for treating the Indians, not as men, but as animals. The sentence will be pronounced against us, that, while we boasted of our attachment to liberty, and set ourselves up as patrons of the rights of man, we treated the weak and dependent-even our old and long tried allies, if weak and dependent, we treated, not as men, but as animals.  Fellow citizens, is this horrible iniquity to be perpetrated by us?

Why should not the Cherokees, Creeks, and Choctaws be treated as men? Their ancestors were thus treated, when Oglethorpe landed at Savannah; and when he begged them as the rightful sovereigns of the territory, to spare him a little land on which to settle, and promised them everlasting friendship and good neighborhood. The last generation was treated in the same manner by Washington, when he sent for Creek chiefs, induced them to visit the seat of government; explained his wishes to them, gave them his advice, and formed an honorable treaty with them, by which the United States solemnly guarantied to them a known boundary. The Cherokees and Choctaws were treated as men during the last war when they fought by the side of the commander who is now President of the United States, and were praised for their bravery, their fidelity, and their devotedness to the cause of their great ally. These tribes have always been treated as men, till within three years past. And why should they not be so treated still? What have they done to forfeit their human character?- Why should not a compact with them be construed and executed as a compact would be to which France and Switzerland, or the Emperor of Austria and the House Towns might be parties?  Why should not a bargain with John Ross be subject to the same rules of interpretation as a bargain with Mr. Girard of Philadelphia, or the Barings in London?

Once establish the position that Indians are to be treated as men, and the Cherokees have gained their cause instantly. The controversy is forever at an end. We might as well dispute whether we are bound by the treaty of 1803 to protect the Catholics of New Orleans in the free profession and exercise of their religion; or whether the St. Lawrence is a part of the boundary between the United States and Canada; or whether by the Treaty of Ghent, the British engaged to evacuate the eastern part of Maine; as to hesitate whether the Cherokees have the sole and exclusive jurisdiction over their own territory.

If the Indians had never been allowed to possess the attributes of men, the case would be very different from what it now is.  Long continued encroachments do not indeed furnish a justification of those who make them; but they prove that the oppressors may possibly not perceive the true nature of their oppressive acts. In this matter we cannot offer even the sorry plea of prescription in crime, as an extenuation of our guilt. The precedents in our own country are all against us. For two hundred years the Indians have been treated like other men, as to the acknowledgment of their rights, and the interpretation of treaties made with them. Cherokees are now living who have been assured hundreds of times by the accredited agents of our government that the United States would never permit any encroachments to be made upon them, that their country would remain inviolate as long as they pleased to retain it; and that all treaties were to be executed with the strictest honor and fidelity. How humiliating the thought that all these upright decisions are to be reversed, and all engagements to be perform the merest acts of justice are to be violated without a single reason or pretext, the bare mention of which would disgrace an honest man in any private transaction.

If the Indians are men, they are under the protection of law. The people of this country demand that essential interests of individuals should not be touched unless by the operations of law. Who has forgotten the case of Rowland Stephenson? He came to this country as was universally supposed an absconding debtor; a fraudulent bankrupt, a swindling defaulter. He had no peculiar claims on the country, or its government.- He had not, perhaps, in the United States a personal acquaintance who felt any deep interest in him while his own countrymen and his own government wished to arrest him.  Yet, the people of the United States said, with one voice, 'No man is to be arrested here whatever his character and whatever his country, unless by due process of law.' Two cities in states distant from each other were thrown into great agitation by the attempt to carry him out of the country clandestinely. This was right for if one man, however illdeserving, may be removed from the protection of the law, it is impossible to tell who will be removed next.  Rowland Stephenson, though a stranger and fugitive, and universally believed to be a culprit, experienced the protection of law because he was a man; but Ross and Hicks, and _____ and Folsom, with more than twelve thousand Indian families cannot avail themselves of the protection of law, not even of treaties which are expressly declared by our constitution to be the supreme law of the land, and which by the common consent of nations, are the most sacred of all laws. These twelve thousand Indian families are not fugitives nor strangers. They inherited the immemorial possession of their ancestors, and have been constantly known to our nation by public transactions for more than fifty years.- They can bring files of parchments with the seals of all our great statesmen affixed to them. All this avails nothing however, for it has been discovered within three years past, that they are not endowed with the rights of men; or in other words, they have lost their human character and become mere animals. And this in one of the discoveries of the nineteenth century which is to illustrate our public reputation of the latest period of time!

2. The people of the United States are bound to remember that the cause of justice will prevail if it is kept before the public eye, and pressed upon the public conscience. It is true, that self-interest blinds men strangely; but the supposed advantages to be gained by driving the Indians into exile are altogether too small and contemptible to exert a permanent influence upon the minds of our citizens generally. One of the Senators from Georgia said in his place, while the Indian bill was under discussion, that the interest of that state in the decision of the question was very inconsiderable. This declaration was true. Beyond a doubt, the interest of the southern states would be promoted by admitting all that the Indian claim, and never attempting to get a foot of their lands, unless by treaties fairly made-all past engagements remaining inviolate.

Let this matter be kept fully, strongly, and constantly before the minds of all our people, and there can be no fears in regard to the issue.- Our faith will be sustained, and the nation will have acquired from the struggle a great accession of moral strength.

3. We are bound as a people to petition Congress earnestly and importunately that the apprehended evil may be averted.  From every part of our land memorials should flow in, couched in terms of such eloquent expostulation that it will be impossible for our national rulers to look upon the contemplated measures without shuddering. There are persons in all parts of our country who speak in terms of utter abhorrence of the course now pursued with the Indians.  From the most unquestionable sources it is ascertained that the great numbers of well informed individuals in South Carolina, Alabama, and Mississippi perfectly agree on this subject with the mass of the people in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and the western, middle, and eastern states. I say the mass of the people, for excepting those who are misled by false statements, and including all who are acquainted with the subject, it will be found that nearly every individual is on the side of the Indians.

It is extensively supposed that petitioning does no good; and, owing to the prevalence of this supposition many thousands neglected to petition in behalf of the Indians last winter. But this is a total mistake. A few more spirited memorials supported by the personal influence of men distinguished in the community for their integrity and patriotism would probably have defeated the Indian bill.

Among the topics of the petitions should be the following: that the Indian bill should be immediately repealed except so far as it has already been executed; that no further appropriations should be made for the removal of the Indians, or for treating with them till their rights are fully acknowledged by all branches of the government,and that the Senate should not ratify any treaty made under the auspices of the Indian bill, and the interpretation it has received.  These topics of memorial have been recommended by large assemblies of our fellow citizens in Kentucky, and in other parts of the union. They should be enforced by all that variety of argument and illustration of which they are susceptible.

May it not be well to petition, also, that a declaratory act may be passed asserting that the Intercourse Law extends to the south-western tribes, and directing the President to see it enforced?  As the Constitution has assigned to the Supreme Court the duty of deciding in regard to the meaning and effect of treaties, and as it is generally known that a suit is contemplated by the Cherokees, is it not every way desirable that the Indians should remain in their present condition till the proper tribunal shall have pronounced upon their claims and ought not the people of the United States to cherish an e qual respect for all branches of their government, and to demand that each should act in its appropriate sphere?

When petitions are prepared, on these and other topics by individuals in our cities, towns, and districts most competent to prepare them, they should be presented for signatures with a zeal and spirit commensurate to the object in view, viz: The thorough expurgation of the stain which is beginning to show itself on our national escutcheon, and the interposition of an effectual harrier against measures like those which are contemplated.

4. Now is the time for all who can address the public with effect, either by the mouth or with the pen, to put forth their utmost powers in behalf of suffering humanity, in behalf of suffering humanity, in behalf of our country, in behalf of weak and defenseless men throughout the world. Never was there a clearer case of right, never a stronger case of conventional obligation, never a case in which the ultimate decision will more certainly receive the hearty reprobation of the future millions of America if that decision should disregard the cries of the poor, and the entreaties of the oppressed.  There should be one loud, general overwhelming note of remonstrance sounding forth from Georgia to Maine, and repeating admonitions like there: Abstain from robbery- oppress not the poor-perform your vows-respect the rights of all. There should be a vehement and universal outcry as against a great crime on the eve of being perpetrated, and which can be prevented only by a voice of alarm and decision.

5. If the importance of this subject were seen in its true light, thee is no presumption in saying that the friends of the Indians in all our great cities, and in all the states of the Union, would send a deputation to Washington to see that a proper representation of the views and feelings of the people was made to the executive and legislative branches of the Government. Men of the first respectability, and of long established character would cheerfully leave their homes and spend months for the sake of lending even a small aid to the cause of the Indians; a cause on the success of which the honor and prosperity of the country so much depends, for if the public reputation of the country should suffer, all the great interests of the country will suffer with it.  Deputations of this character might call on the President, and explain to him fully the wishes of their constituents. He would receive them with all that attention which the grave nature of the question would evidently require; and which his habits of affability would render easy to him. Let the principles developed in Mr. Wirt's opinion be pressed upon his consideration. These principles are plain and are supported by arguments which cannot be answered.

The Indian Bill leaves almost everything to the discretion of the President; and this makes it peculiarly proper to address him personally. Caution and delay cannot injure the United States, or the rightful claims of any state; but hast may destroy the Indians and inflict tremendous evils upon ourselves.  There is the more reason to hope that such interviews with the President might be useful, as it is known that many among the most respectable of his political friends are as decidedly opposed as any members of the community to the present system of measures in regard to the Indians.

5. In all assemblies for public worship,and on all suitable occasions, let prayers be offered that God would enlighten and guide the minds and hearts of our rulers in all their actions relating to this subject. No man would more seriously deplore than myself the perversion of the worship of God, and making it subservient to party purposes and political objects. But here is a great public question which has an intimate bearing on the moral character and permanent interest of the nation. An immense majority of those who have examined the subject consider the reputation of our republic to be in the greatest peril. What can be more proper than to offer our fervent supplication to him in whose hands are the hearts or rulers, that he would preserve us from acts of injustice and oppression; and that if the case be really such as it is apprehended to be, by many of our wisest and most impartial citizens, he would save us from the amazing guilt and both ourselves and posterity from the intolerable shame into which there seems such a desperate and unaccountable disposition to plunge. Let the people everywhere pray in the language of Daniel to Nebuchadnezzar; that our rulers may show mercy to the poor, if it may be a lengthening of their tranquility.  It is needless to say that all prayers for our rulers should be offered with an unaffected and serious desire that they may execute the duties of their stations in such a manner as to secure for themselves an honorable reputation and for their country the favor of heaven.

7. The people of the United States are bound to oppose the contemplated measures in every legal and constitutional way. The methods by which the true nature of these measures maybe made apparent and by which they necessity of acting justly and humanely and generously towards the Indians my be enforced are too various to be enumerated here. In a word, everything which is practicable should be done to bring the whole community to a sense of what is truly honorable to ourselves as a nation, and truly just to our dependent allies. No people ever had a better opportunity to obtain a durable name for justice and benevolence toward acknowledged inferiors, (to whom we are yet under great obligation) than the people of the United States have at the present moment.

These things the people of the United States are bound to do and if these things are done, the Indians will be saved, the cause of reproach will be removed, and increased confidence will be reposed in the virtue of a free people. But if a contrary result should be witnessed, it will be owing to the apathy of those who should have shown spirit and zeal. The future Tacitus of our country, after holding up to the abhorrence of mankind the principal agents, by whose arts and sophistry, a majority of the rulers and many of the people were beguiled and misled, will say, that as the Indians had conscience and law, and argument, and every plea of humanity, and every dictate of justice and religion on their side, their cause could never have been lost, except by the culpable negligence and apathy of those who knew what was right, but would not make timely and adequate exertions to defend it. Then the bitter tears of repenting millions will be unavailing; and we must stand convicted of being faithless to our engagements, and of oppressing the poor, who cried to us in vain for deliverance, though we had solemnly and expressly promised to hear and protect them, and the conviction will be corded against us, and blazoned forth in letters of fire to our everlasting confusion and for the warning of all people generations to come.

WILLIAM PENN.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: JAN. 1, 1831.

The following communication did not reach us until the other day. We feel much indebted to the author for using his proper signature. It is not to be doubted that the visit of the troops has been oppressive to many of the citizens of this nation. The blame lies, where the writer places it, at the door of the executive. With some of the under officers we became acquainted while they were in the nation.  For their Gentlemanly behavior we still enter a high regard.

Cherokee Nation, Chestatee Gold mines, Oct. 10, 1830

MR. EDITOR,

Sir__ I have for some time expected, that some person better qualified than myself would have communicated the result of the late visit of the United States Troops to this place on the 17th ult.  But I have been disappointed.  Permit me therefore, through the columns of the Phoenix, to exhibit to the world one instance of oppression, which is the legitimate offspring of the unfatherly policy of the General Government towards the Cherokee.---But pen and ink will almost fail to describe the shameful outrageous conduct of the troops. The Cherokees who were peaceably gleaning gold on their own soil, after the many thousands of white intruders from different States, who were daily filching the precious metal from the rightful owners, news reached us that the United States troops were on their march to that place. The natives rejoiced much, vainly hoping to realize the often promised, but long delayed protection. But soon, very soon, their hopes were all blasted, and their rejoicing turned to sorrow. When the troops made their appearance on the summits of the Pegion (sic) Roost (one of the principal mines in the region)commanded by Maj. Wager, who made a charge with considerable shouting and clashing of fire arms, as it determined to sweep the gold diggers with relentless destruction. Many of the white intruders fearful of suffering inspited (sic) punishment, 'ingloriously fled' to the mountains, gave leg bail for security. But the Cherokees, who once valiantly fought ' bled by the 'Hero's' side, being conscious of not having violated any laws of the United States, nor of the individual states, stood firm and with almost unexampled patience, suffered the depredations and lawless violence of the troops, believing that it was much more honorable to suffer oppression than to be the cruel oppressor. The Cherokees and the white intruders were all made prisoners, ordered into ranks, and marched off to the encampment about one mile distant, where they were kept closely confined in a house, without anything to eat or drink, for the space of 24 hours. Many of the natives were shamefully treated, some of them, who did not understand the command of the officers were beaten with the butts of their guns, and shoved into ranks by force. The soldiers without restraint were permitted to rob them of what gold they had, and would thrust their hands into their pockets, and take what they could find.  Some few saved their gold by hiding it in their moccasins, and other unsuspected places. Much property belonging to the Indians was destroyed, all working utensils were forcibly taken from them, and their washing machines burned and mashed in pieces, one of which belonged to Mr. Daniel Davis (a native) supposed to be worth $300, one house belonging to a Cherokee was also burnt up. A store House belonging to a native had the lock broken by the soldiers, and was forcibly entered, ' a quantity of groceries, goods, gold and money, to the amount of about $300 destroyed. They came to Reuben Daniels, the evening before they committed this shameful robbery, peremptorily ordered him out of his House, (a large framed building) before he could arrange his business, so as to remove his effects, the soldiers were ordered to take his goods and chattels out into the yard, there to lie until he could take them away elsewhere. The troops then took possession of it and still occupy it. I am disposed to believe that if such flagrant outrages as these had been committed upon any other people but the Cherokees, or others similarly circumstanced, it would have been considered a palpable infringement on the Constitution of the United States, which very expressly says in the amendment, Art. 3, 'No soldiers shall in time of peace, be quartered in any House without the consent of the owner, nor in time or war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law.' They also destroyed Mr. Samuel Mayes' groceries (a citizen of this nation) and stopped his wagon and team on the road, when he was on his way home from the mines. The soldiers were also suffered to plunder his wagon, and broke upon his trunks. A quantity of goods and wearing clothes were taken, and a pocket book with money in it.  However, shame overcame the officers, who afterwards paid Mrs. Mayes $20 as compensation for damages committed on her property, although it was but a trifle compared with the amount taken.

The humblest remonstrances from those injured natives with Major Wager for this violent outrage were often unanswered.  If replied to at all, it was to be gone from his presence. I have not here related all the Indian property destroyed and taken; I expect that a schedule of all the property taken and destroyed, accompanied with affidavits will be exhibited to the Congress of the United States, for payment as early as convenient. The white intruders were kept under guard about two days, then set across Chestatee River, the present Cherokee boundary line, the distance of eight miles from the encampment. This mild treatment towards the white intruders, who had so often daringly violated the United States law, made for the protection of friendly Indians, but too plainly showed those troops were sent here to favor the Georgia policy which was to harass the natives, and to remove them from the Gold mines. The white intruders who were cultivating large fields of corn within three miles of this place were not even interrupted. I fear that we but vainly hope for better days for such movements auger extermination of our government.  'It is at least but a Utopian thought' to expect a radical change in our situation, whilst the potent hand of the President hold a loose rein to Georgia tyranny. Of all the potentates on Earth, the United States ought to have been the last to exercise tyranny on a defenseless community of Indians.  They themselves are the descendants of the Pilgrims who came to America fleeing from oppression and tyranny, in the European world. We had fairly hoped that the time had approached that the true principles of liberty would not only be acknowledged, but fully acted on, and the spirit of bigotry and tyranny known and remembered only to be avoided.

WALTER ADAIR

_______________________

The Georgia Journal exulted greatly sometime since when a certain jury did justice to a Cherokee, and considered the circumstance as a complete refutation of what the Northern fanatics had said on the inhumanity of Georgia laws. It was well for the Journal to be sensitive on a solitary instance--let the editor have all the benefit which the case will afford him.  But, Gentlemen, turn the leaf, and after reading one credit (if you may call it so where a jury does nothing more than its duty) see another item charged. Here it is.

HIGHTOWER Cher. Nation,

December 25, 1830

Mr. BOUDINOTT: Permit me thro' the medium of your paper to present to the public a short narrative respecting the manner in which the laws of Georgia are executed upon the Indians in this part of the nation.

On the 2d. of last month, an Indian boy came to my house to inform me that a number of white men armed with guns had come to the widow Lee's and had tied George and Johnson Lee, and taken them to Georgia. Upon learning the particulars, I found the cause assigned for this measure; to be the following occurrences.

It was said that a man by the name of Mahaffee of Georgia, had a demand of $20 against an Indian by the name of Scott.  Mahaffee had obtained an Attachment, and placed it in the hands of a constable by the name of Cartright.  Accompanied by him, Mahaffee came into the nation, for the purpose of levying upon the property of Scott. They found Scott at the house of the widow Lee.  They also saw a horse tied at her door.  Mahaffee enquired of Scott whether that was his horse, referring to the one that stood at the door. Scott replied, no: adding that it belonged to the widow Lee; but notwithstanding this, Mahaffee told Cartright to levy upon him, he did so; yet when attempting to take him away the widow lee caught the bridle and George Lee coming to her assistance, took the horse from Cartright, supposing him to be one of the Poney (sic) Club. Cartright returned to Georgia and obtained two State warrants, one for Georgia and one for Johnson Lee, the latter, however, I am told was not, and had not been at home for several days previous.  Cartright being himself prosecutor, obtained a guard of seven men, proceeded with them armed into the nation to execute the warrants, and took George and Johnson Lee in the manner described above. After learning these facts, I proceeded toward Georgia, fifteen miles, when I met ten or twelve Indians returning with the prisoners. They informed me that a compromise had been made upon condition that the prisoners would pay $20 as cost, and to secure this cost, Cartright had taken a horse worth fifty or sixty dollars. Accompanied by Samuel Adair, I followed this armed force several miles further before I overtook them. Coming up to them, I inquired for the officer, who was pointed out to me.  After a few words of conversation, he said he was unwilling to do anything further about the business before he had made returns to the Justice, in Georgia, which returns, said he, must be made in the sixth district of Carroll County.  In order to get to the sixth district, he must pass through the second. It ought to be remembered here that according to an act of the legislature of Georgia all cases of this kind must be tried in the nearest to the line of this nation.  This course would not probably have answered the gentleman's purpose so well as the one he pursued. We parted for the night to meet in the sixth district of Carroll County.

On the following day, we met as agreed upon, but the magistrate was not at home. We gave bond and security for the delivery of the property levied upon, on the day of trial which was the 4th inst. I inquired of the constable respecting the bill of cost, in the case of the two Indians who were tried, and taken prisoners. He said it was twenty dollars. After I had employed a Lawyer, he gave the items and they amounted to fourteen dollars. This cost we paid and brought away the horse which had been taken as security for it.  At the time appointed, parties met for trial in the sixth district of Carrol County. The point at issue was, whether the horse levied upon as the property of Scott, to satisfy Mahaffee's debt, belonged to Scott or to the widow Lee.

The result was as follows:

1. I was called upon to give testimony. I had known the horse in dispute to have been in the possession of the widow Lee's family since the year 1822; had never known or heard of his being in possession of Scott, or sold to him, and had known that the horse was called the property of the widow Lee.

2. Cartright was called upon to give testimony who being duly sworn, testified substantially as follows: that an attachment had been put into his hands by Mahaffee, that both of them came into the nation, to the house, as he supposed, of Scott, and saw a horse tied at the door.  (It must not be forgotten that they had no interpreter, that neither of them understood the Cherokee language, and that the Cherokees then present did not understand English.) Cartright stated further, that Mahaffee asked Scott if the horse at the door was his? Scott answered no: but said it was that woman's referring as he supposed to his wife.

Question, Does Scott speak English?

Answer. a word or two.

Q. Do you understand the Cherokee language?

a. No.

Q. How did Scott make you understand that the woman referred to was his wife and that the horse belonged to her?

a. He made me understand it by signs and motions!!! Witness added that he saw Scott put a saddle upon the horse afterward, and that the woman rode him away.

q. Was it a man's or a woman's saddle which Scott put on the horse?

A. It was a saddle, that is all I can tell about it.

q. Do you believe the horse to be Scott's?

A. I do.

A lawyer was employed on each side. After they had each made their pleas, the case was committed to a jury. Their verdict was that the horse was subject to the attachment and must therefore be sold at public sale to satisfy Mahaffee's debt!!!

A true statement of such facts as I can prove.

WM. THOMPSON.

___________________________

CHEROKEES

We invite the attention of our readers to the resolutions and statement of facts signed by the Missionaries. Such a document needs no recommendation from our pen-it will be read with interest by all who love truth and justice, because it is the language of truth. Perhaps its greatest excellency consists in its impartiality-there is nothing exaggerated from the beginning to the end. The information contained in these resolutions and statements is such as is greatly needed by the public, and well calculated to counteract many falsehoods and base misrepresentations which are circulated respecting the Cherokees.

In our remarks on the resolutions of the Methodist Missionaries, we expressed our opinion as to the propriety and expediency of making their view known on this all important subject. What we there said will be applicable to the proceedings of the other Missionaries we now publish. We believe no one can now remain neutral-there is no half-way ground on this momentous question-each individual in America must either be for the Indians, or against them, nor will mere professions of friendship and sympathy answer-there must be feeling and this feeling must produce action commensurate with the subject.

At a meeting held at New Echota, Dec. 29th, 1830, the following persons were present:

Rev. Daniel S. Butrick } Missionaries of the A.B.C.F.M.

Rev. Wm. Chamberlin }

Rev. Wm. Potter }

Rev. S. A. Worcester, }

Rev. John Thompson }

Mr. Isaac Proctor } Assistant missionaries of the

Dr. Elizur Butler } A.B.C.F.M.

Mr. J. C. Elsworth }

Mr. Wm. Holland. }

Rev. Gottlieb Byhan } Miss. of the U.B.Church

Rev. H.G. Clauder }

Rev. E. Jones, Missionary of the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions.

Daniel S. Butrick was chosen Chairman of the meeting and S. A. Worcester secretary.

The meeting was opened with prayer by the Chairman.

After deliberate consultation the following resolutions were unanimously adopted, and ordered to be presented for publication to the editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Resolved- That we view the Indian question, at present so much agitated in the United States, as being not merely of a political, but of a moral nature-inasmuch as it involves the maintenance or the violation of the faith of our country-and as demanding, therefore, the most serious consideration of all American citizens, not only as patriots, but as Christians.

Resolved- That we regard the present crisis of affairs, relating to the Cherokee nations, as calling, for the sympathies and prayers, and aid, of all benevolent people throughout the United States.

Resolved- That the frequent insinuations which have been publicly made, that missionaries have used an influence in directing the political affairs of this nation, demand from us an explicit and public disavowal of the charge; and that we therefore solemnly affirm, in regard to ourselves at least every such insinuation is entirely unfounded.

Resolved- That, while we distinctly aver that it is not any influence of ours which has brought the Cherokees to the resolution not to exchange their place of residence, yet it is impossible for us not to feel a lively interest in a subject of such vital importance to their welfare; and that we can perceive no consideration, either moral or political, which ought, in the present crisis, to restrain us from a free and public expression of our opinion.

Resolved- therefore, that we view the removal of this people to the West of the Mississippi as an event to be most earnestly deprecated; threatening greatly to retard, if not totally to arrest their progress in religion, civilization, learning and the useful arts, to involve them in great distress, and to bring upon them a complication of evils, for which the prospect before them would offer no compensation.

Resolved- that we deem ourselves absolutely certain that the feelings of the whole mass of the Cherokee people, including all ranks, and with scarcely a few individual exceptions, are totally averse, to a removal, so nothing but force or such oppression as they would esteem equivalent to force, would induce them to adopt such a measure.

Resolved- as our unanimous opinion, that the establishment of the jurisdiction of Georgia and other states over the Cherokee people, against their will, would be an immense and irreparable injury.

Whereas we have frequently seen, in the public prints, representations of the state of this people, which we know to be widely at variance with the truth, and which are highly injurious in their tendency,

Resolved- that we regard it as no more than an act of justice to the Cherokee Nation, that we publish the following statement, and subjoin our names in testimony of its correctness.

The Cherokee people have been advancing in civilization for a considerable number of years, and are still advancing as rapidly, we believe, as ever. Our various opportunities of acquaintance with them have been such, that we suppose our united estimate of their progress cannot vary widely from the truth. Of this, however, the public must judge.  Mr. Byhan first arrived in the nation as a missionary in May 1801, left it in 1812, and returned in 1827. Mr. Butrick arrived in January ' Mr. Chamberlin in March 1818. Mr. Potter and Doct. Buder (Butler?) arrived in January, 1821, and Mr. Elsworth and Mr. Jones in November of the same year, Mr. Proctor in October 1822, Mr. Holland in November 1823, Mr. Worcester in October 1825, Mr. Clauder in November 1828, and Mr. Thompson in January 1829. We occupy eleven stations, in different parts of the nation. One of these stations is in that part which is considered to have made the least progress in civilization.

When we say that the Cherokees are rapidly advancing in civilization, we speak of them as a body. There are very different degrees of improvement; some families having risen to a level with the white people of the United States, while the progress of others has but commenced. Between the extremes are all grades, but we do not believe there is a family in the nation which has not in a measure felt the change. That the Indians of mixed blood should upon an average, be in advantage of the full Indians, was to be expected, ' is undoubtedly true; although some Indians of full blood are in the foremost rank, and same of mixed blood, help to bring up the rear.

It has been represented, not only that improvement is confined almost exclusively to Indians of mixed blood, but that these constitute an insignificant portion of the nation. Neither representation is correct. We believe that not less than one fourth part of the people are in a greater or less degree mixed. The number of families of mixed blood has been stated at about 200 which is less than the number of families of which one parent is white. That these can bear but a small proportion to the number in which one or both parents are of mixed blood is manifest, since the process of amalgamation has been going on for many years, until the descendants of white are to be found of at least the sixth generation.

But as we have already said, it is far from being true that improvement is chiefly confined to this class. It is well known that the Cherokees were originally found by the Europeans in a purely savage state, naked almost in summer, and  clothed with skins in winter, living in miserable huts, without floors or chimneys, and subsisting partly indeed by agriculture, but mainly by the chase. Without implements of iron, and without the art of manufacturing cloth, it could not be far otherwise. To this purely savage state the present certainly bears a far less resemblance than to that of the civilized people of the U. States. The very lowest class, with few exceptions, are, in our apprehension, as near the latter as the former. As to the straggling beggars who are seen abroad in the white settlements they ought only to be compared with the drunken stragglers of other nations, to judge of comparative civilization.

It would swell our statement beyond a proper length to descent into many particulars, but it seems necessary to specify a few.

At present many of the Cherokees are dressed as well as the whites around them, and of most of them the manner of dress is substantially

 the same. A part of the old men, perhaps nearly half, retain not indeed the original Indian dress, but then, nearly, which prevailed a dozen years since. Almost all the younger men have laid it aside. A very few aged women are seen with only a petticoat and short gown, meeting each other at the waist, which, twenty years ago was the general style of female dress. Except these very few, no woman appears without at least a decent gown, extending from the neck to the feet. Twenty years ago most of the Cherokee children of both sexes, were entirely naked during most of the year. Now there are few, if any families, where the children are not habitually clothed, and especially a Cherokee girl, without decent clothing is an object very seldom seen.  If the present course continues, when those who are now in the decline of life shall have passed away, the dress of the Cherokees will scarcely distinguish them from their neighbors.

The Cherokee woman generally manufactures more or less good substantial cloth. Many families raise their own cotton. A great part of their clothing is manufactured by themselves, though not a little is of New England and foreign manufacture.

Thirty years ago a plough was scarcely seen in the nation. Twenty years ago there were nearly 500. Still the ground was cultivated chiefly by the hoe only. Six years ago the number of ploughs, as enumerated was 2,923.  Among us all we scarcely know a field which is now cultivated without ploughing. Consequently the quantity of land under cultivation is increased several fold.  Habits of industry are much increased, and still increasing, and though many fail in this respect, so that the more indolent sometimes trespass upon the hospitality of the more industrious, yet most families provide in the produce of their fields for the supply of their own wants, and many raise considerable quantities of corn for sale.  Suffering for want of food is as rare, we believe, as in any part of the civilized world.

The dwellings of the mass of the Cherokees are comfortable log cabins. The meanest are not meaner than those of some of the neighboring whites. Formerly their huts had neither floors nor chimneys.  Twenty years since nearly all had chimneys, but few had floors. Now most of the cabins are floored, besides being much improved in other respects.  Many of the houses in the nation are decent two story buildings and some are elegant.

In the furniture of their houses, perhaps, the mass of the people suffer more than in almost any other respect by comparison with their white neighbors. Yet in this particular we notice a very rapid change in the course of a few years past.

The diffusion of property among the people is becoming more general.

In no respect, perhaps, is the approach to civilization more evident than in regard to the station assigned to women. Though in this respect there is still room for improvement, yet in general they are allowed to hold their proper place.

Polygamy, which has prevailed to some extent, is becoming rare. It is forbidden by law, but the law being as yet without a penalty annexed, has probably much less influenced than public opinion which makes the practice highly disreputable. A few are still living in a state of polygamy, but at present almost none enters the state.

Superstition still bears considerable sway, but its influence is rapidly declining. Customs which once it was infamous violate are fast disappearing. Most of the young men of the nation appear to be entirely ignorant of a large portion of the former superstitions. Ancient traditions are fading from memory, and can scarcely be collected if any one would commit them to paper. Conjuring, however, is still, to a considerable extent, practised by the old, and believed in by the less enlightened, even of the young.

In regard to intemperance, there is much to deplore, but it is we believe, an undisputed fact, that its prevalence has greatly diminished, and is still diminishing. Indeed, we are confident that, at present, the Cherokees would not suffer in this respect by a comparison with the white population around. In regard to the scenes of intoxication exhibited at the sessions of courts, and on other public occasions, the Cherokees, in consequence of their wholesome laws on the subject, have greatly the advantage.

In education, we do not know that the progress of the Cherokees should be called rapid. Certainly it is far less so than is desirable. The following facts, however, will serve to correct some misstatements on this subject. We have before us the names of 200 Cherokee men ' youths who are believed to have obtained an English education sufficient for the transaction of ordinary business. Females, too will be observed, are excluded, as are many men ' youths, who can hardly read ' write. Of these 200 persons, about 152 were instructed wholly within the nation, about 24 received within the nation sufficient instruction to enable them to transact ordinary business independently of superadded advantages, and about forty alone were instructed chiefly abroad. We doubt not that a more extended acquaintance would increase the list.  An increasing anxiety among the people for the education of their children is very apparent.

Of the number who are able to read their own language in Guess's alphabet, we should vary somewhat in our individual estimates. None of us, however, supposes that less than a majority of those who are between childhood and middle age can read with greater or less facility.

Nothing could be further from the truth than the representation that any class of the Cherokees are in any respect deteriorating.  However, slow may be the progress of a portion of the people, their course is manifestly not retrograde, but progressive.

In regard to the state of religion we deem it sufficient to state, as nearly as we are able, the number of members off the several religious societies. To the Presbyterian churches belong 219 members of whom 167 are Cherokees. In the United Brethren's churches are 45 Cherokee members. In the Baptist churches probably about 90; we know not the exact number. The official statement of the Methodist missionaries made a little more than a year ago gave 736 as the number of members in their societies, including those who are denominated seekers. The number according to the report of the present year we have not been able to ascertain. We are assured not less than 850. Of these this greater part are Cherokees.

While we represent the Cherokee people as having made great advances in civilization and knowledge, as well as in religion, we wish not to be understood to attribute all to the influence of missionary efforts. We trust indeed that missionaries besides introducing the religion of the Gospel, have had their share of influence in promoting education, and the habits of civilized life. But this influence has not been alone, nor was it the first which began to be felt.

The intermixture of white people with the Indians has undoubtedly been a considerable cause of the civilization of the latter. The operation of this cause upon the descendants of white men we believe is not called in question; but some have seemed to suppose its influence on the full Indians to have been of an opposite character. To say nothing of the improbability of such a supposition considered as theory, it is manifestly contrary to fact in relation to this people. The less civilized Indians are led by degrees, and more and more rapidly as prejudices subside, to adopt the better customs of the more civilized, whose examples are constantly before them.

The proximity of the whites, also, is by no means injurious in every respect. The evil which they have brought upon the Indians by the introduction of ardent spirits and of vices before unknown among them, is indeed great. On the other hand, however, the gradual assimilation of the tribe, thus surrounded by civilized people, to the customs and manners which constantly invite their imitation, and the facility thus afforded for procuring the comforts of life are benefits of no little value. To deprive them of these advantages, while in their present state, would be an incalculable evil.

In relation to the arts of civilized life, and especially those of spinning and weaving, most important results were produced by the system of means proposed by Washington, and carried into effect by some of the former agents of the Government; particularly Col. Dinsmoor, to whom the Cherokees acknowledge themselves greatly indebted.

It has been often represented that white men and half breeds control the political affairs of the nation. White men, can, by the Constitution, have no part in the government; and to us it is evident that the influence of the white citizens of the nation over its political concerns is of very little consideration .  For ourselves, we have already disclaimed such influence. Not only have we been disposed, on our own part, carefully to avoid all interference with such concerns, but we well know that the Cherokees would ever have repelled such interference with indignation. Since, however, all that has been said of our influence has been mere surmise, without even the pretence of evidence, we cannot suppose that much more is necessary on our part than to deny the charge.

That the Indians of mixed blood possess in a considerable degree, that superior influence which naturally attends superior knowledge, cannot be doubted. Of this description certainly are the greater portion of these through whose influence a happier form of Government has taken the place of that under which the Cherokees formerly lived. But it would be a power of a different kind from any which exists in the Cherokee nation which could, as these leading men have been represented to do, a assume and maintain an important position in opposition to the will of the people.  Particularly is there overwhelming evidence that no man, whatever degree of talent, or knowledge, on previous influence he might possess, could possibly find his way into office at the present time, whose views were known to countervene (sic) those of the mass of the people on the grand subject of national interest a removal to the west.  The disposal of office is in the hands of the people-the people require patriotism and the very touchstone of patriotism is 'Will he sell his country?'

lt may not be amiss to state what proportion the Indian blood actually bears to the white in principal departments of the Cherokee Government. The present principal chief, Mr. John Ross, is we believe, but one eight Cherokee. Maj. Lawrey, the second principal chief is one half Cherokee. The Legislature consists of two branches, styled the National Committee and Council, the former numbering 16 members and the latter 24.  The presiding officers of both these branches are full Cherokees. Of the Committee two only, including the President, are full Cherokees. Of the Committee, two only, including the president are full Indians, of the rest seven are half Indian, two more, and five less than half. Of the Council 26 are supposed to be full Indians, seven half, and one only one fourth. No measure can be adopted without the concurrence of both houses and consequently every public measure has the sanction of a body of which two thirds of the members are of unmixed Indian blood. Each succeeding election may vary the proportion. This is, as nearly as we can ascertain the proportion as it now stands.

The effect of the new form of Government, adopted by the Cherokees, has been represented abroad, we know not on what grounds, to be prejudicial to the interests of the people. On this subject it does not belong to us to theorize. We can only say that the actual effects, as it passes under our own observation, is highly beneficial; nor is there any class on whom it operates injuriously.

One other representation we feel it our duty to notice, viz: that the people are deterred from the expression of opinion by the fear of the chiefs. Nothing, we are sure, could be more unfounded. Freedom of speech exists nowhere more unrestrained than here.  Individuals may very possibly be restrained from the expression of an opinion favorable to the removal of the nation, by the dread of incurring the odium of public sentiment; but this is the only restraint, and it is one which supposes what in fact exists, an overwhelming torrent of national feeling in opposition to removal.

It is on this subject most of all, that the views of the Cherokees have been ascribed to the influence of missionaries.  In denying all interference with their political concerns we have repelled this insinuation. We would not be understood to affirm that we have always studiously avoided the expression of our opinions, but that we have not acted the part of advisers, nor would nor could have influenced the views of the people or of their rulers.

In reference to the subjecting of the Cherokees to the jurisdiction of the several states whose chartered limits embrace their country, it may not be improper to state what, from a constant residence among them, we cannot but perceive to be their feelings. One sentiment manifestly pervades the whole nation-that the extension of the laws of the states over them, without their consent, would be a most oppressive and flagrant violation of their national and conventional rights; and the sufferance of it by the United States as flagrant a violation of those treaties on which alone they have relied for security. It would be as idle, also, as it is distant from our wish, to conceal that our views on this subject accord with theirs, and that on a topic of such universal excitement, it is impossible that our views should be unknown to them. If the free expression of such an opinion be a crime, to the charge of that crime we plead guilty. If we withheld our opinion when called for, we could not hold up our heads as preachers of righteousness among a people who would universally regard us as abettors of iniquity.

While such are the feelings of the Cherokees, it is impossible that the jurisdiction of the several states should be established over them without producing the most unhappy results. It is not easy to conjecture what course, in such an event, the majority would adopt. Anything approaching to unanimity could not be expected. Some would undoubtedly join their brethren in Arkansas, some, if we may judge from remarks, which we frequently hear, would seek a refuge beyond the boundaries of the United States, while others still would make the experiment of remaining subject to authorities to which they must render an unwilling obedience. Either alternative would be adopted with such feelings as would in many, we fear, in most instances, preclude the probability of their making further progress in improvement, or even retaining the ground they have gained. The news of the failure of their cause would drive them to despair, and despair, there is every reason to fear would goad many of them on to ruinous excesses of vice, if not in some instances to blind revenge. Hard is the task of that philanthropist who would attempt to elevate, or even to sustain the character of a broken hearted people.- But we forbear to dwell upon the anticipation of evils which we earnestly hope will never be realized.

In all the preceding statements we are conscious of having honestly endeavored to avoid every degree of exaggeration. To us it appears that the Cherokees are in a course of improvement, which promises, if uninterrupted to place them at no distant period nearly on level with their white brethren. Laboring, as we are, to aid them in their progress, we cannot do otherwise than earnestly deprecate any measure which threatens to arrest it. In this light we view the attempt to remove them from their inheritance or subject them against their will, to the dominion of others.  Our sympathies are with them--our prayers have often ascended, and shall still ascend in their behalf-and we earnestly envision that He who rules the destinies of nations will deliver them out of all their affliction, and establish them in the land which he has given them; and at the same time, that he will open all their hearts to receive the Gospel of his son, and thus to secure to themselves the possession of a better country, even a heavenly.

GOTTLIEB BYHAN

D. S.BUTRICK

WM.CHAMBERLIN

EVAN JONES

WM. POTTER

S.A.WORCESTER

JOHN THOMPSON

H.G.CLAUDER

ISAAC PROCTOR

J.C. ELSWORTH

E. BUTLER

WILLIAM HOLLAND

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Adams' Sentinel.

The Indians.- The public mind is becoming awakened upon the subject of the oppressive measures which are now in progress towards that portion of the aborigines of our country, which are within the limits of the State of Georgia. Public meetings are being held for the purpose of making strong representations to the constituted authorities of the country, against the infraction of our solemn pledges to those under circumstances unfortunate fellow creatures.  It is time for the humane, for the benevolent, for Christians, to arouse their dormant energies, and raise their voices in solemn denunciation against the breach of our national faith, against a violation of right, of justice, and of humanity. It is time that the strong arm of public sentiment should be uplifted to stay the hand of tyranny, to protect the weak and defenseless, against the lawless arm of oppression. It is a righteous cause, and it must prevail.

We are pleased to find, that a meeting of the citizens of this County is called, as will appear by the following proceedings of a Town Meeting. We have, in compliance with their request, inserted in this week two Essays on the present state of the Indian question signed Wm. Penn, copied from the National Intelligencer. They will be found upon our first page.

We hope to see a full meeting upon the 18th, of the friends of justice, of humanity, and of patriotism.

PUBLIC MEETING.

At a respectable meeting of the Citizens of Gettysburg, held on Saturday evening the 5th inst. at the house of Mrs. Winrott, for the purpose of taking into consideration the present situation of the Indians within the limits of Georgia, and of devising means to have a proper expression of public sentiment relative to the oppressive measures which are in exercise towards them- JOHN F. MACFARLANE, Esq. was called to the Chair, and Br. Gilbert appointed Secretary.

It was on motion,

Resolved. That it be recommended to the Citizens of Adams County, who are opposed to the unjust and oppressive acts which are now in progress towards the Cherokees and other tribes of Indians, to meet at the Courthouse, in the borough of Gettysburg on Saturday, the 18th inst. at 1 o'clock, P. M. to adopt such measures as they may conceive most proper to have the public feeling fairly expressed upon the subject.

Resolved. That the Editors of the several newspapers in the borough of Gettysburg be requested to publish before the contemplated county meeting, two essays over the signature of Wm. Penn, which appear in the National Intelligencer of the 24th and 25th November.

Resolved. That these proceedings be signed by the Chairman and Secretary, and published in the several newspapers of the borough.

J. F. MACFARLANE, Chair'n.

Br. Gilbert, Sec'y.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We publish today a document, and some resolutions accompanying it, from the Milledgeville Journal, which are before the House of Representatives of the State of Georgia, respecting the Cherokees and their lands. The sentiments of the politicians of that state, are the most singular of all that we have met with, regarding any subject of so much importance. By an agreement between the United States and the State of Georgia, in the year 1802, the former agreed to extinguish the title of the Indians to their lands in that state, 'as soon as it could be peaceably done, and on reasonable terms'. The United States have never found an opportunity to perform this agreement, according to the terms of it. They have not thus far been able to do it 'peaceably and upon reasonable terms;' and yet the politicians of that state, not only loudly complain of injustice on the part of the United States, but actually treat them as if they had wilfully violated their agreement. To say nothing of the gross indecency of their charge against the National Government, it was of necessity a matter which rested entirely with the latter to determine when they could carry the agreement with Georgia into effect, according to the terms in which it was framed by the parties.  The time referred to in the condition has not arrived, and therefore there is not the slightest ground for the State of Georgia to complain. They may, if they are so disposed, accuse themselves of folly in making such an agreement; but having made it, like all other parties to contracts fairly made, they are bound to abide by it; and they ought to do so without grumbling.

The propositions in the resolutions accompanying the memorial shew, that the framers of them at least are disposed not to depend upon the agreement of 1802, but to make a new bargain. The resolutions pray that the President of the United States would establish a registering office in the Cherokee country, for the purpose of registering the names of such of the members of the tribes as are not disposed to emigrate, but choose to remain on their lands, and reserve for themselves portions of their lands; and to appoint agents to assess the value of such reservations; and that the President may pay to the State the amount so assessed. This memorial, it will be observed, is not addressed to Congress, but to the President: and all the requests contained in it are made to him individually. This is a very extraordinary fact, and well calculated to shew the extremely loose notions which prevail in that state respecting constitutional subjects.  The President has no power, without authority derived from Congress, to do any such things, and above all to pay the State of Georgia for the Indian reservations. Georgia has no right to the Indian lands until the agreement of 1802 is executed, and the Indian title extinguished; and the United States alone are competent to determine when the execution of that agreement shall take place. N. Y. Obs.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Missionary Herald.

CHEROKEES

Extract from a letter of Doctor Butler, dated at Haweis, Sept. 22nd, 1830.

Since the Indian question has been in agitation, I have, so far as I have been able, noticed the movements of the Cherokees and their friends, and also the movements of their enemies. I  have often been grieved at the unfounded assertions made to the dis-advantage of the Cherokees; such as those respecting their degraded state, their nearness to extinction, 'c. 'c. I have been acquainted personally with the affairs of the nation for ten years, and know these assertions to be untrue.

Last September I say Mr. H. whose statements, or rather answers to questions proposed to him respecting the state of the Cherokees, were presented to Congress last winter. We conversed freely on that subject. He stated that he lived on the borders of the Nation and had been acquainted with the Cherokees for a number of years; and that he was very much surprised at their rapid improvement in the arts of civilized life; that they appeared to him to be doing well, and that he thought in justice they should be let alone; he thought they could never be placed in another situation where they would improve so rapidly as in their present one; provided the whites would not molest them.

Those who have made statements with regard to Cherokee starvation are certainly very ignorant, or guilty of gross misrepresentations. I know from personal observation that there are a large number of families who raise considerable quantities of corn and meat to sell; and many of these are full Cherokees who speak no English. From an extensive acquaintance I cannot select a family that does not raise corn and meat. Though some few may not raise enough for home consumption. During some seasons I have had to purchase considerable corn; and although I live in the interior of the Nation, I could at any season purchase as much as I wished. Last season, while travelling on the frontiers of Georgia, I well recollect seeing wagon loads of corn going from the Nation to supply the settlements in the State. Droves of beef cattle and hogs are driven annually from this nation to the different states. A few weeks since, not less than 200 beeves were driven from this vicinity to the northern marker; and I think as great numbers were collected in previous years.  While many persons in the southern and middle states unite in speaking of Cherokee starvation, their tables are undoubtedly sometimes spread with meat which the alleged half-starved Indian has spared from his surplus stock. When I consider what God has done for this people, their improvement the last then years, the justice of their cause, the unjust ground their enemies stand on, the falsehood and slander, instead of argument, against the Indians, I cannot but think favorable of the issue of their present contest. I have never seen the Cherokees more united than they now are.  It is not known that anyone now thinks of emigrating unless it is a few who live in the northern part of the Nation, who enrolled about twelve years since, and have repeatedly renewed their promise of removing. The Cherokees generally feel that their cause is the cause of justice, and that their rights will be maintained in the supreme court of the United States, where they rest all their hopes. Mr. Ross told me a few days since, that his hopes of success were never greater, and that the uncommon union of the Cherokees was a great encouragement.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHICKASAWS.

Extract from a letter of Mr. Anson Gleason, dated at Tokshish, September 28th, 1830

This poor people are now expecting to cross the great river, and find a home farther west. They have two years to explore and settle on their new lands. They know not where their home is to be, only it is told them that it is to be across the great river. Our little church say, or some of them, that if our missionaries will go with them, they will quietly submit; but not doubt the greater part, and indeed all, would much rather stay where they are.- The interpreter who went with them to the council to meet the President and Secretary of War, told the Indians there, that if there was any good country over the Mississippi, he had not seen it, though he had once been over into that country; and that if they sold their land and removed they would leave him and die this side.

It is now an anxious time with the missionaries here, who have just begun to reap the precious harvest which has cost so many painful years of hard labor ' so many beloved fellow laborers. On that we could have been left unmolested in our delightful work till these tribes should have become the happy people of the Lord. Missionaries may follow them; but who would presumptuously take on himself the responsibility of sowing a field of grain to be reaped and gathered in some far distant clime. If these natives are shoved off, what will be done with us who have been standing here a long time between two fires. Those Indians who hate missionaries, or the praying people, charge us with the villainy of selling their country; and the credulous surrounding whites curse us bitterly for having stood in the way of government in their efforts to get the land of the Indians sooner.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHOCTAWS.

Effects on the people of the attempts made to remove them west of the Mississippi.

The following paragraphs are taken from the conclusion of Mr. Kingsbury's annual report to the Secretary of War, respecting the state of the schools.

In a retrospect of the past year, we find much to excite our devout gratitude to him, through whose kind providence we have enjoyed so many blessings. Though some of our associates have been removed from the field of labor, an account of chronic diseases, yet in no former year have we enjoyed more uninterrupted good health.

During the former part of the year our prospects of usefulness were unusually encouraging. The number of pupils in the schools was greater, and their progress more rapid, than at any former period. An unusual seriousness prevailed, and large numbers listened with solemn attention to the preaching of the Gospel. The Choctaws evidently felt that they were rising, and a desire for improvement in every respect was strikingly displayed in those parts of the nation; where the people enjoyed the means of instruction.

Such was the state of things in March last, when proposition for a treaty were made by a part of the nation. This unexpected movement, and the events connected with it, produced great excitement in some parts of the nation. Many became much incensed against those that had embraced the Gospel, as the proposals for a cession and certain changes in the government of the nation had been made by those chiefs who had taken an active part in promoting religion.

It is not my business to give you a history of the politics of the Choctaws. I could not, however, forbear noticing the above events as they have had a bearing on our labors, and on the general prospects of the nation. In the last report I stated, what I believed would be the unhappy consequences, if the Choctaws, should feel themselves compelled to remove. My anticipations have been fully sustained by subsequent events. From the arduous labors of twelve years, the expenditure of more than $100,000, and the sacrifice of several valuable lives, we were beginning to see a rich harvest of blessings springing up to gladden the hearts of the poor Choctaws. The fruits of these labors and sacrifices are of recent origin, and of too tender an age, to endure the rough handling of a removal to an uncultivated wilderness.  Should they be buried and lost amid the ruins of so violent and unnatural a procedure, an immense responsibility will rest somewhere. Our hope is in that all-wise and inscrutable providence, that not unfrequently either arrests the current of human affairs, or so modifies and controls them, as to bring about unexpected results.

Since the report of Mr. Kingsbury was written the agitation and distress among the Choctaws have been very much increased, by the formation of another treaty, early in September. This treaty will be brought before the Senate of the United States for ratification during the next session of Congress. If it shall be ratified and carried into effect, all the Choctaws, except such as choose to retain small reservations and be subject to the laws of the state of Mississippi, are to be removed within two years and a half from the ratification of the treaty.  Under state of Sept. 30th, Mr. Cushman, an assistant missionary at Hebron writes-

'Universal gloom and distress pervades the minds of the people. What the end of all these things will be is known only to Him who sees the end from the beginning. The contrast between the Christian and the pagan during the setting of the council was very striking. In the camps of the one all was decorum and Christian sobriety. With the other all was profaneness, intemperance, and confusion.

I have been in the nation nearly ten years. It is three years since we came to this place. The people in this neighborhood were then savage and brutal.  We have since found that we had but little idea of the abominations of the heathen. They kept much concealed from us. But we have been allowed to see them transformed into another people.  They became sober, industrious, affectionate, and pious, and were going, forward with the full anticipation of soon becoming a civilized and Christian community. But the scene is again changed. This happy and progressive state of society is all broken up.  Disappointment and discouragement have taken the place of pleasing hope and animated zeal. I think, dear sir, that you can readily believe that when we call to mind all these things, and also witness the distress of some of the dear members of our church, who literally turn pale and faint, at the bare recital of their situation, our feelings are not to be described. We hope to be of some benefit to the Choctaws while they stay.

In a letter dated in 11th of October, Mr. Kingsbury says, 'it is impossible to describe the confusion and despondency which prevails. The warriors generally, from one end of the nation to the other, are dissatisfied with the treaty. Many of the religious people say they can think of nothing but their country. The nation appears to be ruined.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The Osages and Pawnes.- A gentleman who arrived here a few days ago, direct from Cantonment Gibson, informs us, that just before he left, intelligence reached there of a bloody fight having taken place, a few days previous, high up the Arkansas, between two parties of Osages and Pawnees, in which the former were victorious, having killed 18 of their enemies and bore off their scalps in triumph.  The Pawnees made an attack, in the first place, on a small party who were in advance of the main body of the Osages and compelled them to retreat. They however, soon rallied, pursued and overtook their enemies, whom they vanquished and compelled to retreat, after a short but bloody contest, before the main party of the Osages came up. It is said to have been one of the most desperate and hard contested engagements that has ever been fought by these two tribes. The Osages fought with guns and the Pawnees with spears and battleaxes.  The loss of the Osages was 2 killed and 8 wounded. No prisoners were taken on either side.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the New York Observer.

HISTORY OF THE INDIANS BILL. - NO. VII.

On Saturday, May 15th, Mr. Storrs of New York, opposed the bill in one of the ablest and most conclusive speeches, which have ever been delivered in our House of Representatives. It will bear a very honorable comparison with the best discussion in the British House of Commons. In point of order, close adherence to the subject, fair and manly argument, and cogent expostulation it has rarely been surpassed. Whoever doubts the correctness of this representation may read the speech for himself, as published in the volume of speeches on the Indian Bill.

Mr. Storrs occupied the floor just four hours, and was heard with profound interest and attention. Public expectation, which had been raised high, was fully satisfied.  Among the topics which he discussed, are the following.

He began by expressing his fear, that insuperable obstacles had been thrown in the way of the free action of Congress, by the previous action of the Executive on this subject; a subject pre-eminently, on which the Executive should not have anticipated the proceedings of the National Legislature.

Mr. Storrs then entered upon a discussion of the claims of Georgia, in doing which he said he should express his opinion fully, faithfully, and fearlessly. He asserted the obvious meaning of the compact of 1802, to be, that the Indian territory should be obtained by fair and honorable treaty, if obtained at all, and that treaties had been made under that compact, at the instance and with the approbation of Georgia, down to the year 1825, when the Treaty of the Indian Springs was formed.

He next examined the report of the Georgia Legislature, as approved by the Governor, and transmitted by him to the President of the United States, in December, 1827; which report goes the length of denying to the Indians all rights whatever. He showed that the laws, subsequently enacted by Georgia, have carried out the principles of the report.

The Cherokees have appealed to Congress. If they can have no redress here, they can have none anywhere.

This should not be a party question. It is not. On some of the memorials, the very best friends of the administration are the first signers.

The President has no power to abrogate treaties, no power to expound them. They are the supreme law of the land; and he is bound by his oath to execute them. He has no dispensing power. When a treaty is made, it is beyond his control. It derives its force from the constitution; not from the President, unless he is above the constitution. If he can abrogate or expound these treaties, he can set aside treaties with the powers of Europe, and may change all our foreign relations.

Mr. Storrs denied that the State of New York has exercised the same power over the Indian tribes within her borders, as Georgia has done in regard to the Cherokees. He examined the law of New York, relating to this subject, and declared that the decisions of the highest court of law in the state sustain the national character of the Indian tribes. He said that if we set aside these treaties with the Cherokees, we make the whole course of proceedings with Indians a system of mockery, of foolery, of juggling. When we undertake to set aside treaties, we must have a clear case. If there is a doubt, the Cherokees are to have the benefit of it. The stipulations of guaranty, which we made to them, were made for a compensation, a valuable compensation;-were made for our benefit and at our solicitation. The parties cannot be reinstated as they were.  We are to decide in our own case, and we must decide right. If we give the world reason to say, that we cast our sword into the scale, we must hang our heads with shame forever.

There are two courses to be pursued with the Indians, that of Spain in South America, and that of Penn and the Puritans. We must take our choice.

Before the American Revolution, the principle was settled-deliberately settled by the British government, - that the Indian Nations were sovereign, and capable of making treaties, and of selling or retaining their lands. After the Revolution, the same principles were acknowledged, and acted upon. In 1793, the cabinet of General Washington held a solemn deliberation, the result of which was the most explicit acknowledgment of Indian rights, as now claimed by the Cherokees.

Mr. Storrs here read some extracts, which he had made from the executive journal of the Senate, by which it appeared, that the fullest and most positive declarations were made to tribes of Indians by General Washington, disclaiming any right to their country till they should voluntarily cede it. The right of discovery, so far as it might be considered as involving any claim, to the soil, was renounced as unjust and untenable.- This decision of the question by such a cabinet, Mr. Storrs considered as a precedent which banished all doubt and defied all evil.

He next examined the letter of the Secretary of War to the New York Indian Board; and after scanning it, sentence by sentence, concluded by saying: 'And thus, by such a contemptible mass of sophistry is this great question disposed of'.-

The guaranty of the Treaty of Holston was declared by Mr. Storrs to have been made for the very purpose of protecting the Cherokees against Georgia. He asked, 'Is not Georgia a member of this Union? Has not Georgia adopted the federal constitution? Is she not bound by the obligations of our country? The good faith of this government must be maintained. I measure my words: the good faith of the country must be maintained, at every hazard'.

As to the pretended right of conquest, Mr. Storrs said, that we had never availed ourselves of it, and it was now too late.

He concluded by a very strong and eloquent appeal to members, with regard to their responsibility to their constituents,- to the enlightened American community-to the wise and good of every land,- to the friends and enemies of free institutions,- to the great family of nations.  He solemnly declared that he should think it a less evil, and a more supportable calamity to have a dictator for the life of one man, that to have the contemplated measures with the Indians carried into full effect. He believed that such a course would do more injury to the cause of free institutions than could be done by all the armies of all the monarchs of Europe for a century.  He reminded the House, that the judgment of posterity on this matter, could not be perverted by sophistry, nor by flattery, nor by patronage, nor by a venal press. He wished that the President would still pause and reflect; that he would consult the honor of his country, and his own true glory; and that he would interpose, and save the plighted faith of the United States from violation.

The effort of Mr. Storrs was a noble one. He threw in it his whole soul. It was the result of sober conviction and deep feeling; and excited in the minds of hearers overpowering emotions.

Mr. Lampkin of Georgia, a member of the Indian Committee, obtained the floor, and moved that the committee rise, and the committee rose accordingly. On Monday, Mr. Lumpkin proceeded; but an account of his speech must be reserved for my next number.

VERITATIS AMANS.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Goshen, N. Y. Patriot

THE CHEROKEE INDIANS.

We apologize to our readers and to the friends of justice and humanity, for our neglect in not noticing earlier the present interesting controversy respecting the rights of the Aborigines, and we may add, their existence. As the honor and plighted faith of our government, are deeply involved in the issue, and as the condition of these wretched and defenseless children of nature claim, and have, indeed, secured the powerful sympathies of the just, and honorable and intelligent of the American people, the interest felt is too intense for the mind to be wearied, though in the presenting of our views, we should be somewhat prolix.

The first settlers of our country did not find the land unoccupied. The savage indulged in the pleasures and dangers of the chase within prescribed limits, and defined boundaries, while the inmates of his wigwam, cultivated adjacent thereto, to a slight degree, the arts of civilized life.- The earth was tilled with the implements invented by their genius, and its vegetable productions were served up at the same repast with the meat of the Buffalo or Deer. We profess not to be learned in the science of law, but recall this appears to us to constitute possession and occupancy and consequently as indisputable a right of soil and inheritance as lodges in either one of the respectable land holders of our county. If then they were the original owners of the soil injustice and inhumanity can alone forcibly dispossess them of it. Savage communities might interpose the claim of conquest, but it is a part of the morality of that law which exists between, and governs associations of rational, intelligent men, that the stronger shall not oppress or destroy the weaker power.  Consequently we know of but two ways to extinguish the Indian title to occupied lands, viz: by purchase of gift without duress or violence. Indeed, until lately, no other way was contemplated or even hinted at. The colonists with the royal charter of their King in their pockets, commissioning them to possess lands within certain defined limits still chose to act in the way that justice and equity dictated, and could not bring their minds to 'do violence to the laws of God as well as the laws of Nations'.

With this understanding of the primitive rights of the Cherokees, bearing in mind that they never can be sacrificed or lost without their connivance or consent we may at once clearly perceive how utterly untenable are the claims of Georgia to the title of the land now held by the tribes within her limits. For if Georgia may arrogate to herself the unjust and cruel power of driving beyond the Mississippi these feebly remnants of a noble and magnanimous race that once peopled this western continent, may not New York in the exercise of similar power compel a portion of the yeomanry within her boundaries to quit the place of their nativity, and the spot of their strongest attachments to seek a precarious livelihood in the sterile and frozen regions of the North? The two acts do not differ in right, degree, or result.  And this Georgia herself would have admitted as late as 1827. It is difficult to divine the result which would be produced among our population, by the operation of such an arbitrary and despotic measure. 'The point is reached', the patriot would exclaim, 'when resistance becomes a duty'. No conflicting sentiments would divide us-no loose reasoning distract or mislead.

We say that Georgia has not the shadow of a right or precedent in her unjust and oppressive policy towards the Cherokees; nor until lately has she pretended to it. The founder of the colony did not question the right the Indians to the ownership of the territory, and all his negotiations with them acknowledged in the most positive and unequivocal terms their sole power to grant. Indeed, every subsequent act of the colonists was predicated upon this undeniable basis.--The approval of silent acquiescence of Georgia to every treaty made between the government of the United States and the Cherokees, from the time of the confederacy to the year 1825, also, shows conclusively, that she not only yielded to them the right of possession in fee to the lands which they occupied, but that she in common with the general government regarded them as the Sovereign and Independent Nation, and as not forming a component part of her population.- For the general government has not the power to make treaties or compacts, with any portion of the citizens of a State in the Confederation, nor with the state itself; and the ratification of a treaty is an absolute admission of the Sovereignty and independent existence of the parties. 'Public treaties can only be executed by superior powers, by Sovereigns who contract in the name of the State.' Vattel 296. During the above period about twenty treaties were formed between the federal government and the Indians within the chartered bounds of Georgia; and let it be remembered, that in no single instance did a Senator of that State withhold his assent; indeed, Governor Troup, as late as 1825, by proclamation, commanded obedience to one of these very treaties. How then can Georgia now avow that she is not bound by the transactions of the general government and assert that that is wrong, which she has for the last century repeatedly and solemnly determined is right? The champions of State Rights can best reconcile the inconsistency and absurdity of her cause.

When this subject was first agitated we looked upon it as another of the frothy ebullitions of that revolutionizing spirit which has for the last five years maddened the people of the South- as a mischievous notion concocted in the strain of some Southern Hotspur, that could harm no one by its senseless author; and accordingly felt no alarm.  Although Troup 'had exhausted the argument' and drawn his sword, still we were not terrified, for we supposed him quite a clever fellow, and made every charitable allowance for his absurd exhibition of temper, expecting when the mercury sunk to freezing point, to hear better things from him. But alas! The season of mirth has gone by. Absurd as the claims of Georgia are, she has found friends--she has the power and in defiance of justice, conscience, faith has begun her rapacious exterminating policy. The work of plunder and destruction already goes on. The son of the once lordly proprietor of this vast dominion, is sinking in the West, to be succeeded by eternal night. Avarice and cupidity, have whetted the sword of the civilized man and it is deeply crimsoned with the blood of his brethren.

Under these manifold grievances, what quarter may the poor Cherokees implore protection? Time was when they would have scorned an alliance with or sought shelter from the hostility of any power. But the bow is broken and the acts of peace and civilization have unnerved the strong arms of their proud warriors. They trusted in the solemn guarantees of our government, and buried the hatchet. When the rulers of this Union pledged to them, the undisturbed enjoyment of all their lands within the limits of the U. States., they relied confidently upon the honor and faith of their civilized brethren, and supposed 'that their territory was to remain inviolate, unless they freely consented to part with it'. But it is otherwise. The general government has directed its special agent to say to them, 'that whenever the State of Georgia thinks proper to enter the territory of the Nation to survey it, the President cannot interfere or prevent her, and that the citizens of Georgia would then draw for the land agreeably to their laws; or in other words, that they would take it by force without any opposition from the general government'. The treaties of Hopewell; 1785, of Holston, July 2, 1791, the one negotiated by Gen Jackson in 1817, and that by Mr. Calhoun in 1819, by which peace was made, boundaries fixed and permanent relations established, the Cherokees taken under the protection of the United States and no other Sovereign; intrusion upon their lands forbidden under heavy penalties,--and in which it is declared that the Indians as a body wish to remain on the land of their fathers with a view to their national preservation and are consequently promised permanent protection; are to be dispensed with, or set aside by the stronger party, merely to gratify the avarice of the Georgians, and thereby continue support to the present administration, from an unruly member of the confederation.  'Nations' says Vattel, 'and their conductors ought to keep their promises and their treaties invariably .- He who violates his treaties, violates at the same time the law of nations; for he despises the faith of treaties that faith which the law of nations declares sacred, and does all in his power to render it vain.  Doubly guilty, he does an injury to his ally, he does an injury to all nations, and wounds the whole human race.'

Knowing the strong predilections entertained by the President for the South, and the deep interest felt by the Cabinet in Southern measures and doings, we anticipated that a unity of feeling, if not of action might be effected between Georgia and the Administration, but we hardly thought that a majority of Congress would sanction an act so high-handed and treacherous.  Yet so it is. The sum of $500,000 of the people's money has been voted, to help in the work of injustice and inhumanity. The will of a large portion of the American people is defeated- their sympathies are abused-their money squandered-the national character is insulted-the national faith violated. The Indian appealing to the honor of our government is insultingly told, 'ye are but the tenants at will of Georgia-she wants your lands, and will have them-ye are weak and audacious, and should not think of opposing the omnipotent will of your white brethren. Depart to the Rocky Mountains, we will guarantee protection, until the settlers of the country we now assign to you, shall ask your further expulsion to the West.' It is idle for the administration presses to attempt to exculpate the general government from blame in this matter. The government is alone responsible to the people, and when the a day of retribution arrives, it will learn, that the poor, insulted Cherokee's appeal to the hearts of the virtuous and honorable of this nation has not been made in vain.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: JAN. 8, 1831.

Our readers will recollect that not long since we published a set of resolutions adopted by the Methodist Missionaries, relating to Cherokee affairs. We expressed our approbation of those resolutions at the time; but it seems they met but with poor reception at the Tennessee Conference, as will be seen below.  We sincerely regret that so respectable a body as the Tennessee Conference should call the Indian question merely a political question.- It is exactly the way in which open enemies of the Indians blind the people--they call it a political question, and that the opposition to the Indian bill is only an opposition to Jackson's administration.

Perhaps nothing has a greater tendency to prejudice the cause of the Indians than the frequent outcry that the question, in which their dearest interests, life, liberty, and property are involved, is merely a party one. It is true the Conference do not say so, but they call it a political affair.

In the 2d. resolution the Missionaries are censured for expressing their honest opinion on the all engrossing subject of Indian affairs. The censure, however, cannot effect that opinion-It cannot: effect their veracity-their testimony stand good.

It appears to us there is a manifest inconsistency to have 'confidence in the wisdom and integrity of the rulers,' and to 'sympathize with the Cherokees in their present afflictions,' when those afflictions are occasioned by the conduct of the 'rulers.' If the States ' the General Government are correct in treating the Cherokees as they do, and if the policy pursued by them is to bless and elevate them, what need is their (sic) for sympathizing? Would it not be better to rejoice in such a case? With due deference to the Tennessee Conference we cannot but think, in approbating the present policy in regard to the Indians, (for such is the inference to be drawn from the 3d resolution) they have as much interfered with political affairs as their Missionaries. What is the difference between indirectly censuring, and indirectly approbating the proceedings of a government?

One of the objects of the Missionaries in adopting their resolutions was, to deny a very serious charge which has been frequently made, viz: interfering with the political concerns of the Cherokees. It was necessary that they should deny such a charge, in justice to themselves and the Cherokees. But this, it appears, would avail nothing in Conference.

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

TENNESSEE CONFERENCE.

FRANKLIN, NOV. 12th, 1830.

Whereas certain resolutions have been entered into by our late Missionaries in the Cherokee Nation, in which the Tennessee Conference of the M. E. Church is called on for a publick (sic) and official expression of their sentiments on the subject of the grievances of said nation, we do hereby give the following-

1. 1st Resolved that whatever may be our private views, and sentiments as men and as free citizens, relative to the sufferings and privations, either of the aboriginal nations of our country, or of any particular section of the United States, or of the policy adopted and pursued by the state authorities or General Government, yet as a body of Christian ministers, we do not feel at liberty, nor are we disposed to depart from the principle, uniformly maintained by the members and ministers of our Church, entirely ( word appears to be spelled intirefully) refraining from all such interference with political affairs.

2d. Resolved, that, however we may appreciate the purity of motive and intention, by which our missionary Brethren were actuated, yet we regret that they should have committed themselves and us so far, as to render it impossible for us, to omit with propriety, to notice their proceedings in this public manner.

3rd. Resolved, that while we have confidence in the wisdom and integrity of our Rulers, we sincerely sympathize with our Cherokee Brethren in their present afflictions, and assure them of our unabating zeal to the conversion and salvation of their souls.

4th. Resolved that as the resolutions referred to, have been published in the public prints, the above resolutions be forwarded also by our secretary for publication in the Cherokee Phoenix and Christian Advocate and Journal.

I certify the above, to be a correct transcript from the Journals of Conference.

THOMAS L. DOUGLASS, Sec'y.

__________________________

PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE

We intended to have offered some remarks last week upon that portion of the President's Message which we inserted relating to the Indians, but the columns of the Phoenix were occupied with other interesting matter. And now we are not, at this late hour, disposed to say anything-we will let it pass for the present.

____________________________

The Georgians have again made another warlike irruption into the nation, of which the following particulars may be relied upon as substantially correct.

A company of twenty five armed men from Carrol County, under the command of one Major Bogus came into the neighborhood of Hightower, about two weeks since, for the purpose of arresting a number of Cherokees.  On their way to Beanstick's they came across two lads, utterly unknown to them. On seeing such an armed force making towards them, the lads fled, towards the river, and plunged into the water. Some of the Company pursued them to the bank of the river, and fired at them as they were swimming, and, it is said, came very near shooting one of them.  They then went to Beanstick's and arrested his son Joseph. Here they wheeled about, and after parading about the neighborhood with characteristic bravery, marched towards Georgia. They soon discovered that they had mistaken their prisoner Joseph, for one Moses Beanstick, for who it seems they had a warrant. But it made not a cent's difference with them, for they took him on into Carrol. He had not returned on last Monday.

Our feelings are not in a proper state to allow us to make comments upon such proceedings. Will the Congress of the United States permit its citizens to invade us in a warlike manner in time of peace.

__________________________

The Georgia Legislature adjourned sine die on the 25th of last month, after passing, what is called in Georgia, the land bill- the bill having undergone important amendments in the Senate. The section which was added by the Senate we copy in another part of our paper- from that it seems that we are not to be gambled away at least for one year to come. There appears to be an idea that the Cherokees will treat, sell and agree to remove-but it is altogether a mistake. They will be here when another session of the legislature takes place.

______________________

HIGH MOVEMENT

During last summer, a Cherokee, by the name of George Tassel, was arrested within the limits of this nation by the Sheriff of Hall County, for murder committed in on the body of another Cherokee, likewise within the limits of the nation. Tassel was taken over the line, and committed to jail. At the last term of the Superior Court of Hall County, he was brought out for trial, but the Judge postponed the trial until a convention of Judges at Milledgeville should pronounce upon the constitutionality of the act extending the jurisdiction of the State over the Cherokees. As was to be expected, the convention decided in favor of the jurisdiction of the State. Judge Clayton therefore called a court for the purpose of trying Tassel, who was accordingly tried on the 22d of November, and found guilty. It appears that Judge Clayton refused to grant an appeal by a writ of error, to the Supreme Court of the United States, and even refused to certify that Tassel was tried. Tassel was therefore sentenced to be hung on the 24th of last month, on which day he was executed, in defiance of a writ of error sanctioned by the Chief Justice of the United States, and served upon Governor Gilmer, on the 22d, two days previous to the execution. We invite the readers' attention to the following interesting information which we copy from the Milledgeville Recorder. The conduct of the Georgia Legislature is indeed surprising-one day they discountenance the proceedings of the nullifiers of South Carolina-at another, they even out-do the people of South Carolina, and authorize their Governor to hoist the flag of rebellion against the United States! Is this not a high movement? If such proceedings are sanctioned by the majority of the people of the U. States, the Union is but a tottering fabric, which will soon fall and crumble into atoms.

The following Communication from the Governor to both branches of the Legislature was made on Wednesday last, the day preceding the final adjournment:

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,

December 22d. 1830.

I submit to the Legislature for its consideration, the copy of a communication received this day, purporting to be signed by the Chief Justice of the United States, and to be a citation to the State of Georgia, to appear before the Supreme Court on the second Monday in January next, to answer to that tribunal for having caused a person who had committed murder within the limits of the State, to be tried and convicted therefor.

The object of this mandate is to control the State in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction, which, in criminal cases has been vested by its constitution exclusively in its Superior Courts.

So far as concerns the exercise of the power which belongs to the executive Department, orders received from the Supreme Court for the purpose of staying, or in any manner interfering with the decision of the Courts of the State in the exercise of their constitutional jurisdiction, will be disregarded; and any attempt to enforce such orders will be resisted with whatever force and laws have placed at my command.

If the judicial powers thus attempted to be exercised by the Courts of the United States is submitted to, or sustained, it must eventuate in the utter annihilation of the State Governments, or in other consequences not less fatal to the peace and prosperity of our present highly favored country.

Signed, GEORE (sic) R. GILMER.

Which communication being read, was referred to a select committee, consisting on the part of the Senate of Messrs, Daniell of Chatham, Blair of Habersham, Branham, Sayre, and Cobb, and on the part of the House of Representatives of Messrs. Haynes Beall of Twiggs, Howard of Baldwin, McDonald and Schley.

The joint committee reported the following preamble and resolutions which were read and agreed to in the House of Representatives by a large majority:

Whereas it appears by a communication made by his Excellency the Governor to the General Assembly that the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States has sanctioned a Writ of Error, and cited the State of Georgia, through her Chief Magistrate, to appear before the Supreme Court of the United States to defend said State against said Writ of Error, at the instance of one George Tassels, recently convicted in Hall Superior Court of the crime of murder: And whereas the right to punish crimes against the peace and good order of this State in accordance with the existing laws of the State is an original and necessary part of sovereignty, which the State of Georgia has never parted with:

Be it therefore resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Georgia in General Assembly met, That they view with feelings of deep regret, the interference by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States in the administration of the criminal laws of this State, and that such an interference is a flagrant violation of her right.

Resolved further, That his Excellency the Governor be, and he, and every other officer of this State is hereby requested and enjoined to disregard any ' every mandate ' process that has been, or shall be served upon him or them, purporting to proceed from the Chief justice or any associate Justice, or the Supreme Court of the United States, for the purpose of arresting the execution of any of the criminal laws of this State.

And be it further resolved, That his Excellency the Governor be, and he is hereby authorized and required, with all the force and means placed at his command by the Constitution and laws of this State, to resist and repel any and every invasion from whatever quarter upon the administration of the criminal laws of this State.

Resolved, That the State of Georgia will never so far, compromit her sovereignty as an independent State as to become a party to the case sought to be made before the Supreme Court of the United States by the writ in question.

Resolved, That His Excellency the Governor be, and he is hereby authorized to communicate to the Sheriff of Hall county by express, so much of the foregoing resolutions, and such orders as are necessary to insure the full execution of the laws in the case of George Tassels, convicted of murder in Hall County.

The Senate concurred with the House of Representatives in the passage of the foregoing preamble and resolutions, by a vote of 35 to 7.

The following answer is given by the editor of the United States' Telegraph, to the question, 'Why do not the Cherokees remove?'

'The answer is, that, under the usages of the tribes, a few individuals have monopolized the large sums paid to the Indians as annuities. Certain Missionaries, and other adventurers, have located themselves among the Indians, and these individuals wish to magnify the difficulties so as to increase the sums to be paid to the Indians; because, in proportion to the difficulties to be overcome will be the cost of new treaties. These individuals rely upon the aid, and derive counsel from a political party, who wish to prevent the removal of the Indians under the apprehension that the extinction of the Indian title the Southern States will increase the relative influence of those States.'

The Telegraph seems always to delight in telling falsehoods and rendering itself 'inexpressible.' In this work it is sure to be employed with impunity, because it is 'unapproachable' in a moral point of view. We are not, therefore, inclined to say a word in regard to the above assertions--those who are disposed to take them for truth, unaccompanied as they are without the least shadow of evidence, are welcome so to do.- Ed. Cher. Phoe.

_________________

The following extracts are taken from the annual report of the Secretary of War, to the President of the United States. In reference to the treaties negotiated with the Choctaws and Chickasaws, the Secretary says--

Under the authority confided by you, during last summer, I visited some of the Indian tribes, with a highly valuable auxiliary, General John Coffee, of Alabama, and made known to them their situation. With the Choctaws and Chickasaws, (the only tribes with whom we negotiated,) treaties were concluded. From all appearances, they were well satisfied with their own decision, and the course which we pursued towards them. If any different feeling has since been incited, it is the work of persons who have sought, through the channels of their ignorance, to persuade them to the belief that great injustice has been practised.  I undertake to assure you, that in all we did, the utmost fairness and candor were practised. We sought through persuasion only, to satisfy them that their situation called loudly for serious reflection. Pending the negotiation, no secret meetings were had, no bribes were offered, nor promises made. Every argument adduced, or suggestion offered, was in open council, and in view of those whose rights were to be affected. Of this, abundant evidence exists, whatever may be said to the contrary.  There was no motive to impose upon, or to deceive them. Our instructions forbade us to do so, and our inclination, besides, was an ample restraint.  The treaties concluded are ready for submission; and how far any practised injustice or want of liberality can be imputed, will be fairly judged of when their tenor and condition shall be disclosed. If a liberality ample and generous has not been regarded our wishes have failed, and our judgments been mistaken.

He who speaks in his own praise and attempts to prove his honesty is not so likely to be believed. The Secretary may be correct in what he says in his own favor, but there is something wrong in the great anxiety manifested by him to prove to the world his good conduct in negotiating the Choctaw treaty.

During this period; I witnessed much of Indian character, their progress, refinement, and march towards civilization, and can well say, that, in conducting the negotiation, everything was done to retain them in those pursuits which would tend to their advancement, and to which their situation could reasonably lay claim.

Now, this is quite a great concession for Mr. Eaton, who not long since said, 'it was but a utopian thought to think of civilizing the Indians' 'c. But how is it to be reconciled with what follows.

Little hope should be entertained, even by those most sanguine on the subject, that any material advances in civilization can be made with the present generation--those I mean, who are now at maturity in life.-- Care and attention towards the rising generation may tend greatly to improve, and in time to meliorate, their present condition. To turn them to industry, is of first importance.  Labor is never an acceptable pursuit to Indians. In their unimproved state, a fondness for war and the chase, and oratory at their councils, constitute their leading traits, because these afford the highest distinction.  When, through the influence of culture and education, their taste upon this subjects shall be changed, and the character of an industrious agriculturist be held in higher estimation than dexterity of pursuit in the chase, then may they be expected to resort to industry, and give attention to the duties of agriculture. Indisposition to manual labor, so peculiarly the characteristic of an Indian, causes him to select the poorest grounds, because of the ease with which the timber is felled and cleared away. The  exceptions which exist to this are principally amongst those of mixed Indian blood, whose habits have been improved, and whose minds have been cultivated.

But what picture are we to believe, if we believe at all what he says, for in the very next paragraph, he uses the following words, speaking of the very same Indians.

Certainly there are some perceptible and beneficial changes amongst them. They have become mostly an agricultural people. The practice of perforating the nose and ears for the purpose of ornamenting them, is rapidly disappearing, and considered a rude custom. Vermillion, paint to ornament and decorate the face, is, in a great measure, given up. A credulity in supernatural agency, in witches, and in witchcraft, is fast yielding; and the use of ardent spirits; particularly in one of the districts, is in a great measure abandoned.

It appears the Honorable Secretary is not satisfied in being merely a politician, but he must needs turn Theologian. What will Leflore say to the following compliment?

There are three divisions in the Choctaw Nation, each of which is governed by a chief, who, within his limits, acts independently of the others. In his government he is aided by minor and subordinate chiefs, called Captains, each of whom act within his particular district. The people are subordinate to the captains-the captains to the chiefs.  One of these division compose what is called the Christian District, the chief of which is a man of good mind, with a common English education, and is religious. His people, too, are seemingly pious. Each night, pending the negotiation, until a late hour, they were at their exercises in singing ' preaching. From every information, this Christian party, as it is termed, are not accurately and correctly informed as to the principles and faith upon which they profess to act.  A future state of rewards and punishments for virtues or for crimes, is fashioned by their standard of savage life, and its enjoyments and, in their imagination, is made to conform what they conceive to be essential to constitute happiness or misery here.  Judging from their devotional conduct, they are, to all appearance, a religious people.

But the most remarkable part of the report is yet to come, and we request the reader to peruse it attentively. But so it is, a man on a wrong cause will always fall into such absurdities.

An old chief (Mushulatubbee) who was favorable to the treaty, by a few of the discontented of his district, has been recently deposed, and the name of another sent into this office for recognition.  The design is probably to show that the people are displeased because he signed the treaty. Answer returned to their application was, that, while the Government meant not to interfere in their mode or manner of self government, it could not recognize, what had been done by a few; yet, when a chief should be chosen by a majority of the division, and the fact so certified by their General Council, he would be regarded as properly chosen, and be considered as such.

Bravo! The War Department then really acknowledges the existence of the Choctaw chiefs and their right of self-government, in the State of Mississippi! If this does not nullify

the state laws, abolishing the Indian Government, we are mistaken!

_______________

Nothing but cupidity is supposed by some to be in the way of removing the Cherokees--this is the opinion of the Secretary of War, if he really believes what he says, and the Governor of Georgia. An attempt therefore will be made to satisfy this cupidity, by granting reservations to the principal men. Obtain their consent, they say, and the rest will go; and it is even asserted for truth that many have already expressed a willingness to take reservations and to come under the laws of Georgia. Now the fact appears to be this: Either the Governor of Georgia or the executive of the United States sent into the nation secret agents, who have put down on paper the names of individuals, in some underhanded way, and reported them as those who are thus disposed to come under the laws of Georgia. Upon this, Gov. Gilmer builds a grave Message to the Legislature, and suggests the expediency of authorizing the President to grant reserves to such Cherokees as choose to take them. But the whole affair is a fraud, as will be seen from the following:

CARMEL Dec. 31, 1830

MR. BOUDINOT,

Sir--Although we do not wish to wound the feelings of any of our white neighbors, yet we think the following statements are due to the cause of truth and fair dealing. We understand that sometime ago a gentleman came into the nation to see what Cherokees were willing to take reservations and live under the laws of Georgia. We hear that he was told by a white man residing in the nation, that probably we, our brother David, ' our sisters, would take reservations 'c. and that our names were put down accordingly. We feel it our duty to say that neither this man, nor any other has ever had the least right to put down any of our names as being willing to take reservations. And we do not know of one Cherokee in the nation who has ever authorized anyone to put down his or her name for a reservation under the laws of Georgia.  We know of no Cherokee citizens willing to do this, except a few white men with Cherokee families.

Yours with respect.

GEORGE SANDERS

JOHN SANDERS

ANDREW SANDERS.

_________________

The following is an extract of a letter from the Secretary of War, to his Excellency G. R. Gilmer, dated Nov. 12, 1830

Sir--The treaties recently made with the Indians clearly prove, that a feeling of cupidity governs; [the Secretary of War?] and that to succeed with them, reservations should and must be admitted. Georgia having the ultimate fee, when the  country is acquired, [this is sound doctrine-Georgia will have the fee, when the country is acquired] it will not be competent for the United States to grant reservations as they have done in other cases, and which will be likewise insisted on by the Cherokees when they come to treat. [How does the Secretary know that? The Cherokees are not going to insist upon any such thing, because they are not going to treat. It does not necessarily follow, that, because threats and bribery have been successful with the Choctaws, they will be so with the Cherokees.]

____________________

From the Southern Recorder.

The Legislature adjourned sine die on Thursday morning last, after a session of nine weeks, the longest we believe ever known in this State.- The number of important acts passed is not in proportion to the time spent in legislation; but it may afford our readers some satisfaction to know that if much has not been effected for the public good during this tedious and boisterous session, but little harm has been done. The act for the survey and distribution of the lands in the occupancy of the Cherokees, one of the chief measures of the session, will perhaps undergo the revision and correction of the next General Assembly. The shape in which it has passed cannot reasonably give offence even to those who affect to feel most sympathy for the Indians. It authorizes, for the present, merely for the survey of the Indian Territory into Sectional Districts, which, besides preparing the country for the immediate operation of the District surveyors, after the compact between the United States and Georgia shall have been fulfilled, will in the meantime, enable the State to enforce her jurisdiction and laws more effectually over the Cherokees, by the appointment of civil officers within the several sections; the preparatory surveys may also furnish additional information is to the extent of the gold region in that quarter. The bill passed the House of Representatives in a shape to create apprehension that the enforcement of its provisions might produce collision between the State and 'General Government. Its modification in the Senate, by the addition of the following section leaves no cause to anticipate any such unpleasant result:

And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That the sectional Surveyors shall, with as little delay as possible, proceed to the performance of the duties assigned them, under this act; and on the completion and return thereof to the Surveyor General, the Governor is authorized and requested to direct the election of two justices of the Peace and two Constables, being white men, resident in said territory, in every such section, to be held at such time and such place, to be superintended and returned to the Executive by such person or persons, in every of such section, as his Excellency shall direct, which justices and constables shall respectively take the oath and execute the bond required by law, and shall hold their commissions and appointments as now directed by law; and that all white males of full age resident in said territory, shall be entitled to vote for such justices and constables.

And in the event that the President of the United States shall at any time during the recess of the Legislature, succeed in executing the compact between the United States and the State of Georgia, in relation to the Cherokee lands; then the Governor shall order the district Surveyors to proceed to the discharge of their duties and to the completion of the survey of the districts, as required by this act and the occupancy of said territory. Otherwise  the survey of said districts shall be suspended until the next meeting of the General Assembly, and until further enactments for this purpose.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIAN CHARACTER AND HABITS.

Extract of a letter from a respected and interested correspondent, who has resided some years at the Westward to the editor of the New York Daily Advertiser.

'As your inquiries are directed particularly to the Chippeways (sic), I will endeavor to give you what little information I have been able to possess myself of concerning them. Bands of this tribe live, or rather are encamped, within a short distance from this place, and what Indians there are on the Peninsula of Michigan are principally of this tribe. The Chippeways (sic) are the most numerous existing branch speaking, what the French at an early day called, the Algonquin language, which philologists have agreed to consider one of the radical American stock. Like their relatives the Ottawas, Pottawatomics, 'c. they have exhibited many more traits of character, and produced some brave and eloquent men; and were we to select examples of disinterestedness, courage, fortitude 'c. few tribes could be selected, who, in the lapse of two centuries, have afforded more striking traits than the Chippewas (sic).  That they are susceptible of improvement and civilization is proved by several persons who are now living and who have formerly lived; and the great bar to their general improvement consists not so much in any inherent difficulties on their part, as their remote and scattered situation, and the feeble and intermitted efforts heretofore made in their behalf. We have sent some men to labor for them and with them, who are utterly unfit, and mentally disqualified to do any good among the lowest order of white men. And should we be disappointed that they do not meet with success among the Chippewas (sic)? As to their public faith pledged in treaties or other solemn agreements, they are at least as much inclined to keep them as other Indian tribes or white men who have been parties to these treaties.

The first interview I had with the Indians of this section of the country was at Malden, (a small British port below Detroit) where they had assembled to receive the presents annually bestowed by the British Government. My impressions could not be very favorable, as most of them were in that state of inebriety in which they are almost always to be found when they mingle with civilized man, by whom the intoxicating draught is freely dispensed, as long as their means of gratifying his avarice lasts. But subsequent interviews with them at their own lodges in the interior, and away from civilized life, changed my first impressions; for at their own habitations I found their natural traits of character developed. I found them sober, quiet, cheerful, obliging, and hospitable. Their character, motives, and conduct will never, I am sure, be justly represented while white men have an interest in dispossessing them of their soil. White men, I am confident, have generally been the aggressors whenever difficulties have arisen between the Indians and the whites. Some favorite spot, some real supposed advantage the Indians might possess or benefit might be derived from having troops stationed on the frontier; consequently a liberal expenditure of the government funds, have been the real causes of all the disturbances which have taken place with the Indians for many years past. When they shall have been driven by the unjust policy of our Government, beyond the confines of our avarice, when we shall have no longer any object for degrading their character, then shall we dwell upon the noble traits in the character of our aboriginal population.

As I am but little acquainted with the language of the Chippewas (sic), I cannot, of course, judge of the force and point there may be in their common conversation of great talks. If they, however, have been rightly interpreted, many of them possess great shrewdness and observation. I was very forcibly struck with the appearance of the Chief Speaker of the Saguna band, (a portion of the Chippawa (sic) tribe.) He has a pleasant open countenance; speaks with great fluency; is generous, kind-hearted, hospitable and obliging. I spent some days at their lodges, where he is the principal man, and no one could be more kindly treated than I was.- Could the Indians associate and mingle with the truly civilized white men,- men of intelligence, of undeviating sobriety, fair and honest in their dealings; in fine, of sound morals - they would soon imitate them, fall into their habits, and a few years would obliterate all distinctions but color. Man's natural propensities never led him to intemperance in drinking, and if the Indians indulge more freely than the whites, when the habit is acquired, it is because the refinements of civilization have imposed no restraints, and no odium is attached to its indulgence; and if we can find instances among us, of men of superior understanding, acquirements, and elevated standing, indulging to excess, notwithstanding the odium cast upon it, how can we, condemn the untutored, unrefined Indian, who had not even the frown of his fellows to encounter.  In some future letter I will endeavor to give you some further information with regard to them, and answer, as well as I can, your interrogations.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From Poulson's Amer. Daily Advertiser

The attention of the readers of the American Daily Advertiser is particularly called to the proceedings of a meeting of the citizens of Chester County, respecting the southern Indians which are published today. It is animating and instructive in a high degree to learn that the plain, reflecting, intelligent and independent yeomen of Pennsylvania, have not only begun to direct their thoughts to this momentous subject, but as in the instance before us, have assembled and honestly declared their sentiments concerning it to their servants at Washington.

The work thus commenced will go on-The example of Chester will soon be followed by other counties. We wish them good speed.

Let it be kept in mind that this is no party question, but one of justice, mercy, faith and public honor towering far above the paltry calculations and counsels of mere political demagogues. The people have taken the matter in hand for themselves, and cannot be turned from their purpose; they will be heard and their voice must be respected. The day when official influence could control the public sentiment has gone by. The scepter, for such ends, has departed from the mighty. The people are putting on their strength, and we advise those who occupy either high or low places, who exist but in the popular breadth, and who therefore subsist, chiefly by the public bounty, to take heed to their doings. We are on the eve of a crisis in the administration of the affairs of this Republic.  Other and wiser measures must soon be resorted to, in many important respects, or other men will be called to the helm of the Nation. The question has indeed been put to the inquest of the people, and the answer will be speedily proclaimed. In these remarks we do not wish to be understood, as referring to the Bank question-the tariff-the internal improvement policy, nor to be supposed to be speaking on behalf of any of the interests, or the men, connected with those affairs. We have seen enough of the world to know that influence, and place, that wealth, and the spirit which seeks its accumulation, can always find champions and trumpeters for the accomplishment of their ends. We come forth solely the advocates of the INDIAN, and against all measures which shall deprive him of his lands, and immemorial rights. We desire to see in the administration of our national government, agents who will regard the constitution, and plighted faith of the empire as above all price, and to such, and only such, shall our humble support be given.

JUNIUS.

THE VOICE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Beginning to be heard in favor of the Indians.

At an adjourned meeting of the Citizens of Chester County, in Pennsylvania, held at the house of Isaac Carpenter, in Marshalton, on Saturday, the 11th of Dec. 1830, for the purpose of taking into consideration the afflicted condition of certain Indian Nations, and the propriety of applying to Congress on their behalf. Dr. BARTHOLOMEW FUSSEL, officiated as President. WM. KIRK, as Vice President, and Charles Downing and Dr. Charles W. Parrish,  were appointed Secretaries.

The Meeting being organized, the proceedings of the meeting held at West Chester, on the 22d. ult. were read: Mr. Lewis then, on behalf of the Committee nominated in a resolution of that Meeting, reported the following preamble and resolutions, together with the accompanying memorial, which were unanimously adopted by the Meeting.

Whereas the honor and interest of this Union require, that in our relations with other Nations, we should sedulously endeavor to observe, with unbroken faith, all the engagements into which we may have entered:- And whereas, an arbitrary attempt has been recently made by certain members of the federal compact, to drive our Government into the infraction of existing treaties with some of the Indian tribes or nations, made under the authority of the President, and solemnly ratified and confirmed by the Senate. And whereas, every sentiment of justice, and every feeling of patriotism, forbid that we should remain passive spectators of oppression permitted, or wrongs inflicted by our own Government.

Therefore Resolved,  That in the opinion of this meeting the Indian natives originally possessed an absolute dominion over the country they inhabited, and that their possession vested in them a perfect title to the soil, against all claims from abroad.

Resolved, That within the limits by which the Cherokees and other Nations or tribes of Indians east of the Mississippi now hold, they have never alienated, surrendered, or forfeited their right, either of soil, of jurisdiction, or of government; but that every right which they claim to possess, has been repeatedly recognized by Georgia and the United States.

Resolved, That the undisturbed and peaceable enjoyment of their lands has been guaranteed to those Indians by the Government of the United States, that they are our allies, and have purchased for a valuable consideration our powerful protection.

 Resolved, That the late laws of Georgia, extending jurisdiction over the Cherokees, are cruelly unjust and oppressive in their provisions, and a direct violation of the supreme law of the land.

Resolved, That under the existence of such very unequal and unpropitious circumstances, as respects a weak and unoffending party, we consider any offers of money or other valuable property or other overtures on the part of the United States, for the purpose of inducing them to sell or exchange their present possessions for our use as incompatible with any principles of fair dealing, and cannot be sustained by justice and honor of this Union.

Resolved, That those laws being as we believe they are, a direct infraction of our solemn guarantee of the inviolability and peaceable enjoyment of their lands and sovereignty by the Indians; imperiously demand the prompt interposition of the general government, for the protection of those afflicted and persecuted people.

Resolved, That any treaty made with the Indian tribes, while under terror of the unjust laws of the States which have assumed jurisdiction over them, does not possess the force of a compact, and ought not to be ratified by the Senate of the United States.

On motion of James McIlvain Esq.

Resolved, That independent of all moral or political consideration, we cannot conceive wherein the exigencies of the United States, or of any particular State, require that we should be led into the extraordinary expenditure of many millions of dollars for the purpose of removing so large a body of people to a distant country against their repeatedly expressed desire to remain where they are; we having already more lands than we can occupy for some ages yet to come.

Resolved, That it be earnestly recommended to our fellow citizens in the several counties of this State to assemble and express by resolution or memorial, a decided opinion concerning the wrongs which have been inflicted on, or now menace the Cherokees and other Indians.

Resolved, That printed copies of a brief memorial to Congress expressive of the views of this meeting, be forwarded for circulation in the several townships of this county, and that the following named persons be a committee in the respective township, to procure the signatures of the citizens, and transmit them to Joseph J. Lewis and Philip Price, of the borough of West Chester on or before the 30th inst. for the purpose of being sent from thence to the seat of the general government.

(The names of the committees are omitted.)

On motion, The following memorial was then directed to be signed by the officers of the meeting, and forwarded as early as practicable to our Senators and Representatives in Congress.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:-

The Memorial of a General County Meeting of the Citizens of the County of Chester, in the State of Pennsylvania,

RESPECTFULLY REPRESENTS,

That your memorialists view with pain and apprehension, the condition of the aboriginal inhabitants within the southern section of our Union.

We have seen these people for many years past, holding their possession in unquestioned alodium owing no fealty, and acknowledging no superior, either mesne or paramount. The validity of their title has been admitted both by Georgia and the Government of the Union. They have claimed and enjoyed every prerogative of an Independent People.- They have 'levied war, concluded peace, and contracted alliances', according to their own free determinations. In our negotiations with them we have regarded them as sovereigns, and our treaties with them have ever been held such in a constitutional sense, requiring the confirming voice of the Senate for their ratification. They have been recognized in the character of friends-not as subjects-have become our allies-and for a valuable consideration, which has been rendered by them in good faith, have purchased the guarantee of the inviolability of their Territory, and the pledge of the protecting power of our Government.

Standing in this attitude, in relation both to the States individually and collectively, we cannot but consider every assumption, on the part of the States neighbouring to them, of jurisdiction over them, as a direct and palpable usurpation, not less violative of their rights, than incompatible with the spirit of our republican institutions, which 'derive their just powers from the consent of the governed'- And it appears to us that the civil authorities of Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi, in presuming to extend their jurisdictional limits over the territory possessed by the Cherokees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws, have transgressed the paramount law of the land, violated the national faith, and brought in to jeopardy the safety and even the very existence of the Tribes.

In our opinion, therefore, it becomes the duty of the Government to vindicate the National Character, give effect to the treaties we have enacted, and to make good our guarantee, by interposing for the protection and security of the Indians, the energy and authority of the Nation.

It appears clear to your memorialists that the act of Congress of the last Session, for the removal of the Indians, may at this crisis be made the instrument of great injustice towards them.  While the laws of the States assuming jurisdiction over them remain unrepealed, they may be properly considered as a party in duress, or acting under the terror of threats and coercion, and therefore in competent to make a valid contract. As long as the laws of a State menace them with subjugation, and the United States withhold their protection, any offer made them for the purchase of their lands, comes attended with circumstances that excludes every idea of fair and honorable dealing. The effect upon them would be the same if the provisions of the statutes of those States, and those of the act of Congress were embodied into one, and the same law that offers the price were to contain the threat. When these people shall have been restored to a condition that shall inspire their bosoms with a feeling of security, when they shall have not reason to apprehend any encroachment on their rights; then they will stand in a situation to stipulate for the sale of their lands, and the agents of the General Government may treat with them on fair and equal terms.

The Nation would but compromise her dignity, and impair her well earned reputation for honor and justice, were she to take advantage of the adverse circumstances that surround these unfortunate and despairing people, to wring them from them a reluctant surrender of their cherished possessions.

Your memorialists therefore very respectfully solicit of your honorable bodies an immediate repeal of the said act; and of the Senate we earnestly request that they will refuse their assent to any treaties that have been made under it; and thus prevent the United States from becoming a party to a compact, enacted under circumstances that must deprive it of all binding efficacy in morals or in law, and cause its enforcement to reflect eternal disgrace on the National Character.

On motion of JOSEPH J. LEWIS, Esq.

Resolved, That the thanks of this meeting be tendered to the HON. JOSEPH HEMPHILL, the HON. JOEL B. SUTHERLAND, and the other members of the Pennsylvania delegation who opposed the Indian Bill; for their independent and enlightened efforts to sustain the national faith, and to save the Indians from injustice and ruin.

Resolved That the proceedings of this meeting be signed by the President, Vice President and Secretaries and that all the editors of newspapers, friendly to the rights of the Indians, are requested to give them an early insertion in their papers.

BARTHOLOMEW FUSSEL, President.

WILLIAM KIRK, Vice-President.

CHARLES DOWNING

CHARLES W. PARRISH, Secretaries.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














5 page format

INDIANS.

From the New York Observor.

The following eloquent address, we have reason to believe, is from the pen of a lady who ranks among the finest writers in this country. We hope it will be extensively copied into the public prints, that it may produce an effect in every part of the land. Information on the subject of the Indian question has been widely diffused in the numbers of William Penn, the messages of the President, and the letters and reports of the Secretary of War. The public are nor prepared to act, and the friends of the Indians, ever where, should forward their petitions to Congress without delay.

To Benevolent Ladies of the U. States.

The time has arrived when the cause of the Indians is again to be brought before the Congress of the United States, and when this Christian nation are to decide, through their rulers, what shall be the destiny of this oppressed and helpless race.

To woman's sympathies an appeal has once been made, which was answered from the hearts of thousands; and through the influence which virtuous females ever must exert in society, much has been done to circulate information and awaken interest in behalf of our Indian brethren.  True, this interest, and these efforts have been stigmatised as improper intrusion into subjects of a political nature, where women have no interest or concern, and where they are altogether incompetent judges. But those who have interested themselves understand their duties and their rights on this subject, as well as those who would thus instruct them. They know that subjects of a merely political or financial nature are indeed no concern of theirs, that in regard to mere party questions, tariffs, internal improvements, and subjects of political economy they have nothing to do, nor any means of forming correct opinions.

But when the question is urged, Shall this nation commit robbery? not upon a few travellers, but upon 70,000 men, women, and children, who have no power to defend themselves, and no earthly protection but the justice and sympathy of this nation. Shall murder be perpetrated? not on a few individuals in the silence of midnight, but upon great multitudes, in the light of day, before God and the nations of the earth -- Shall perjury be practised? not by obscure and uneducated men, and on matters of comparatively small importance, but by the senators, statesmen, counsellors, and chief magistrates of our nation, and towards thousands of helpless beings, whose all for this, and probably for a future life, is depending on the fulfilment of plighted obligations. When such questions as these are proposed to this nation, every woman in the land who has knowledge enough to read her Bible, is a full and competent judge, and has a right to declare her opinion in every mode which does not so violate the laws of propriety, as to prevent any benefit from the expression.

And how much do the laws of propriety require in such a case as this? If a woman hears the piercing cry of distress in a neighboring dwelling, must she wait for all the minutiae of etiquette before she goes to relieve? If she sees a fellow-being drowning, must she wait for the formalities of an introduction before she stretches out her hand to save, or calls to the passing traveller, for aid? Woman has been admired and applauded for throwing off all timid and retiring graces of her sex, and girding herself with sword and buckler to save her country and her home. In such emergencies, restraints which in other cases are so graceful and indispensable, are both a weakness and a crime.

Here then, if ever, is such an emergency.  Seventy thousand helpless beings ready to perish, are stretching forth their supplicating hands, for rescue and protection; are raising their imploring cries to all who have hearts to pity and relieve.

This nation is to decide their fate -- this nation is to say whether they shall be protected and saved, or given over to ruin and despair. And woman dwells in the land -- woman, who has a heart to feel and a hand to relieve -- woman, who like the throbbing organ of life, is protected from outward collisions, and the violence of party strife, that through the body politic she may send the warm and pure life blood of virtue -- woman, who though she may not command, can entreat; though she cannot coerce may implore.

It is in the power of the females of this nation to accomplish much that the most fastidious cannot regard as obtrusive. It is believed that nothing is wanting to bring this nation to act on this subject like a generous and Christian people, but knowledge -- knowledge as to the merits of the question, and as to the modes by which the threatened violence and injustice can be averted. And to females, may with propriety be committed the duty of seeking and disseminating such information.

And they can do more. The mode of saving the Indians as now pointed out by their most judicious friends is by the petitions to Congress of the honorable, upright, and humane in all parts of the country. The distinguished writer, who signs himself William Penn, knows the state of the Indians from personal observation -- and spend the last winter at Washington. It is his belief that a few more petitions expressive of public sentiment would then have turned the scale in the favor, and that a general petition this season, will save them. If this is the case, our National Halls should be filled with rolls of names that might reach from Maine to Georgia. Will not the ladies of this nation once more grant their sympathies and aid? Let correct information on the subject of the Indians be industriously circulated, and let every woman who has a father, brother or friend that can speak to the rulers of his people, ask his attention to the merits of the question, and entreat that his name may be enrolled as a suppliant for the Indians. Let woman do this and the blood of our brother will not be found on her now spotless robe.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

From the Cincinnati American.

MR. EDITOR -- I wish to say a few words on the subject of the removal of the Indians. They shall be but a few. All the learning on the subject, legal and historical, has been exhausted long ago.  In truth, there has been far too much of it. The overwhelming importance of the subject has been lost sight of, in the labyrinths of detailed argument. Besides, I profess no learning. But I thank god that I have feeling. My pulsations are as rapid as those of other men. I can feel national disgrace as keenly. And I understand the law which is written upon the heart. I would have the rights of the Indians tried by that law. I would have every American citizen make their case his own. I would ask him to call to mind the burning indignation, with which he has read the story of Spanish cruelty to the Indians of South America, and then see wherein he can distinguish the present case form theirs. My poor vision, unassisted by a political eye-glass, can see but one difference. The Spaniards professed no regard for unalienable rights. We have them forever on our tongue. The Spaniards had not reached that high conception of Freedom which prompts men to pour out their blood like water in its cause. We are the sons of those men, who not only did this, but who published to the world, in the sublimest manifesto which hand ever penned, that all men are born free and equal. The question therefore is, are the Indians men?  If they are, this nation has laid it down as a self-evident truth, 'that they are endowed by their Creator with an unalienable right, to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' Yes, endowed by their Creator. Man did not and could not give these rights. And shall be, because clothed with a little brief authority, presume to take them away? We talk of the faith and solemnity of treaties, and it is well. But the obligation, in the sight of Heaven, was as strong as it could be before a treaty was made. The only difference is, that a nation's honor is now pledged, and if the pledge be not redeemed, a nation's deep disgrace will be the just consequence. If, when this act of high handed oppression is consummated, the civilized world does not cry out against it, human nature will not be true to itself; and public opinion will have stepped down from the high ground it occupied when the diversion of Poland was first made known. Who has forgotten the burst of execration from every quarter, which greeted that monstrous outrage upon human rights? And will not every unprejudiced eye regard the removal of the Indians as a twin brother to that? There may be this difference. Sarcasm and scorn may be added to detestation. The tyrants who effected that division, were tyrants by profession; they held themselves out to mankind as despots; and however their conduct be deprecated, there was no horrible inconsistency in it. But the tyrants who are preparing, with no other right than that of the stronger, to drive away a people from the land which their ancestors occupied for centuries, before the glorious vision of a New World rose upon Columbus, profess to be ministering at the altar of freedom.  They have been elected by a free people to administer a free constitution; and the palpable hypocrisy of their behaviour must strike the world. And when some future Mitford comes to this dark passage in our history, (if an enemy to republicanism should ever write our history, as has been the fate of Greece,) he will task his bitterest powers of iron to set off in its proper relief this significant commentary upon the doctrine of EQUAL RIGHTS.  I will not attempt to imagine his language. Could the reproaches fall only where they are merited, they could not be too severe.  Let the Measure go abroad to the world, and down to posterity, as purely a party measure, undertaken with no other view than to gain reputation for a feeble and corrupt administration; let mankind be told it was customary for each successive President to fix upon some leading article of policy to characterize his reign, as Jefferson projected the purchase of Louisiana, and Madison the war with England; and that the moral test of Jackson and his ambitious cabinet, aided by the pliant subserviency of a predominant party in Congress, singled out this as a novel, and heretofore unheard of measure, that their claim to originality might never be disputed, (as indeed it never was or will be); and let it be published in the same connexion, that while the subject was under discussion, a host of the greatest and best spirits of the land took arms against it, that the most eloquent orators and profound lawyers in the Union spoke and wrote for the rights of the Indians, and that a long and loud strain of indignant remonstrance was heard from the pulpit and the press in every State; -- if all this could be told in extenuation, the cause of freedom would not suffer by an act of her recreant votaries: and glaringly unjust as the measure is, it would take its place among the long list of cases, in which political ambition has extinguished the light of moral principle, and the happiness of multitudes has been trifled with for the gratification of one or a few.

At all events, however men may regard it, 'there is a just God who presides over the destinies of nations.' To Him this transaction must appear as it is.  And our hope that He will not visit our nation with the same awful fate that we are preparing for the helpless Indians, is grounded on the revelations he has made of His character. If ten righteous men would have saved the devoted city, we may be permitted to trust, that the glorious multitude of great and good men, who have thus far struggled without avail against a prostitute majority, will avert from our beloved country, the merited wrath of God, for so daring an outrage against a portion of His children.

There is an eloquent passage in Mr. Everett's Speech in Congress at the last session, with which I will conclude these remarks.

'Sir, I acknowledge my mind has been strangely confounded by the propositions laid down by the Executive Government and those who support its policy toward the Indians. I am ready to think that they or I have lost sight of the ordinary significancy of terms. I had supposed the general idea of the nature of law was settled in the common agreement of mankind. Sages, when they attempted to describe it in its highest conception, had told us, that its seat was the bosom of God, and its voice the harmony of the world. I had been taught to reverence the law as a sort of earthly Providence; as the great popular sovereign; the unthroned and sceptreless prince; the mild dictator, whose province it was to see that not a single subject of its sway received harm.  With these conceptions, how can I understand it when I hear that the Indians claim to be protected against the laws of States? Protected against the laws! I thought it was the object of the law to protect every good man from all harm whatever, and even to visit on the bad man, only the specific penalty of his proven offence. But protection against the law: protection against the protector? Sir, I cannot understand it: it is incongruous. It confounds my faculties. There must be fatal mischief concealed in so strange a contradiction of language.'

W.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

INDIAN QUESTION

On our first page will be found an article from 'William Penn,' on the present situation of the 'Indian Question'. It will be followed by another next week, on our duties in relation to it. These articles demand the most serious attention of every American citizen: for they relate to HIS DUTY on an important subject.

One of the wickedest things ever done in Congress was the attempt at the last session to make this a party question. There was, however, too much virtue in that body to permit the entire success of that attempt. Many, who were and still are decided friends of the present administration, opposed the passage of the 'indian Bill'; and some who voted for it, have, by that vote, lost the confidence of their constituents, and failed of a re-election to Congress. The 'Indian Question' then, is one on which the friends of the administration are divided. Some of its fast friends are forward in petitioning in favor of the Indians.  There is no occasion for making a party question of it. The evil did not begin with the present administration. Bribing Indian Chiefs to cede the lands of their tribes, obtaining treaties by iniquity, and insisting on their fulfilment against the judgment and wishes of the Indians, are practices which have been creeping in for several years. The moral sense of the community was first shocked by the first public exposure of this system, in the case of the fraudulent treaty with the Creeks, which cost their traitorous chief, MacIntosh, his life. It was the misfortune of the present administration to come into office at the very moment when the difficulties on this subject were greatest -- when demands for further atrocities were most clamorous, and the remonstrances of public virtue the loudest. We do not say that any party which has aspired to their place would have done better. That is a question, with which we have nothing to do. We merely say that the violation of treaties and the oppression of the needy are crimes, and pray that our country may be saved from the commission of them. This is a point on which men of all parties ought to be interested, and to do what they can.

Vt. Chron.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

What are the people of the United States to do in regard to the Indian Question?  Is the subject on which a writer in the National Intelligencer, over the signature of 'William Penn', lately placed before the public an able, spirited and appropriate article, every way worthy of serious attention. The same writer, in a series of numbers formerly published in the Intelligencer, reviewed the past history and present condition of the Southern Indians, and the policy pursued towards them by the government of the United States. This subject, in consequence of the late act of Congress, and the attempt to survey and appropriate the Cherokee lands by Georgia, is daily assuming an aspect, of more serious importance. Every individual among us -- each citizen in every section of the Union, -- when they so plainly perceive that weakness is the only pretext for oppression, and that too towards those whom we have promised to protect, should in some measure make the case his own, and not be slow in expressing the indignation he feels at such tyranny and oppression.

The author of the article above alluded to, forcibly points out the difference in expounding and complying with contracts and treaties with the Indians and other neighboring powers -- showing that in all our dealings and intercourse with them, they are actually treated more like brutes than like men. 'Once establish the position',says the writer, 'that the Indians are to be treated as men, as human beings, and the Cherokees have gained their cause instantly'.

We publish the following paragraph in the hope that all may have an opportunity to profit by the suggestion.

'It is extensively supposed that petitioning does no good, and owing to the prevalence of this supposition, many thousands have neglected to petition in behalf of the Indians last winter. But this is a total mistake. A few more spirited memorials, supported by the personal influence of men distinguished in the community for their integrity, and patriotism, would probably have defeated the Indian Bill.'

And is not the reason for adopting this course now much more urgent? -- and have not the Southern Indians arrived at a much more fearful crisis?

Rutland (Vt.) Herald.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

From the Journal of Humanity

The President's Message excludes a variety of Temperance articles, and would have excluded news, had there been any. The favors of some correspondents are also necessarily deferred. The length of the Message render some abridgement necessary: but we have endeavored to retain so much as to give a fair and adequate statement of the President's views on the more important topics. For the convenience of reference we have placed the different parts of it under appropriate heads. The number of prominent disputed points of national policy introduced renders it a document of uncommon importance and interest.

We need not say that on one subject of vital interest the President expresses views which we regard as altogether false, and the appearance of which in a document of this kind is especially to be deplored. It is worthy of remark, that in the whole course of his observations on Indian affairs, the topic of the obligation of treaties is carefully avoided. Indeed, those who advocate the policy of the Administration towards the Indians, do not pretend that it can be pursued without violating Indian Treaties. The reader will mark what we say. It is conceded by our opponents that the claims of Georgia, and Alabama, and Mississippi, to jurisdiction over the Indians within their conventional limits, (which claims the Administration asserts to be valid) involve a violation of treaties with those Indians.

We have neither leisure nor inclination just now to follow the course of the President's remarks, (which seem to us to be full of errors): we only observe that he has not any where touched the real point at issue. On that point we will say a few words.

The Constitution of the United States declares treaties to be part of the supreme law of the land. From the nature of a treaty, neither party to it can disregard any of its provisions without forfeiting its good faith. Now, is what we call a treaty with the Indians, really such, according to the meaning of the term in the constitution, and the diplomatic intercourse of nations? We answer, yes; and for the following reasons.

1. Because from its title; it purports to be such. The world treaty is used without any explanation or limitation, and is therefore to be understood in its ordinary sense.

2. Because it has the form of a treaty -- the same form, essentially, as treaties with Great Britain, France, etc.

3. Because it is negotiated like a treaty,--in due form, and by the highest functionaries of the governments concerned, or their authorized agents.

4. Because it is ratified like a treaty.

5. Because, if it is a compact unknown to our constitution and laws. The Constitution does not give the President power, 'by and with the advice and consent of the Senate', to make any other compacts than treaties. If therefore our compacts with the Indians be not treaties, our Presidents and Senates, from Washington downward, have all been habitually and systematically violating the Constitution. Credat Judaus!

6. Because it is called a treaty, without any explanation of the term, wherever it is mentioned in our public documents and records. These documents furnish no evidence that the word has been used in one sense in reference to a compact with France, and in another and entirely different sense, when a similar compact with the Cherokees is mentioned.

7. Because, from all these and other circumstances, and from the absence of all evidence to the contrary, it is clear that both parties have from the first and uniformly understood it to be a treaty, in the proper and well known sense of the term.

But were all this of no weight, yet if the compact under consideration has been legally made and sanctioned, it would be strange logic to conclude, because it is not a treaty, that we are therefore not bound it! Suppose I were to refuse to pay a note of hand, on the plea that it is not a bond?

So long, then, as the Indians insist on our abiding by these compacts, we must do so, or forfeit our good faith. It is a naked question of right.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

From the Journal of Humanity

The President's Message excludes a variety of Temperance articles, and would have excluded news, had there been any. The favors of some correspondents are also necessarily deferred. The length of the Message render some abridgement necessary:  but we have endeavored to retain so much as to give a fair and adequate statement of the President's views on the more important topics. For the convenience of reference we have placed the different parts of it under appropriate heads. The number of prominent disputed points of national policy introduced renders it a document of uncommon importance and interest.

We need not say that on one subject of vital interest the President expresses views which we regard as altogether false, and the appearance of which in a document of this kind is especially to be deplored. It is worthy of remark, that in the whole course of his observations on Indian affairs, the topic of the obligation of treaties is carefully avoided. Indeed, those who advocate the policy of the Administration towards the Indians, do not pretend that it can be pursued without violating Indian Treaties. The reader will mark what we say. It is conceded by our opponents that the claims of Georgia, and Alabama, and Mississippi, to jurisdiction over the Indians within their conventional limits, (which claims the Administration asserts to be valid) involve a violation of treaties with those Indians.

We have neither leisure nor inclination just now to follow the course of the President's remarks, (which seem to us to be full of errors): we only observe that he has not any where touched the real point at issue. On that point we will say a few words.

The constitution of the United States declares treaties to be part of the supreme law of the land. From the nature of a treaty, neither party to it can disregard any of its provisions without forfeiting its good faith. Now, is what we call a treaty with the Indians, really such, according to the meaning of the term in the constitution, and the diplomatic intercourse of nations? We answer, yes; and for the following reasons.

1. Because from its title; it purports to be such. The world treaty is used without any explanation or limitation, and is therefore to be understood in its ordinary sense.

2. Because it has the form of a treaty -- the same form, essentially, as treaties with Great Britain, France, etc.

3. Because it is negotiated like a treaty, -- in due form, and by the highest functionaries of the governments concerned, or their authorized agents.

4. Because it is ratified like a treaty.

5. Because, if it is a compact unknown to our constitution and laws. The constitution does not give the President power, 'by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,' to make any other compacts than treaties. If therefore our compacts with the Indians be not treaties, our Presidents and Senates, from Washington downward, have all been habitually and systematically violating the Constitution. Credat Judaus!

6. Because it is called a treaty, without any explanation of the term, wherever it is mentioned in our public documents and records. These documents furnish no evidence that the word has been used in one sense in reference to a compact with France, and in another and entirely different sense, when a similar compact with the Cherokees is mentioned.

7. Because, from all these and other circumstances, and from the absence of all evidence to the contrary, it is clear that both parties have from the first and uniformly understood it to be a treaty, in the proper and well known sense of the term.

But were all this of no weight, yet if the compact under consideration has been legally made and sanctioned, it would be strange logic to conclude, because it is not a treaty, that we are therefore not bound it! Suppose I were to refuse to pay a note of hand, on the plea that it is not a bond?

So long, then, as the Indians insist on our abiding by these compacts, we must do so, or forfeit our good faith. It is a naked question of right.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

THE INDIANS. Our readers will find much in our paper today, which may assist them in deciding on their duty towards the Indians. That part of the President's Message which relates to them, we have copied entire, in order to lay fairly before our readers, all that can be said on that side of the question. We wage no war on the administration. In many respects, we think they are doing very well; and in some things, for which they have been most abused, they have only followed the example of all former parties. There is much in the Message which we heartily approve. But on the Indian question, we feel bound to protest against their doctrines. We believe that the treaties, which this government has made with the Indians, ought to be fulfilled, as much, and as entirely, as treaties with England or France.  We do not believe that the several states, within the chartered limits of which the Indians live, have any constitutional right to compel the government to violate its faith. Most of these states have come into existence, since those treaties were made; and the acts for their admission to the Union could not 'impair the obligation of contracts' between the government and the Indians. If they could, what security will the Indians have in their proposed residence beyond the Mississippi? We are bound, by the treaty with France, by which we hold that country, to erect it, the whole of it, into states, whenever the population shall be such as to render it proper. The time will come, when the new residence of the Indians must, according to that treaty, be included within the limits of one or more new states; and these states, according to the doctrines of the administration, may extend their laws over them, and Congress cannot interfere! The constitutional difficulties, if there are any, will be precisely the same as now. The guarantee cannot be any better than that which the government now refuses to fulfil.

One paragraph of the Message appears, to us, peculiarly unfortunate. The President says, of the removal of the Indians, 'The pecuniary advantages which it promises to the Government are the least of its recommendations.'  The government, then, has a pecuniary interest in their removal.  'It puts an end to all possible danger of collision between the authorities of the General and State Governments, on account of the Indians.' It does, till Congress, as bound by the treaty with France, surrounds them with new states; and no longer. 'It will place a dense and civilized population in large tracts of country now occupied by a few savage hunters.' That country is said, on good authority, to be incapable of supporting a dense population. 'It will separate the Indians from immediate contact with settlements of whites.' Therefore unprincipled traders will be under less restraints among them. It will do this, till new states are thrown around them, as Mississippi and Alabama have been around their present residence. It will 'enable them to pursue happiness in their own way, and under their own rude institutions.' These rude institutions the Indians do not wish to preserve. It will 'retard the progress of decay, which is now lessening their numbers.' The only tribe in which an actual enumeration has taken place is increasing in numbers. It will 'perhaps cause them gradually under the protection of the Government, and through the influence of good counsels, to cast off their savage habits, and become an interesting, civilized, and Christian community.' This is taking place rapidly where they are.

The President wishes us all to unite, in persuading the Indians to comply with his wishes. For our part, if the states, within whose chartered limits they reside, would furnish them with just and equitable laws, such as they could and ought to live under, we would advise them to remove to such a place, and under such conditions, that they shall not be losers, we would advise them to remove; for by so doing they would retrieve us from some embarrassments, without any injury to themselves. But we would remember their right to judge of our advice; and we would insist that they should enjoy all the rights promised them in solemn treaties, till they should of their own will relinquish them. And especially, we would not compel them to take our advice or do worse, by withdrawing from them that protection for which they call, and which we have solemnly and repeatedly promised. We would not withdraw it, and thus leave them to the operation of laws, under which, according to the judgement of all parties, 'THEY CANNOT LIVE.' -- Vt. Chron.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

From the New York Spectator.

The Presidents' Message. -- The Indians -- Let none of our readers turn from this subject. It has been, we are aware, so often discussed, that to many it may have become tedious and uninteresting; but it involves the sacred cause of humanity, justice, and national faith, and it is not less our duty to explain it, than it is the duty of every citizen in our republic, to exercise his influence upon it.

The present Message of the President has advanced upon his Message of last year, and at length undisguisedly develops the intention of the Executive towards the Cherokees. Last year, it was said: -- 'Their emigration should be voluntary; for it would be cruel as unjust to compel the Aborigines to abandon the graves of their fathers, and seek a home in a distant land.'  This year, we read that while (in the heartless cant of the Message) 'humanity weeps over the fate of the Aborigines.' yet, the consummation of the Government policy of removing the Indians from the limits of the states, is what 'the states have a right to demand. It was substantially a part of the compact which made them members of our confederacy -- with Georgia there is an express contract.' This additional boldness of language may be owing to the unflinching and inveterate fierceness, with which Georgia her during the recess, advanced in laws of cupidity; or it may be another exhibition of Mr. Van Buren's peculiar policy, who never fully indicates his designs at first, and who (as Fontenelle expresses it,) if he have his handful of truth, will only open a finger at a time.

The Indian question, besides its intrinsic interest, is becoming, through the additional circumstances which almost thicken round it, important to us in a new point of view. It is not only now, whether national faith shall be broken -- whether immemorial usage -- British engagements anterior to our Independence -- treaties during the revolutionary war; and at least twelve distinct treaties made since the adoption of our constitution, supported by corroborative laws, shall be infringed and violated; nor, whether a single unprincipled state shall pursue its cruel avarice and nullify the laws; but also, whether General Jackson has the right of his own will and pleasure, to abrogate a treaty, repeal a law. If written constitutions are worth more than old Almanacks; if the French, in their late revolution, were wise in shedding their blood for a charter; this ought to be a question of some moment to American freemen. Now, to give one remarkable fact: On the 30th March, 1802, a law of Congress was passed regulating intercourse with the Indians, and enacting, among other things, 'that it should be unlawful for any citizen to enter upon any Indian territory -- to make any settlement upon their lands; or survey or attempt to survey the same' -- and providing in various other respects for the preservation and integrity of their boundaries; and directed the executive to use force to carry into effect its provisions. This law is still in force. In the very teeth of this statute, General Jackson has withdrawn the United States troops, with the avowed view of allowing Georgia to enter on the lands and make surveys, and in short do as she pleases; and in his messages, he declares all laws impairing what he terms the state powers over the Indians to be unconstitutional. Unconstitutional indeed! What right has he to pronounce them so? A law of Congress once passed, the President -- that is, if we live, as we are beginning to doubt, under a limited and free government -- has no more right to pronounce it unconstitutional, than has a deputy Sheriff. Constable Hays might as well refuse to execute the Recorder's bench-warrant against a pick-pocket, because it was unconstitutional. The President has no more latitude and discretion over an express law, than the humblest tide-waiter of the customhouse. We speak advisedly, when we declare our opinion, that this very conduct of the President is an impeachable offence. In England, a minister, nay, the Duke of Wellington himself, would tremble for his head, if he dared to imitate it. God help our country, if Andrew Jackson can act in this manner, with impunity here.

Mr. Secretary Eaton here steps in, ' favors the country with his marked opinion on the subject. He solemnly shakes his head, and gravely remarks that he has doubts not only of the binding force of acts of Congress respecting Indians, within the limits of States, but, also, of treaties made by the President and senate.  This accomplished doctor of civil laws has not yet settled in his mind the precise extent of the treaty making power of the constitution. We do indeed believe the Secretary sincere in saying he has doubts on the subject; and we go further in his favor, and believe that he things and knows nothing about the matter. Our wonder is how Mr. Van Buren and Mr. Berrien, who must have some esprit du corps, came to allow their colleague to write on the subject.

The writer of the message pretends to compare the forced departure of the Indians to the free-willed, voluntary emigration of our New England youth. Does this writer realize that he is writing to the intelligent people of America?  The parallel is an insult to our understanding. The New England young men may possess at home a rood of ground, but General Jackson, as yet, cannot take it from him. It is his own. His house may be the poorest cottage, open to every breath of winter; but (in the language of Erskine) 'though every wind of heaven may enter it: a King cannot! a King dare not!' To such a man, going forth, free to remain and free to depart, with the world wide before him where to choose his place of rest, and Providence his guide, is he like the helpless Cherokee, imploring in vain to be allowed die on his own land, and driven to wilds, which can scarce support the beast of prey? What mockery is this!

To what pass are we coming? Are chaos and old night returning? Are we doomed to see law, justice, common sense and common honesty; torn down, and mangled by Barbarian hands? We confess that at times we feel desponding over our country; and we ought to feel so, on anticipating the Indian's destruction, if we recognize a retributive Providence, or believe the lessons of history.  It was such an act, the expulsions of the Moors by Philip 2d, which gives date to the decay of the once mighty monarchy of Spain. It was by such acts, that the sun of Spanish glory in the western world set in clouds and blood.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

From Poulson's American Advertiser.

A Practical Illustration of the Bill for the Removal of the Indians

It will be recollected by most persons who have paid any attention to the subject, that when the discussion took place last winter in Congress respecting the Indian Bill, one of the grand arguments argued by the advocates of that measure was, that these Indians, when removed beyond the Mississippi, could have a large tract of territory given to them without the limits of any state, and which might be permanently secured to them upon the faith, and by the most solemn guarantee of the federal government; and it was furthermore urged that in a remote location of this kind, and under the immediate care and protection of the United States, they would be preserved from the lawless violence and cupidity of their white neighbors, as well as from the jealousy and incessant encroachment of contiguous States.  Notwithstanding however all these fair prospects and smooth promises, the Indians persisted in their determination of remaining where they were, undriven away by absolute force, and their friends in the general legislature, continued as firmly to persist on their right so to do. Bitter experience had taught the poor Indians, that these apparently advantageous offers might prove delusive, and that the proffered pledge of government faith might be broken at the suggestions of avarice, or by the still more alluring temptation of territorial acquirement.

It could not then, however, have been possibly anticipated, that time would so soon reveal the utter hollowness and insincerity of the offers then made, or that the distrust of these poor Indians was so well founded in justice and in truth; the following facts however will fully prove the wisdom of the Indians and show that their misgivings on that occasion were not misplaced, the statement from which they are taken, was originally published in the 'New York Journal of Commerce' over the signature of a 'Spectator of the late doings of the Commissioners at Green Bay'.

In the year 1821-2 a large number of the Indians residing in the state of New York, composed of several tribes, from the suggestion of benevolence, and under the sanction and guidance of the supreme authority of the Nation, went by their delegation and purchased for themselves a home in our North Western territory. The compacts being duly solemnized by the parties (the New York Indians on the one hand, and the Winnebago and Manomenies Nations, owners of the soil, on the other) were sealed by the hand of the President of the United States.

In reliance on the faith of these compacts, and on the pledges of government for protection, nearly a thousand of these Indians planted themselves on their new territory at Green Bay; erected houses and villages, cleared farms and made many valuable improvements, expecting to present inducements to all their brethren in the State of New York to follow them. But what has been the sequel? Why, it has been discovered that the North West territory will make an important member of the confederacy, that government had been too hasty in pledging that country to the Indians, and in as much as their title should be acknowledged, it was somewhat doubtful whether they would be willing to negotiate away so valuable a country; it was obviously most convenient to march and take it by violence. And so it was taken by a commission from the general government; ' to consummate that aggression, another commission of 1830 has just returned from the violated ground, and remitted their enactments to the President for confirmation. If these enactments shall be confirmed by the Nation, there can be no appeal but to Heaven; if the Nation shall seal this, it will be the consummation of their guilt and perfidy. And thus a full, fair and thorough experiment of the value of the faith of government, now offered to Indians removing from states into unchartered territories will have been made in less then ten years. Here then is a most portentous revealment of what the poor Cherokees may have to expect, if by force or fraud -- to escape from robbery; or to fly from persecution, they shall ever be tempted to rely on the protection of the United States, and remove to the Arkansas, or any other territory in our possession. The above facts then, as well as the attempt now making to break through all those bonds by which, we have so often bound ourselves to cherish and support our Southern Indians, and because their lands have now become valuable, to endeavour to wrest away their title, and convert them to our own use; affords a strong ground for the belief which we have long held, that whenever the Arkansas territory shall become desirable to the United States, a plea will soon be found, and a plan as readily devised, whereby the Cherokees (if they shall ever be induced to go there) will be again dispossessed, and once more driven forth to seek another home in some still farther region of the West. The writer from whom the above facts have been taken, goes on to declare that not another Indian in the State of New York will ever again trust himself to the faith of the general government; and that those who are now at Green Bay in consequence of the perfidy practised upon them, and their consevexation and trouble, are gravely mediating to throw themselves back on the charities of that commonwealth.

If however, they should not do this, it is more than probable that they may at last find that protection, which has been so unjustly denied them here, under the British government in the provinces of Canada. We know that when a large number of free coloured people, were on a late occasion driven out of a neighboring state by the most cruel and unjust, as well as unconstitutional means, they sought, and obtained a refuge in these provinces.  Indeed the writer above quoted states, that when present a few months since, with the Chiefs at Green Bay, he heard one of them in public council recommending to all his brethren to remove into Canada, because said he, 'the British keep their faith with the Indians'; and he then 'quoted facts and adduced reasons, to which I passionately desired, but was utterly unable to reply: I had the privilege of speaking, being admitted to their council, but mortified, and abused as a citizen of the United States, I was compelled to submit in silence; for the first time in my life I was ashamed of my country; and in such presence. Before the Indian agonized under a sense of his wrongs, and giving vent to feeling which it is not in God or man to despise.'

W.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

From the National Intelligencer.

MESSRS. GALES AND SEAFON. -- Gentlemen -- We have seen, since our arrival in Washington, two erroneous statements, as it regards the Cherokees, copied into your paper from Southern prints, which we beg permission to correct.

It is first stated that 'the Cherokees are willing to enter into a treaty, provided reservations in fee are given to certain characters'; etc.

Secondly, it is said that 'President Jackson informed Governor Gilmer that a treaty could be made with the Cherokees, suitable reservations being made to certain chiefs, who wished to remain', etc.

Not long since a special agent was despatched by the President to the Cherokees to make certain propositions, among which was the offer of large reservations; and to ascertain whether or not they would treat.  He attended the late General Council of the Nation, made known his business as a written communication, and persuading the Chiefs and People of the liberality of the propositions submitted by a speech before the Council, and in the presence of a large concourse of citizens, in which the selfish interests of all were addressed, and the terror of force on the part of Georgia to survey and dispose of their lands by lottery to her citizens, was set forth in bold relief. The reply of the Council affords abundant evidence of the determination of the Cherokees not to treat, even upon the proviso alluded to, and a resolution to hazard all their rights to the danger threatened, rather than to suffer personal interests to predominate over their better reason; and at the same time relying on the justice of the constituted authorities of the United States for protection. They have repeatedly declared to the Government and this agent their solemn determination never again to cede another foot of land, and, whatever may be said to the contrary, they are firmly and unalterably resolved never again to expose their interests, their happiness and their country in market.

Respectfully your obedient servants,

R. TAYLOR

JOHN RIDGE

W.S. COODY,

Cherokee Delegation.

Washington City, 11th Dec. 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






5 column format

CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA Jan 15, 1831.

CREEK PATH, Dec. 11, 1830.

MR. EDITOR --

Dear Sir, I regret to relate to you, a scene that I witnessed yesterday in this neighborhood. About forty Choctaw Indians passed my house on their way to Chah-che-te-nah-hah, (meaning Georgia,) and then on to Washington City, headed by two white men, for the vile purpose of exhibiting to the people of the United States, their old manners and customs; not that the philanthropist should receive a new impulse of humanity towards the Indians, or be brought to feel more sensibly, the injustice, the wrongs, the oppression, that the great American people have heaped on the Indian, -- or that the Christian and the benevolent, should be excited more earnestly to sympathize with us in our struggles for our aboriginal rights; or that the humane should deeply feel, and commiserate our wretchedness, under the solemn guarantee of the U. States. No; there is no such object in view. It is to prejudice the people against the Indian cause, and these Choctaws are sent out by some high authority, no doubt, as a libel on Christian community, and as an evidence of the moral wretchedness of the Indians in general.

I understand that in the enlightened neighborhood of Huntsville, Alabama, these Choctaws played ball, and danced for the amusement of the people, (not I hope for their instruction) and then the spectators rewarded them to the amount of $200, in merchandize, etc. not as an encouragement to become civilized and virtuous, but to go on in the laudable path of immorality and savagism, from which the good and human wish them to depart.

Such an exhibition, for such a purpose, of Indian ignorance, encouraged and rewarded, by citizens of an enlightened town, is humiliating even to a Cherokee, and it ought to meet the indignant disapprobation of all good citizens; but not only this, it presents the melancholy reflection, that the moral contrast is not very wide between the white man and the Indian.

I doubt very much whether one-fourth of the sum given in Huntsville, for the encouragement, and advancement of Indian savagism, could have been obtained from the same people, for their moral benefit and elevation in society. I have often heard it said that it was a bad rule that would not work both ways.

While we behold with pleasure and gratitude the exertion of the Christian community, using every energy in their power to civilize and improve the condition of the Indians, we see on the other hand, with deep sorrow, an influence put into motion to thwart the wishes and designs of the benevolent, for the worst of motives. An influence exercised for the basest purpose; to bring before the estimation of the world, the moral degradation of the Indians; and not only this, for another object is in view, more hazardous and destructive, the subversion of the fundamental principles of natural Justice! The disregard of which by the people of the United States will ultimately demolish the political existence of the Indians, and not only the Indians but all nations to refuse to do justly, in spite of remonstrance, and the voice of humanity. The success of all governments in political science depends altogether upon the improved state of morals among the people; and when political maxims are brought forward to answer the mere purposes of expediency, without any regard to justice, it must, and always has, and ever will have a tendency to corrupt the body politic, and then the political fabric must inevitably fall to ruin.

In haste, I am, dear sir, your obedient servant,

CREEK PATH.

P.S. My apprehension as to the motive of these people, may be unfounded, but it does appear to me that there is some prejudicial design (connected with this business) against the Indian cause, especially at this stage of our political affairs.

We believe our correspondence, is correct in supposing that there is some evil design in taken (sic) forty ignorant Choctaws to the Seat of government at this season of the year. If the 'motive stirring movement' in this case does not proceed from a higher source than those immediately concerned, yet the intention is evident -- it is to exhibit a specimen of Indian civilization and Christianization. We are told the conductors of these Choctaws are open Infidels. They say the Mississippi Indians are not a whit better off for having Missionaries among them, and that the United States are in a worse condition for being religious.  They are in a good keeping, and are now in their appropriate sphere of action. But will the Christian public believe them?

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix

HEAD OF COOSA, Dec. 26th, 1830.

I transmit to you a desultory sketch of my travels for one week on Wills Valley circuit with some promiscuous and miscellaneous reflections, which, if your columns are not filled with other matter on the all absorbing Question that agitates our common country, you will publish in the Phoenix.

Thursday 21 -- Left my residence for McLemore's, 30 miles -- this is the coldest day that has been this year. McLemore's is directly south of the northern extremity of Lookout -- the road runs parallel with the mountain upon whose lofty summit the blue firmament seems to rest its concave bosom. The soil is generally poor with some exceptions, ' watered by gentle rivulets flowing from the mountain slope, entirely uninhabited, except by a few families, who live some distance apart in neat cabins, with an average farm of about twenty acres, surrounded by the common blessings of life.

Wednesday, 22 -- Preached to a congregation of thirty Cherokees who were very orderly. I designed to instruct them particularly in the first rudiments of Christianity rather than to rouse their feelings, and concluded by enforcing the obligation of brotherly love. At this place there are 22 members of the M. E. Church, all of whom, as I was informed by the Classleader, (who is a devoted man) were irreproachable. There is a neatness of person and retiring modesty of manner among this people truly commendable.

Thursday 23, -- The weather continues cold; rode from McLemores to Fielding, 25 miles -- Six miles from McLemores there is a cove which is made by the intersection of the Blue Ridge and Lookout, the former running east and west, throwing its northern front into a semicircle, and at a considerable distance, projecting a side point, while the latter continues north and south. Here, if I wished to spend my life as a hermit, I would select my spot, and in gazing wonder, exiled from human society, spend the remnant of my days in contemplating the mighty works of nature, God. On the top of this elevated mountain crosses the main dividing ridge of the eastern and western waters, upon which the cold chilling winds were almost insupportable, and one quart of Conohana and two blankets would have supplied all my earthly wants. The eastern side of the mountain at the descending place is very abrupt -- the path passes down a rapid rivulet, running sometimes above then beneath the ground, lined on each side with green ivy that add to the gloom beneath. The gap is ledged in on either hand with walls of massy rock, rising in grandeur from three to five hundred feet. Arrived at Fieldings about sunset, and at night commented on the Lord's prayer to eight Cherokees, who listened with great attention and appeared to treasure up the word spoken. May God make it his power to their salvation. This vicinity has been visited during the year with a great drought, and provisions will be scarce.

Friday 25th (sic) -- This morning the weather is warmer and it is raining incessantly -- At twelve o'clock preached in Coon Town meeting house, which is neatly builded of hewed logs, and is about twenty two feet square -- the congregation was respectable notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather. Here I saw Cherokee women come for miles on foot, through the rain carrying their infants on their backs to attend the house of Jehovah. My bosom swelled with unutterable anxiety for their salvation.  May the great head of the church feed their hungry souls with the bread of life. According to the return of the last preacher in charge there are fifty members of society, some of whom, I was informed had been guilty of immoralities, may their wanderings be reclaimed.

Saturday 25th -- Left Little Turtle's in the morning (whose hospitality I shall never forget) and rode nine miles to Dirt Town.  The people are in more indigent circumstances here than in any place I have passed. Here my worthy and beloved interpreter, Edward Graves, held meeting in the Cherokee language, and we had a melting season. Often did the falling tear steal from the aged Indian bending under three score and five while the necessity of the new birth was urged with zeal and in purest strains of Cherokee eloquence. Left Dirt town at 3 o'clock for Mr. John Ross' fifteen miles -- on the way much fatigued and many humiliating reflections -- at night fall passed the mansion of Major Ridge's -- Here I paused on the opposite bank of the Eastanallee and thought if I were a poet I would extend my hand and lift my harp from the flowing willows and sing of the elegant edifice on the opposite shore, lifting its western front in Gothic grandeur, and overlooking the rolling waters beneath, and of him too its proprietor, who is want in mellow strains and purest charms of Indian oratory to harangue his countrymen around the council fire, and then too down the bosom of the rolling Coosa with darkened shadows commingled with the paler rays of the moon. I would send a note of praise and muse in expressive silence.

Sunday 26th -- Preached at Mr. John Ross' to a respectable congregation -- the utmost religious order was observed.

In conclusion of my week's labors I would say that I have travelled about ninety miles and not seen the face of a white man, and but one person who could talk the English language, and to the praise of those among who I have travelled, I have seen no instance of incivility -- not heard one profane oath -- not one person intoxicated -- not one single drop of spirituous liquors.

From the remote distance of the settlements the country through which I have passed must be missionary ground for a considerable time, as the people cannot act with united effort. There is one thing which I would not forget to say -- there is some want of furniture in the houses of those whom I have visited, but in every respect they are comfortably fixed generally, -- the ancient costume of dress is entirely laid aside, and the dress of the white man adopted. The women are clean and nice in their apparel -- their dress, made either out of common calico or the more commendable product of their own industry and workmanship of their own hands; and though this section of the nation is as far in the wane of civilization as any other, yet there are many enlivening prospects of final success.

Often during my tour have I used the following soliloquy -- 'Must these budding prospects, these fondest expectations, the fruits of toil and labor, and the labor and toil, too, of some who have gone to their final home -- all be nipped, blighted and scattered to the four winds of heaven and not a vestige remain? Must these neat cabins and handsomely arranged farms, by foulest and almost unheard of oppression pass into the hands of others? And shall the canvass of truth spread before the eyes of future generations stained with letters of eternal infamy, that in the nineteenth century, a voice of lamentation weeping and great mourning was hear, which should have rended the earth and pierced every heart, and brought deliverance, -- that Rachel refused to be comforted for her children, because they were not! for they were delivered into the hands of Herod.'

N. D. Scales.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix

HEAD OF COOSA, Dec. 26th, 1830.

I transmit to you a desultory sketch of my travels for one week on Wills valley circuit with some promiscuous and miscellaneous reflections, which, if your columns are not filled with other matter on the all absorbing Question that agitates our common country, you will publish in the Phoenix.

Thursday 21 -- Left my residence for McLemore's, 30 miles -- this is the coldest day that has been this year. McLemore's is directly south of the northern extremity of Lookout -- the road runs parallel with the mountain upon whose lofty summit the blue firmament seems to rest its concave bosom. The soil is generally poor with some exceptions, ' watered by gentle rivulets flowing from the mountain slope, entirely uninhabited, except by a few families, who live some distance apart in neat cabins, with an average farm of about twenty acres, surrounded by the common blessings of life.

Wednesday, 22 -- Preached to a congregation of thirty Cherokees who were very orderly. I designed to instruct them particularly in the first rudiments of Christianity rather than to rouse their feelings, and concluded by enforcing the obligation of brotherly love. At this place there are 22 members of the M. E. Church, all of whom, as I was informed by the Classleader, (who is a devoted man) were irreproachable. There is a neatness of person and retiring modesty of manner among this people truly commendable.

Thursday 23, -- The weather continues cold; rode from McLemores to Fielding, 25 miles -- Six miles from McLemores there is a cove which is made by the intersection of the Blue Ridge and Lookout, the former running east and west, throwing its northern front into a semicircle, and at a considerable distance, projecting a side point, while the latter continues north and south. Here, if I wished to spend my life as a hermit, I would select my spot, and in gazing wonder, exiled from human society, spend the remnant of my days in contemplating the mighty works of nature, God. On the top of this elevated mountain crosses the main dividing ridge of the eastern and western waters, upon which the cold chilling winds were almost insupportable, and one quart of Conohana and two blankets would have supplied all my earthly wants. The eastern side of the mountain at the descending place is very abrupt -- the path passes down a rapid rivulet, running sometimes above then beneath the ground, lined on each side with green ivy that add to the gloom beneath. The gap is ledged in on either hand with walls of massy rock, rising in grandeur from three to five hundred feet. Arrived at Fieldings about sunset, and at night commented on the Lord's prayer to eight Cherokees, who listened with great attention and appeared to treasure up the word spoken. May God make it his power to their salvation. This vicinity has been visited during the year with a great drought, and provisions will be scarce.

Friday 25th -- This morning the weather is warmer and it is raining incessantly -- At twelve o'clock preached in Coon town meeting house, which is neatly builded of hewd logs, and is about twenty two feet square -- the congregation was respectable notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather.  Here I saw Cherokee women com for miles on foot, through the rain carrying their infants on their backs to attend the house of Jehovah. My bosom swelled with unutterable anxiety for their salvation. May the great head of the church feed their hungry souls with the bread of life. According to the return of the last preacher in charge there are fifty members of society, some of whom, I was informed had been guilty of immoralities, may their wanderings be reclaimed.

Saturday 25th -- Left Little Turtle's in the morning (whose hospitality I shall never forget) and rode nine miles to Dirt town.  The people are in more indigent circumstances here than in any place I have passed. Here my worthy and beloved interpreter, Edward Graves, held meeting in the Cherokee language, and we had a melting season. Often did the falling tear steal from the aged Indian bending under three score and five while the necessity of the new birth was urged with zeal and in purest strains of Cherokee eloquence. Left Dirt town at 3 o'clock for Mr. John Ross' fifteen miles -- on the way much fatigued and many humiliating reflections -- at night fall passed the mansion of Major Ridge's -- Here I paused on the opposite bank of the Eastanallee and thought if I were a poet I would extend my hand and lift my harp from the flowing willows and sing of the elegant edifice on the opposite shore, lifting its western front in Gothic grandeur, and overlooking the rolling waters beneath, and of him too its proprietor, who is want in mellow strains and purest charms of Indian oratory to harangue his countrymen around the council fire, and then too down the bosom of the rolling Coosa with darkened shadows commingled with the paler rays of the moon. I would send a note of praise and muse in expressive silence.

Sunday 26th -- Preached at Mr. John Ross' to a respectable congregation -- the utmost religious order was observed.

In conclusion of my week's labors I would say that I have travelled about ninety miles and not seen the face of a white man, and but one person who could talk the English language, and to the praise of those among who I have travelled, I have seen no instance of incivility -- not heard one profane oath -- not one person intoxicated -- not one single drop of spirituous liquors.

From the remote distance of the settlements the country through which I have passed must be missionary ground for a considerable time, as the people cannot act with united effort. There is one thing which I would not forget to say -- there is some want of furniture in the houses of those whom I have visited, but in every respect they are comfortably fixed generally, -- the ancient costume of dress is entirely laid aside, and the dress of the white man adopted. The women are clean and nice in their apparel -- their dress, made either out of common calico or the more commendable product of their own industry and workmanship of their own hands; and though this section of the nation is as far in the wane of civilization as any other, yet there are many enlivening prospects of final success.

Often during my tour have I used the following soliloquy -- 'Must these budding prospects, these fondest expectations, the fruits of toil and labor, and the labor and toil, too, of some who have gone to their final home -- all be nipped, blighted and scattered to the four winds of heaven and not a vestige remain? Must these neat cabins and handsomely arranged farms, by foulest and almost unheard of oppression pass into the hands of others? And shall the canvass of truth spread before the eyes of future generations stained with letters of eternal infamy, that in the nineteenth century, a voice of lamentation weeping and great mourning was hear, which should have rended the earth and pierced every heart, and brought deliverance, -- that Rachel refused to be comforted for her children, because they were not! for they were delivered into the hands of Herod.

N. D. Scales.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

From the Adams Sentinel.

THE INDIANS.

A large and highly respectable meeting of Citizens, of Adams County, Pennsylvania, was held in pursuance of public notice, at the court-house in Gettysburg, on Saturday the 18th inst. to take measures to have a proper expression of public opinion in behalf of oppressed Indians. WALTER SMITH, Esq. was called to the chair, and M.C. Clarkson and Peter Hulick appointed Secretarie.

After some remarks; it was on motion,

Resolved, That a committee be appointed to draft and report to the and report to the meeting resolutions expressive of their views upon the subject; as a memorial to Congress.

T. Stephens, J. F. Macfarlane; and John Dickson, Esqrs. were appointed said Committee; who, after a short period, reported the following Resolutions -- which were unanimously adopted:

Resolved, That we feel deep and intense interest in preserving the elevated character which our country has hitherto sustained, pure and unpolluted by an act of treachery on want of faith.

Resolved, That we believe the faith of our country is pledged, by numerous treaties, and solemn guaranties to protect the Indians within the prescribed limits of the State of Georgia, in the undisturbed possession of those lands have inherited from their fathers, until they voluntarily cede their right to the same.

Resolved, that we view with feelings of sorrow and regret, the measures now in progress, by a regular series of oppressive acts, to dispossess unlawfully, ' unjustly, of their natural inheritance, those unfortunate men.

Resolved, That it is the duty of every good man to let his voice be heard by the constituted authorities, against what he conceives tyranny and oppression of the weak and defenseless, an infraction of the solemn guaranty of the nation, and a b reach of solemn faith.

The Committee asked further time to prepare the Memorial to Congress -- which was granted by the meeting.

Resolved. That these proceedings be signed by the Chairman and Secretaries and published in all the papers of this borough.

WALTER SMITH, Chairman.

M. C. Clarkson

Peter Hulick, Secretaries.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

From the Gettysburg Star.

To the editor of the Gettysburg Star.

DEAR FRIEND -- Thee will, doubtless, comply with the request made in a resolution passed at a meeting of the friends of the Indians, by publishing the two Essays on the Indian Question, written by a person over the signature of 'Wm. Penn,' as published in the National Intelligencer.  Thee will, if thee can find that much room, oblige thy friend and subscriber by inserting the following letter of the founder of Pennsylvania, WILLIAM PENN, to the Indians, in 1681.

W.

WM. PENN'S LETTER TO THE INDIANS.

'London 18 8th Mo. 1681

'MY FRIENDS --

'There is one great God and power that hath made the world and all things therein, to whom you and I, and all people owe their being and well being, and to whom you and I must one day given account for all that we do in the world; this great God hath written his law in our hearts, by which we are taught and commanded to love, and help, and do good one to another, and not to do harm and mischief one unto another. Now this great God hath been pleased to make me concerned in your parts of the world; and the King of the country where I live, hath given unto me a great province therein; but I desire to enjoy it with our love, and consent, that we may always live together as neighbors and friends, else what would the great God say to us, who hath made us not to devour ' destroy one another, but to live soberly ' kindly together in the world?

'Now I would have you well observe, that I am very sensible of the unkindness and injustice that hath been too much exercised towards you by the people of these parts of the world; who sought themselves to make great advantages by you, rather than be examples of justice and goodness unto you, which I hear hath been matter of trouble to you, and caused great grudgings and animosities, sometimes to the shedding of blood, which hath made the great God angry. But I am not such a man, as is well known in my own country. I have love and regard towards you, and I desire to win and gain your love and friendship by a kind, just and peaceable life; and the people I send are of the same mind, and shall in all things behave themselves accordingly; and if in any thing they shall offend you, or your people, you shall have a full and speedy satisfaction for the same by an equal number of just men on both sides, that by no means you may have just occasion of being offended against them. I shall shortly come to see you myself. At which time we may more largely and freely confer and discourse of these matters; in the mean time I have sent my commissioners to treat with you about land, and a firm league of peace; let me desire you to be kind to them, and the people, and receive these presents, and tokens which I have sent you, and my resolution to live justly, peaceable and friendly with you. 'I am your loving friend,

'WILLIAM PENN.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

President's Message and the Indians. From the well known sentiments of President Jackson, in reference to a removal of the Indians beyond the Mississippi, few expected that his Message would contain anything favorable to their residence on the land which the Proprietor of the Universe has given the, and of which, against their own consent, no individual or government can divest them without gross injustice. Still we believe few anticipated the following remark.

'It gives me pleasure to announce to Congress that the benevolent policy of the government, steadily pursued for nearly thirty years, in relation to the removal of the Indians beyond the white settlements, is approaching to a happy consummation. Two important tribes have accepted the provision made for their removal at the last session of Congress; and it is believed that their example will induce the remaining tribes, also, to seek the same obvious advantages.'

If such has been the policy of the government, for nearly thirty years, without saying anything as to the benevolence of the policy, we may say, it has been known only to the government itself.  The citizens of the United States, and least of all, the Indians who were most concerned in the policy have known nothing of it, until within a very few years. Again, if such has been the policy, the government has taken a very singular course in carrying it into effect. Within that period, treaty after treaty has been made with the Indians, in which their lands have been guaranteed to them by this government, while, if the President's message is to be credited, it was at the same time mediating a 'removal of the Indians beyond the white settlements.' For the honor of our country, we hope the President is mistaken.  Examine these treaties. On the face of them they have every appearance of an honest intention that the Indians should reside on their lands, and not remove 'beyond the white settlements.' In 1817 a treaty with the Cherokees was signed by Andrew Jackson and the commissioners,' in which the Cherokees express 'their anxious desire to engage in the pursuit of agriculture and civilized life, in the country they then occupied,' not 'beyond the white settlements:' and they are told in the preamble of the treaty, in the language of President Jefferson, that those who remain in their country, may be assured of our patronage, our aid, ' good neighborhood.'' And this too, after they proposed, in the same preamble, 'to begin the establishment of fixed laws and a regular government.'on the ground they then occupied. If President Jefferson and the government were then meditating a 'removal of the Indians beyond the white settlements,' as the late Message assures us, what must foreign nations think of the sincerity and honesty of our government?  What must be think of President Jefferson, who both in word ' act, seemed to be the warm, the undeviating friend of the Indians? In 1819 another treaty was made with the Cherokees, by which a permanent fund was created, the annual income of which was to be applied 'to diffuse the benefits of education among the Cherokee nation on this side the Mississippi.' And yet, all this while, if the late Message is correct, the government of the United States was meditating a 'removal of the Indians beyond the white settlements' to the other side of the Mississippi! Can it be that the government of our country has been pursuing this course which would have much of the appearance of double dealing with the Indians, for nearly thirty years' past? For the credit of our government we hope not. We might adduce other provisions of the treaties to the same effect -- but we forbear. We only ask each of our readers to put the question to his own heart and conscience, 'Have I no duty to perform in relation to the Indians who are throwing themselves on the justice and good faith of my country?' Con. Obs.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

The President has explicitly laid before the American people, in his Message, his views with respect to the Indians -- that the General Government has no right to protect them against the oppressive laws of the States within whose prescribed limits any tribe may be located and says it is the duty of every good man to urge them to remove! And has it come to this? Must our national honor be lost sight of -- solemn treaties be broken -- disgrace certain, inevitable, and just, be entailed upon our posterity, to gratify the nations of a few 'clothed with a little brief authority?' God forbid. We trust there is a redeeming spirit in the nation -- Which will yet save us from deep and lasting dishonor!

He calls the Cherokees amongst others, 'a few wandering savages!' They are such savages, as may put white men to the blush -- an in the piety of many of them, the 'civilized Christian' might find an example worthy to be imitated.

Because some of the young men voluntarily seek their fortunes in the far west, leaving friends and kindred behind -- therefore the poor Indian, who has just emerged from the darkness of his barbarism, into the light of civilization and comfort, must be forced from the home of his father by tyranny and oppression, in the face of solemn treaty and pledged national honor -- and if a tear is shed over his hapless fate, it is called false humanity! And this is to be the established doctrine of the day -- and the principle upon which our Government is to be administered,, with respect to those unfortunate red men! Heaven grant, that deserved judgments may be averted from our country!

Adams Sentinel

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The President has explicitly laid before the American people, in his Message, his views with respect to the Indians-that the General Government has no right to protect them against the oppressive laws of the States within whose prescribed limits any tribe may be located-and says it is the duty of every good man to urge them to remove! And has it come to this? Must our national honor be lost sight of-solemn treaties be broken-disgrace certain, inevitable, and just, be entailed upon our posterity to gratify the notions of a few 'clothed with a little brief authority?' God forbid. We trust there is a redeeming spirit in the nation--Which will yet save us from deep and lasting dishonor!

He calls the Cherokees amongst others, 'a few wandering savages!' They are such savages, as may put white men to the blush-and in the piety of many of them the 'civilized Christian' might find an example worthy to be imitated.

Because some of the young me voluntarily  seek their fortunes in the far West, leaving friends and kindred behind-therefore the poor Indian, who has just emerged from the darkness of his barbarism into the light of civilization and comfort, must be forced from the home of his fathers by tyranny and oppression, in the face of solemn treaty and pledged national honor-and if a tear is shed over his hapless fate, it is called false humanity! And this is to be the established doctrine of the day-and the principle upon which our Government is to be administered, with respect to those unfortunate red men! Heaven grant, that deserved judgments may be averted from our country!                

Adams Sentinel (?)

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the Hudson, (O). Observer ' Telegraph.

TO THE INHABITANTS OF PORTAGE COTNTY.(sic)

Fellow Citizens,

A meeting was held in this Township on Monday evening of last week, to consider whether any measures ought to be adopted in regard to the 'Indian question.' Much interest was manifested on the occasion, and a committee was appointed for the purpose of bringing the subject before the inhabitants of the County. The meeting was called and the committee appointed, not because our citizens wish to dictate to others, but because the 'question' was regarded as highly important, and as deeply involving the character of our country, as well as the interests of the Indians, and because it was believed that duty imperiously requires us to act and speak out.

The situation of our country in regard to this question is calculated to awaken every good citizen, who is correctly informed on the subject, to serious consideration and a corresponding course of action. Much has been published calculated to afford correct views of the facts in relation to the case, and the committee esteem it necessary to do little more than present in a condensed form some of these facts which are sustained by the most satisfactory testimony.

At an early period in our national existence, the proper regulation of our intercourse with the Indian tribes residing within the limits of the United States, was regarded as highly important to the interest, both of our own Republic and of these tribes.- When the Constitution of the United States was formed, this delicate concern was wholly entrusted to the general government. Agreeably to this arrangement treaties were formed with various Indian tribes, securing to them the undisturbed possession of their country, and pledging the faith of the nation for their protection.- These treaties described the boundaries of the countries guarantied to the respective tribes, beyond which, no white man was permitted to erect his dwelling, or trade with the natives except by special license. Intruders were to be removed by the authority of the United States. If necessary, it was the duty of the President to employ military force for their expulsion.

The Indians have been repeatedly assured by the several Presidents of the U. States that the treaties formed with them, mean just what they say-are free from all deceptions; that our government is honest; and that we never 'talk to our red brothers with a forked tongue.'

By an uniform course of integrity in regard to the Indians, the national government secured their confidence.  When oppressed or injured they applied to their 'great Father' the President, with the fullest confidence that their wrongs would be redressed. Not until recently, have they applied in vain: Their requests were heard and answered. In accordance with subsisting treaties they have lived under their own government and laws.  A number of the southwestern tribes have in the course of 10 or 15 years, in a great degree relinquished their roving habits, and applied themselves to agriculture and some of the mechanic arts. Schools have been established, in which many of their children have been instructed.  Not a few attend on the preaching of the gospel, and a considerable number are hopefully pious. In one of the tribes a respectable newspaper is published weekly, edited by a native Cherokee; in which tribe, regular courts of justice have been established.

Previously to the last meeting of Congress, the state of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi enacted laws extending their jurisdiction over the several Indian nations within their respective limits; declaring the laws and regulations of the Indians to be null and void; forbidding their execution; and requiring submission and obedience on the part of the Indians to the enactments of the respective State governments. The Legislature of Georgia exacted a law forbidding the admission of an Indian as a witness in a court of justice, in any case in which a white man was a party concerned.

These laws were regarded by the Indians as exceedingly oppressive, and violations of their treaties with the United States.  They applied to the President for protection, but were answered, that he could afford them no relief: The Cherokees then petitioned Congress to interpose. Their cause was ably advocated in the Senate, and in the house of Representatives, but the National Legislature rose without adopting any effectual measure for their protection.

Under these circumstances, one of the four tribes, in regard to which we are particularly speaking, disheartened by the treatment recently experienced, have agreed to remove to the West provided a country is furnished them, with which they shall be satisfied; which condition we are told by high authority, they have no expectation can be complied with.

Another tribe has entered into a treaty, to remove on certain conditions, fully persuaded that they cannot sustain the burdens which have been laid on them and which they anticipate.

The other two tribes have refused to enter into treaties to sell their country and to remove. They too highly prize their firesides, their soil, the graves of their fathers, the scenes of their youthful days, their improvements, their schools, their churches, and their religious teachers. They are satisfied that if the government will not redeem the pledges so often repeated, to protect them where they now reside; protection would not be afforded them in any other situation. Their trust is in the Lord; and they are waiting the direction of his providence.

In our view, and this corresponds with the opinion of many of the most distinguished jurists in our country, the government of the United States are under solemn obligation to fulfil their promises to the Indians as contained in the treaties which have been made with them, according to the understanding of the contracting parties. Less than this cannot be done without violating the plighted faith of the nation. It is derogatory to the honor of our country to refuse the fulfillment of promises to the Indians because 'they are weak and we are strong'. Let it be supposed that they are as degraded as their enemies pretend. The greater their degradation the greater will be the disgrace incurred by deceiving and defrauding them.

It is said that our promises to these Indians cannot be performed without injuring individual States! If this is the fact, let reparation be made to the full extent when justice demands. But let our faith not be violated.- Let not a stain be fixed on our fair character which the purest blood cannot purge away-at which the enemies of republics shall be able triumphantly to point the finger of scorn-which will make every friend of truth and of our country blush to own that he is an American citizen.

We regard the government of the United States as obligated to extinguish the Indian title in Georgia, as soon as it can be done peaceably, on reasonable terms, and with the voluntary consent of the rightful owners. But to resort to bribery, threats, and oppression, to effect the object--to attempt the persuading of influential men in these tribes to barter their country for gold, and measures, at which our feelings revolt, and which our judgement condemns.

We might dwell on the sufferings which must inevitably be endured, by urging from their homes, and removing, hundreds of miles through the wilderness, 70,000 human beings of all ages, circumstances, and descriptions of character, and leaving them in a country so destitute of wood and water, as to use the language of the Hon. E. Whittlesey, that 'every person will readily conclude, that a country like this, is incapable of sustaining human beings, whether they are civilized or savage.'

For a moment imagine that three quarters of the families on this Reserve, are forced from their homes and marched hundreds of miles thro' the wilderness, and left to find their subsistence in such a country; and then, if you are able, estimate the amount of suffering which they must experience. The number of Indians in the four tribes of which we are particularly speaking, amounts to about as many souls as are included in three fourths of the families on this Reserve.

We will not dwell on the twenty-five or thirty millions of dollars which must be drawn from the Treasury of the United States to accomplish such a work, as the removal of the Indians. For we consider dollars of little value in comparison with the sufferings of our fellow man, and with the honor and moral character of our country.

We regard our national government as on the brink of a fearful abyss-that abyss is national perjury--violating her solemn pledges.  Pledges given not once nor twice, but repeatedly and by all our Presidents until within the last two years.  It is asked what have we to do with the conduct of the national government? We answer, Much--very much. The voice of our government is the voice of the people. It is not only a privilege granted by the constitution to petition Congress whenever we regard it necessary; but in many cases it may be an important duty. The business in relation to the Indians will in all probability come before Congress at their present meeting. We know that the members of both Houses were nearly equally divided on this subject at the last session. At such a time let the people express their wishes, and they will have influence.  Should the people keep silence; and the Indian business be so managed as to violate the faith of the nation, how will they answer for their negligence, to their conscience, to the desponding Indians, to posterity, and to God? If we keep silence, how shall we answer for our delinquency?

It is a very encouraging circumstance, that our Representative in Congress, has expressed publicly, views on this subject which we deem correct. He could not but be gratified to learn that in a petition to Congress from his constituents, the same opinions are contained which he has advocated:- Let us, fellow citizens, in performing our duty, afford him this gratification.

And while our petitions are presented to the National Legislature, let us offer our daily prayer to Him, in whose hands are the hearts of all men, that our rulers may be guided into the path of righteousness and truth.

Hudson, Dec. 13, 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA:JAN. 22, 1831

GEORGIA LAWS.

A late number of the Milledgeville Journal contains all the acts passed by the last legislature touching the Cherokees and the Cherokee territory. The first has the following title:

AN ACT to authorize the survey and disposition of lands within the limits of Georgia, in the occupancy of the Cherokee of Indians, and all other unlocated lands within the limits of said State, claimed as Creek land, and to authorize the Governor to call out a military force, to protect Surveyors, in the discharge of their duties, and to provide for the punishment of persons who may prevent, any surveyor from performing his duties, as pointed out by this act, or who shall wilfully cut down and deface any marked trees, or remove any landmark, which may be made in pursuance of this act, and to protect the Indians, in the peaceable possession of their improvements, and of the lots on which the same may be situated.

This act is contained in 37 sections, in which every provision is made for the surveying of the land and drawing for it-the same as though it was already purchased. In the 35th section, however,( which we have already published) it appears the act is to remain partly in a state of suspense until the next legislature.

We copy the 33 section with the single remark, that if Washington, or any of his successors (excepting of course the present incumbent) was not President, he would most assuredly make himself liable to the penalty therein contained.

Sec. 33 And be it further enacted,  That any person or persons who shall by force, menaces or other means, prevent, or attempt to prevent any surveyor or surveyors from running any line or lines, or doing and performing any act required of him or them by this act, shall on indictment and conviction thereof be sentenced to the Penitentiary at hard labor for the term of five years.

The second act published in course is quiet a curious one--We insert it entire.

AN ACT to declare void all contracts hereafter made with the Cherokee Indians, so far as the Indians are concerned.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of State of Georgia, in General Assembly met, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same. That no Cherokee Indian shall be bound by any contract hereafter to be entered into with a white person or persons, nor shall any Indian be liable to be sued in any of the courts of law or equity in this State, on such contract.

The third is

AN ACT to provide for the temporary disposal of the improvements and possessions purchased from certain Cherokee Indians and residents.

The fourth is

AN ACT to prevent the exercise of assumed and arbitrary power, by all persons under pretext of authority from the Cherokee Indians, and their laws, and to prevent white persons from residing within that chartered limits of Georgia, occupied by the Cherokee Indians, and to provide a guard for the protection of the gold mines, and to enforce the law of the State within the aforesaid territory.

The substance of the six first sections of this act we published sometime since. We add the four next following.

Sec. 7. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,  That all white persons residing within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, on the first day of March next, or at any time thereafter, without a license or permit, from his Ex. the Governor, or from such agent as his Ex. the Governor shall authorize to grant such a permit or license, and who shall not have taken the oath hereinafter required, shall be guilty of high misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by confinement in the Penitentiary at hard labor, for a term not less than four years: Provided that the provisions of this section shall not be so construed, as to extend to any authorized agent or agents, of the government of the United States, or of this State, or to any person or persons, who may rent any of those improvements, which have been abandoned by Indians, who have emigrated West of the Mississippi: Provided that nothing contained in this section, shall be so construed as to extend to white females, and all male children under twenty years of age.

Sec. 8. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,  That all white persons, citizens of the State of Georgia, who have procured a license in writing, from his Excellency the Governor, or from such agent as his Excellency the Governor, shall authorize to grant such permit or license, to reside within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, and who have taken the following oath, viz: I, A.B. do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support and defend the Constitution, and laws of the State of Georgia, and uprightly demean myself as a citizen thereof, so help me God,' shall be and the same are hereby declared, exempt ' free from the operation of the seventh section of this act.

Sec. 9 And be it further enacted,  That his Excellency the Governor, be and he is hereby authorized to grant licenses to reside within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, according to the provisions of the eighth section of this act.

Sec. 10. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid,That no person shall collect, or claim any toll from any person for passing any turnpike gate or toll bridge, by authority of any act or law of the Cherokee tribe, or any chief or headman or men, of the same.

We doubt whether in the annals of civilized history a more outrageous and tyrannical law can be found, than this same Georgia act, especially the 7th section. Ye Christians of Georgia, and Republicans of America! where is your boasted freedom of opinion and liberty of conscience, of a man may be torn from his wife and children by a legislative act, and sent to the Penitentiary as a culprit, because he will not perjure himself? And where is the right, so highly prized by you, to worship God without fear or disturbance, if the religious instructors of the Indians may be rudely shut up four years at hard labor in the Penitentiary for performing the service of their divine Master, because they cannot with a clear conscience swear allegiance to Georgia?  We should like to know whether ministers of the Gospel in Georgia are commanded by law to make such an oath. We verily believe, that the authorities of that State, ' the authorities of the united States are fixing a stain of infamy upon themselves and their constituents, who uphold them, which will require ages to wipe away. Yet after all many good men have 'confidence in the wisdom and integrity of the rulers.'

We will wait until our missionaries are driven away, and then we will give the alarm to all the oppressors of the Union of Church and State.

The last act has the following title:

AN ACT to authorize the Governor to take possession of the Gold, Silver and other Mines, lying and being in that section of the chartered limits of Georgia, commonly called the Cherokee country, and those upon all other unappropriated lands of the State, and for punishing any person or persons, who may hereafter be found trespassing upon the Mines.

Of this act we copy the 3d and 7th sections.

Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, For the better securing said mines from trespass, that if any person or persons shall be guilty of digging for gold, silver or other metal upon said mines, or who shall take from or carry away any gold, silver or other metal from said mines, unless authorized by law, he, she, or they shall be sentenced to hard labor in the Penitentiary during the term of four years.

Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That his Excellency the Governor, is hereby authorized to appoint one or more agents if he should deem it necessary, for the protection of the Gold mines in the Cherokee country, or other unappropriated lands of this State, and for the purpose of assisting in the enforcement of the laws of this State, over said country and land, whose duty it shall be to give to the civil authority, information of any trespass upon the gold mines, or violation of the laws of this State, and to see that the transgressors are promptly proceeded against, and to give information from time to time to his Excellency the Governor, of the actings and doings in said premises.

We have no heart or disposition to comment upon these laws-they are too outrageous. We only wish we had room to republish the whole of them.

_____________________

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix

DEAR SIR--I understand that some person has taken the unwarrantable liberty of putting my name down as one willing to take a reservation and come under the laws of Georgia. I hereby inform the public that I have never put my name down for such a purpose,nor authorized any person to do it.

MOSES PARRIS.

Dec. 22d. 1830

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






THE CHEROKEES

In another part of our paper today, will be found the substance of an address delivered by Colonel John Lowrey, the agent appointed by Secretary Eaton, to negotiate with the Cherokee Indians, with the reply of the Council of that nation.

We have always regarded the removal of the Indians as a matter of much importance to the states, as well as to the Indians themselves. But we had always understood it an object, to effect, which, no violent measures on the part of government would be resorted to; but that it should be brought about by fair and voluntary compact on the part of the Indians,- in which it was intended by the government to recognize them as a sovereign community. We were therefore much surprised at the doctrines presented in the address of the agent; though we cannot conceal the fact, that, in our estimation, the circumstance of the state of Georgia being permitted to extend her jurisdiction over the Indian territory, was calculated to prepare us for the consummation of the most oppressive violence.

In the council, the Indians are plainly told that Georgia claims a right to extend her jurisdiction over the Territory claimed by the Cherokees. It is also plainly intimated that she will proceed to 'survey your lands and allot them to her citizens.' A strong effort is made to excite the pity and arouse the fear of the nation.

Is it possible! Does the general government of the United States indeed, stand thus committed by a pledge and guaranty solemnly entered into with the Cherokee to protect them in the occupancy of their territory, when, in fact, the government had a long time before, by compact with Georgia ceded the territory in question to that state, ' pledged the faith of the states to guaranty her claims? And has the United States now arrived at the crisis which compels them to acknowledge their inability to redeem the faith of the nation solemnly pledged; and to sue for terms, offering unto the Indians a remuneration sufficient to indemnify them for the violation of the treaty on behalf of the government? Such an artifice might have been practiced upon the aborigines a century ago with better success. They have not become too much enlightened to suffer themselves to be hoaxed in this manner.  But what are the facts? The United States made no guaranty to the State of Georgia, which can, by any possibility, come in collision with the guaranty covenanted to the Indians.

In a compact entered into between the states and Georgia, it was agreed on the part of the states, in consideration of Georgia ceding her claims on certain territories, that the United States would extinguish the Indian title within the geographical limits of Georgia, so soon as it could be done upon peaceable and reasonable terms. What then, we ask, becomes of the opposing claims and e=the dilemma of the states? We are happy to say they have no existence but in the head of the agent.

The Indians are next threatened with the loss of their lands without any equivalent; unless they accept of the proposition now being offered unto them. It is said that Geo. holds them by a prior guaranty, and therefore in the event of an appeal to the Judiciary she would sustain her claims against the present occupants. He says in '1778 Congress had guarantied to Georgia her sovereignty. Its boundary lines were defined and marked,' that 'it is true that in the year '91, by the treaty of Holston, the Cherokees were guarantied the right of the soil not then ceded.* *  * If two guaranties are made which shall prevail?  Must not the oldest prevail?'  This in the agent is a bold attempt to impugn the government he represents. We blush for our country when such men are legally constituted the slanderers of our government.

We say, the declarations of the agent, to the contrary notwithstanding, that the state never guarantied either the soil or the jurisdiction of the Indian territory to Georgia; and we fearlessly say, moreover, if such a guaranty had been made by the states, at any period within our history, such guaranty would have been a perfect nullify. A claim set up by the state of Georgia to the Indian territory could not be sustained by such a guaranty, because the Indian title is derived from the laws of nature, and sustained by the municipal law of nations.

The states could not be liable to Georgia, because it is guarantying against a known defect. If A. guaranties to B the freehold of C, B knowing the right to be exclusively in C, B cannot make A liable for a false guaranty, for reasons to obvious to need demonstration.

By the law of nature anyone who should become occupant of anything became the exclusive owner while he continued the occupancy. This, however, only extended to the occupancy of territory, to what was used for sitting, walking, or resting upon; and as soon as the occupant abandoned his property in the occupancy, his right became extinct, and the next one who came along might acquire a title in the same manner. But the municipal law of nations remedies the inconveniences that would frequently occur in ascertaining the real owners of the soil. The municipal law gives the discoverer who appropriates the newly discovered territory to his own use, the exclusive right to the soil and jurisdiction. And this title cannot be extinguished but by the finder abandoning it or transferring it into other hands.

The Cherokees claim their territory as the original occupants. This claim has been recognized by the Federal Government ever since we have been their neighbors. Indeed, this claim was distinctly  admitted into Hopewell treaty in 1785. No time nor place nor circumstance can be cited in evidence of their title ever having been extinguished; therefore they cannot be ousted, until a better right can be made out by some other claimant.

As to the doctrine that they have become amalgamated, and citizens of the United States, and therefore liable to have the laws of the States extended over them, it need only be said, if they ever possessed the power of self government, either they have relinquished that right, or it has been taken from them, or they are a sovereign community. We look, in vain, reign history of that people for the termination of their sovereignty.

The states in the Treaty of Hopewell acknowledged their right to make War upon the states, and pledged the faith of the government to deliver up to them, any citizen of the United States who might perpetrate any of the crimes therein specified to be punished or not according to their discretion and according to their own usages and laws. Whoever thought of the government of the United States recognizing the right of any class of her citizens  to make war upon the States? Or where shall we look for a precedent of a government entering into a compact with a class of her citizens, to deliver up any offenders against them to be punished according to their laws and customs.

In 1791, another treaty was had with the Cherokees, and by the suggestions of General Washington another compact was solemnly entered into in these words:

'Art. 7 The United States solemnly guaranty to the Cherokee Nation all their lands not hereby ceded.'

If any doubt exists as to their jurisdiction, the 11th article of that treaty settles the question unequivocally--it is in these words:

'If any citizen or inhabitants of the United States, shall go into any town, settlement or territory belonging to the Cherokees, and shall there commit any crime upon or trespass against the person or property of any peaceable and friendly Indian, which if committed within the jurisdiction of any state, or within the jurisdiction of either of said districts, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof, would be punished by the laws of such state or district, such offenders shall be subject to the same punishment, and shall be preceded against in the same manner as if the offence had been committed within the jurisdiction of the state or district to which he or they may belong against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof.'

Now what has become of the government pledged to the Indians? We might make the appeal to the friends of the government- is not the states solemnly bound to protect the Cherokees against the unparalleled aggressions and oppressions of Georgia? Nothing we presume is more demonstrable.

Troy Times.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Adams Sentinel.

The Committee appointed by the Citizens of Adams County, assembled at the Courthouse in Gettysburg, on the 18th day of Dec. inst. to prepare a memorial to Congress, on the subject of the Southern Indians, have agreed on the following- which they submit to the consideration of their constituents.

T. STEVENS,

J. F. MACFARLANE,

JOHN DICKSON.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the U. States of America, in Congress assembled:-

The undersigned, inhabitants of Pennsylvania, beg leave to lay before your honorable bodies, their opinions, feelings and wishes, with regard to the rights, and the course proper to be pursued towards the Southern Indian tribes.

We believe that the Cherokee Indians hold the absolute right to the lands which they now possess, by a title indefeasible by the acts or decrees of this or any other Nation, without their consent.  Among Nations, prior occupancy, and fixed possession, establish the right to soil, which can be divested only by abandonment, treaty, or conquest; by neither of which have the Cherokee lands been alienated. Their possessions are reduced to so narrow a compass, as not, in our opinion, to justify further unauthorized encroachments, on the ground of National necessity or policy.  The Cherokees are an independent Nation, and entitled to all the rights of such independence, except so far as they have already surrendered them by treaty. Including them within the boundaries of the States, could not deprive them of their inalienable rights or national independence, so long as they confine themselves within their own acknowledged limits. Within such limits, and over all the inhabitants thereof, the power of their own peculiar government is, and of right ought to be, absolute and uncontrollable, except so far as regulated by Treaty.

These principles we hold to be correct, and binding, by the general law of Nature and of Nations, independent of any contract between parties. But if it were otherwise, it would ill become the United States to deny the national independence of the Cherokees; their sovereign power within their own territory; or their right to the protection of the national Government from the intrusion of all our citizens, whether perpetrated under the guise of law, or for purposes of private plunder.

Whenever nations negotiate treaties with each other, through acknowledged agents, however unequal in numerical force and physical power, they admit themselves equal in point of national rights.  Masters do not negotiate with their slaves; nor sovereigns with their subjects. Every one of these United States, through its constitutional organ, the Executive of the Union, has repeatedly become a party to compacts and treaties, entered into with the government of the Cherokees in their national and independent character; and have, thereby, become estopped from questioning their national sovereign existence. By the treaties of Hopewell and Holston, and others subsequently made, after designating the boundaries of the Cherokee Nation, the United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation forever all their lands not here by ceded; the Cherokees acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the U. States alone, and surrender their right to make treaties with other nations or individuals. These treaties, having been ratified during the administration of the illustrious Washington and his distinguished successors, Congress enacted laws for carrying into full and faithful execution. By the act of 1802, the President is required to employ the 'military force' of the country to enforce their observance. Notwithstanding the promises, the Commonwealth of Georgia, in defiance of the spirit and obligation of these treaties, has passed laws annihilated the national existence of the Cherokees; subjecting them, within their own territory, to State authority and control; and taking cognizance of the acts of Indians done within the chartered and reserved limits of their Nation.

We forbear to comment on the odious and partial character of these laws, discriminating between the same acts when committed by men of different color; and prescribing different punishments and modes of redress to different individuals, without any other regard to the quality of the action, or the degree of right, than the diversified hues of the skin. For, if Georgia has a right to legislate at all for the Indians, she is not answerable to the General Government for the quality of her laws. Such right we conscientiously and firmly believe does not exist; she claims it because the Indian Nation is within her boundaries.  It is difficult to perceive, why an independent people should lose its existence, and be stripped of its individuality, because it happens to be surrounded by the possessions of other nations.  Such a circumstance may give the power, but not the right, to crush them.

But, however humanity may weep over the licensed oppression which is sweeping the Aborigines from the face of the earth-yet, as Americans, such sympathy is merged in the alarm which we feel for ourselves, at the consequences of certain doctrines lately promulgated by a high officer of our Government, and adopted by the Executive in his late Message to Congress. In order to justify the abandonment of the Indians, and the refusal to protect them according to existing treaties, the Secretary of War, in his report to the President, assumes, that the Act of Congress of 1802, passed in pursuance of prior treaties, is unconstitutional, and not obligatory on Georgia, or the Federal Executive; and this reasoning is acquiesced and acted on by the President.

A reference to the prior acts of Georgia will show that she cannot sustain this position.  The treaties of Hopewell and Holston, and the Act of Congress of 1802, above referred to, all took place before the 'articles of agreement and cession between the United States and the State of Georgia,' by which Georgia ceded a part of her territory to the United States. In those articles, she explicitly acknowledges the existence of the Indians as a Nation; with whom the U. States were to hold treaties, and extinguish the title to their territory, as soon as the same could be peaceably and reasonably done. By such acknowledgment, she certainly admitted the validity of former treaties and laws, which guarantied their protection and distinct existence.

The Treaty of Hopewell is older than the Constitution itself; hence, the adoption of the Constitution, which declares treaties to be the supreme law of the land, is a direct recognition of the right to treat with the Indians, according to the provisions of the compact.

Is it consistent with the spirit of our Government, for our Chief Magistrate to constitute himself the judge of the validity of laws, and execute them or not according to his decision thereon? After the people, through their Representatives, have passed such laws as they deem best for the public weal, should their executive servant be permitted to justify his disobedience to them, on the plea of their unconstitutionality? While laws are neither repealed by Legislature, nor invalidated by a decision of the Federal Judiciary, we can perceive no right in the Executive to set them aside, or suspend their operation at pleasure.  Such a power admitted would be a firm foundation for future usurpers to build upon. Make the Executive and his Cabinet the arbiters of the constitutionality of your enactments; and, at some future day, when your officers become more ambitious, and less honest, than at present, what barrier have we between Tyrants and our liberty?

Firmly believing that our treaties with the Cherokee Indians, and law passed for their execution are constitutional and valid; and that a disregard and violation of them would be an indelible stain on our National honor-we pray your Honorable bodies to pass such laws as may be necessary to protect the Cherokees and other Indians, within their own territory, from the intrusion of any of our citizens, whether done in pursuance of State enactments or not, according to the true intent and meaning of our several Treaties with said Indian tribes.-And we will pray, 'c.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






THE INDIAN REMOVAL

This important question becomes one of increasing concern to the people, as the crisis is approaching in out National Congress, at which the honor and faith of our country is to be sustained, or ingloriously stained and abandoned! We have seen in the last session, that the force of the numerous petitions to the unfriended Indians, were so far unavailing. The friends of the country, have therefore to redouble their energies, and by the voice of the people, speaking out from every village and hamlet of our land, not devoted to sectional feelings and gain, constrain the National Representatives to perceive the fact, that the great mass of the nation-the proper sovereign people, will have no part, or lot in the spoil of the poor Indian. This is the more necessary as the bland and measured professions of pure good will and kindness to the Cherokee and other tribes in the President's Message, are at variance with the stern and vigorous opposition actually operating through the measures of the General Government.

It is understood we are soon to be offered for approbation and signature, a printed petition, prepared for the county of Philadelphia. Tho this end it amy possibly be preferred to call a town meeting, and in anticipation of such an event, as near at hand, these few hints are now offered, that our citizens may give the proposition previous consideration. West Chester has already preceded us in this measure, although we hope our feelings and convincements are not behind theirs. German. Tel.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














From the Connecticut Courant.

Mr. Editor- Your many readers have felt, doubtless, a glow of indignation at the injustice and cruel oppression, which were exercised upon Naboth and his family by Ahab and Jezebel, his abominable wife, and those Elders, who at her instigation, conspired the death of Naboth; yes, this indignation they have felt as often as they have read the 21st chapter of the first book of the Kings; and for my part, I have always supposed that this deed was incapable of justification, and still believe it to have been so, seeing that the vengeance of heaven pursued the perpetrators of it to their destruction; but never, until the present week, have I seen Ahab's attempt to vindicate himself in that abominable affair of oppression, murder and rapine. It is so extraordinary, I wish you to give it a place, in your valuable paper; and that its merits may be duly appreciated, I wish you to insert in the first place, the chapter at length, so far as through the 25th verse, and then let the vindication follow. The vindication is supposed to be dated at Head Quarters in Samaria on the 7th of Christen, AM 8090, and communicated to the General Assembly of the ten tribes, at which session Ahab expected that his wickedness would undergo a severe scrutiny by the Senate and House of Representatives. The defence is in the mature of a special plea, and is too long for insertion without abridgement, but the whole defence in substance shall be given.

'Fellow Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives,

Towards Naboth and his family no one can indulge a more friendly feeling than myself, or would go further in attempting to reclaim them from their idle and visious habits. I endeavored to impress upon them my solemn convictions that the Crown could not interfere with the City authority of Jezreel, and that the Elders of the City were not responsible to this government for the justice of their acts.  We might as individuals express our opinions of the acts of these Elders in stoning Naboth; but we had no more right to control them than we had to give law to the Idumcans, of the Midianites.  I endeavored to impress my solemn convictions upon Naboth ' his family, how important it was to the Crown the Elders of Jezreel, and to themselves, that they should relinquish their right to their vineyard, the home of their fathers, and if they could not live under the administration of these Elders; to retire into the wilderness, at the west of Mount Lebanon. This would be advantagious to the Crown in a pecuniary point of view: but it would be still more beneficial in removing all ground for collision between the Crown and the City authority of Jezreel. It would make room for a dense population in that part of the valley and for those who were more civilized and industrious that the family of Naboth; it would afford facilities for opening communications with Issachar on the North and Ephraim on the South, and so strengthen the south western frontier that Jezreel herself would be able to repel any future invasion for those of Tyre or Zidon. It would separate the family of Naboth from immediate contact with the Jezreelites; free them from the power of the Elders, enable them to pursue happiness in their own idle and vicious way; and perhaps cause them, under the protection of government, and their own rude institutions, to cast off their savage habits, and become in the wilderness an interesting, civilized, and pious community!! Humanity has often wept over the fate of the Nabothites, and philanthropy has been busily employed in devising means to avert it; but its progress has never for a monent been arrested, and one by one, has this powerful and ancient family almost disappeared from the earth. To follow to the tomb the last of his family, and to tread upon his grave, excites melancholy reflections, it almost breaks my heart; but true philanthropy reconenes the mind to these vicissitudes, as it does to the extinction of one generation to make room for another. In the ancient monuments spread over this valley of Jezreel we behold the memorials of once powerful tribes, the Canaanites, which were exterminated to make room for the family of Naboth; and this consideration ought to have weight in reconciling Naboth and his family to being sacrificed in their turn. Toward this family no one can indulge a more friendly feeling than myself, but philanthropy could not wish to see this valley restored to the condition in which it was found by Abram when he came from Ur of the Chaldees.--What good man could wish to see this? The Senate and House of Representataives in Israel ought to be apprized, that before the murder of Magoth, I made him a very generous offer,--I proposed to give him a lot in exchange for his, in the wilderness of Lebanon, or if he preferred I would pay him the value of his vineyard in money, but his only answer was, The Lord forbid it me, that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee.  Doubtless it was painful to him to leave the graves of his fathers, but what of that? It would be very convenient for me; and in quitting his estate in Jezreel, he would not have done more than his fathers did in leaving Ur or the Chaldees to come into this land; not, nor more than thousands of our children do every year in extending their settltments into the interior. Does humanity weep at these painful separations from every thing animate and inanimate with which the young heart has become entwined? (I shed a tear when I perused this.) Far from it. These remove hundreds and almost thousands of miles into Syria, Asia Minor, Egypt and Arabia Felix, purchase new lands nad support themselves at their own expensee. Can it be cruel in this government, when by events it cannot control, that is, when it cannot control the elders of Jezreel, Naboth is made discontented in the possessions of his fathers, to purchase his vineyard, to give him a tract in the wilderness, pay the expense of his removal, and support him one year in his blest retirement? How many thousands in the valley of Jezreel would gladly embrace such an opportunity!  And is it to be supposed that these idle and savage Mabothites have a stronger attachment to their home than the civilized and pious Jezreelites, who are striving to expel them from their delightful valley? Is it more afflicting for them to leave the graves of their fathers than it is for our brothers and children to do so? Rightly considered, the policy of the government towards Naboth was not only liberal but generous. He was unwilling to submit to the authority of the Elders in Jezreel, and I proposed to purchase his vineyard, and to plant him in the wilderness. The authority of Jezreel had a right to demand the surrender of his estate, and the Government was bound to aid in the removal of that savage family.  May I not hope therefore, that all good citizens will approve of what I have done, and join with me in attempts to convince the remaining members of this family, that it is both their duty and interest to abandon their possessions and seek their safety in the dark recesses of Lebanon or of Syria, and thus relieve themselves from all real or imaginary  evils in Jezreel?

AHAB,

King of the ten tribes in Israel.

Now Mr. Editor, I consider this document as eaxtraordinary as it is new; and however it may have affected the ten tribes of Israel, I must confess that to me the attempt at vindication appears frought with tenfold iniquity above that which characterized the original act of oppression and violence. Here we see Ahab acting the consummate hypocrite, and striving in vain to cover his dark purposes by falsehood and deception. In the first place, he endeavored to impress upon the house of Israel the idea that Naboth and his family were a degraded race of beings altogether unworthy of their ancestors, and thus by depressing his victims, he intended to cut off all sympathy for them, and to close the door against an impartial investigation of the case. There was not one fact in regard to that family, which supported his representation of them, but everything went to show that the family was more civilized and virtuous than their persecutors.

2dly. He affected sympathy for Naboth and his family, 'nmo one could indulge a better feeling towards them than he did,' yet the whole tenor of his vindication shows, that his tears for them were the tears of the crocodile, and that his tender mercies were cruel.

3. In order to avert from his own head the just indignation of every honest person in Israel for such high handed wickedness he endeavored to fortify himslef behind the official acts of the elders of Jezreel, pretending that he had no Jurisdiction there, and that they were not amenable at his tribunal, and never once alluded to the fact, that the Kings of Israel had from time immemorial guarantied to the family of Naboth independence and protection from the city authrority of Jezreel, and that he himslef had repeatedly made to them the most solemn asseverations, that he would protect them in their ancient privileges and immunities. The truth was, and it must have been evident to every intelligent mind in Israel, that the elders of Jezreel acted as the mere panders of Ahab in this affair, and that while they condemned and executed an innocent man, in order to put the King in possession of his vineyard, they acted for reward, assured of protection.  Time has never effaced, and never will efface this truth.

4. Ahab is driven into the extreme of inconsistencies in his vindication. He admits that Naboth had a right to the estate of his fathers, and this he admitted when he proposed to purchase the vineyard, and yet to screen his guilty elders, he contends that they had a right to demand that estate of the crown, and this he would have received as a palliation, at least, of their violence in destroying Naboth, and in disinheriting his family!

5. He pretended that he was instigated by a benevolent feeling towards Naboth in proposeing to purchase his vineyard in as much as he was oppressed by the elders of Jezreel, and he suggests too, that as Naboth and family were behind their brethren in civilization, a removal into the wilderness might facilitate and accelerate their conversion from a state of barbarism to a civil and religious state; and this is the more readily, under the influence of their own

rude institutions, than when in contact with civilized society. Here it would seem that hypocrisy itself was outraged, and all previous villainy stood aghast!

6. But if crimes like these could be aggravated, it is done in his appeal to the house of Israel to stand by him, and support him in his infernal plot against the lives and liberties of Naboth's family!  Not satisfied with carrying on his crusades in oppression and murder himself against an innocent family, he wished to involve his subjects in the same guilt, hoping thereby to diminish his own enormities in the view of others by rendering them partakers of his crimes.- How far he succeeded in bringing the house of Israel into his views and in plunging the nation into guilt and ruin, we are unable to say, but we have reason to apprehend that fear and the hope of reward induced many to enter into that diabolical conspiracy, and that this was the means of accelerating the ruin of the ten tribes, for from this reign their course was only downward to ruin, and it resulted in the subversion of the kingdom, which to this day, has not been restored. But however Ahab might have succeeded in drawing the house of Israel into his designs there was one whom he did not gain; it was the God of Heaven, and the hour of retributive justice did not sleep. God spake to Elijah and commanded him to go directly to Ahab and say--Hast thou killed, and also taken possession?  Thus saith the Lord in the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth, shall dogs lick thy blood even thine.  In the very next chapter, verses 37, 38, this prediction was literally fulfilled. To Jezebel, the wife of Ahab, who sustained so important a part in the murder of Naboth, and the ruin of his family, Elijah was commissioned to say-The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel! 2 Kings, 9th Chap. 35,- this prediction, also, was literally fulfilled, and stands on record for no private interpretation, and like a flaming sword, turns every way to guard the sacred Palladium of civil power from the destructive influence of venality and oppression.

N. N.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Auburn Free Press.

Indian Meeting.- In another column will be found the proceedings of a meeting held at the Western Exchange, on Monday evening last, to which the reader is referred.  In the course of the evening several of our citizens addressed the meeting, whose language was uniformly marked with that spirit of candor, which is so well suited to the subject upon which they had been called to deliberate. They spoke of the Indians, as they once were-bold, liberal, and independent; and compared their situation then, with that in which they are at present time, when they are compelled to look alone for protection to the justice and magnanimity of our government. They alluded to the numerous treaties which had been entered into between the United States and the Cherokees, during a term more than thirty years, all of which must be broken before the government of the United States can carry into effect its present course of policy! 'Shall we, said one of the gentlemen present-shall we now observe the treaties- treaties which have been made by our best citizens-and sanctioned by all three branches of our government, under each preceding administration? Or, shall we, in the face of heaven and earth violate them in the most despicable manner-merely because the parties with whom they had been made, have become weak and have not the power to redress themselves? Were we to break treaties with European nations, on what ground could our conduct be justified? And should not a treaty made with an Indian be as firmly as religiously adhered to, as though it had been made with any other nation under heaven? And yet we have been told that these treaties are a nullity-that our faith is a nullity-- and the course which the General Government is pursuing, is founded upon this position. In what way shall we, in what way can we justify it on other grounds? In what way can we sanction this violation of national faith, in relation to treaties with the Indians, unless, in the contemptible language of a member from Georgia, on the floor of Congress, we pronounce them 'POOR DEVILS,' and declare that on that account our treaties with them are not binding--that they possess no rights? If this be the case, what have we to do, should we in any future day consider our treaties with England or France in any way burdensome, but to pronounce them a nation of 'POOR DEVILS,' which, of course, will have the effect of nullifying all our previous obligations? Such is the principle advanced, and it is now to be decided whether honorable and high minded men will desire to bring upon this country the sin of violating her faith upon such grounds!........Let it be remembered that the treaties which have been made with the aborigines, have uniformly been entered into for our benefit- by them we have gained immense tracts of territory; and now if these treaties are not binding, give back to the Indian his land, let him again hunt unmolested in his own forests, and roam unchecked among his native hills!'

It was our intention to give a general view of the remarks which were advanced during the evening; but owing to the crowded state of our columns, we must desist, after recommending to such of our citizens as feel the importance of the subject, to attend the adjourned meeting on Monday evening next.

________________________

INDIAN MEETING.

At a highly respectable meeting of the inhabitants of the village of Auburn opposed to the declared policy of the General Government, in relation to the removal of the Cherokee and other tribes of Indians held at the Western Exchange on Monday evening, Dec. 27, Ebenezer Hoskins, Esq. was called to the Chair, and Henry Oliphant, appointed Secretary.

After the Meeting had been addressed by several gentlemen present in a manner that was well calculated to place the subject in its proper light, the following resolutions were read, and unanimously adopted:

Resolved, That this meeting disapprove the declared policy of the General Government, on the subject of the removal of the Cherokee and other Indian tribes, from their country; because, in our opinion, that policy violates the faith of the nation, repeatedly, and solemnly pledged to these tribes, in a succession of treaties, negotiated by our greatest and wisest men; and sanctioned by a succession of Presidents, Senates, and House of Representatives.

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to prepare an address to the inhabitants of this county; and that Alvah Worden, Lyman Paine and John Grover be said committee.

Resolved, That in our opinion, it is advisable for the citizens of this village to express freely and respectfully to our National Legislature, their opinions and feelings on this important subject. Therefore

Resolved, That William Brown, Abijah Fitch, Lorenzo W. Pease, George Ratbun, and Henry Oliphant, be a committee to draw a memorial to Congress expressing their views and feelings on the aforesaid policy of the General Government; and that the said committee report the same to us at an adjourned meeting to be holden at this place on Monday, the third day of January next, at 6 o'clock in the evening.

Resolved, That the doings of this meeting be published in the several papers of the village, and that a general invitation be given to our fellow citizens opposed to the course pursued by the Gen. Government, in relation to the removal of the Indians to attend the said adjourned meeting.

EBENEZER HOSKINS,

Chairman

HENRY OLIPHANT,Secretary

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the New York Observer

LETTER FROM THE CHOCTAW COUNTRY

A gentleman of our acquaintance in the fairness of whose statements entire confidence may be placed, writes us from the Choctaw country as follows:

'Had I time I would give you many particulars respecting the Choctaws, but must content myself with a few brief notices.  The late treaty caused great dissatisfaction. Almost the entire population, with a few exceptions, were opposed to it. But care had been taken to secure the men of influence and these people cannot move without their leaders. Care has also been taken to prevent any general expression of the feelings of the people hostile to the treaty. In the mean time, the Choctaws have been brought to the conclusion, that they must either come under the laws of the state, or remove to the West. The former they find they cannot endure. All the claims, old and new, that can be brought against them,are put in suit.  There is every reason to believe that some of these accounts are false, but the poor Indians have no remedy; as their oath, by the Constitution of the state, cannot be admitted. They are also unable, under the laws of the state, to prevent the free introduction of whiskey, which has already occasioned the loss of many lives.

These circumstances have led many who were opposed to the treaty, to conclude, that there is no alternative left, but destruction, or a removal to a new home.

Some of those who were sent to explore the country west of the Mississippi have returned. They have brought back a very flattering account of it. There can be no doubt but the Choctaws have a tract of good land, well watered, on Red River. It is believed by far the best of the country allotted to the Indians.

Those most favorable to the treaty ' who are to share most liberally of its provisions have been most industriously employed in putting the Indians in motion so that the treaty is likely to be executed in part, before it is ratified. Large numbers of the poorer class of the Choctaws are on their way to the land of Paradise, in the West. Happy will it be for them, if the cupidity and treachery of the white man does not again dispossess them.

I know not what the Senate will do in regard to the treaty. It is however, certain that many of the Choctaw will go, whether the treaty is ratified or not.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Spectator and Chronicle

THE TIME HAS COME.

JUDGE MARSHALL'S WRIT OF ERROR.

MR. EDITOR: As you will doubtless insert in your columns of this week the above named instrument, and the acts of the State of Georgia in relation to it-and as the ascertainment of them flies with the wind; I speak of them as known. The following paper, written some weeks since, is at your service, if you shall judge it at all in point of the present crisis.--As it shows, it was suddenly penned to meet an argument based on the 11th article of amendment of the Constitution of the United States, which attempted to show the impossibility of bringing the question of Indian rights before the Judiciary of the nation. In that discussion, the limits of which were very narrow, I was not aware of the existence of the extensive provisions of the Judiciary act, passed at the first organization of our government-upon  the 25th article of which, and in connection with the specification of the 2d section of the 3d article of the Constitution, Judge Marshall doubtless based his writ of error.

Constitution.-Article III--Section 2.

1. The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and equity, arising under this constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority, to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United States shall be a party; to controversies between tow or more states, between a state and citizens of another state, between citizens of the same state claiming lands under grants of different states, and between a state, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens, or subjects.

2. In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which a state shall be a party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the other cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and under such regulations as the Congress shall make.

3. The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury, and such trial shall be held in the state where the said crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any state, the trial shall be at such place or places as the Congress may by law have directed.

Judiciary Act.--Section 25.

And be it further enacted, That a final judgement or decree in any suit, in the highest court of law or equity of a state in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United States, and the decision is against their validity; or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, any state, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws, of the United States, and the decision is in favor of such their validity; or where is drawn in question the construction of any clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of, or commission held under the United States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption, specially set up or claimed by either party, under such clause of the said Constitution, treaty, statute, or commission, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States, upon a writ of error, the citation being signed by the Chief Justice, or Judge, or Chancellor, of the Court, rendering or passing the judgement or decree complained of, or by a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, in the same manner and under the same regulations, and the writ shall have the same effect as if the judgment or decree complained of, had been rendered or passed in a Circuit Court, and the proceeding upon the reversal shall also be the same, except that the Supreme court, instead of remanding the case for a final decision as before provided, may, at their discretion, if the cause shall have been once remanded before, proceed to a final decision of the same, and award execution. But no other error shall be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal, in any such case as aforesaid, than such as appears on the face of the record, and immediately respects the before mentioned questions of validity or construction of the said Constitution, treaties, statutes, commissions, or authorities, in dispute.--Laws U.S. Vol. page 60.

The following is the paper to which I have alluded, and which I hereby submit to you, exactly in the form in which it was reduced one month ago.

On looking into a late paper, I discover  another among the many arguments which are thrown out in these days on the Indian question. And in as much as it seems to savor a little of professional custom, and it being intimated to me as more than probable, that it has dropped down from a high place, I am disposed, having a little leisure, to pay it so much respect, as to offer a few, perhaps, unimportant, criticisms-not in a professional way, but in the plain way of common sense. Of all questions of great public interest, forced upon the responsible consideration and enactments of our high authorities, none perhaps have ever yet come, or are likely to come, before them demanding more imperiously what Mr. Jefferson has somewhere called 'a reference to original principles' ' w___ by construction I would denominate a reference to common sense-to common feeling- to certain indelible principles of natural justice ' of natural conscience, which the Creator has stamped upon our moral being--which were announced with such solemnity ' high purpose in the Declaration of Independence--which are recognized in various forms in the fundamental works of our civil and social fabric-and which, whatever authorities and refinements of law, so called, may be superinduced, will yet, in the serious hour of reflection, steal upon our hearts, challenge and secure our respect, unless, in spite of all argument, we are resolved upon our course.

I think it cannot for a moment be doubted, that the aborigines of this country stand in relations to our General Government and to the State Governments, in some respects and to a certain extent, anomalous. And so far as this be a fact--and so far as constitutional law, and superadded statutes and covenants do not speak of unequivocal language in application to those practical questions enforced upon us in our treatment of them--so far we are thrown back upon 'original principles'--upon the naked forms of wright and wrong, as delineated in morals by the disinterested voice of mankind--which voice is the recognized common law of honest political casuistry. Yes--so far we are thrown back upon those universally acknowledged principles of respect and kindness for human nature, to which, in all cases, we are obliged, wherever we meet with the forms of humanity, and in whatever adventitious relations man presents himself to us, without a written statute for our guide.  And woe be to us, if we make a law for these occasions only to suit our own purposes, and to the abuse of a fellow being-to the infraction of the acknowledged rights of humanity.

But as it happens, the relations of the Indian to us are not altogether anomalous.-Though sparsely defined in constitutional law, they are yet unequivocally recognized in that code. And so far cannot be made a subject of doubt. But they are more minutely defined in the form of sundry covenants, which have been solemnized between them and us from the beginning and in all succeeding periods of our political and social contact. These instruments too will speak, and are now speaking, for themselves. And it is believed, that the conscience of this community has not yet arrived to that condition of obtuseness, as to be altogether insensible to the obligation of those covenants, or to subscribe to the doctrine, that they were mere political 'expedients.' So far, therefore, as constitutional recognition and mutual covenant go, the Indian has a shield of protection over him, which nothing but extreme violence can throw aside and expose him to injury. And over and above this, for the decision of all anomalous questions, there is the public conscience of the nation and of the world retaining, cherishing and swearing eternal fealty to the common law of respect (variously and largely recognized in form,) which men, in their social and political relations, owe to each other. And however, this law may be violated for a time, or to some extent, by the excesses of intemperate and infatuated party zeal and local interest, a d=redeeming power will still remain, decreed by the high Providence of heaven, as an inextinguishable attribute of the human breast, and so nobly asserted in various forms and throughout the civilized world by the friends of human right and advocates of the oppressed.

But, to the article under review. The writer pounces triumphantly upon us with the grand estoppel of all proceedings for the recovery of redress of Indian rights against Georgia, as cited in the 11th article of the amendment of the Constitution of the United States: The judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced  or prosecuted against one of the United States by citizens or subjects of any foreign state.'

Whether this be indeed a substantial and immoveable estoppel, in the case supposed, will admit of several forms of trial. The writer seems to allow only of two forms of trying this question-presenting this dilemma: If the Indian be a citizen he has no appeal from the law of the state; if not a citizen, he cannot, by this constitutional law, be heard in controversy.

Suppose the state of Georgia to assume, by her own enactments, the administration of the law of customs, or of the United States mail, or of any other national law, over her own citizens, either in the exact forms of the present regulations, or in forms somewhat diverse, and that she should proceed to try offenders to the exclusion and in defiance of the judicial prerogatives of the United States. Is there no way, by which the judiciary of the United States could assert its powers, in such a case? no way by which the citizen -offender could rightfully refuse his submission, and make his appeal? Again-- suppose any one state should assume jurisdiction over her own citizens in a case which had been generally supposed to belong to the jurisdiction of the United States and that from all time in which the relation could have existed;-that said state had, till this particular juncture forever yielded a tacit acknowledgment of such jurisdiction-that the General Government and these citizens had been governed in their intercourse by this supposition; - and that all necessary regulations had been enacted, though not very minutely defined. Would such an assumption, being made without mutual advisement and negotiation be deemed courteous?--And in case of a dissent by either, or both the parties, alleging an aggression upon her rights, could the state reasonably refuse a hearing before any but her own Courts? Is there no power in the General Government to enforce a participation in the trial of such a question? 'The judicial power of the United States shall extend--to controversies to which the United States shall be a party.'--Article III Section 2. The offer, or claim, or obligation, to be a party, doubtless comes within this rule.

The only provisions (which are numerous) of the 3d article of the Constitution of the United States, affected by the 11th article of amendment, are--that citizens of another (sister) state, or of a foreign state, shall not originate a prosecution against any one of the United States--('commenced, or prosecuted,') shall not be plaintiff. But the appellate jurisdiction of the Court of the United States remains the same for all cases specified in the 3d article of the Constitution--except those 'affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which a state shall be a party.' In these instances 'the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction.'  The only possible estoppel, therefore, in the way of the Indian versus Georgia, based upon the Constitution of the United States, must be a constructive one, cutting him off on the ground of his being a prosecutor. But although the jurisdiction of the court of the United States, in such case, is declared to be original, the Indian is virtually and to all intents and purposes an appellate. He does not prosecute--put appeals from a violent assumption of power to the only authority constituted and alone invested with prerogatives for his protection. The grounds for investing the Supreme Court with original jurisdiction in these instances do not annihilate appellate authority, but supposing it unnecessary, they are intended to create a more direct and immediate access.--They invest the Court with higher powers not destroying, but involving the less, if occasion demand them. And the present- supposed case--not anticipated--does demand them. In relation to the Indian, the jurisdiction of the Court is appellate--in relation to the state, it is original. The former is true not a simple matter of fact--the latter, I suppose, as a doctoring of law. The state, in this case, assumes an unconstitutional jurisdiction and consequently its Court, quo ad hoc, is not a Court.  Hence, and in relation to the state, the original jurisdiction of the United States judiciary in the case. And the Indian cannot be estopped because he is an appellant.

But-there is a wider door and a broader basis in the first clause of the 2d section of the 3d article:- 'The judicial power (of the United States) shall extend to all cases in law and equity, arising under the Constitution, the laws of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made under their authority.' Here again the jurisdiction of the United States Court, in relation to the state, is original-or the highest possible, most direct, and immediate, and the prerogatives of the Indian as an individual, or of Indians as a community, are those of an appellant.

Again: The relations of Indians to our Government are in some respects anomalous. And the anomalies of their condition do not detract from their privileges and claims of protection, but multiply them. Not only are they under the protection of the Constitution itself by express and open recognition of statutes built upon it, and of treaties solemnized under it--then which nothing can be more sacred in honor, or more binding in law--but they are covenanted and acknowledged proteges of the nation as an unity, and of every several state as an integral part. 

Prophecy! Yes-in the most delicate; tender, and affecting sense.  And as Jehovah said of his own peculiar people in the tender language of prophecy, so ought this nation to say to these:'he that toucheth them, toucheth the apple of my eye.'  Dependent, weak, and defenseless, but as we defend them--and made thus weak, that we might be strong--their very helplessness, in their peculiar and to us most sacred and responsible relations, makes its soul-touching and soul-subduing appeals to our honor ' our sympathies, and to our conscience.  And will we permit their feelings to be outraged, their rights few and small to be trampled on, and themselves driven by the moral and resistless force of legislation under an agonizing sense of a cruel compulsion--yes driven from the graves of their fathers to the fearful experiment of Utopian empire, themselves foreboding, as every wise man must instinctively predict, a sad and melancholy waste of their being.

But the Cherokees are 'savages'. Unkind-cruel name! And shall insult be added to injury? And what is far, deeply more base, shall that insult be grasped as the instrument, employed in the holy office of sanctifying injury?

LOGAN.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Spirit of the Pilgrims.

Did the spirit of our venerable ancestors pervade, as it ought, our national councils, it would not now be a question of legislative discussion whether the natives in our South and Western States shall be removed from the lands which they occupy to other territories arbitrarily assigned to them, without regard to their preference or free consent. We blush for our country that such a question has been permitted to claim even an hour's deliberation among us. The aborigines of this land are indeed 'minished and brought low.' They are comparatively ignorant, and poor, and weak. But they are men, we have one Father; one God hath created us; and their rights are as sacred as ours. Their claim to the land which they occupy, is the strongest which can be conceived.  God gave it to them. Man has recognized and renewed the gift. It is secured to them by the nations faith: treaty upon treaty,- signature under signature, -seal after seal. Our deed of warranty is registered in Heaven;- the record of our solemn negotiations and promises is on high. How then dare we take it from them? No matter how much we desire it,-or how easy it would be to seize and possess it,-or how highly we may estimate what we offer as an equivalent for it. Still it is their prerogative to decide freely whether they will retain or relinquish it; and if we violate that prerogative, we do it at our peril. Not that the poor Indians can do us very extensive harm. No; - We have men enough almost literally to fulfil the proud threat of Benhadad, and carry away the soil of their territory by handfuls. We can bind them in bundles to be burned, ' consume them by hecatombs in the flames of their own defenseless villages: -we can drive them across the Rocky mountains;- we can bury them beneath the waves of the Pacific. But there is a God in Heaven, who hears the cry of the oppressed, and who, sooner or later, will bring forth judgment into truth. While the proud planter erects his splendid mansion on the heritage of the helpless Cherokee, or while beneath a loftier dome 'the throne of iniquity frameth mischief by a law,'- 'the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the bear out of the timber shall answer it; `Woe to him that increaseth that which is not his, and to him that ladeth himself with thick clay! Shall they not rise up suddenly that shall bit thee, and awake, that shall vex thee, and thou shalt be for booties unto them? Because thou hast spoiled many nations; all the remnant of the people shall spoil thee; because of man's blood, and for the violence of the land.' But we hope in God such guilt and such ruin will yet be averted from us. Surely this nation has felt and resisted oppression enough to knew that power is not right; and a Christian people should practically acknowledge, that no accession of wealth or of territory can compensate the loss of His favor, 'in whose hand it if to make great, and to give strength unto all.' We rejoice that the merits of this great question are now fairly before the public; and we earnestly call upon every friend of his country and of humanity, to inquire concerning it with candor and diligence, to speak with sincerity and freedom, and to act with promptitude and decision.

_______________________

Disunion of Tennessee- It may not be generally known that the citizens of the Western District of the State have determined to secede from its government, and have sent on an agent to Washington City for the purpose of affecting a treaty with the United States Government, by which their territory will be ceded to the United States, and the citizens are to remove west of the Mississippi. The individual selected to negotiate this matter is Col. David Crocket, who is said to have declared that he had full powers from 'his people' to make a treaty on the grounds of the late Choctaw treaty. Such is the Col's mode of arguing the propriety of removing the Indians.-- Ten. paper

And why is not Mr. C. right? If as is asserted by the state of Mississippi by the National Executive, the Choctaws are citizens of Mississippi, subject to her laws, and consequently an integral part of her population, how can they have any more right to make a treaty with the United States, than the citizens of West Tennessee? And why is not Mr. C. as much authorized to treat for 'his people' as were the Choctaw Chiefs to treat for theirs? Mr. C's constituents have probably expressed no opinion on the subject, whereas, the great mass of the Choctaws had voted against the measure.

Journal of Humanity.



_____________________



Indians in Alabama.- I submit to the wisdom of the General Assembly, whether a regard to self preservation on the one hand, and to justice and humanity of the other, does not recommend such a course of legislation towards the Indians included within the chartered limits of our State, as would subject them to the civil duties, with the rest of our citizens, and place them on the same level with regard to rights and privileges; in other words, as would extend to them the character and appellation of citizens, with all their train of immunities and obligations.-

Governor's Message.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: JAN. 29, 1831

The indisposition of the Editor has prevented him from furnishing editorial matter this week.

_____________________

On account of the oppressive law of the state of Georgia, in regard to all white men residing within her limits in this Nation, a meeting will be held in this place on Saturday next. All white citizens who love liberty, and are friends to this Nation, are respectfully invited to attend.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the North Carolina Spectator.

CHEROKEES.

MR. EDITOR:- Sir, you will oblige a friend by giving this a place in your valuable paper.

TO THE PEOPLE OF NORTH CAROLINA.

Fellow Citizens:- In looking over the last message of his Excellency, Governor Owen, I am well pleased with his views on several subjects intimately connected with the interest, happiness, and welfare of the State of which he has the honor of being the chief magistrate. But, with regard to some others as a citizen of North Carolina, I am not satisfied, and beg to offer to you my views upon those parts of that valuable document, which I think objectionable.- And 1st, as to that part in which he recommends the Legislature to extend the laws of the State over that portion of its territory occupied by the remnant of Cherokees, who have remained within the State. Secondly, the part in which he says, 'the tariff of duties imposed by the Congress of the United States upon imports, has ever been deemed not only unwise, but unconstitutional, and calls at this time for your solemn protest.'

I shall take the liberty of observing upon those points as they are arranged in said message. The 1st point or subject of enquiry is, has the State of North Carolina the right at this day of extending her laws over the Cherokee Nation, so far as her chartered limits extend, so as to subject that nation to their obedience and to yield to their binding enactments? In order to arrive at the proper solution of the question, it is necessary and proper to examine the situation and character of that people-whether they are free and independent people-and whether they have been so acknowledged by the treaty making power of the United States, and by the framers of our Federal Constitution? Now if the Cherokees are a free and independent people, does it not follow that they have the right of self government. And it matters not whether they have an absolute right to the soil, or only a qualified one by occupancy. In either case they have the jura summi imperii, or right of sovereignty as long as they remain in possession. But it is contended by some that they have only a pedis possession, as the Bear or Fox, in traversing the forest. How far that position may be correct, when applied to some Indians in their savage state, it is not necessary for me at this time to controvert; it is sufficient to prove that such a case is not applicable to the Cherokee nation at this day, they having made a considerable progress in civilization, and become the cultivators of the soil, in a degree, equal if not superior to many of the white people of the country. Now let us examine the treaties of the united States and the Cherokee nation by which the national character of that people is recognized, and the lands of which they are now in possession, have been solemnly granted to them by the treaty making power of the United States. The 1st was concluded at Hopewell, on the 28th of November 1785. In the third article of that convention, the Cherokees acknowledge themselves to be under the protection of the Government of the United States. The fourth article defines the boundary of the lands ceded by that treaty to the United States; and the fifth article prohibits any citizen of the United States from settling on any part of the land allotted to that nation, westward or southward of that line, upon pain of forfeiting the protection of the General Government to be punished at the pleasure of the Indians.  In the sixth article it is provided that the Cherokee nation shall surrender up to the United States, all offenders of their nation to be punished according to the ordinances of the United States, (not according to the laws of North Carolina). The 2nd convention between the United States and the said nation, was held on the bank of Holston River, on the 2d day of July 1791. In the second article the Cherokees place themselves under the protection of the United States, and they promise and engage that they will not hold any treaty with any foreign power; with any individual State, or with individuals of any State. The fourth article defines the boundary line between them and the whites: and the seventh article is in these words,'the United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation, all their lands not hereby ceded.' In the tenth article the Cherokees promise to deliver to the United States, all offenders of their nation, to be punished according to the laws of the United States, (not of any individual State.)  The eleventh article declares that if any citizen or inhabitant of the United States, shall go into any town, settlement, or territory belonging to the Cherokees and shall there commit any of the offenses therein mentioned, against the person or property of any peaceable and friendly Indian, which if committed within the jurisdiction of any State, or within the jurisdiction of the said districts against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof, would be punishable by the laws of such State or district, such offender of offenders shall be subject to the same punishment as if the same had been committed within the jurisdiction of the State or district to which he or they belong against a citizen, or white inhabitant thereof.  The convention at the council house, near Tellico, between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, on the 2d day of October 1798, makes some alterations in the boundary lines designated by the former treaties, and confirms all former treaties, and that the same shall be carried into effect in good faith by the contracting parties.  Now, fellow citizens, do not these treaties, first acknowledge the power and capacity of the Cherokee Nation to make treaties. Secondly, that they have a sovereign power over the soil, at least when they are in possession of the same, and thirdly, that no State has the right of extending its laws over them, and fourthly, and lastly, that they have a right to make laws for their own government. But the claim of the Cherokees, and other tribes of Indians, does not depend alone upon the faith of the existing treaties, to guarantee to them the right to be acknowledged free and Independent nations. The Constitution of the United States recognizes them as such.  In the eighth section it declared that Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes. By the language of the Constitution, are not these tribes, distinguished from foreign nations, and from the people of the several States? Therefore as they are not identified with foreign nations, nor with the people of the several States, it irresistibly follows, that they are a separate and distinct people and capable of being treated with, and having been treated with as such. The question now to be considered is how far those treaties are of binding force upon the people of North Carolina? The sixth article of the Constitution of the United States is in these words, 'this constitution and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land, and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby; anything in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding.' A component part of the treaty making power was the State of North Carolina, through her senators. Therefore she is now estopped from claiming those lands, which she hath so solemnly guaranteed to the Cherokee Indians. But, fellow citizens, independent of all treaties, and the Constitution of the United States, is it not cruel, unjust, anti-republican, and a usurpation of power; to subject any people to the binding force of laws, in the enactment of which they have had no voice. For such, we resisted the strong arm of Great Britain, and against which all free people ought to contend.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From Poulson's American Advertiser.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress Assembled, the Undersigned Memorialists, Citizens of

Pennsylvania.

Beg leave respectfully to represent:-

That although in the Bill authorising the President to procure, and provide for, the removal of the Indians residing within the limits of the states of Georgia, Mississippi, and Alabama, a proviso is subjoined; that nothing therein, shall authorize a violation of existing treaties; your memorialists apprehend, that the said Bill may be the means of encouraging a gross violation of the treaties existing between the United States and the Cherokees. Your memorialists believe that the following questions would be answered in the affirmative by the most zealous advocate of state claims.

Independently of the acts of those whom they may justly consider as foreigners and invaders of their country, would not the Cherokees be an independent sovereign people, and the rightful inheritors of the lands on which they reside.

Have not the lands which they now hold been solemnly guaranteed to them by treaties with our national government, more especially by the Treaty of Holston?

Are not treaties made by the national government with a sovereign and independent people, the supreme law of the United States agreeably to the Constitution?

Assuming that affirmative answers would be given to the foregoing queries, your memorialists infer that it must be conceded; that so far only as the most sacred rights of a people can, without their own consent, be abrogated by the ability of others to oppress them, and the precedent afforded by the long established practice of oppression: and so far only as the Cherokees could, by these extraneous means be deprived of their claims to be treated as a sovereign people, can it be legal, forcibly to eject them from their patrimony.

Your memorialists conceive, that with the power to make treaties, the discretionary power of deciding on the question of the existence of a competent degree of sovereignty in any people, with whom a treaty might be made, was necessarily associated; and that it would not now be justifiable for the people of any state, in our great confederation, to evade the obligations arising under a treaty by alleging that, in their opinion the party with whom the treaty had been made had not competent degree of sovereignty.

But as in the case of the Indians, the exclusive right to treat with them, whether within the geographical limits of a state, or otherwise situated, was specifically given to the national government, it were evidently irrational to question the constitutionality of any treaty mae with them by that government.

Your memorialists conceive that nothing can be more irreconcilable with law, reason, or national honor than that a treaty, solemnly ratified by the first, best, and wisest of our presidents, to which the people of the several states were parties under the constitution ' which they sanctioned by their acquiescence is now to be questioned upon the pretence that Washington and the senate with whose advice and assistance he acted, were so ignorant of the constitution, and the relation in which the aborigines stood to the people of the United States, as to make with the former a treaty, to be violated whenever it should become the interest of a state to treat it as illegal.

To the annals of our country, your memorialists would turn in order to demonstrate, that not only by Washington, but by his successors, by the British government, and even by the government of Georgia, has the sovereignty of the Cherokees been deemed adequate to the treaty making power.

Your memorialists conceive that the sacred obligations arising from the treaties of the United States, ought to be a sufficient protection to the Cherokees, in the possession of their lands, had they been intruders; but viewing them as those who would be the undisturbed legitimate owners independently of the superior power of the invaders of their country, and the sanction for the exercise of that power furnished similar wrongs heretofore elsewhere committed, your memorialists feel an increased repugnance and the anticipated breach of our national faith.

They are penetrated with sentiments of disapprobation, and sorrow, when they hear from distinguished politicians, as recital of instances of injustices towards the aborigines, not with the intention of depreciating a continuance of that course of iniquity but in order to make it an excuse for the perpetration of another wrong; in which our character, as a nation and as republicans, still be more deeply and more generally implicated.

The only pretence which could be set up to the lands of the Cherokees, supposing them unprotected by their treaties with our national government, would, in the opinion of your memorialists, be that claim of the strong to the possessions of the weak, which has been miscalled the right of conquest. But if obtained by conquest those lands were won by the disinterested soldiers of our revolution, who inspired by genuine, patriotism, a love of liberty and of virtuous fame, hazarded, or sacrificed, wealth, health, blood, and life itself in that perilous struggle. Your memorialists observe, therefore, with pain that those territorial acquisitions have been, by promised distribution, held up as the means of influencing a portion of our countrymen to forget what is believed due to the national character to humanity, and to those rights of man, which are so well portrayed in our Declaration of Independence.

Your memorialists admit that there may be plausible ground for the opinion expressed by the Secretary of War, and other eminent men, that the ultimate happiness of the red men, would be best consulted by their removal beyond the reach of the cupidity of the whites, if such a spot can be found for them in this side of the grave; and it should diminish the mortification of the undersigned at the contemplated evasion of our national engagements agreeably to the reprobated principle that the end justifies the means, did facts allow them to suppose that the ultimate happiness of the red men and their neighbors was the incentive of this policy.

But had such been the incentive instead of projected lotteries, and other methods of effecting a promiscuous partition of the Cherokee lands among the adjoining population your memorialists would expect to read of a plan for those lands, in order to create a fund for the benefit of a people expatriated for the common good. In that case your memorialists would not have had to complain that with respect to the territory acquired and the national reputation established by the impoverishment of the heroes of the revolution, the one is to be tarnished, in order that the other may be employed for the enrichment of a multitude, happening to reside within the geographical boundaries unjustly and injudiciously assigned by a foreign monarch, to one of his provinces.

Your memorialists are indignant that in a republican country, which has spurned the previously legitimate control of British Kings, the illegitimate charters and proclamations of those monarchs should be considered competent to authorize the seizure of a territory, in despite of a solemn guarantee.

Nor is there, agreeably to the opinion of the memorialists less cause for regret, that at a moment when we are universally rejoicing on account of the liberty gained by a nation in the eastern hemisphere we should, in our own country, sanction the worst of all tyranny- that of one nation over another.

Heretofore the acts of Congress have been considered as pre-eminently the law of the land, unless declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States; your memorialists are therefore surprised to observe, that the act of Congress of 1802 for the protection of the Indian tribes, which derives additional claims to a faithful observance, from its incorporation in more than one compact with them, should be treated as void upon the plea of its unconstitutionality; without any decision authorizing this view of it by the only competent tribunal.

In the provincial history of some of the states of our Union, there may be sufficient instances of fraud and violence towards the aborigines to furnish precedents for the course which the Indian Bill has been made to sanction, but your memorialists are under the impression, that in our national history no instance of ill faith, cruelty, or injustice, can be adduced prior to the proceedings in relation to the southern Indians. Our national character will be looked for, not in times anterior to our existence as a nation, but in the period which has succeeded the formation of our general government. Your memorialists trust that the Senate, and House of Representatives of the United States will not consider the crimes of our provincial times, as worthy of imitation; but will rather endeavor to wipe off any stain which may thence arise by a rigid performance of national obligations, and a scrupulous adherence to the path of justice and humanity.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

Extract of a letter to the Editors of the

New York Observer, dated

WASHINGTON, Jan. 1, 1831

I have now lying on my desk two very interesting documents, loaned me by the Cherokees and which they keep in a long cylindrical box of tin, some account of which may not be unacceptable to your readers.  One is entitled 'Minutes of Conferences holden at the War office, between the Secretary for the Department of War, on behalf of the United States, and a Deputation from the Cherokee nation of Indians on behalf of the said nation on the 30th of June, and 3d of July 1801. Charles Hicks, Interpreter.'

The other is a solemn treaty or rather a voluntary charter, written on parchment, under the hand of the Secretary of War; the upper side of the parchment being interwoven with a golden chain of double links, the lustre of which, I am sorry to say, has outlived the faith of the government which it was intended to adumbrate, and the observance of the pledge which it adorns. The following is a literal transcription of the Document.

'To the beloved Chief of the Cherokee Nation, THE LITTLE TURKEY, on behalf of the said nation-The SECRETARY OF WAR OF THE UNITED STATES sends Greeting: Friend and Brother: The Deputation appointed by you to visit the seat of government, have arrived and been welcomed by your Father, the President of the United States, with cordiality; they have spoken and he has heard all the representations that they were instructed by you, on behalf of the Cherokee Nation, to make token. In his name I have answered them in sincerity and truth, and when they shall report to you what I have said, I trust you will feel all uneasiness removed from your minds,  and that you and your nation will experience that satisfaction, which must result from a conviction of the certainty with which you may continue to rely on the protection and friendship of the United States. These can never be forfeited,  but by the misconduct of the red people themselves. Your Father the President instructs me to assure you in behalf of your nation, that he WILL PAY THE MOST SACRED REGARD TO THE EXISTING TREATIES between your NATION and ours, and protect your WHOLE TERRITORY against ALL INTRUSIONS that may be attempted by white people, that all encouragement shall be given to you in your just pursuits, and laudable progress towards comfort and happiness by the introduction of useful arts; that all persons who shall offend against our treaties, or against the laws made for your protection, shall be brought to justice, or if this should be impracticable, that a faithful remuneration shall be made to you, and that he will never abandon his beloved Cherokees, nor their children,  so long as they shall act justly and peaceably towards the white people and their red brethren. This is all he requires from you in return for his friendship and protection; he trusts you will not force him to recede from these determinations by an improper and unjust change of conduct, but that you will give him abundant reason to increase, if possible, his desire to see you happy and contented under the fostering care of the United States. I send you by your beloved Chief, THE GLASS, a chain; it is made of gold, which will never rust, and I pray the Great Spirit to assist us in keeping the chain of our friendship, of which the golden chain is meant as an emblem, bright for a long succession of ages.'

War Department, 7th July, 1801

H. DEARBORN,

Secretary of War.

 [Seal of the United States.]

Spirit of Washington and Jefferson! Spirit of Justice and Humanity! Is there any meaning in promises; any force in words? Is there any truth in the seal of the United States, or in the signature of its highest officers? Here is the original charter before my eyes with its golden chain, the emblem of eternal friendship. The chain is still bright, but the friendship of the Government that gave the pledge has 'rusted' indeed. It is no more! It is buried with Washington, Jefferson, Dearborn, and all the illustrious dead, who lie as low as the children of the forest with whom they negotiated. The real ground to which the opponents of the Indians are driven, is this: 'The faith of treaties need not be kept with savages'- a doctrine will worthy the darkness of the middle ages.

The descendants of Badger's Mother, Little Turkey and The Glass, may now smoke the silver pipe of their ancestors (the pledge of the Father of his country) about the streets of the Capital in vain; in vain may they wait for justice at the gate of the palace with the solemn charter signed and sealed by the government, in their hands, in which that government engages to pay the most 'SACRED REGARD TO EXISTING TREATIES' made with the Cherokee NATION, and NEVER TO ABANDON their beloved Cherokees.'

A memorial will soon be presented to Congress by the Indians now here, and this should be enforced by petitions from all parts of the United States, that the Indians may be protected in their title until a fair adjudication of the case. For the stand which you have taken on their behalf they feel particularly grateful, as they do all their disinterested friends in the Union. Even the smallest mark of interest in their case excites their gratitude, and though their hope of justice be small, their conviction of the deep injustice of the threatened removal is as firm as the seat of life or the principles of everlasting truth. A few 'William Penns' under God would save them and the nation.- They anxiously look for the coming of this their steadfast and zealous friend to aid them.  Meanwhile, as the lowly fasting and prayer of Esther and the captive Jews, joined to her bold and fearless petitions to the king saved her country from the fury of the oppressor Hamans, so let the church follow up her petitions to God with petitions to men for justice and mercy. If any hold back now, the words of Mordecai to Esther should ring in their ears, 'If thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise (to the Indians) from another place, but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed.'  Let him that hath the power to arrest the iniquitous judgment look to this.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Portland Christian Mirror.

MEMORIAL.

In behalf of the Cherokee Indians.

We are not a little gratified and cheered, that the citizens of any town in our state, have their eyes fixed on the turning point, to which we have now arrived in the history of our nation's honor; and have done what they could to avert the disgrace which threatens us, of violating the faith of treaties. The following memorial was written in Vassalborough, for presentation to the citizens of that place, where, in a short time. between 300 and 400 signatures were obtained for it. So universal an expression of sentiment in such a manner is, we believe, of rare occurrence; and is the more to be valued, as it is given by men of different political parties--the leading friends of the present administration, in the town, being among the signers. This is magnanimous and patriotic. If every town would come forward like Vassalborough, we have no doubt that the issue would make every friend of humanity glad.  We would respectfully suggest to the inhabitants of this town and vicinity, whether they have not an important responsibility in this matter; and whether, if our republic is hereafter to bear the stigma of treachery to the defenseless remnant of a once formidable people, they can individually escape their share of the odium, unless they remonstrate without delay. A few more weeks, perhaps, and no place will be found for repentance though sought carefully with tears.

To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled.

Respectfully represent your Memorialists, Inhabitants of Vassalborough, State of Maine. That the attitude assumed by the President towards the Indians, the Cherokees in particular, appears to us to be such as existing treaties with those tribes do not justify.

In his message to Congress of December, 1829, the President speaks of the Cherokees as having then lately attempted to form an independent Government within the limits of Georgia and Alabama, and strongly intimates that such pretensions on the part of the Indians cannot be countenanced by the General Government, on account of obligations to the respective States. A course of reasoning is instituted on this point tending to show the absurdity of permitting the Indians to exercise a Government within the territorial limits of any of the States. As the President observes entire silence in regard to the several treaties now in force between the United States and those Indians, and the obligations on the part of the United States arising from those treaties; your memorialists are apprehensive that an erroneous impression has been made on the public mind, both in reference to the right of the Cherokees, and to the relations which the United States sustain to them. In order to  ascertain the present rights of the Cherokees, and the duties of the United States towards them, it may be necessary to trace concisely the history of the transactions between our Government and them.

At the close of the American Revolution, we find the Cherokees a powerful and warlike tribe, unconquered, unsubdued, and as far as we know, ever had been by any people on Earth. They were lords of the forest in which they roamed and appeared determined to fight to the last, rather than yield a territory which they had possessed from time immemorial. The States, exhausted by a long war, did not feel eager to continue the contest, and attempt to dispossess the Indians of what they knew to be their rights; more especially as it must cost much blood and treasure, however confident they might feel of the final issue. Under these circumstances both parties acted as wise and discreet politicians.  It was obvious that as time advanced, the tide of white population would rolling upon the Indians, and the red man would become weaker while the states would become more powerful. In 1785, precise such a treaty was formed as suited the condition and future prosperity of the parties. The Cherokees, to secure to themselves a permanent national existence, put themselves under the protection of the United States and relinquished all claim to any lands except within certain limits, which limits were defined in the treaty.- The United States on the other hand received them into their 'favor and protection,' and solemnly guarantied to them the entire control and possession of all lands within those limits. By this treaty it was provided that if any person attempted to settle within those limits, he should 'forfeit the protection of the United States,' and might 'be punished by the Indians or not as they see fit.'   After the adoption of the Constitution, and under the administration of President Washington, another treaty was made with these Indians. This was in 1790, and by this treaty the Indians ceded to the United States a portion of the lands secured to them by the treaty of 1783 for such consideration as was agreed upon by the parties. More than a dozen treaties have been made with them since, all of which acknowledge the Indians to be an independent people so far as to be capable of contracting with the treaty making power of the United States; and the sole and exclusive owners of all the lands not voluntarily relinquished. The Cherokees were told in the treaty of 1785, called the Treaty of Hopewell, that they might have 'full confidence in the justice of the United States towards them' and they had a right therefore to expect that all treaty stipulations with them would be scrupulously fulfilled. President Washington, in 1790, held the following language to the Senecas, whose lands were secured to them by a similar treaty- 'In future,' said he, 'you cannot be defrauded of your lands'- 'You possess the right to sell, and the right of refusing to sell your lands' - 'And the United States will be true and faithful to their engagements.'

Again in a speech to the Chiefs and Warriors of the Cherokees (the very people who are now threatened to have their lands taken from them by force) he says, in reference to these lands,'that these have been confirmed by two treaties of Hopewell in 1785 and Holston in 1790- and speaking of these treaties, he says, 'the treaties which have been made cannot be altered - the boundaries which have been mentioned must be marked and established, so that no dispute shall arise, or any white people cross over it.' This  language was held in 1794. Thus we see the sacredness of these treaty stipulations in the view of our great and beloved Washington and similar ones were entertained by Mr. Jefferson and others. Under these treaties, whose provisions were carefully observed, the Cherokees, for more than forty years, enjoyed and exercised the rights of a free  and independent community. When the treaty of Hopewell was formed, the nation appeared by its Government, the Head men and 'Warriors, to the number of 37, who subscribed the treaty for themselves and in behalf of the Cherokee Nation. The constituted authorities acted in an official capacity, and the nation were bound by their doings, and they did not complain. At all times since when the nation has been called upon, it has appeared by its constituted authorities, its Government. Your memorialists were not a little surprised, therefore that the Cherokees should be represented by the President as having lately attempted to form and independent Government.' If the President would be understood to mean that this people have lately exhibited evidence of great improvement in the arts of civilized life- that they are making vigorous and successful efforts to emerge from the savage state, and chase away the moral darkness and mental degradation which have too long rested upon them- that the cultivation of their lands- the operation of the mechanic professions, and the attention to literature and science among them have given a new character to their Government, and a new aspect to the nation- we answer, that in all this they have been encouraged by our Government. It is perfectly obvious that any great change in the moral and intellectual condition of a people will produce a correspondent change in their Government. Such a change was desirable- and the Cherokees have profited by the advantages afforded them. But whatever improvements or changes may have recently taken place in their Government, they have never been without a Government, and the right to govern themselves has not till very lately, we believe, been disputed. The State of Georgia, has lately put herself in a posture to bring the Cherokees under her control. She has said the lands they possess are hers, and she 'must and will have them.' She as assumed the right of extending her laws over the Indians, and has not failed to make those laws of a character so odious that no people of any self respect could endure them. Hence, that the Indians would abandon their possessions, however valuable and dear, rather than submit to them, was looked to as a certain event.  Georgia has no doubt, a strong and natural desire to possess herself of the land and gold mines belonging to the Indians- but for more than forty years she never learned that she had a right to take them by force, and we humbly presume she would never have learned it, had she not looked forward to the present Chief Magistrate, as more ready to favor such a design than his illustrious predecessors. In view of the impending evils which threaten him, the Cherokee takes the treaty in his hand and applies to the President. He had years ago laid down his tomahawk and buried his hatchet- the time for righting himself by force had long since gone by. All his interests, all his hopes, all his security were centered in that instrument bearing upon its face in legible characters the concentrated promise of all the States in the Union. He points to the dangers which threaten him, and demand a protection guarantied to him by the Treaty. Everything that is valuable and dear to him is suspended on the response. He reads the treaty that he 'may have full confidence in the just assurances given him by his great father, President Washington, and repeated by other Presidents, that the United States will be faithful to their engagements.' What then, must be his disappointment to be told by the present Executive that these treaty stipulations shall avail him nothing!  That flight to the depths of the western forests could alone save his nation from utter extinction! Such language must have fallen with tremendous weight on the Cherokee, and it has not failed to strike the ears of others with a melancholy tone-it sounds too much like the knell of departed national virtue.

Your memorialists are aware of the pretexts under which Georgia assumes to exercise control over these Indians; but they are at the same time fully and decidedly of opinion, that the United States are under the most solemn engagements, by force of existing treaties, promptly and effectually to protect them against any interference with their sovereignty, or any encroachments upon their rights. The language of the treaties appears to us plain and unequivocal, and the practice for more than forty years has been in perfect accordance with their plain, well understood provisions, and no imaginary absurdities-no subtleties or reasoning-no ingenious suppositions of clashing obligations will ever convince the Cherokee, the European, or even the people of our own government, that a refusal to protect these Indians, is anything short of a gross and palpable violation of public faith. Such will the Cherokee feel it to be, while his tears flow in view of his future destiny, and while in his heart he curses the nation capable of such perfidy. Such will the European view it, and pronounce it 'not exceeded in its cruel, and faithless character by any transaction in the annals of European or Asian despotism.'- And such, in the opinion of your memorialists, would be the undivided sentiment of the United States, were the question presented unconnected and with circumstances of an exciting character.

But the character of the transaction is not changed by such a connection. The nation has pledged its faith, ' it is right or it is wrong to regard that pledge.  Your memorialists had flattered themselves that there was at least one government on earth, whose solemn guarantee was a sure pledge of its performance, and they felt an honest pride in calling that government their own. It would be with extreme mortification and regret that they could see their government tarnished by the least semblance of equivocation, and they confess that they should feel alarmed could they believe, that on mature consideration, the government would refuse to these Indians that protection which is so clearly pledged to them in existing treaties.

It is the pride of the citizen of the U. S. that the character of his government is unsullied-but this should not longer be his boast, if the Cherokees sue in vain for protection. He will see and he will feel that the national honor has suffered loss, and as often as the cries of the ill fated Cherokee shall reach his ear from the western wilderness, he will be pierced with a sense of the injustice that sent him there. That such an evil may be averted and the national honor preserved unstained is the wish and prayer of your memorialists. In presenting this memorial they utterly disavow any considerations connected with party politics--they feel for the honor of the nation of which they are a part-they feel for the unhappy Cherokee whose all is involved in the decision of the question, and they believe themselves bound in duty, as good and honest citizens, to make known their views to the government. In vain will you attempt to satisfy the Cherokee that he would be secure in his new habitation in the wilderness.- He knows and the world knows that he can have no stronger pledges than your venerated predecessors have given him- and your memorialists frankly confess that if these do not prove his security, that they can have no faith that any others would. If these fail him he is miserable too, by trusting to the faith of a nation which boasts of extending equal and impartial justice to all. Your memorialists therefore pray that the plighted faith of the nation to these Indians may be honorably redeemed, ' that measures be taken to afford them immediate and effectual protection, according to the clear and unequivocal stipulations of existing treaties, and to place them in the full possession of those rights which they have uniformly enjoyed under all former administrations.

(Signed)

S. REDINGTON and 345 others.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA FEB. 12, 1831

The indisposition of the Editor and one of the Printers prevented our issuing a paper last week.

____________________________

ANOTHER MILITARY MOVEMENT!

On Wednesday evening a friend sent us the following note:

'The kind, `peaceable, and reasonable terms ' upon which the Cherokee lands were to be obtained, have at last made their appearance. One hour by sun this evening the Georgia Militia made their awful and martial appearance in the Town [Coosewaytee.] I presume they intend nullifying one of the treaties of the Cherokee Nation with the United States, by chopping down the toll gates on the Federal road. The Company consists of about thirty-five or forty men, well equipped.'

We understand from further information since received, that the Militia spoken of above were a portion of the standing army of the State of Georgia, created during the last legislature, for the purpose of guarding the gold mines, and executing the laws. They are called in Georgia, the guard, and are commanded by one Nelson, the same, who, a few days since, was taking a tour through the nation, circulating the late acts, in his military costume, with his sword hanging to his side. After they passed our friend (who is a Cherokee) they proceeded to the residence of Mr. John Martin, one of the proprietors of the turnpike, and put up for the night. It soon appeared that one of their objects was to break down the gates. Mr. Martin, having no other alternative, sent word to the gate keepers to open them forthwith. This band of military lodged in his premises, and on the next morning, we understand, he was arrested by them, who took him on to their headquarters, the accommodations of which, be it said to the shame of the General Government, have been prepared by the Executive of the United States.

We have not heard under what charge Mr. Martin has been arrested, or whether a process of any kind was served upon him-but that makes no difference-there are charges plenty alleged, and to be alleged against the Cherokees, and process or no process, they must be arrested: But 'a question to be asked,'--why do they come in such military array, with muskets, pistols, swords, and all the implements of warfare, even to a drum dangling at the side of one of their number, to chop down a toll gate, or to make prisoner of a single individual, who was unconscious of any crime committed against a human being, or who had never intimated his intention to resist? One man with his hatchet might have executed the former with ease, and another, with a piece of `black and white', might have performed his purpose without the shedding of blood. These are fearful times indeed, if an honest citizen, attending to his business in his own premises, and in time of peace, may be invaded by an army! What will these events come to? On the head of our false and faithless Father be the consequences of all this vexatious persecution.

Is it intended by the Executive of the United States and the state of Georgia, the former in permitting, the latter in executing such acts against the poor Cherokees, to force them from their lands by dint of oppression? We can say to those who hold the reins of those Governments,-no, gentlemen, you cannot succeed-our patience ' forbearance are not exhausted-you will not drive us into compliance by mere oppression; if you therefore, must have these lands, the deep shame ' indelible infamy of taking them by open force is reserved for you!

________________________________

THE GOLD DIGGERS.

Extract of a letter from Col. Charles H. Nelson to a gentleman in this place dated

GAINESVILLE, Jan. 18th 1831

DEAR SIR- In haste, I inform you, that on yesterday we had warm work at Leather's Ford. A detachment [of the State Guard] under my command was conducting eleven prisoners, when we were attacked by about sixty men, who used everything but guns.  We charged on them and dispersed every one of them, without damage to my men. One of the assailants received three severe bayonet wounds, from which his recovery is considered doubtful.' - Washington News 22d ult.

We had heard quite a different story of the transactions related by Col. Nelson in the above official communication. According to the information we received, there was no attack, but in arresting the eleven men, who we understood were Tennesseans, one of them was stabbed three times with a bayonet. We were told that there was no likelihood of his recovery. Our informant further stated that the prisoners were arrested at Leather's Ford, on the Georgia side.- [Ed. Cher. Phoe.]

________________________

We have been favored with the following authentic account of the treatment of a Cherokee youth, whose arrest, we noticed sometime since in our statement of a warlike irruption into Hightower of a band of Militia from Carrol County. It adds another item to the long list of the tender mercies of Georgia to the poor Indians.

HEAD OF COOSA, CHEROKEE NATION,

February 4th, 1831

MR. BOUDINOTT,

Sir--In the Phoenix of the 8th of last month I saw the notice you have taken of the capture of Joseph Beanstick by a band of armed militia from Carrol County, Georgia. For a more correct understanding of this grievous irruption I will state the particulars which led to it as has been reported to me.

It appears that whilst the United States Troops were stationed in this nation, Lieut. Fowler, then commanding a detachment of Federal Troops at the Six's Gold mines, issued a written order to the Cherokees of Etowah, as a more effectual way of accomplishing his duty, to arrest every white man who may come among them to disturb their persons or property, and to deliver such persons over to him. A short time after this, there came three whitemen late in the evening to the house of Ootolanestee who lives some distance from the public road, and so far as the Cherokees could ascertain from their conversation and actions, they indicated a disposition to arrest a young Cherokee man and to take some Cherokee horses.  The Cherokees left the house and gave information to others in the vicinity, who determined on executing the order of Lieut. Fowler; and after several persons were collected, they repaired to the house of Ootolanestee and there found the white men; one of them, Thos. York, was recognized and known to the Cherokees to be a conspicuous character in the Pony Club,- the other two were strangers and not known-but being in company with York, together with the indication of their previous conduct induced the Cherokees to form an unfavorable opinion of their intentions, consequently they arrested and bound the three men, took them to Mr. Wm. Thompson's who knew the two strangers and informed the Cherokees that one of them (Curtis) was the Deputy Sheriff of Carrol County, and the other (Bogus) a Major of the Militia of the same county, and requested the Cherokees to release them. They did so and then exhibited Lieut. Fowler's order as their justification for arresting them. The Deputy Sheriff stated that he had an execution in favor of Major Bogus against a certain white man who had sold two horses a year or two previously, to the Cherokees, and that these horses were subject to said execution, and that they had come to levy upon the horses, and had brought York along as a witness by whom to prove the horses. The Cherokees agreed to go with them to Lieut. Fowler to have the claim investigated and took the horses with them. York being a man of bad character was continued in arrest.- Upon their arrival at the Six's, Lieut. Fowler declined acting upon the claim, but ordered Curtis and Bogus with York to be conveyed under a guard of soldiers to Head Quarters, and advised the Cherokees to go along also and to take with them the two horses. Upon their arrival at Camp Eaton the Commanding Officer released Curtis and Bogus, who dismounted two of the Cherokees and took away their horses with any satisfactory explanation being given to the Cherokees. York was ordered under guard by the Commanding Officer and there kept a number of days. The two Cherokees who were thus dismounted had to walk home.

Since the United States Troops have been withdrawn from the nation, Bogus and Curtis have taken out State warrants from Georgia against the Cherokees for arresting them, under which pretext the irruption was made when Joseph Beanstick was captured. It is asserted by good authority that this youth had no agency in the arrest of Curtis, Bogus and York, as aforesaid-notwithstanding this, he was cruelly torn away from his father's fireside and mother's tender care, to the jail of Carol county, where he was committed and confined about four weeks during the coldest time of this winter, with no other covering than a cloak and an old saddle blanket- and when in the agonies of piercing cold, he would beg to be taken to fire to warm his frozen limbs, he would receive this unrelenting reply, not unless you pay me fifteen dollars. Whilst in this unhappy situation, the vicious and the malevolent would sometimes appear before the grates of the prison to gasconade, and to abuse him in the most impious and insulting manner-and at other times those more humane would also call to express their sympathy for his sufferings.  Mr. David Vann was instructed to go and take steps for the release of this young man, and on his arrival at Carrolton, through the aid of a lawyer, the Inferior Court was convened, and Joseph was brought out of jail by a writ of Habeas Corpus. The Lawyer moved the Court to release the prisoner on the ground that he was in the custody of a person not in authority; (the jailor in authority being absent) the Court accordingly released him. Steps being about to be taken to have Joseph again arrested under a civil process, his friends succeeded in running off with him during the night.

In consequence of his cruel imprisonment in a cold jail, Joseph is most shockingly frost bitten in one of his feet, which caused his leg to swell up to the knee. Thus will be perceived some of the effects produced by the withdrawal of the United States authority from this nation-and this is a specimen of the acts tolerated under the usurped authority of Georgia.

JNO. ROSS.

P.S. The band of men who captured Joseph were so elated with their martial exploit, that, on their return march, they would occasionally form themselves on the road and discharge their fire-arms as a signal of triumph over the Cherokee youth in captivity.

______________________

Extracts of a letter from one of the Cherokee Delegation to his father, dated,

WASHINGTON CITY,

25th, Dec. 1830.

I hope from letters addressed to Mr. Ross you have been advised of what has transpired with the Delegation. To the President ' Secretary of War we paid our respects, and in a few days afterwards, visited the last mentioned for the purpose of ascertaining the views of the Government, in relation to the withdrawal of the Troops from our Nation, and the progress Georgia was making in her legislature on the subject of our vacant lands, which it was apparent was their design to survey. To obtain which I did not hesitate to propound to him the question, 'what was the intention of the Government to do, provided Georgia attempted to force from our possession, our lands?' It was interesting to the Cherokees ' it was due to them to receive a direct and frank answer, on the subject. It was with some surprise to find the Secretary inclined to equivocate, who replied, that 'the Government would decide on the matter when the crisis occurred, at this time Georgia was not going to survey any lands but those acknowledged to her, by the President South of Coffee's line.' He also told us to address the Department in writing which would be attended to; and which we have done at length, by the pen of William Coodey, which is one of much ability, directness and point. I have just finished a memorial to Congress which fills five manuscript sheets. 1st. On the lands taken by the Government from us and surrendered to Georgia. 2d. On the authorized intrusion of white people on the abandoned improvements by Arkansas Emigrants, by the President. 3d. the Gold mines, the sufferings our people have experienced there at, from intruders, Georgia officers and the Troops of the United States.  4th, Intrusions generally around our border, which remain unremoved and the withdrawal of the Troops. I have also represented to the Congress some of the aggravated cases of oppression our citizens have endured from the Georgians.

It would be unbecoming the frankness of a son to a father, did I withhold from your knowledge, the views I entertain of political affairs and to what source we must rely for eventual success in the struggles we maintain. This session of Congress is a short one, and will be closed little more than two months from this date. The policy of the President in regard to the Indians is deservedly unpopular, ' will meet with opposition in every stage, where the action of Congress is required. The Choctaw treaty is not yet ratified and only requires a remonstrance from the Choctaws to kill it. Leflore, the Chief, I understand is deposed, but it is yet doubtful whether they will send a protest against a treaty which no doubt was effected in fraud. We have strong, eloquent and good men who feel for us, and our friends. But effective assistance cannot come from a branch of the Government whose duties in Legislation, to meet the exigencies of a Great Republic, are immense. There is no question of the Cherokees having a vast majority of the people of the United States in their favor, even of the Jackson party inclusive.

***********************

A letter from the Secretary of War and the Governor of Georgia's Message to his Legislature occasioned thereby, are printed, which urge the propriety of granting reservations to Chiefs whenever they enter into treaty. To bribe the Cherokees now is their only hope. A member of Congress from the West, who is our friend, expressed to me the danger of addressing the cupidity of the Indian Chiefs, and hoped we would have our hands clear of such temptations. I assured him that in behalf of the Cherokee Chiefs,their friends need not entertain any apprehensions, they would not disgrace themselves, by throwing away the advantages of their descendants to self-government, and national prosperity to gratify individual aggrandizement.

_____________________

To the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

The lady who has repeatedly attempted to call the attend=tion of her country-women to the injuries and claims of the Cherokees wishes an opportunity to express her feelings to the people, for whom her sympathies, and those of thousands of her sex are so warmly enlisted.

It is said that the Cherokees are alarmed and distressed with the unjust measures now in operation against them, and are fearing that the interest of their friends in the United States is abating, and that they will be left to struggle alone.

But this is not the truth. The writer of this letter is extensively acquainted with many of the leading and most active friends of the Indians, and has extensive means of learning in various ways, the state of feeling, which exists throughout the land. The nation are looking to the United States Court as the safeguard of Indian rights, and believe, that through this medium, justice will be awarded to them, in full measure.

They deeply sympathize with them in the injuries and injustice they are now called to suffer, and would gladly, could any means be devised, protect them from it. But they hope that these evils are only temporary, and that soon, justice will triumph over oppression. Could the Indians learn the feelings of their many warm and faithful friends, they would come in such language as this.

'Brothers be not discouraged, and do not faint in the hour of adversity. Our hearts and our prayers are with you, and whenever our influence can do you any good, they shall be yours. We beseech you remember the example of our Lord Jesus Christ, and receive injuries with meekness and patience, remembering the words 'Vengeance is mine, I will repay saith the Lord.' God will raise you up Protectors and friends in every hour of peril, for all the generous, the just, and the upright in this nation are on your side. Stay in your places.- do not give up your country, though it is shrouded in gloom and full of fears; soon light shall spring up in darkness, and peace and safety shall drive away fear. Put your trust in the Lord and you shall never fail, 'for in the Lord Jehovah, is everlasting strength.'

The friends of the Indians are beginning again to try the influence of petitions, and it is believed that soon there will be a general and full expression of the opinion of this nation, on this subject before Congress. Meantime the writer would assure the Cherokees, that though females are forbidden by the wise regulation of society, from appearing in any public way in their behalf, in the private walks of life, their influence is not wanting, nor is it unavailing; while every day from them, petitions are sent to an unrebuked audience, where by the King of Kings they are accepted and heard.

______________________

Extract of a letter to the Editor, dated

Choctaw Nation, Jan. 10th, 1831.

I have been delighted with the firm, temperate, united and persevering resistance which the Cherokees have made to the arbitrary and unjust proceedings of Georgia. Thus far, they must have secured the approbation and the sympathy of all the upright and unprejudiced in every portion of the civilized world. It is mortifying and humiliating to see how far self interest, prejudice and party have succeeded in sustaining a cause, so manifestly wrong, and which I doubt not posterity will almost universally condemn.  I admit, with the Secretary of War, that on this, as on most other subjects, honest differences of opinion may arise.  Many may have decided hastily and without the means of forming a correct decision. Situated as the United States are in regard to the Indians, the danger is, that we shall 'feel power, and forget right.' There is no danger on the other hand. We shall do well to bear in mind, that our judgments will all be rejudged; and every unrighteous decision will be reversed-most likely in this world certainly in the next.

You must have noticed a very material difference in some of the statements of the Secretary of War, in his late Report, respecting the Choctaw Treaty, from the accounts which have come before the public from other sources. The account copied into your paper of Nov. 13th from the Fort Gibson correspondent, is correct, the statement of the Secretary of War, to the contrary notwithstanding. The people have a right to expect, in public documents, emanating from high and responsible officers, a fair and correct statement of facts. When these documents lose their character for fairness and verity, every good citizen feels that his country is degraded. The Secretary says, arguments addressed to their judgements were the means employed. No threat was used; no intimidation attempted. Under those circumstances, a treaty was concluded and signed, more than five thousand Indians being in attendance at the time.- amongst them was great apparent unanimity. Would not every reader of the above unacquainted with facts, suppose that more than five thousand Indians were present when the treaty was signed?  Whereas every person who was there, knows, that there was not a fourth part of that number present at the signing of the treaty. I know not what the Secretary of War would consider using threats of attempting intimidation, but I well know he could not have said anything, which would have operated more powerfully on the fears of the Choctaws, than what he did say, unless he had told them; that the United States would drive them off at the point of the bayonet. He told them the Agent, the Interpreters and the Blacksmiths would be discharged and all official communication with the Government would cease. That they would be left to the mercy of the Mississippi laws, and that they could no more live under those laws, than they could take wings and fly. That the Government would take their country West of the Mississippi for other Indians, and if they should find their situation ever so intolerable under the state laws, they could have no assistance in removing. Whether there was any threat or intimidation in all this, every one must judge for himself.

There was not only 'great apparent unanimity' but in reality great unanimity among the Choctaws, but it was to hold onto their country, and not to part with it on any considerations. It has been stated by those present, that four fifths of the people had voted against the treaty , and left the ground, before the signing commenced. And of those who did sign it is certain that many did not do it of their own free will and choice. It is difficult to conceive how the Secretary could assert that 'the great body of the nation were satisfied when he left them.'

Every effort has been employed to prevent any public ' general expression of the feelings of the Choctaws on the subject of the late treaty. The influence of the Chiefs and others interested in sustaining the treaty has been considerable, and the people are no doubt, better reconciled to the measure than they were at first. They have been told there is no remedy. Some of those who have been to explore the new country, represent it as much better than this. The trial is yet to come.

P.S. One word respecting Col. Leflore's letter to the Secretary of War. The Indians tell a different tale. They say they do not wish to remove. ' That their Chief told them that they must go, that their land was sold, that the white men were coming in, and would steal their horses, and ravish all their women, if they were not off immediately.' The fact is, after all that has been done to reconcile them to the Treaty, and all the glowing descriptions of their newly discovered paradise in the west, few if any of the Choctaws would remove, were it not from fear of the state laws, and other evils that must come upon them if they remain here. There is no such thing among the Common Choctaws, as a wish to remove,if they could be protected in their rights and privileges.

___________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

Mr. Editor: I have just noticed the following sarcastic paragraph from the Charleston Mercury and republished in the Southern Recorder. And but for the sacrilegious doctrine contended for by the Editor of the Mercury in relation to the case of George Tassels, I should pass it unnoticed.

The Editor of the Mercury remarks---

'Important from Georgia---It will be seen that Georgia does not evince a disposition to shrink (when a fitting opportunity presents itself) from declaring her rights and boldly maintaining them. We have repeatedly heard it asked where will all this end? The answer seems to us very plain. Why, with the death of the Indian. The supreme Court says, you State of Georgia, shall not hang the Indian. The State of Georgia says I will hang the Indian. Well the Indian is hung!-- What then-to whom is the State of Georgia answerable? To the Supreme Court? Surely not!  Is she not a sovereign free and independent State and know no master save disposing Heaven? Besides how farcical would be the idea of a State having any rights at all if she cannot even enforce her criminal laws without permission from abroad. The only thing that strikes us at all remarkable in the proceedings of the Georgia Legislature is the temperate strains of the Resolutions. We should have expected a little more fire from the enormity of the indignity offered to the pride and sovereignty of Georgia.'

Now, Mr. Editor, in order to show that the above remarks were penned either through ignorance or corruption, it is only necessary for me to show that the appeal made in the case of George Tassels, a Cherokee Indian, tried, convicted and executed by the laws of Georgia for the murder of another Indian committed within the territorial limits of the Cherokee Nation, and claiming not to be a citizen of Georgia, is such an one as is contemplated by the Constitution and laws of the United States; and that the Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction of the case, without going into an elaborate discussion of the right in Georgia to extend her laws over the Cherokees.

The sovereignty and independence of the Cherokee tribe of Indians as a Nation have never until the present cases, been contested in a Court of Judicature. They were recognized by the Treaty of Hopewell in 1785 as a sovereign free and independent Nation, capable of declaring war against the States. The United States in a subsequent treaty pledge herself to protect the Indians in their occupant possession. And under these and other treaties the Indians have been permitted from the earliest settlement of this country to the present time, to enjoy all those privileges and immunities which a sovereign free and independent Nation may of right enjoy. And these rights having been acquiesced in on the part of the State of Georgia, so long- and the United States having pledged herself to protect the Indians in their occupant possession, by treaty stipulations, and they never having been considered and treated as citizens of Georgia- all these have taught them to believe that they were a sovereign and independent Nation-And as the extension of the laws of Georgia over the Indians, brings in question the validity of a treaty, the final Judgment of which is only cognizable by the Supreme Court, the Indian (Tassel) most clearly had the right to make the plea to the jurisdiction of our court, and if over-ruled, to appeal to the Supreme Court. The Constitution of the United States expressly declares that the Judicial power shall extend to all cases in law or equity arising under that constitution, the laws of the United States and treaties made or which shall be made, under their authority-See Constitution of the United States, Article 3- {86.

The case of George Tassels therefore is beyond all doubt such an one as is contemplated by the Constitution of the United States, and the Supreme Court has clearly the appellate jurisdiction of the question, because, by the act of Congress of the 24th of September, 1789,- 25, -'A final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of law or equity of a State, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty, and the decision is against its validity; or where is drawn in question the construction of a treaty, and the decision is the title against right, or privileges set up or claimed under it, may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the U. States upon a writ of error.' See Kents Commentaries---Page 295-6.

The Chief Justice was therefore bound by the Constitution and laws of the United States to grant the writ of error upon proper showing, and the State of Georgia was bound by everything she held dear to her character as a State to obey it-the temperate strains of the resolutions to the contrary notwithstanding.- 'Besides how farcical would be the idea' of the United States (Georgia included) having the power under her constitution, to establish a tribunal for the trial of all cases arising under her constitution and laws, if she had not the power of taking cognizance of those cases without the special permission of the parties against whom the cases might be brought. Such a state of things never did, it never can exist in a well regulated government.

A GEORGIAN.

______________________

From the National Journal.

President Jackson in his last message, communicating his views respecting the Cherokees, uses the following language:

'No act of the General Government has ever been deemed necessary to give the States jurisdiction over the persons of the Indians. 

That they possess, by virtue of their sovereign power within their own limits, in as full a manner before, as after the purchase of the Indian lands; nor can this Government add to, or diminish it.'

This principle is not only at war with reason, and with the provisions of solemn treaties, but with the opinions expressed by sound moralists, genuine patriots and able statesmen. We have it on record that even one of the most influential advisers of Gen. Jackson, not many years ago, expressed sentiments diametrically opposed to those now uttered in his official communication by the President.- Mr. White of Tennessee, now a Senator of the United States, ' leagued with those who would oppress, coerce, exile and destroy the unfortunate Cherokees, in the year 1824 held other views and gave utterance to other opinions. When the right of the Indians to tax traders within their limits was denied by the government, Mr. White gave his opinion in full in opposition to the course of the Federal authorities. We subjoin a few extracts, as affording the best answer which can be given to the principles now laid down in the message of Gen. Jackson, and supported on the floor of the Senate, by the same Hugh L. White.

'I am not at liberty (said Mr. W.) to doubt but the Cherokees are to be considered as a nation a community, having a country distinctly marked out and set apart for their use; that their interest is as permanent and fixed in it as the pledge and the faith of the U. States can make it, in as much as they have solemnly guarantied it to them, as a nation, without any limitation of time.'

Again, expounding the application of the 8th section of the 1st article of the Constitution, respecting the power of Congress, 'to regulate commerce with foreign nation,' 'c Mr. Hugh L. White says:-

'The words here used in relation to the Indians are precisely similar to those used in relation to foreign nations; and it is hardly presumable that it ever was expected, that, because Congress is vested with power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, she is therefore vested with the right of interfering with the municipal regulations of either France or Great Britain.'

In this paragraph Mr. White explicitly denies the right of the government to interfere with the municipal or internal regulation of the Cherokees a denial which strikes at the root of the principle laid down by the President in his message. But Mr. White proceeds to fortify the position he has taken. Speaking of the Treaty of Holston, he declares in reference to the Cherokees:-

'These people are now to be viewed as a nation possessing all the powers of other independent nations, which are not expressly, or by necessary implication, surrendered up by this treaty.'

He then enumerates the powers which are 'surrendered up' by the Cherokees:-

'In the 10th article they stipulate that if any Indian, or person residing among them, or who shall take refuge in their nation, shall steal, commit murder or other capital crimes, on the citizens of the United States,  they shall be bound to deliver him up, to be punished according to the laws of the U. States.'

The power to punish their own people for crimes committed on Indians, within their own territory, is not surrendered.  Consequently, the opinion of Mr. H. L. White is against the usurpation of power which we have lately seen in Georgia.  But to guard against the possibility of misconception, Mr. White places this point in a still more strong and clear light:

'The Cherokees (says he) were to be considered as a nation; the bounds of their territory were ascertained; within these bound they should have all the rights of sovereignty not surrendered; if a white man went within their limits; and committed a crime or trespass, he would have been amenable to the tribunals of the country where the offence was committed, ' the nature of his crime, as well as the measure of his punishment, would have been ascertained by the municipal laws of the country in which he had transgressed. Knowing this, and being unwilling on the one hand, that a guilty citizen should escape with impunity; and determined, on the other, that the guilt or innocence of an American citizen should not be ascertained by an Indian tribunal nor should the nature of his crime or measure of his punishment be ascertained by an Indian legislature this provision was inserted.'

Mr. White proceeds to argue that the Cherokees, having acquired property, have the right to make the laws which govern and protect it. These laws must emanate from some power:-

'Where (asks Mr. White) is the power? It must be in Congress or in the Cherokees. [He never admitted the idea that it was in the state of Georgia] Congress has never exercised it; the Cherokees always have.  And if I have been correctly informed, one of the Presidents of the U. S., to aid them, digested a code of written laws, which he supposed suited to their society, and sent it to them, with recommendation that they would adopt them. The Nation gave them a candid examination;  and did adopt such of them as they thought  adapted to their situation.'

And again:-

'I cannot suppose it possible that in making these treaties, the United States either wished, or intended to take from the Indians the power of making municipal laws.'

Mr. White reiterates:-

'This country is solemnly guarantied by this treaty to the Cherokee Nation. Municipal laws to regulate its trade and all its affairs with in these limits, are to be made, from time to time, and those laws frequently to be changed, so as to suit the changing condition of their inhabitants, and thereby promote their happiness. Is it probable that the Executive of the United States, or his negotiators, would desire this power taken from the Indians,'c.'

Will General Jackson and his negotiators answer the question of Mr. White?

Georgia, as we are informed, sent her officers within the Cherokee limits, to arrest Tassels, for the murder of another Indian within those limits. On this point we quote Mr. White again:-

'By the 9th article of the Treaty of Holston it is provided, 'That no citizen or inhabitant of the United States shall attempt to hunt or destroy the game on the lands of the Cherokees; nor shall any citizen or inhabitant go into the Cherokee country without a passport first obtained.'

And, as Mr. White says in explanation:-

'It is not said, that his passport shall confer any other privilege upon him, but that of excusing him, from being considered as a trespasser, a person that is outlawed by his own government, as one that the Indians may punish, or not, as they choose.'

According to Mr. White, therefore, the Cherokees would have been justified in arresting the officers who went into their limits to seize Tassels, and hanging them on the nearest trees.

We have no space for comment, nor is comment necessary. Our only object is to place before the people the opinions entertained by Mr. White in 1824. Our readers are left to make their own inferences.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the National Intelligencer of Jan. 4.

In the official paper of yesterday morning appeared the following paragraph:

'We congratulate the friends of state rights upon the case, and the manner in which GEORGIA has been cited to the bar of the Supreme Court. The time too is auspicious. The spirit of Liberty and Reform is abroad upon the earth, and the position in which the Supreme Court is placed by the proceedings of Georgia, demonstrates the absurdity of the doctrine which contends that Court is clothed with supreme and absolute control over the States.

U. S. Tel. Jan 1.

In such terms as these does the Official Government Paper exult, in the defiance which the Legislature of the State of Georgia has bid to the authority of the Constitution and the Laws of the United States. 'The spirit of Liberty and Reform is abroad upon the earth;' and to the reforms already effected under the administration, the Government paper rejoices that there is to be added that of the prostration of the Supreme Court of the United States, the only safeguard of the rights and liberties of either the States or the People.  This, too, until authentically contradicted, must be taken to be the sentiment of the present administration.

It is time, fellow citizens, that we come to a pause, and solemnly reflect upon our situation. The Tariff has been declared to be unconstitutional by more than one State. Internal Improvement has been denounced in the same manner; and the United States Bank has been assailed in the same manner; and, worst of all, the authority of the Judiciary is set at nought-all under the banner of 'Liberty and Reform.' It is not necessary for us to add, that, sustain these doctrines, and our government is at an end. The sword and the bayonet will have usurped the office of appeals and writs of error, and the Supreme Court will be substituted by some tribunal of more summary proceeding.

We should not speak of the Resolutions of the Legislature of Georgia in this tome of alarm, if they were not seconded in spirit by the Official Paper. Those resolutions, passed under the influence of strong feeling, will operate probably, to produce no tangible effect and are not irreversible. Whether reversed under the influence of better views upon the subject or not, if they operate upon nothing, they will have only the effect of the declaration of an opinion. But the approval of the spirit of them by the Government paper, following as it does other recent demonstrations of hostility to the Supreme Court, from the same quarter, is calculated to fill the mind of every Constitutional Republican in the country with alarm and dismay.

What, in brief, is the case presented by the documents now in possession of the public? An Indian condemned to be hanged by the Georgia Court, under a law of the State, sued out a writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States, to bring the cause into that Court, upon the ground that the law of the State of Georgia under which he was condemned, was void, as being against laws and treaties of the United States. The Judiciary of the United States has jurisdiction of such cases, by the express provision of the 25th section of the Judiciary act, passed at the first organization of this Government. It has repeatedly exercised such jurisdiction, and the States have yielded to its decision.

The execution of the Indian was to have taken place, we believe, on the 24th ultimo, and no doubt did take place, at the time set for it; so that the death of the plaintiff will have abated the suit and the citation of the Chief Justice, and the Resolutions of the Legislature of Georgia, as regards that particular case, will be equally inoperative.  But the Resolutions go farther, and say, that the State of Georgia 'will never so far compromit her sovereignty as to become a party to the case sought to be made before the Supreme Court of the United States, by the writ in question.' 'The Case' here alluded to, is a case involving the validity of the same treaties of the United States, which, in the case which has actually occurred, the decision of the Georgia Court has determined not be valid as a defence for the criminal.

Whether the defence set up by this Indian was a valid defence, is not the question, and, one way or the other, can have no bearing upon it. The question is simply whether, in a case between a State and an individual, involving the validity of a law of the United States, or a treaty, the individual has the right of appeal to the Supreme Court, which the Constitution, as well as the laws of the United States, have expressly declared shall have jurisdiction in such cases.

The Resolutions of the Legislature, as well as the Message of the Governor, seem to make it a point, that the execution of the Criminal Law of the State is inferred with. But the Constitution makes no distinction between civil and criminal law-it speaks of all laws; and the case of Cohens vs. the State of Virginia, and that of McCulloh vs. Maryland, wherein the authority of the Supreme Court was maintained, had their origin in the penal laws of those States. It is in vain for the State of Georgia to declare that 'the right to punish crimes, 'cd is an original and necessary part of sovereignty, which the State of Georgia has never parted with.' for, since the establishment of the Constitution, there is no such thing as a sovereign state, independent of the Union. We quote the language of the greatest lawyer of our country, when we say 'the General Government, though limited as to its objects, is supreme as to those objects.  This principle is a part of the Constitution: and if there be any who deny its necessity, none can deny its authority.' If there be anything which is peculiarly an object of the General Government, it is the execution of Treaties, and the guaranty of their sanctity. These Treaties are the 'supreme law of the land.' What language can be stronger than that which is used to this effect in the second clause of the 6th article of the Constitution! It is not necessary, however, to insist upon this point; for the State of Georgia has declared that she will not permit herself to be brought to plead before the Supreme Court in any case affecting her criminal. She will not suffer it to be enquired whether her laws do contravene Treaties made by the authority of the United States. This is the more unfortunate in the case before us, from the circumstance that there is no appellate jurisdiction within the State; the Circuit Courts of Georgia, as appears by the Governor's Message, having exclusive jurisdiction in all criminal cases.

Is it not obvious that, in this course, on the part of the State of Georgia the theory of Nullification is reduced to practice? Suppose that a State makes it penal to collect duties from its citizens under the Tariff, or any other laws of the United States. An officer of the United States, however, (the collector of the port of New York for example,) trusting to the virtue of his commission, goes on to collect; he is tried, condemned and sentenced to death by one of these State Courts, which have exclusive jurisdiction. Is he to suffer death for the discharge of his sworn duty?  Most certainly he will, if the ground taken by the State of Georgia be maintained, and the militia refuse to march, when called out 'to execute the laws of the Union.'

Our fellow citizens will see, at once, that, with the authority of the Supreme Court, not only the laws, but the Constitution also, must be nullified. We know that there is a portion of the people of one State (a respectable portion of a respectable State) who think that this process of nullification is an undeniable and harmless right of the States. This we had regarded as the delusion of a day, which would soon pass away. But the late proceeding on the part of the State of Georgia shows, that in that State also, a lamentable infatuation blinds the majority to the awful consequences of the doctrine which they have not only proclaimed, but acted upon. We find, in addition the confidential organ of the Executive Government of the Union giving countenance to these revolutionary movements. Is there not reason for alarm? Will the body of the people of these States who are attached to the Union, repose in false security undermined by these insidious and fatal doctrines, which are making rapid progress under the seductive but delusive guise of a regard for State rights? Will our Sampson slumber until his locks are shorn? Or, will not the friends of the Union rouse themselves, and look the danger in the face? It requires nothing but a general rally, we are confident, to bring a moral force into the field which will utterly rout and discomfit these heresies of modern date, but most dangerous tendency.

We have neither time nor room for all comment which the occasion invites. We take space enough however, to refute the suggestion, (for it is not an assertion,) of the administration paper that there is a party in this country which contends that the Supreme Court 'is clothed with supreme and absolute control over the States.' There is no such party; and in the whole range of our knowledge such a doctrine has never been advanced from any quarter. We contend for such control only, over the judicial proceedings of the State Courts is as expressly vested in the Supreme Court by the Constitution.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The state of Georgia, by the late proceedings of her legislature, is placed in a situation of open hostility to the United States government. The ground taken by this state is nothing less than a forcible resistance to legal process issuing under the authority of the Chief Justice of the United States.  On the result of this controversy, in our judgment, depend the integrity of the Union. If the State of Georgia are suffered to resist the authority of the court, and the execution of the laws, she is in warfare with the national government, the Constitution is prostrated, and the Confederation is in effect dissolved. It is in vain to shut our eyes to this matter. Nothing is plainer, nothing more absolutely certain, than the fact, that if it is competent for a state to prevent the exercise of the power and authority of one of the three great branches of the national government, that government is destroyed. If the Judiciary is overturned, and its functions rendered inoperative, one main pillar of the system is removed, and the edifice must fall into ruins. The existence and security of the Judicial division of the government is as essential to its welfare, and stability, as is that of the Legislature, or Executive. And the Judiciary cannot exist, if there is any extraneous power, not known to the constitution, which can check its proceedings, or set at defiance its authority. It is in vain to set up hue and cry of danger to the sovereignty of the states, merely because one of them wants to drive off from their lands a few thousand Indians and plunder them of their property, the sovereignty of the states is in no more danger from the jurisdiction and authority of the United States now, than it has been for forty years. The mater in dispute, which has caused this violence on the part of the legislature of Georgia, has been produced by themselves. They set up illegal and unconstitutional claims in the first place-unfortunately they obtained opinions from the present executive, and of his cabinet, which encouraged them in their unconstitutional course of conduct, until they have proceeded to the length of declaring open and forcible resistance to the laws of the Union.

The question must now be settled, which is to conduct the affairs of the nation-the national government, or the state of Georgia?  What course will be pursued we have no means of determining. If, as we fully expect to hear, the step taken by the state cannot be retraced.  The writ of error, which was intended to decide in a constitutional mode, the great constitutional question between the state of Georgia and the United States, may be defeated. But there are other modes of bringing the subject before the Court. If the Indian has been executed, the sheriff who was concerned in the act, may be indicted, or brought within the jurisdiction of the Court in some other manner.  His justification must be under the authority of the laws of Georgia. Such a defence will bring the constitutionality of those laws into discussion; and the state of the affair must depend upon the decision of that question.  But, the state of Georgia may, under the influence of the passions by which her councils are now governed, resist any attempt to bring the affair before the court. This will be war against the United States, ' will subject those concerned in it to the more serious charge of treason.

In the mean time, it will be a matter of no trifling interest, to see what course the President of the United States will pursue in relation to this subject. He is bound by all the obligations which influence honest men, to support the laws and constitution of the country. He cannot, without rendering himself liable to impeachment, set up his own judgment as the sole standard of his conduct, and refuse to enforce a law, which, in the plenitude of his wisdom, he may consider unconstitutional. This is a question which it does not fall within his province to decide. A single provision will settle this point. By the Constitution, if the President disapprove of a bill which has passed both houses, on any ground, and that of unconstitutionality is one of the most common reasons. If the houses, after reconsideration, still pass the bill by the constitutional majority, the Constitution says, 'It shall become a law.' This provision applies to bills of all descriptions; and, therefore, if they have been returned on the ground of unconstitutionality, in the opinion of the executive, and still pass, they become laws. Becoming laws, they must be obeyed as such by the President of the United States, as well as the humblest member of the community; or else we have one officer who is above the law.  The President, then, in case of resistance to the authority of the Judicial tribunals, and the precess of law, must enforce obedience to the laws at all hazards. A refusal will necessarily render him liable to impeachment, whatever sentiments he may entertain of the Constitution, or of the laws.-

N. Y. Adv.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






THE INDIANS.

Can it be cruel in this Government, when, by events which it cannot control, the Indian is made discontented in his ancient home, to purchase his lands to give him a new and extensive territory, to pay the expenses of his removal, and support him a year in his new abode?

President's Message

Certainly not. The reasoning of this part of the message, at least, is unexceptionable, if only facts can be found to support it.  But what are the facts? Is the Indian 'made discontented by events which' the U. S. government 'cannot control?'

The only 'events' of which the Indians complain are, that the states, within whose chartered limits they reside, have claimed a right to subject them to their jurisdiction, and have passed laws, annihilating the Indian government, and substituting their own authority in its stead. By the laws of the states, the authority of their civil magistrates is made to extend over the whole country of the Indians. Their judges and justices may issue writs, and their sheriffs may serve them, in that country; while the Indian magistrate is forbidden to act under the authority of his own nation, on pain of fines and imprisonment. They complain, too, that they are forbidden to use their own land , except so much of it as individuals have under immediate cultivation; and that the states claim the right of deciding, how much is in this condition.---Perhaps they would have no right to complain of these things, if Dr. Ely's theory were reduced to practice, and the states merely allowed to enact these laws, while every white man, who should enter the Indians country to enforce them, was forthwith removed as an intruder.  But, this they are told, is not to be the case. The U. S. troops are to be withdrawn, and indeed are already withdrawn, on purpose that the states may execute these laws upon the Indians without obstruction.  They are told that they must submit to these laws, and that the general government will not interfere to prevent it. These are the 'events' by which 'the Indian is made discontented in his ancient home,' and which the President says this government 'cannot control.' These two words, 'cannot control' contain the whole sophism of the message upon this subject.  Upon them we join issue.

We assert that the general government can 'control' these 'events.'  That is has at its command the physical force, necessary to keep off intruders from Indian lands, no one will doubt. The regular army of the United States, with such additions as Congress have power to make and the whole militia of the nation besides, must surely be sufficient to accomplish it. They have therefore, the necessary physical force.---They have also the constitutional right. It is sufficient proof of this that every administration since 1802 according to the Secretary of War, including the present, have exercised it. During this whole period, the Secretary tell us, laws, forbidding any to enter the Indian territory; [except under conditions specified by treaty] have been in force. These laws 'authorize and direct' the President to employ the military force of the country for their execution. Under these laws, the present administration has in various instances, employed the U. States troops to remove intruders. They cannot deny, therefore, that they have the constitutional right, without condemning themselves. Yet they tell the Indians, that they can do it no longer!

They are bound by law to 'control' these 'events'. Of this, the writings of 'William Penn,' published last year, furnish over whelming proof. Indeed, the above mentioned law of 1802 is incorporated into a subsequent treaty. The government has bound itself by treaty, to enforce that law in particular. No one, that we ever heard, pretends that all treaties with the Indians can be fulfilled, without enforcing that law. It is said however, that the Indian tribes are not nations, and therefore are not capable of making treaties which will be valid. But what if it be so? Those treaties were made by the nation and contained promises in which we have induced the Indians to put confidence.  Shall this nation, like a dishonest debtor, refuse to perform the promises, on the pretence that there is a flaw in the bond, so that it cannot be enforced in a court of law? And besides who are they that deny the capability of Indians to make valid treaties? They are the very men; who are urging these same Indians to make more treaties? They are the men, who are offering to secure to the Indians by treaty, a perpetual residence and entire protection, beyond the Mississippi. Yet again, what would these same men say, if the Indians should deny the validity of past treaties, and demand, as they have a right to do, if these treaties are not valid, all the lands which were ceded by them? Would they listen to such a demand for a moment? The government must run itself into most glaring absurdities without number, if it denies that it is bound by treaty to 'control' these  'events.'- They are bound to 'control' these 'events' because they have received pay for doing it.--By the Treaty of Tellico, signed Oct. 2 1798, the Cherokees ceded to the United States a tract of land, now in East Tennessee; in consideration of which the United States agreed to pay $5,000 on signing, and $4,000. annually, 'and will continue the guaranty of the remainder of their country forever, as made and contained in former treaties.' Former treaties secure the Indians against the intrusion of white men. And by the treaty with the Cherokees executed at Washington, Feb. 27, 1819, the Cherokees ceded to the United States other lands, in consideration of which the United States agreed, among other things, that this very law of 1802, for the removal of intruders should be executed. The nation, therefore, is bound to 'control' these 'events' because they have agreed to do it, and have received their pay.

Such is the nature of sixteen solemn treaties with the Cherokees, which our government now refuses to fulfil. As a substitute, they offer the Indians a permanent residence at the west, to be secured to them

by treaty; though they maintain that treaties with the Indians are not valid.  This new residence is to be in a country, all of which the United States is bound by a treaty with France to erect into States; and these states, the Administration say, will have a right to extend their laws over all the Indians within their limits - treaties to the contrary notwithstanding. And all this is held 'up' in the President's Message, as a very kind and philanthropic proceeding!- We hope our fellow citizens will lose no time in loading the table of Congress with remonstrances against such injustice and perfidy.

Vt. Chron.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














NOTE: THIS ISSUE IS 2 PAGES ONLY

INDIANS.

Extract of a letter to the Editors of the N. Y. Observer, dated

WASHINGTON, Jan 7, 1831.

Information received since my last, confirms the opinion then expressed, that were a vote now to be taken in the House of Representatives on the Indian Question, the act of appropriation passed at the last session would be disapproved by a majority larger than that which passed the bill.  That majority, you will remember, was only five. And of those five some preferred the motion of Mr. Hemphill requiring that the lands to be given in exchange should be examined by Commissioners appointed for the purpose before any further measure was taken in the premises. The way to the previous question was only opened by casting vote of the Speaker. On that individual, therefore, rests a most pregnant responsibility. To his God, his conscience, and to the American people he is amenable. Of the will of God in reference to this subject, the Bible is the immutable expounder now, and if I misjudge not his wise, just and faithful Providence, will be the practical expounder hereafter.- As to his conscience, that is round where I will not intrude. With regard to the American people, there can be no doubt that an overwhelming majority is on the side of truth and justice. The justice of the conduct of the administration is strikingly set forth by a remark of Ridge. 'It would be a great kindness, indeed, in the President to set our houses on fire and then tell us to run, or we would be burnt to death!' The Delegation are much gratified by a letter received this week from a gentleman in Vassalboro, Maine, exhorting them to contend earnestly for their rights and assuring them of multitudinous petitions from that quarter. Probably a general flow of such petitions might excite an earlier attention to the subject though the friends of the Indians in Congress are not idle. The subject is discussed among other topics in the private meetings of members and may come up by previous arrangement, or may arise on some sudden emergency, which will be met by a proper and powerful influence. The original of the Letter sent by Gen. Dearborn, a copy of which I transmitted to you is in the hands of some of the members and is said to speak very eloquently to their feelings. To feel the 'golden chain' is certainly to submit to an argumentum ad hominem. There has been an overweening anxiety on the part of many members to obtain an attendance of the House on the pending Impeachment, a thing entirely unnecessary, as the Representatives who attend sit in silence and only hear like any casual auditor, except the Managers. In point of fact also, not even a quorum actually attended in compliance with the vote of the House, and those who voted for the attendance, for the most part, were the absentees. Now what was the meaning of all this? Why, just to waste away the session, (I have it from high authority) and prevent certain dreaded subjects from coming up, the decision of which would disappoint certain hopes. ON Tuesday, however, the House voted to go on with the nation's business while the small affair of Judge Peck is in progress before the Senate.

You are aware that the trial was suspended last week in consequence of the arrival of a messenger from Baltimore announcing to Mr. Wirt the dangerous illness of a child. That child was a young and lovely daughter, scarcely entered on the verge of womanhood, now snatched from fond ' affectionate parents. The bereaved father had only time to bury his lost one, when he must return to the busy cares of the cause in which he is engaged.  As deep solemnity seems to shade the countenance of the distinguished advocate, as he reluctantly re-engages in a case which demands all the powers of his mind; while his heart is doubtless far away from the Senate Chamber. Such are the stern demands of public life, that too often, alas, they interfere even with the high monitions of heaven. Mr. Wirt possesses that attribute which so often accompanies genius-exquisite sensibility. When that is the sensibility of a parent, how touching are its exercises? It has been before tried by the death of a beloved son in a foreign land, whither he had gone in the vain search for health. To the excellence of our holy religion, preeminent at such seasons, he is not insensible. Once skeptical on this subject, he has exchanged all his doubts for unwavering belief, and has shown his respect for religion by making its ministers and its books his companions, at intervals of relaxation from the multifarious cares of his profession. In this he is an example for the young men of our country. The house of God is a place where he takes his seat with the humblest of his fellow creatures, to be instructed in the word of eternal life.

To return to my subject. Two of the Cherokees attended the monthly Concert at one of our churches this week, on which occasion was red the interesting document of monthly Missionary intelligence from the press of the Home Missionary Society. That part of it which embraces the description of the present state of the Choctaw Nation deeply interested their attention. To the internal evidence of its truth, they bore unequivocal testimony.  Of the effects likely to be produced by the Treaty they must be considered adequate judges, and accordingly with the strongest feeling they deprecated similar effects among themselves.  Taylor, the oldest of the Delegation offered a fervent prayer, with which those present seemed heartily and joyfully to join. The thought that probably many thousand Christians were praying for them that night kept up their spirits and inspired all with hope.

Should things be pushed to the extremity of an oppugnation of the decision of the Supreme Court, (supposing it to be in favor of the Cherokees) the Marshal of the United States must execute the decision under the authority of the General Government, by force if necessary. Should the President refuse what then must become of his oath to support the Constitution? Here the awful resort of IMPEACHMENT presents itself. The House it is believed will act with energy and decision in case Georgia persists.

There is another formidable difficulty. It is not pretended, I believe, that the treaty made with the Choctaws and either before or about to be before, the Senate, will be sanctioned by that body. Day after day is spent in secret session- the Senators emerge from their conclave with excited countenances, and walk hurriedly half the length of the great avenue in little squads talking with each other intensely as if some matter of great moment was warm in their hearts- and so doubtless is the fact. The difficulties, I say, are great. The voice of justice and of prayer has raised them. That voice must be heard. And even if the Indians should be suffered by those now in authority to be deprived of their lands, the nation may yet plead its justification at the bar of Heaven, and wash itself of the stain before the world, by appointing men who will use its power and its treasures to indemnify fourfold those who shall have suffered by their predecessors, if not to reinstate them in their ancient and lawful possessions.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the New York Advertiser

THE SUPREME COURT.

But it is said that it is degrading to the dignity of a sovereign independent state, to be summoned as a party in a law suit, before the Supreme Court. It is not degrading to a state to do, or to be forced to do, what all states have consented to do, in adopting the constitution. If a state undertakes to enact laws in violation of the provision of the constitution, it is necessary for the due administration of justice, that enactments should be declared by this tribunal void. There is no tribunal of this description, besides the Supreme Court of the United States; and the wisdom of man, if employed for the purpose, could not devise a better or safer one than this. The Judges of that court are selected for their learning talents, and integrity, from different parts of the Union. They bring to the court an extensive acquaintance with the character of the people of the states, with their laws, usages, and institution.  They are severally inhabitants of the states from which they are selected, and are dependent upon their laws for all the ordinary purposes of life, in the same manner, and to the same extent, that all the other citizens of the states are. They have the same interest then, in protecting the states in the enjoyment of their rights and privileges, that is experienced by all their fellow citizens in the states. What possible inducement can they have, therefore, to degrade the states, to deprive them of their rights, or undermine or destroy their sovereignty and independence?  Under these circumstances, it is not to be supposed that they can be actuated by bad motives, but that their object must be to administer justice, and execute the laws according to their true letter and spirit. Nor is it easy to imagine that they can be disposed to grasp at illegal jurisdiction, for they already have more business to do than with all their industry and labor they can accomplish. An amendment of the constitution protects the several states being sued, in law or equity, by a citizen of another, or a foreign state. But when, in the progress of a suit, legally instituted, and pending between parties constitutionally before a state court, it becomes necessary to decide on the constitutionality of some legislative act of one of the states, this raises a point on which either party who is interested in the decision, may appeal in the last resort to the Supreme court of the United States, for the purpose of having that question only decided. And we know of no distinction in this respect between cases in civil or criminal jurisprudence. It is certainly as interesting to a man to avoid being hung under the operation of an unconstitutional legislative act, as it is to have his property secured from such an act.

If a point of this sort arises in a suit in which a state was originally a party, and in criminal cases this must always be the fact, it becomes not only proper, but necessary, to notify the state by citation to its executive head, or in some other mode which the law, or the practice may provide, that it is carried to the Supreme Court, in order that the state authority may, if it thinks proper, appear by counsel before that tribunal, and vindicate the act of the state. This is not in contravention of the clause in the Constitution, to which we have alluded, for it is not the commencement of an action against the state, but it is a resort to the only tribunal which has jurisdiction, for the purpose of obtaining the determination of a collateral question that has grown out of a suit regularly before the court, to which the state has, either by its own act, or incidentally, been introduced. If there is any degradation in this, it is in having the soundness of its legislative acts questioned, or as the case may be, declared to be void.  But this can be done, when the case is regularly before the Supreme Court, whether the state make a formal appearance, or not; and if the court eventually determine that act in question is unconstitutional, it is of course void, and the state cannot enforce its execution without engaging in hostilities against the national government.

What then is the ground of all the clamour against the court, and the attacks upon its character? They manifestly proceed, not from any apprehension of its want of impartiality or capacity, but from a full conviction of its fearless integrity, justice, and independence. The state of Georgia dare not, and if possible to avoid it will not submit the question of the constitutionality of its acts respecting the Cherokees, to this learned, able, upright and most respectable tribunal. They know those acts are unjust, oppressive, and in violation of the laws of the United States; and they doubtless believe, that is once brought to the scrutiny, the court will declare them to be void. Hence every possible mode will be resorted to, in order to prevent a decision- no matter whether the effort reached to the case of life or death-all must give way to their ordinate spirit of cupidity, injustice and oppression. And aided by the exercise of a power, usurped by the present chief magistrate of the United States in dispensing with the laws of the nation which he has solemnly sworn to execute, they may succeed. But if they do succeed under such an influence, it will stamp the character of our government with deep disgrace.

We cannot be persuaded by anything less powerful than the fact itself, that the people of this country will stand carelessly by  and see this great branch of their government trampled under foot, by uninterested, ambitious, and unprincipled politicians. When the Supreme Court are stripped of their constitutional powers and prerogatives, the government itself will be undermined, and its destruction cannot be avoided. The national government cannot exist, and perform its necessary duties, without the aid ' support of the judiciary. Once deprived the court of the power of determining constitutional questions, and the legislatures of the states will be let loose from all control, and as interest or passion may influence them, will reduce the national government to a state of dependence and decrepitude, which would be more characteristic of the authority of a feeble colony, than that of a large powerful, independent nation.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






THE CASE OF OLMSTEAD.

Extract from Judge Hopkinson's Eulogium on the Hon. Bushrod Washington.

While I refer you to these instructive volumes for a knowledge of the decision of Judge Washington, I should be unjust to my subject, were I to omit to remind you of a case which should never be forgotten by any citizen of this Republic. It is a lesson of duty so impressive, so honorable to all concerned in it; and most of all to the commonwealth of which we are immediate members- I allude to the trial of General Michael Bright and others, on an indictment for obstructing the execution of the precess of a court of the United States. It was tried in this city, in the spring of 1809, before Judges Washington and Peters.

It is unnecessary for my purpose to state all the circumstances of this celebrated case. It is sufficient to say, that during the war of our Revolution, Gideon Olmstead and others, having fallen into the hands of their enemy, were put on a board of a British sloop, as prisoners of war, to be conducted to New York.  During the passage, Olmstead and his companions rose on the British crew, took the vessel from them, and steered for a port in the United States.--When, within five miles of such a port, a brig, belonging to the State of Pennsylvania, came up with them and captured the sloop as a prize. She was brought to Philadelphia, and there libelled in the court of Admiralty of the State, then established under an act of the State Legislature. Olmstead, and his associates filed their claim, and a judgment was rendered giving one fourth of the prize to them, and the remainder to the brig; that is to the State of Pennsylvania, her owner. Olmstead appealed to the court of Appeals, established by Congress; where the sentence of the court of Admiralty was reversed and the whole prize decreed to Olmstead; and process was issued directing the Marshal to sell the vessel and cargo, and pay the proceeds accordingly.

The Judge of the court of Admiralty delivered to David Rittenhouse, then treasurer of the State, the sum to which the State was entitled by the judgment of that court, but which, by the decree of reversal belonged to Olmstead. This money in the form of certificates, was in the possession of Mr. Rittenhouse at the time of his death, and then came into the hands of his daughters, as his representatives. The property was in this situation when Olmstead filed his libel in the District Court of the United States, then established under the new Constitution, praying for the execution of the decree of the Court of Appeals. A decree was given by the District Court according to the prayer of the libel. This was in January, 1803. Thus far the state of Pennsylvania had made no movement to assert her claim; but it was now necessary for her, either to surrender her pretensions to this money, or to come forward and defend her citizens who were holding it only for her use, and in doing so, were exposed to the whole power of the federal judiciary.  Accordingly, on the 2d of April, 1803, an act was passed by the legislature of Pennsylvania, requiring the representatives of Mr. Rittenhouse to pay the money into the State treasury; and directing a suit against them should they refuse.- The Governor of the State was also required to protect the just rights of the state by any further measures he might deem necessary; and also protect the persons and property of the ladies from any process which might issue out of the federal court, in consequence of their obedience to this requisition. The Act of Assembly declared; that the exercise of jurisdiction by the Court of Appeals was illegally usurped, in contradiction to the just rights of Pennsylvania, and that the decree of reversal was null and void. So of the decree of the District Court. Pause, for a moment, to observe the awful positions in which these two sovereignties, that of the United States and that of Pennsylvania are now placed. The United States were bound to support with their whole force the execution of their courts; and the Governor of Pennsylvania was ordered by its legislature to resist the execution of that judgment with the whole force of the State.   We tremble even now to look back at the precipice on which she stood. A false step on either side, might have been ruin to both. Nothing but the most disinterested and magnanimous patriotism could have brought us safely through this mortal crisis.

The District Court hesitated to proceed. The question was one of great difficulty and delicacy; the anticipated conflict, terrible in the extreme. The process was suspended, that the case might be submitted to the Supreme Court, which, after a hearing, stood firmly to the Constitution and the law, and commanded the District Judge to issue the process  required. It was issued. Many of you may remember with what an agonizing anxiety the result was awaited. Was a civil war to tear the entrails of the State? and citizen to meet citizen in a deadly strife? Was our happy and prosperous career doomed to be so short? Was this glorious Union to dissolve in blood, after a few years, which had proved its unparalleled excellence; had poured plenteously bounties upon our land; had raised us from weakness, poverty, and obscurity, to the power and dignity of a great nation: which had given liberty, security, and wealth to a virtuous and lost in an unnatural conflict? The process was issued; and the officer of the court had no choice but to execute it; and to compel obedience to it by the means given to him by the law. General Michael Bright, commanding a Brigade of the militia of Pennsylvania, received orders from the Governor, immediately to have in readiness, such a portion of the militia under his command, as might be necessary to execute the orders and to employ them to protect and defend the persons and property of the representatives of Mr. Rittenhouse from and against any process founded on the decree of the District court of the United States. A guard was accordingly placed by General Bright at the houses of these ladies; and he, with other defendants in the indictment, opposed with force, the efforts of the marshal to serve the writ issued to him. The process, however, was served; and the State relieved the ladies, not by waging war upon the United States, but by paying the money according to the judgment of the court. This is enough of the history of this interesting case for our present object. It was for this resistance to the process of a court of the United States, that General Bright and others of his party were indicted and brought in trial before Judge Washington and Peters, holding a Circuit court of the United States.  I have been thus particular in giving the outlines of this cause, because it not only forms a remarkable era in the life of the Judge, but also in the history of our country.

At this moment it may furnish a salutary lesson and example to a sister State advancing too far in the path of opposition to the Federal Power.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This edition printed in two pages only.

CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA, FEB. 19. 1831.

This week we present to our readers but half a sheet- the reason is, one of our printers has left us; and we expect another  (who is a white man) to quit us very soon, either to be dragged to the Georgia penitentiary for a term not less than four years, or for his personal safety, to leave the nation, and us to shift for ourselves as well as we can. And, our friends will please to remember, we cannot invite another white printer to our assistance without subjecting him to the same punishment; and to have in our employ one who has taken the oath to support the laws of Georgia which now oppress the Cherokees, is utterly out of the question. Thus is the liberty of the press guarantied by the Constitution of Georgia.

But we will not give up the ship while it is afloat. We have intelligent youths in the nation, and we hope before long to make up our loss.  In the mean time our patrons will bear with us ' have patience- let them bear in mind that we are in the woods, and, as it is said by some, in a savage country, where printers are not plenty, and a substitute not easily obtained when one of our hands leaves us or become indisposed- our paper is therefore easily deranged. Our readers will please not expect to receive the Phoenix very regularly for a while. We shall do the best we can.

___________________________

We have already noticed the late law of Georgia, making a high misdemeanor, punishable with four years imprisonment at hard labor in the penitentiary, for any white man to reside after the 1st of March, within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, (so the copy of the laws we received reads-let the people of Alabama, Tennessee and North Carolina look out-the Georgia legislature is carrying its sovereignty too far,) unless he takes the oath of allegiance, and obtains from the Governor's agent a permit to continue his residence until further orders. We cannot help alluding again to that law as being extremely unjust, without saying anything of its oppressive tendency, both to the whites and Cherokees. It is certainly oppressive on the whites, even admitting that the state of Georgia has an undoubted jurisdiction over the Cherokee territory. Why is it that it is required of them to take the oath, when by the extension of that jurisdiction; they were admitted as citizens of the state? Is such requirement made of other citizens? Do the Constitution and the laws recognize such a distinction? But what becomes of the liberty of conscience in this case?- Here a white man cannot enjoy that liberty without going to the penitentiary.

What are the effects of this law on the Cherokees?  Disastrous. Just such effects as were intended the law should produce.  The design appears to be to bring them back to their old station-carry them back twenty years hence. Deprive them of all their means of improvement, and remove all the whites, and it is thought by some the great obstacle is taken out of the way, and there will be no difficulty to bring the Cherokees to terms. If this is not the design it may possible be the tendency of the law. Now let the reader just consider. If we introduce a minister of the Gospel to preach to us the way of life and salvation, here is a law of Georgia, a Christian law too it is said, ready to seize him and send him to the Penitentiary, in violation of the constitution of the state itself. ( See Constitution of Georgia, Art. 4- Sec. 10.)  If we bring in a white man to teach our children, he is also arrested and suffers a similar punishment. If we wish a decent house built, and invite a carpenter into the nation to do the work, here is a law which forces him from our employ and soon numbers him with culprits. If we introduce a Blacksmith, or any other mechanic it is the same. Is it not natural to suppose that the tendency of such a law on the Cherokees would be disastrous! It forces from them the very means of their improvement in religion and morals, and in the arts of civilized life.

___________________________

In our last we noticed the arrest of John Martin of Coosewaytee. We understand that the great military parade against him was got up merely on suspicion, and that after taking him to headquarters, keeping him over night under guard and propounding to him a few foolish question, he was released.

______________________________

Mr. Boudinott,

Sir- We received your ' Phoenix' of December 11th and as usual read it with aching hearts; but we would suppress the rising spirit of indignation; which conscience says is wrong, for would we speak ' evil of dignities' for thus it is written, I wish however to express my views and feelings, with regard to the affairs of y our nation, and in doing this I express the sentiments of a large majority of the northern states.

You doubtless receive many of our Religious Periodicals, and there learn the sentiments of our Christian public. A large Political party are also deeply interested in your favor; and deprecate the sophistry, and hypocrisy, which would

 'Make the worse appear the better cause.'

and with these may be numbered, each enlightened individual of whatever party or denomination, whose principles, are not corrupt, and whose hearts can feel for the miseries of others.

These all sympathize with you, as with the suffering Greeks, and can find no more apology for your oppressions, than for those who would exterminate that brave, ancient, and unoffending people, merely because they have the power! We feel more in your case, because it is our own Nation which is doing this; because you have far more claim; and because we also must participate in the national judgment which must follow this national crime.

It is impossible for us to believe the sentiments of our President in his last Message sincerely expressed towards you.

I am wholly unskilled in Public affairs, excepting in what relates to the 'Indian Bill'-(and one more question which like yours hath spread a gloom over our nation) but the most simple and unlearned, whom Nature and common sense has taught the principles of right and wrong, cannot but see your affairs in the same point of view as our best and wisest and great men do.

If our President, as he says, 'indulges a friendly feeling towards the Aborigines of our country, and would reclaim them from their wandering habits, and make them a happy and prosperous people'- why not hear their prayers and relieve their miseries? It would avail me but little if one should say 'he indulged a friendly feeling' and wishes for the peace and prosperity of myself and mine, while he was driving us from our paternal inheritance, and our home, because a more enlightened and powerful family coveted it, and asked his interference, and could reward him with money, and votes, and applause. I question whether those Jezebel employed practised this hypocrisy towards Naboth, when they destroyed him for the sake of his vineyard.

If he wishes for your civilization, why not admit your rights, against the unjust demands of Georgia, and against her invasions, for no people were ever making more sure, if not more hasty advances in the arts of civilization. I speak from what I know and have seen.

Why talk of a 'dense population?'  Did we not see much uninhabited land in those regions which did not belong to the Cherokees? or what if the Cherokees wish to retain more than they can now cultivate for their children, and their children's children? Our rich landholders are allowed the peaceable possession of a township, which yet does not include their home and their all. Population increases with civilization, and we dare to predict that if the Cherokees remain unmolested, their land before many years will be filled with a 'dense population'- if not as fair as respectable and as moral as their neighbors, 'a valuable relic of the Aborigines, which should be cherished as an ornament to our country' and with the will remain an untarnished name for their Protectors and the annals of our States will remain unstained with the recorded crimes, of perjury, cruelty, and oppression! O why should you then be expelled under these pretenses, merely to qualify the avarice and malice of your neighbors and if our President 'loves you,' why not save you, and if he loves his own nation why not hear the almost innumerable petitions of the most respectable, humane and intelligent, who have brought with must earnestness, not only for you, but that he would not involve his own people in infamy and crime.

It has been said that Mr. Jackson cannot act other wise; but do we not know that Mr. Monroe was urged to this measure, yet when a proper statement was made and it was proven that the civilization of your nation was practicable, he would not expel you from the land of your forefathers; and he persuaded both Houses of Congress; and he also generously aided in the expenses of their improvement; and witnessed with pleasure, and approbation, your advancement, and there is now much increased evidence in your favor.

If our President and our Congress cannot, according to former Treaties protect a confiding nation against the invasions of one of our own states why do we need, or why support a President and a Congress.  I had thought that these constituted the beauty and safety of our government. But is it not so if your enemies speak truly. I asked one this question, he said 'it was for foreign affairs they were supported,' but I am still unconvinced for how can their influence extend to foreign affairs, if it cannot effect a neighboring nation and one of our states, and keep in good faith in fulfilling treaties? Surely our present administration is more powerless than in former years--in the days of Washington and Monroe and others who have filled the Presidential chair.

A gentleman of erudition a few evenings since said, 'that no one could justify the proceedings which are in operation against the Indians, but from ignorance; or want of principle, and humanity-that no President had gone so far in destroying the union of the States as Mr. Jackson.'

I do not write from prejudice, for I was taught to believe that 'the Hero of New Orleans'-the friend of the Bible Society, of whom the Rev. Mr. Mills wrote so interesting an account in the journal of his passage down the Mississippi; I was taught to believe him a Christian, and said he would prosper, and he has prospered far beyond my expectation; but I was not much misinformed, prosperity hath spoiled him.  'Alas it is not when we sleep soft and awake merrily ourselves that we think most of the sorrows of others.'  No Christian sanctions injustice inhumanity and barbarism.

If I would save my children from the baneful influence of example I must teach them to abhor crime, however covered with sophistry, and splendid attire, and thus will every mother do who valued their happiness here and hereafter. Our children will tell it again to theirs and thus the name of Jackson will descend to posterity stained with the epithet of cruel, unjust, perjured, and hypocritical.  It is not thus that the name of 'William Penn,' Frelinghuysen and Wirt will descend to future generations.

Mr. Jackson is spoken of by his friends, as our next President. Our fathers, our husbands, our brothers, our sons form a powerful Phalanx; and if female influence can avail ought with these our Next President shall be a friend to truth and humanity. Those who call him a man of 'Roman Integrity' must have vague notions of integrity.

Your enemies say 'that the nation as a body wish to emigrate.' We answer that your Phoenix, the affecting address of your Committee, and council to the people of the United States; and the Petition to our President, and Congress, signed by nineteen twentieth of the male adults of your nation, are enough to disprove this assertion.

We are also told that Mr. John Ross, and those who conduct the affairs of your nation, are white men who own the Press, and are speculators, who for the sum of $1000 paid to each by our government, have already stipulated to influence the Cherokees, as a body to remove; but perhaps these slanders are not worth repeating, as they only prove the ignorance, and malice of the inventors.

We rejoiced much in your 'appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States,' and judging from the past, were not surprised when we read of 'the late rash conduct of Georgia,' in defying its authority; but we wonder where these things will end, and do not know but a civil war will be the national judgment with which we shall be visited if these national sins are not prevented. O how much shall we venerate this power, if it save our nation, and yours!

We are filled with the deepest commiseration and grief, in view of your injuries, and there is no consolation, but in committing your cause with our own into his hands 'who doeth all things well,' and though 'clouds and darkness surround his throne, Justice and judgement are his habitation.'

Jan. 13, 1831.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






This edition printed in two pages only

The Philadelphia Mail for December has a string of questions, intended to show that it is for the interest of the Indians to remove to the West. What if it is? Is that a good reason for the violation of the national faith?

We are out of all patience with this mode of arguing. It requires no small effort to believe that intelligent men, who resort to it as a sufficient defence of the present measures of the government, are honest. - Vermont Chronicle.



_______________



 Sentiment Abroad.- The editor of the Canadian Watchman has the following remark on that part of the President's Message which relates to the Indians:-

'These few words concerning the tribes of Indian natives, we read with extreme pain, and we fear facts will not justify them.   The President has much more of the same tenor, and though we can say nothing with a hope to alleviate the red man's hard fate, it is our serious apprehension that might is about to trample down right, and grind it into the dust.- Where shall the poor Indian find help?  'GOD IS JUST.'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS.

Memorial of a Delegation from the Cherokee Indians.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

January 18, 1831

The following Memorial was presented and referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs:

To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress Assembled.

The memorial of the undersigned delegation from the Cherokee Nation east of the Mississippi, thereto especially instructed by their nation, respectfully sheweth unto your honorable bodies the afflictive grievances which it has been their unhappy fate to endure for some time past.

They would respectfully call your attention to the memorials submitted before you during the last session of Congress, embracing subjects of great importance to the interests and welfare of their people, some of which they beg leave at this time again to repeat.

The state of Georgia, in its earnest desire to acquire the extent of her chartered limits, set forth a claim to a large portion of Cherokee lands, as having been purchased under the Treaty of the Indian Springs made with the Creek Nation, and which, it is well known, was rendered null and void by a subsequent treaty, entered into in 1826 in this city, with the same nation. Under the authority of said State, a line has been run by commissioners, comprehending more than a million of acres of land, lying north of the established boundary between the Cherokee and Creek Nations, and to which the latter disavowed any pretension of right, claim or interest. The subject was brought before the President of the United States, who has caused a third line to be established, never contended for by any of the parties, and unauthorized by any existing treaty with either nation, though officially declared shall be the line between the lands ceded by the Creeks in 1826 to the United States and the Cherokees.- On the portion of territory we have thus been deprived of, were the houses and homes of the Cherokees, who have been compelled to leave them, with the farms that afforded their families subsistence.- 'The tract of land' says Governor Gilmer, in his late message, 'from which the Cherokees have been removed by order of the President, is supposed to contain 464.648 acres, and subject to be disposed of.'

From the decision of the President on this subject of the boundary, your memorialists, in behalf of their nation, beg leave to appeal, and to question the legal and constitutional powers of the Chief Magistrate to change or alter, in any manner, the established line between the Cherokees and Creeks, without their consent.  A difference of opinion had arisen in 1801, between the same nations, relative to a certain part of their boundary; and when the subject was introduced at the War Department by a deputation of Cherokee chiefs, and the interference of the government solicited, the following reply was given by direction of President Jefferson:- 'It will be very difficult for the President to ascertain the lines between the several countries of the red people. They must settle all such controversies among themselves. If you cannot agree, how shall we be able to decide correctly.'  [See Minutes of Conferences holden at the War Office, between the Secretary for the Department of War, on behalf of the United States, and a deputation from the Cherokee Nation of Indians, on behalf of the said nation, on the 30th of June, ' 3d of July 1801]  During the administration of the same eminent lawyer and statesman, the treaty of 1806 was made with the Cherokees, by the 3d article of which, the right of Indian nations is admitted, to settle and determine questions of boundary among themselves, viz:- 'It is also agreed on the part of the United States, that the Government thereof will use its influence and best endeavors to prevail on the Chickasaw nation of Indians to agree to the following boundary between that nation and the Cherokees.' 'c.  'But it is understood by the contracting parties, that the United States do not engage to have the aforesaid boundary established, but only to prevail on the Chickasaw Nation to consent to such a boundary between the two nations.' By these references, we believe the position of our nation to be fully and clearly sustained; and that is agreement with the Creek Nation in 1801 on this subject, is binding to all intents and purposes; and that the sanction of this Government was not essential thereto to make it so, and that they alone, by voluntary surrender of their lands, have the right to alter that boundary.

By the treaty made with the Arkansas Cherokees, in 1828, inducements were held out to the individuals of our nation to remove west of the Mississippi, and join their brethren, who had withdrawn from their connection with us in 1817 and 1819, and established for themselves a separate and distinct Government, thereby absolving all the political relationship which had previously existed as citizens of the same community. That treaty was never presented to the authority of our nation for its assent, nor the right of the Arkansas Cherokees ever admitted to interfere with, or effect in any manner, the rights and the interests of our People. Under its provisions, however, individuals have been induced to emigrate; and in pursuance of the stipulation contained in one of the articles, that the Government would make to every individual so emigrating 'a just compensation for the property he may abandon,' appraisers were appointed by the President, who has extended the term 'property abandoned,' to embrace the houses, farms, and lands upon which situated, claimed by emigrants, and who have valued, agreeably to instructions, the improvements so claimed or occupied by them; and it is now contended that the United States have acquired a title to the lands as well as to the improvements valued, and permission given by the Executive to citizens of the United States to enter the nation, and occupy them to the exclusion of the natives. The lands are, it is well known, not held in severalty by the Cherokees, but as a Nation; and this right has been solemnly guaranteed to them by treaty with the United States. The right of individuals to cede or transfer any portion of their territory has never been admitted, either by themselves or the Government; and in point of justice and law, all such citizens of the United States who have thus been permitted to enter and settle upon our territory, are intruders, and the faith of this Government is pledged for their removal. We protest against the right of the Arkansas Cherokees, or the Government, to enter into any arrangement to enter into any arrangement to effect our rights contrary to the will of the Nation, and also against the introduction and continuance of a population in our country so detrimental to the interests and peace of our citizens, the security of their persons and property from insults and outrage, and so utterly at variance with the plighted faith of this Government, for our territorial protection and promise of good neighborhood.

It is further contended by the Executive, that the United States have acquired a title to lands within the present acknowledged bounds of the nation under the 5th article of the treaty of 1817 with the Cherokees, which stipulated that the United States should lease to the Indians improvements that had been abandoned by emigrants, and who had received compensation for the benefit of 'the poor and decrepid warriors' of the nation, and which was to be continued until such improvements were 'surrendered by the nation or to the nation.' By the treaty of 1819, the leases under that of 1817 were declared void, which is of itself sufficient evidence of a surrender to the nation of all such improvements as fell within its limits agreeably to the boundary then established; and it is moreover declared, that the treaty of 1819 is a final adjustment of the treaty of  1817, and the lands then ceded to the United States are in full satisfaction of all claims  which the United States have on that nation on account of a cession of lands on the Arkansas, for the benefit of the emigrating Cherokees; yet a claim has been asserted by the Executive, on the part of the United States, to a title to lands within our present bounds, acquired under an article in the treaty of 1817, which, by the treaty of 1819, was rendered void, and fully satisfied, which, it is said ensures to the benefit of Georgia, and is made another plea to allow intrusions. Added to all these are many intruders, who, without an other pretext than to trespass upon our possessions and our rights, contrary to existing laws, are allowed to annoy and harass our peaceable citizens to an almost insufferable degree. In many instances have they by violence forced the natives out of their houses and taken possession; while other, less daring, have erected buildings for their own use upon the premises of the objects of their oppression. The frequent complaints made through the agent, and otherwise, to the government, failed to produce the desired relief from circumstances so well calculated to produce excitement and disturbance between the whites and the red people. To an alarming extent had intrusion been indulged, that the authority of the nation, relying on an article of treaty, and the former advice of the present Chief Magistrate of the United States when a General of the southern division of the United States' Army, removed a few families who had penetrated far into the country, and of the most exceptionable character-a measure demanded by the security of the persons and property of the Cherokees. It was seized upon and declared a hostile movement, ' an armed band of intruders, in retaliation, wreaked their vengeance upon a few peaceable individuals. One was cruelly murdered, another wounded, and a third led a prisoner to Georgia, and thrown into jail, whence he was subsequently released, after much trouble, by a writ of habeas corpus. A report of these transactions was made to the Government by the United States' Agent, which, however, resulted only in calling forth language of exception against our chiefs; and the perpetrators of the murder are still trespassing in open day, upon our rights and upon our territory, which has drained the blood of an innocent victim to their outrages. During the past summer, the United States troops were ordered into the nation, as we believe for the purpose of redeeming the pledges of the government for our protection; they removed the intruders, who had flocked in thousands to our gold mines, and a few also along the frontier settlements; many, however, were not molested, and others returned in a short time after, placing at utter defiance the authority vested in the United States' Agent, and heretofore exercised by his predecessors. All the Cherokees who had been engaged at their gold mines were removed with the intruders, and experienced much injury and inconvenience under an order from the Department of War, and during the stay of the troops in the nation, were not permitted to re-engage at their mining operations.

The troops have been suddenly withdrawn, and our country again left exposed to the ravages of intruders. An act has recently been passed by the Legislature of the State of Georgia, authorizing the Governor thereof to take possession of our gold mines, and appropriating twenty thousand dollars for that purpose; and another providing for the survey of our country into sections, and for the appointment of magistrates therein; against which we would most solemnly protest, as a departure from the obligations of good faith, and the desire to secure and promote the peace and friendship so often repeated in our treaties.  The language of the great and illustrious Jefferson, through the Secretary of War, to our chiefs, recurs to our memory with peculiar force:- 'The President listens willingly to your representations, and requests you and your nation to be assured of the friendship of the United States,  and that all our proceedings towards you shall be directed by justice and a sacred regard to our treaties. You must be sensible that the white people are very numerous, and that we should therefore be desirous to buy your land when you are willing to spare it; but we never wish to buy except when you are perfectly willing to sell. The lands we have heretofore bought of you have been marked off by a line, and all beyond that line we consider absolutely belonging to our red brethren. You shall now receive the map of the last line, which as heretofore been promised to you, to stand in evidence between your people and ours, and to show which lands belong to you; and which to us.' [See document before referred to.] We would most earnestly pray that the kind assurances of the friendship of the United States, by one whose examples are so worthy of imitation, may never be passed over with an unfeeling heart for the unfortunate Cherokees, and that all proceedings toward them may be directed by justice and a sacred regard to treaties.

The Executive of the United States, during the pass summer, issued an order to the agent of our nation, changing the mode of paying the annuity, and providing for its distribution amongst the individuals, averaging about forty two cents to each, contrary to the well known wishes of the Cherokees, and their solemn protest against the measure, the stipulations of the existing treaties, and the uniform practice of the Government down to the payment of the last annuity in 1830.  It is a stipend due to the nation, and has ever been controlled by its authority. The Cherokees have a treasury into which it is placed for the support of their government-'a Government of regular law,' modelled agreeably to and in pursuance of the kind ' parental advice of President Jefferson, contained in a written address to the Cherokees, 9th of January, 1809 and other national objects, by which means all are enabled to enjoy in some degree, the benefits arising from its application, but of what possible advantage will it be, if paid as contemplated, when hundreds will have a hundred or more miles to travel, neglecting all other business, to obtain the small sum of forty two cents? But it cannot be we protest against any alteration, and humbly hope that you will direct the payment as heretofore, ' in conformity with the treaties under which the fund is stipulated. We are aware that it has been asserted that the Chiefs and others speculate upon the fund, but it is not so even if it were so, would it justify a departure from the course which the pledges of the United States have bound its officer to pursue?  The language of one so truly the friend of the weak and the oppressed as the Chief Magistrate of the United States in 1808 is too explicit to pass unnoticed on this occasion. To the chiefs of the upper Cherokee towns he spoke as follows- 'You complain that you do not receive your just proportion of the annuities we pay your nation-that the chiefs of the lower town take from them more than their share. My children, this distribution is made by the authority of the Cherokee Nation, and according to their own rules, over which we have no control. We do our duty in delivering the annuities to the head men of the nation, and we pretend to no authority over them, to no right of direction how they are to be distributed.' [See Address signed Th: Jefferson, to the upper Cherokees, dated 4th May, 1808] That the same mode may still be continued is all we ask, and it is anxiously desired by the whole nation. Since that year there have been no 'complaints' on the subject, why then, at this late period when civilization has taught better the manner in which this small sum should be applied, is the change in the mode of payment to be made?

During the last session of Congress, a bill was passed, whose object as we understood, was to enable the President of the United States to comply with the compact of 1802, between the United States and the State of Georgia; and afford means to the Indian tribes, whose great desires were represented by the advocates of its passage, to effect their removal west of the Mississippi. It is not desirable for us to remonstrate upon this occasion, but we hope the kind indulgence of your honorable bodies will be extended, while we state some of the many cases of affliction and oppression which have occurred since the passage of the act. A ray of hope, in the midst of great apprehension, seemed to shed its glimmering light on the minds of the Cherokees to learn from the speeches of the Georgia delegation and others, in Congress, that nothing should be practised on the Indians in the operation of the bill, or in connection with it, that benevolence and humanity could censure; that neither force nor injustice was contemplated by the government, or the authorities of Georgia; and that they should be left to the exercise of their own free will. But experience has taught us to know that a powerful auxiliary has been afforded to forward the views and policy of that and other States, and of the Executive of the United States, towards the unfortunate aborigines of this continent. They have looked back upon the scenes and prospects of other days, and the contrast with those of the present time has caused much sorrowful feeling. Georgia, in the recent measures put in force to compel the Cherokees to listen and yield to the eloquence of the Secretary of War, and government's special agent, has departed, from the high and magnanimous pledges of kind dealing toward the Indians on the floor of Congress, and has frowned and threatened to prostrate their innocent determination to abide on their ancestral territory; but without effect. She has sent armed guards of fifties, thirties, and tens, in time of profound peace, under pretence of executing her laws, and when the occasion did not require a display of the 'pomp and circumstance of war.'  Leaving the Indian children in destitution, to mourn their hapless lot, she has led their fathers in captivity to a distant land, to destroy their spirits by immuring them in the walls of her prisons. In one case, a white man, who had a long while ago taken the protection of the nation, and married a Cherokee woman, and under the care of the Cherokee Nation, had acquired property and a large gamily, whose interests are identified with those of the Indians; having entered into a mercantile partnership with two Cherokees, he soon fell out with them, and instituted suit against them before the courts of the nation, which decided against him. After this he filed a bill in the Superior Court of Gwinnett County, against the two Cherokees, and prayed a writ of ne exeat before Augustin S. Clayton, Judge of the court, sitting in chancery, who awarded the writ, which was served upon one of them in the Cherokee Nation by a deputy sheriff of Georgia, and under guard of three men, he was carried about eighty miles to the common jail of Gwinnett County, in said State, where he was kept in close confinement until the sitting of the court in September last, when he was brought up for trial before his Hon. A. S. Clayton, who issued the writ and was discharged on the ground that the affidavit of the plaintiff was not sufficient to have warranted the issuing of such a writ. During the same trip by the deputy sheriff, he arrested an elderly Cherokee woman, a married lady, with a large family, on a plea of debt, and carried her off captive from her husband and children, fifteen miles on towards Georgia, when she fortunately exceeded in obtaining her liberty by giving bail.

In another case, in the name and authority of George R. Gilmer, Governor of Georgia, a bill was filed in chancery in the Superior Court of Hall County, in July last, against certain sundry Cherokees, praying for an injunction to stop them from digging and searching for gold within the limits of their own nation; and the bill being sworn to before the same A. S. Clayton, he awarded an injunction against the parties named in the bill, as defendants, commanding them, forthwith, to desist from working on those mines, under the penalty of 20,000 dollars, at a time and place where there were unmolested several thousand intruders from Georgia and other states, engaged in robbing the nation of gold, for which the owners were ordered not to work by the said writ. Under the authority of his injunction, the Sheriff of Hall County, with an armed force, invaded the nation, consisting of a Colonel, a Captain, and thirty or forty militia of the State of Georgia, who arrested a number of Cherokees engaged in digging for gold, who were at first rescued by the troops of the United States stationed near the place, and the sheriff and his party themselves made prisoners, and conducted fifteen miles to a military camp, when a council of examination was held, and the exhibition of their respective authorities was made, which resulted in the release of the sheriff and his party, and a written order by the commanding officer of the United States troops, directing the Cherokees to submit to the authority of Georgia, and that no further protection could be extended to the Cherokees at the gold mines, as he could no longer interfere with the laws of Georgia, but would afford aid in carrying them into execution. On the return of the sheriff and his party, they passed by the Cherokees, who were still engaged in digging for gold, and ordered them to desist, under the penalty of being committed to jail, and proceeded to destroy their tools and machinery for gleaning gold, and after committing some further aggression, they returned. Shortly afterwards, the sheriff, with a guard of four men, and a process from the state of Georgia, arrested three Cherokees for disobeying the injunction, while peaceably  engaged in their labors, and conducted them to Wadkinsville, a distance of twenty five miles, before the same A. S. Clayton, who then and there sentenced them to pay a fine of ninety three dollars cost, and stand committed to prison until paid, and also compelled them to give their bond in the sum of one thousand dollars for their personal appearance before his next court, to answer the charges of violating the writ of injunction aforesaid. In custody they were retained five days, paid the cost, gave the required bound, and did appear accordingly as bound by Judge Clayton, who dismissed them on the ground that the Governor of Georgia could not become a prosecutor in the case. For the unwarrantable outrage committed on their persons, no apology was made, and the cost they had paid was not refunded.

During the past summer, a Cherokee was arrested in the nation, by an officer of the State of Georgia, on a charge for murder, committed upon the body of another Indian, in said nation, and carried to Hall County, and placed in jail, to await his trial under the laws of that state. After some months confinement, he was taken out and tried by the aforesaid A. S. Clayton, and sentenced by him to be executed on the 24th December last.  An application was made to the Chief Justice of the United States for a writ of error, in order that the case might be brought before the Supreme Court of the United States, to test the constitutionality of the proceedings and was obtained. The arbitrary manner in which the citation was treated by the Governor and Legislature then in session, is well known to you. The resolutions adopted on the occasion breathe a spirit towards our nation of which we will not permit ourselves to speak; suffice it to say, that the writ of error has been disregarded, and the unfortunate man executed agreeably to the sentence of the judge.

One other case: A party of armed men, ten in number, from DeKalb County, Georgia, committed numerous outrages under the pretence of being Georgia Officers, as far as seventy-five miles within the nation.  They arrested a Cherokee without cause, and compelled him to pay a horse for his release. Under forged claims, they attempted to arrest another individual, and, with him his negroes, but failed; arrived at the residence of another, in his absence, they were in the act of driving his cattle off, when they were rescued by his neighbors, though they succeeded in committing some robbery upon the house. At another place they forced from an Indian his horse, without even a pretended claim, and cruelly abused the persons of two aged Cherokees, one a female, causing a flow of blood because they did not quietly suffer themselves to be robbed of their property. Two of their children who had felt it their duty to interfere for the protection of their aged parents from an insult and outrage so barbarous, were led captive into Georgia and compelled for their liberty to give their note for one hundred dollars each, payable in ten days!

Many other cases of aggravating character could be stated, did the nature of a memorial allow, supported by unexceptionable evidence. To convince the United States of our friendship and devotedness to treaty obligations, we hope enough has been done to convince even the most skeptic that a treaty, on reasonable terms, can never be obtained of our nation, and that it is time to close this scene of operations, never contemplated by the compact between the state of Georgia and the United States. How far we have contributed to keep bright the chain of friendship which binds us to these United States, is within the reach of your knowledge. It is ours to maintain it, until, perhaps, the plaintive voice of an Indian from the south shall no more be heard within your halls of legislation. Our nation and our people may cease to exist before another revolving year reassembles this august assembly of great men. We implore that our people may not be denounced as savages unfit for the 'good neighborhood' guarantied to them by treaty. We cannot better express the rights of our nation, than they are developed on the face of the document we herewith submit; and the desires of our nation, then to pray a faithful fulfilment of the promises made by its illustrious author through his Secretary. Between the compulsive measures of Georgia and our destruction, we ask the interposition of your authority, and a remembrance of the bond of perpetual peace pledged for our safety the safety of the last fragments of once mighty nation, that have grazed for a while upon your civilization and prosperity, but which now totter on the brink of angry billows whose waves have covered in oblivion other nations that were once happy, but are now no more!

The schools where our children learn to read the word of God; the churches where our people now sing to his praise, and where they are taught that 'of one blood he breathed all nations of the earth;' the fields they have cleared and the orchards they have planted; the houses they have built, are all dear to the Cherokees; there they expect to live and to die, on the lands inherited from their fathers, as the firm friends of all the people of these United States.

R. TAYLOR

JOHN RIDGE,

W. S. COODEY,

In behalf of the Cherokee Nation,

WASHINGTON CITY, Jan. 15, 1831

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the National Journal.

The following memorial of the head men and warriors of the Creek Nation exhibits the dreadful situation into which the perfidy of the General Government has plunged those deluded Indians of that nation who believed the promise (sic) of the President were made in sincerity, and that they would be fulfilled with good faith. It seems that 'during the early part of the last summer,' these Indians were told 'that those who wished to remove would be carried off at the expense of the Government.' In reliance on this promise, such as wished to remove refrained from planting their , 'crops of corn, and other articles of subsistence, and sold most of their stock.' After they had placed themselves in this destitute condition they are told 'that unless the entire Creek nation should resolve to leave their country, no assistance would be afforded to those who had prepared to emigrate.'  The melancholy condition to which these deluded individuals are reduced by this violation of pledge by this forfeiture of the faith of the nation, by the President and his advisers, is well described in the memorial, which, without further preface we append:

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled.

BROTHERS: We the undersigned, and men and warriors, for ourselves and that part of the Creek Nation desirous of emigrating, would beg leave respectfully to present for your consideration a brief, but correct statement of our present condition. For several years past, as it is known to your great council, in all the talks that we have received from our great father the President, the most forcible arguments have been employed, and the strongest inducement constantly held out, to induce us to emigrate west of the Mississippi, we have been repeatedly told that the country to which we should remove would be secured to us in fee simple; that the expense of our journey should born, and provisions made for one year's subsistence in our new homes.  Even during the early part of the last summer, similar promises and renewed assurances were made of this friendly disposition and parental care of our great father toward his red children. We were then told that those who choose to remain and come under the laws of Alabama, could do so, and those who wished the removal would be carried off at the expense of the government.

To encourage us in a more fearless expression of our sentiments, and induce us to act with more promptitude on this subject, we were also promised the protection of the government against the hostilities of those opposed to emigration, ' were told our present agent, Col. Crowell, would conduct us to our new home, and there reside permanently among us. These inducements, together with the hardship and difficulty of our present situation, and the prospective oppression consequent on the extension of the laws of Alabama, had inclined us and several thousand of our people to prepare for a speedy compliance with the wishes of our great father, to leave the scenes of our nativity and the land of our ancestors and seek a more peaceful habitation in the unexplored wilds of  the west. Reposing the utmost confidence in these promises, thus positively made-these pledges thus solemnly given- the necessary arrangements were made by us and our people for an immediate removal during the last summer.  In order that the least obstruction should be presented, and the greatest facility afforded for an early departure, we failed to plant our crops of corn and other articles of subsistence essential to our support and comfort, and we contemplated a continued residence in this country; and to further our preparations, we disposed of the most of our stock and other articles that would have been inconvenient to carry with us.  Having taken these steps to comply with the wishes of our great father the President, judge, if you can, what must have been our surprise and mortification, when we were told in a recent talk from our great father, communicated to us by our agent, that unless the entire Creek Nation should resolve to leave their country, no assistance would be afforded to those who had prepared to emigrate: and to aggravate our misfortunes, the probability is our agent will be withdrawn at the expiration of the present year. This unexpected decision has placed us in a more deplorable condition than the rest of our people. By the disposition that we have shown to remove, we have incurred the displeasure of those opposed to emigration: they deride and insult us as the deluded victims of the white men; and by the neglect of our crops and the disposal of our stock, we shall be inevitably reduced to absolute want. Such being the circumstances in which we are placed no alternative seems to be left us but a speedy removal, or the endurance of all those dreadful ills attendant on famine and persecution. But without the promised assistance of government we are utterly unable to go. Your great council, at its last session, appropriated $500,000 for the removal of the Indians west of the Mississippi, ' provided for the payment, not only of the improvements, but the expenses, and one year's subsistence in Arkansas of all those that wished to emigrate. We are not aware that the provisions of this bill render it necessary for the whole nation to remove, or none could receive the promised boon: neither was the most distant intimation of this intention contained in the repeated talks communicated from our great father, until we had openly manifested our disposition to remove. We had been accustomed to place the most implicit confidence in the promises of our white brethren. We hope this confidence will not be impaired, and that your great council will direct that we shall speedily be removed at the expense of the government, or make us an indemnity for the injury we have sustained in consequence of a compliance with the wishes of our great father. This unlooked for change towards us was not doubt intended to operate on those hostile to emigration; but monstrous indeed is that policy that will prostrate its friends in order to reach its victim.

Reasoning on the supposition that we have rights of some character, if not as lords of the domain, or as occupants merely of the soil, at least we are human beings, and should expect, in our intercourse with the white men, some show of uniformity and consistency. Will a great and magnanimous nation turn a deaf ear to our misfortunes? Will they sport with our calamities when they are of their own inflicting? Forbid it humanity! forbid it justice! We are now but the remnant of a once large and powerful nation: our situation, until lately was flourishing and happy; it is now clouded by misfortune. Recently, peace and plenty flowed around us: now, haggard wart and persecution awaits us.  Our destiny is in your hands, it is with our white brothers (by a compliance with their promises so often repeated) to raise us to our former prosperous condition, or (by persisting in the injuries they have done us) debase us to the lowest depths of degradation. we ask nothing from your mercy; we demand it from your justice.

Creek Nation, 30th Nov. 1830.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Missionary Herald.

CHOCTAWS.

LETTERS FROM MR. WRIGHT AND MR. WILLIAMS.

Anxiety Occasioned by the late Treaty.

The treaty recently formed with the Choctaw Nation by commissioners of the United States, and the dissatisfaction of the Choctaws with it, and the distress and confusion which it occasioned, were mentioned at P. 384 of the last volume. On this subject, Mr. Wright, residing at Goshen, in the south part of the nation, under date of October 26th, remarks--

'The Choctaws are at present in a very distracted state. They are much distressed in the view of being compelled to leave the land of their forefathers and seek a new home in the western wilds, of which they know nothing.  They feel that great injustice has been done them. They say their land has been taken from them without their consent. In the Six Towns, which contain a population of 2,600, only one individual voted for the treaty. He was the principal captain of the Six Towns, and has since succeeded by his intrigues, in bringing over three or four of his captains to his opinion. In the Chickesabe, which contains a population of at least 1,000, only one captain and a very (sic) of his warriors were in favor of the treaty. The people are greatly distressed that their country should thus have been sold without their consent, by a few individuals. They have, since the treaty, appointed Mr. Nail chief of the Six Towns and Chickesabe. Mr. Nail is a man of mixed blood, has considerable property, speaks the English, and is decidedly in favor of the gospel. The change has been already favorable to the interests of religion.'

Under date of Oct. 16th, Mr. Williams, who resides at Ai-ik-bun-na, quite in the opposite part of the nation from Mr. Wright, makes the following melancholy statements respecting the effect of the treaty on the Choctaws in his vicinity.

'You know not yet, neither can you learn well without seeing for yourself, how dire are the consequences already experienced from the signing of the late treaty. It almost beggars description. Loud exclamations are heard against the treaty, in almost every part of the nation. An attempt is on foot to have it altered or nullified. Will the Senate of the United States ratify it? Surely they would not, I think, if they knew under what circumstances it was made, and how the common people feel about it. The nation is literally in mourning; and many of the people are now plunging first into the vortex of intemperance. This monster stalks through the land unmolested. Some of the chief men are absent, or soon going to select places in the regions of the west. All improvements here have ceased. Multitudes are so distressed with their prospect, as to sit down in a kind of sullen despair. They know not what to do. Some say, 'I will not go to the west; I might as well die here as there.'  'Some are for going soon, whose motives, I fear, are no other than to become savages and hunters. All is confusion now, and no brighter prospect is before us;- at any rate none that is near. But it is most painful, indescribably so, to witness the sad decline of religious feeling.--There is a very great falling off, even of church members, since the treaty was concluded. Indeed we did not look for so many spurious cases; among those who once appeared so well. But surely the Lord has a remnant according to the election of grace.' The language of this people generally is to this effect- 'I do not despise the gospel, or disbelieve your word; but I am so distressed with the loss of my beloved country, and have my mind so full of anxiety on this subject, that I have no room for any other thought. I can neither sing nor pray, and why should I pretend to do so when my heart is not in it.'

I heard old Tunnapunchuffa say just now, 'I have no wish to leave the bones of my ancestors, and go to another country.  I wish here to lay my flesh, and go hence to my Father's residence above. I wish to trust in Jesus Christ alone, and to be holy, wise, good, and happy.'

I will add a few words which I wrote at his dictation, and which were addressed by him to one of his white brethren, regarded as representing all the friends of the Indians.

'O my brother, I hold you fast. I am a poor distressed man. Do help me. The Secretary of War came and took my country. I am in great distress. O that my Father above would help me, is my desire. I am a poor Choctaw: I have many people dependent upon me, and old people also. I am like a blind man, or one with a broken leg, as I have no means of going out of my yard. That is, no means of removing to a distant country, with his numerous and helpless family.  If I leave my yard, I may die from exposure to cold and hunger, rather than from sickness. When I see the women and children weeping in sorrow, I am distressed. This I tell you.'

He then said in a kind of soliloquy, 'Brother white man, I never injured anything of yours. My ancestors never took up arms against you, but were always your friends. I am their descendant. I never injured you, or run in you debt a shilling, but have conducted myself properly towards you. True, other nations have fought you, but I, a Choctaw, have not.'

He then spoke of his progress in the gospel, or his religious course. 'Until,' as he says, 'the Secretary of War came and spoiled all my enjoyments. However, though some have renounced religion, I wish to persevere and be more faithful. We exceedingly wish to stay in our dwellings, and enjoy the gospel, and think of and adore our heavenly father. The messengers of Jesus Christ in our country are our very brethren. Their hearts and thoughts being mingled with ours, we are as one people. Therefore O brother, do surely help us. If perhaps we go anywhere, we wish to go hand in hand with our missionaries. If God does not suffer the white people to deprive us of our missionaries, we will never send them away. I send you a poor, but a true talk. O my brother do help us by talking to the white people who seek to get our country. I depend on you. This is all, my brother.'

In the midst of this effusion of patriotic feeling, as if despairing of all human interposition, and filled with agony in apprehension of being driven from the land of his gathers, and of the distress which was coming on his gamily and kindred, he broke off from addressing his white brother, and turned to him to whom the gospel had recently taught him to look for deliverance from trouble, and exclaimed, 'Jesus Christ, we will never break thy word-do help us.'

This man is a member of the church, and has been repeatedly noticed in the communications of Mr. Williams, published in this work, as an instance of unaffected and consistent piety. The misconduct of many of those who had previously been regarded as pious, and of some who had been admitted to the church, is not more than was to be expected. The fact that the portion of the nation which is opposed to Christianity, attribute the loss of their country, and all their present  calamities, to the introduction of the gospel and the change of their customs, has subjected those who profess to be Christians, to much reproach and persecution. If to this be added the desperation, occasioned by the ruin which threatens to overwhelm them, and the great increase of temptation and diminution of restraint, it will be seen that young converts have very rarely been subjected to so severe a test.

Under the date of Nov. 8th, Mr. Williams has communicated some additional statements respecting the appearance of the people.

'Since I wrote last, I have had an opportunity to observe more of the effects of the late treaty, having passed quite through the nation by different routes, on my way to and from the meeting of the synod.  Some of the Choctaws are recovered in part from the shock occasioned by the news of the treaty, and are trying to compose their minds to go to the west. Hundreds have already wandered off-some into their new country, some into the Spanish dominions, and some to other places. Many are compelled by famine to do so. Whiskey numbers several victims-five at least, within about a month.  It was contemplated to send a protest against the treaty to Congress; but there is so much opposition to this from the principle chiefs, who signed it, and so much confusion prevails, that probably nothing will be done.- If a law the law of the state of Mississippi relative to the Indians should be repealed, and the senate of the United States should refuse to ratify the treaty, it is possible that the poor Choctaws might survive this dreadful convulsion, and regain the ground they have lost. But if not, God only knows when they will be quietly and prosperously settled.'

It does not appear that the Choctaws were at the date of Mr. Williams' last letter, any more satisfied with the treaty, or any less distressed in view of a removal to the wilds of the west, than they were at the date of the former. The first shock and the first effusion of feeling were past; and some began to reflect on what they ought to do in their unhappy circumstances; while others, rendered desperate, gave themselves up to intoxication. The fact is, if the treaty shall be ratified, and the process of removal goes on, their troubles are but just begun. The authority of the chiefs is already prostrated, and the door is of course opened for the introduction of intoxicating liquors, for quarrels, murders, and universal disorder. Corrupting, fraudulent, and oppressive speculators are overrunning the country. All industry has ceased, and all attempts to improve their condition where they are; for why should they plant when they know not who will gather the harvest? An idle, unsettled, and vagrant life will soon be commenced, which must keep them for a year or two, at least, aloof from all religious instruction or restraint. Soon will come the heart rending task of leaving the country to which they are devotedly attached, because the land of their forefathers and of their own childhood-a land which God gave to them, which long beyond all tradition or memory, their fathers and they have occupied and owned, and which they have never sold or forfeited. Families will be broken up and separated; the aged, infirm, and sick, the women and tender children, will be removed--upon contract--so much a head--four hundred miles, through a land of strangers, to their new and desolate abode, there passively to wait the further calamities, which famine, savage enemies, and diseases, occasioned by exposure, hardship and despair, may bring upon them. Surely no prayers and no exertions should be spared to keep this picture from being more than filled up. It is yet to be hoped that the threatening ruin of this people may be averted.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA:MARCH 5, 1831

We have before us the Georgia 'Athenian' of the 15 ult. which contains; copied from the Milledgeville Journal, two bulletins of the Commander-in-chief (Col. Sanford) of the Georgia army, addressed to the Governor. The first relates to the affair, a brief account of which has already been furnished by Col. Nelson. The one we now allude to confirms that account and gives a particular description of the manner of the `attack', and the complete, triumph of the Guard by stabbing with bayonets an old man who had raised 'his valorous arm' in opposition. It is indeed amusing to set down and read this pompous Military display in words, even admitting that all the particulars therein contained are correct. We doubt whether Count Diebitsch would make a greater display in describing a victory over an army of fifty thousand Turks. We intended to have furnished this bulletin to our readers this week, and to state some reports which are circulated in contradiction, but as we have since seen in the Athenian a letter from an intelligent gentleman in Gainsville, and giving, to us, a very satisfactory account of this affair, we have concluded to defer it until next week, and publish with it the counter statement. The reader then can judge who tells the truth.

The other letter we insert below. The `tone and spirit' exhibited in this letter are not so outrageous as the other, yet it is equally as unbecoming a high minded and generous man. If it is true (and of that we have not disposition to make a denial) that the smallness of their number, or otherwise their weakness prevents the Cherokees from resisting him, it does not come with a good grace from any man in Col. Sanford's condition to say so. It is morally certain, if the Cherokees were strong and Georgia weak, the latter would no more think of extending her jurisdiction over this territory, than she would of subjecting England to her laws. Let not the Indian be abused, trampled down, scorned, and laughed at because he is small. Let it not be supposed he is awed into silence merely because a gray headed Tennessean was stabbed nearly to death. Let not injustice be done to his motives, because he will not take up the why which has lain buried for the last forty years, and which he has agreed and given his pledge that it should lie there forever. The Cherokees are for justice and they are trying to obtain it in a peaceable manner, by a regular course of law. If the last and legitimate tribunal decided against them, as honest men they will submit and 'the agony will be over.' Will Georgia be as honest and submit to her own (U.S.) Courts?--'Disquietude.' This single word is sufficient to show the grand motive in extending the laws of Georgia over the Cherokees. Col. Sanford seems to rejoice that there is an 'increasing disquietude.'  But no more of this at present.

Col. Sanford to Governor Gilmer.

AGENCY AT SCUDDER'S

(?) 20, 1831

His Excellency George R. Gilmer,

SIR-It is with feelings of the most unfeigned satisfaction, that I communicate to your Excellency that the command despatched to the Lower Mines has returned to the encampment, without encountering any obstacle in its progress or having had occasion, in any instance, for the exercise of its authority. The country through which their route lay was all quietness ' submission, ' their reception, if not welcome, has been, at least, friendly and respectful. I doubt not, but intelligence of the decisive and energetic conduct at the Ford, has contributed mainly to this desirable result; ' I hope its recollection will still continue them in a course thus conducive to their happiness, and their welfare. I am aware, however, that whatever may be appearances, there is at this time, an extreme repugnance to our jurisdiction, ' nothing, in my opinion, prevents its violent manifestation, but the paucity of their number and the imbecility of their power. Conscious of their own impotency, they look forward with hope and confidence to the Supreme Court, for an arrest of our proceedings upon these premises.  They are still deluded with the belief of the success of their application, and that Georgia will be compelled to recede from the position she has assumed. Should, however, its decree be averse to their pretentions, the agony is over; 'aye and forever.' Their Chieftains, rather than longer submit to our dominion, will look to a region, where they can without trouble or molestation exercise their own.- This event will probably take place, happen what will, if Georgia be only true to herself. The operation of her laws is attended with daily increasing disquietude in their ranks, and with utter dismay in those of their counsellors.

______________________

GEORGIA GUARD.

The object for which this military band was created by the last legislature was to defend the gold mines and to assist in enforcing the laws of the State. We considered their duties few and simple, and we thought we understood them, until they came and arrested Mr. Martin without a written precept, and without even alleging a charge. This put us in the dark, and we are utterly at a loss to account for such unprecedented proceedings. It is reported that a similar course will be pursued against other persons, such as the white men who have not taken the oath of allegiance.  We shall soon know, however, how it will be. We hear may reports of what they intend to do-if half what we hear were true, it would be bad enough.

While we are upon this subject we cannot, perhaps,do any better than present to our readers the following circular of one of the officers. We publish it as it came from the author, ' without commenting upon it, only we beg leave to repeat a sentence. 'I am directed to expel the Poney club from the Cherokee Territory, no white family being allowed to remain on said land unless of GOOD CHARACTER as to HONESTY.' Now has the Club been rooted out of the territory? Have they not rather been introduced into the nation? Who rented some of those improvements abandoned by emigrants?  Where is Philpot and some of his colleagues?

CIRCULAR

To all and every person or persons, who may be occupied in digging for Gold, Silver, or other Metals, in that part of the State of Georgia, in the occupancy of the Cherokees. They are hereby requested to cease digging and Retire to Their Homes, as I have been appointed by the Agent of the State; Col. J. W. A. Sanford, to Enlist a company of men to Guard said mines I have accordingly done so, and shall proceed to SIXES, and station myself there This coming week, and scour the Al-le-too-nee, and other branches containing Gold Immediately Thereafter. I therefore do Hope and Trust, that no person either white or Red, Will be found hardy enough to Resist, the Troops and authority of the State, as We have power, in the event of Resistance to call out any number of The Militia of Georgia, that may be needed to expel all such Intruders.- I am also directed to aid and assist in carrying the Law of the State into effect, and also to Protect the Indians, in their Persons and Property, from the aggressions of Bad White men, and I am directed to expel the Poney club from the Cherokee Territory, no White Family being allowed to remain on said Land unless of Good character as to Honesty.- I therefore shall expect the hearty cooperation of all good men Red and White, as I am equally Friendly to both, and desirous for their welfare.  We therefore come as Friends and protectors and not as enemies to Good People. We therefore wish to keep up a Friendly Intercourse with Them, in all Legal and right ways.

I am with Great Respect

JACOB BROOKS.

Comdg. Geo. Guards.

________________

Copy of a letter from a member of Congress to the Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, dated.

WASHINGTON CITY,

26th Jan. 1831.

DEAR SIR- Your favor of the 13th inst. came safe to hand by this day's mail, and I will hasten to answer it. I am enjoying good health and hope these lines may find you likewise in health.

Your Delegation are doing the best they can for your people, and have had their memorial presented to Congress by Judge Hemphill from Pennsylvania, as perhaps you will see before these lines reach you.  The State of Pennsylvania is taking a very lively interest in memorializing Congress in your behalf-they are praying Congress to interfere and protect the Indians in their rights agreeably to former treaties, and several of the Eastern States are petitioning in the same manner. I do hope the question will come up again before we break up.  I have no doubt but there are many that voted for the bill that are ashamed of their votes at this time. I for one, am prouder of my vote than any vote that I ever gave. I would rather be beaten and never see another Congress while I live, than to have voted for that Bill; but upon that subject I never will dread the consequence while I enjoy the same opinion with the people of the Western District that I now do. I have always believed that I represented an honest people, while that is the case I have nothing to dread from giving an honest vote. I do not, nor never did believe that there was one spark of honesty in that whole measure; it was nothing but a speculation by the Government.  We have a bill reported to Congress by Mr. Davis of South Carolina to repeal the 25th section of the Judiciary act, which is neither more nor less than to separate this Union. If that bill was to pass we would not be one moment longer a Union. I do believe that the object of this attempt is to give the State of Georgia a chance to oppress your people, and to prevent the General Government from protecting them. That section is the keystone to this Government and everything that holds the Government together.

I have taken all the pains in my power to make your Delegation acquainted with the members. I have taken and gone with them to members' rooms and introduced them to a great many members, and I find a great difference in the language used about the course pursued towards your people that was last winter. Your Delegation are very popular with the members generally, except a few Jackson worshippers, and they have nothing to say or to do with them. I do trust in God that there is honesty enough in Congress to do you justice before it is too late.

I was bred and born in Tennessee, and have fought under General Jackson, and voted for him for President, but I never will vote for him again. If I were never to see another Congress I would retire to private life with a clear conscience, that I have acted honestly towards God and my country. The letters that I receive from my District are very flattering. The truth is I am not the least alarmed about the success of my next election, the Jackson question notwithstanding.

I am of opinion that we will do but little good during the present session. We are still engaged in Judge Peck's trial, but I hope we will close it in a few days; then I expect we will spend the remainder of the session principally in debates on questions that have been introduced, viz. the repeal of the 25th section, and the striking out John Randolph's salary. These questions will take up much time, but I do believe that there are a majority in Congress who have a wish to do something for your people before we leave here. I must close by requesting you to tender my best respects to your Brother Lewis and Mr. Vann, and accept the assurances of my best wishes.

I remain your friend and Obedient Servant.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Copy of a letter to the editor.

VALLEY TOWNS Feb. 15, 1830

My DEAR BROTHER- With poignant sorrow, I communicate to you the intelligence of the death of my dear wife. She exchanged mortality for life, on Saturday, Feb. 5, 1831, about 5 o'clock in the evening; in full assurance of a glorious resurrection.

Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ was her strong hold; and well did it sustain her hopes, in the trying hour; giving her the victory over the king of terrors.

She has been a faithful laborer in the Missionary field for ten years. And, in her last days greatly rejoiced, to witness the prosperity of her Savior's kingdom among the Cherokees.

She always cherished an ardent desire for the conversion of the Indians, and watched and encouraged, with the most tender concern, every symptom of turning to God among those who were placed under her care, or who came under her notice. She was also a diligent and well qualified teacher of youth. But the Lord has called her from her toils, and wiped all tears from her eyes, and chased all anxiety from her mind, and introduced her redeemed spirit.

'To mysteries of everlasting bliss,

The tree and fount of life, the eternal throne,

And presence chamber of the King of Kings.'

Yours in much affliction

EVAN JONES.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The following memorial has been circulating in the western part of Pennsylvania, and in the adjoining parts of Virginia and Ohio.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled:-

The undersigned memorialists inhabitants of appear before your honorable bodies, with the respect and deference due to the assembled representatives of the nation. Our object is a simple one: to ask for justice and an oppressed and a persecuted race.- Governments, we know, like individuals, are sometimes drawn aside from the path of rectitude by the operation of interest or prejudiced feelings. And as injustice in an individual meets with its due punishment, so also will nations, who, regardless of their oft plighted faith, lay the iron hand of oppression on their weaker and confiding neighbors, assuredly have their desserts meted out to them by the Omnipotent Ruler of the Universe and the Dispenser of the destinies of nations.

When the citizens of a free nation think they perceive in its governmental acts, a dereliction from the immutable principles of justice, it becomes their duty, as it is their right, 'peaceably to assemble and petition the government for the redress of grievances.' This right is secured to us by the fundamental Charter of our Union. It is unalienable; it is inherent to our existence as freemen. As individuals, we come not humbly to sue a favor; but as citizens of the United States, to assert our right candidly and conscientiously to tell what are our views of the true policy of our national government on the subject of our Indian relations.

With the immortal Washington, we believe that 'there is no truth more thoroughly established, than that there exists in the economy and course of nature, and indissoluble union between virtue and happiness-between duty and advantage-between the genuine maxims of an honest and magnanimous policy, and the solid rewards of public prosperity and felicity;' that 'we ought to be no less persuaded that the propitious smiles of Heaven can never be expected on a nation that disregards the eternal rules of order and right which Heaven itself has ordained;' and that 'the preservation of the sacred fire of liberty, and the destiny of the republican model of government are justly considered as deeply, perhaps as finally staked on the 'experiment intrusted to the hands of the American people.' With feelings and sentiments of this character, have we viewed the expressed opinions of the present Executive of the United States, and its conforming course of conduct towards our Indian allies at the South; with a dread that as a nation we shall no longer be blessed with 'the propitious smiles of Heaven,' have we witnessed the party legislation on this subject; and with an apprehension that 'the sacred fire of our liberties' is now to be quenched, and instead of the pure, brilliant and steady light with which it has heretofore guided our nation to glory, we are to be left to the uncertain flickerings of its dying embers, have we marked the greedy, rapacious and tyrannical legislation of the State of Georgia relative to the Cherokee Nation of Indians. The time has indeed come, when men who value their possessions, when parents who regard the security of their families, when freemen who prize their birthright, and Christians who worship the God of Justice, should speak, and that in no equivocal language.

We believe that 'God hath made of one blood all the nations that dwell upon the face of the earth;' and we also hold this truth to be self-evident, 'that all men are created equal; and that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, and that amongst them, are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.'- How then can we regard:

I. The assumed right of jurisdiction by the State of Georgia over all the Indians within what her legislators are pleased to call her 'Chartered limits' and

II. The consequent passage of laws by her Legislature relative to these Indians, which are unparalleled in the records of American legislation.

Your memorialists consider the question of the claims of the State of Georgia to the Indian lands within her limits, to be a very plain one. Divested, as its consideration should be, at the provisional engagements entered into by the United States, under the Convention of 1802, with the State of Georgia, it may easily be ascertained in whom rests the right of proprietorship and jurisdiction. The question is one of right; and as a question of right only, do your memorialists conceive that it ought to be treated by the United States' Government. Whether it be expedient for the Indians to remove, is for them to determine. But it is a new doctrine, indeed; if expediency is to be considered in the decision of a question of abstract right.

Our opinions on this question are founded on the following facts and arguments-

At the discovery of the Continent of N. America, by Europeans, its inhabitants were in full and undisputed possession of its territory. The right of discovery, as exercised by the European governments of that age, did not affect them. It was a conventional right, agreed upon between these governments for the guidance of their own subjects. The fact of all the settlements made by Europeans on the continent of N. America having been by treaty with the original inhabitants, and by the purchase or voluntary cession of their lands, conclusively and incontrovertibly demonstrates that the discoverers and colonists themselves did not consider the discovery only of these lands, as investing them with the 'fee simple title' to them. The rights then conveyed under the royal charters to the various colonies were.

1st. The right of discovery, whereby the parent government guaranteed to its colony, security against molestation by other European powers or their colonies; and

2d. The right of preemption to the Indians lands; a right acquired by treaty with their proprietors.

The argument so repeatedly urged, that the consideration given by the colonists for the lands they purchased, was inadequate and insufficient, is equally futile with the doctrine of the right by discovery, as now advanced by many. Of the sufficiency of any consideration in trade, each party is his own judge. No one will deny the right of a citizen of these United States to alienate his property, without receiving the least consideration therefor; provided, there are no claims on him to be affected by this alienation or gift. What justice or morality, then, is there in our establishing one rule for our own conduct and government, and another for that of our neighbors? As well might we at once proclaim our Constitution nullity, our laws as a farce, and resolve ourselves into chaos. Order, indeed, might come out of the confusion; but it would be the order established by the sword, and sustained by the scepter.

During the period in which these States sustained the relation of Colonies to Great Britain, treaties and talks were repeatedly held by them with the Indian tribes, in all of which they were considered and addressed as independent sovereignties, and their friendship and alliance were assiduously sought and cultivated. On the Colonies becoming independent states, no right to territory were acquired by them beyond those conveyed in the royal charters. So did the government of the Confederation consider; and accordingly continued to treat with the Indians as nations dependent on non but themselves for their acts and responsible for the consequences of their acts, only to themselves.

On the adoption of the present Federal Constitution, the treaty-making power was expressly reserved to the United States.  Previous to their accession to the Union, the independence of each State was full and complete. If Georgia, before this accession, had any jurisdiction over the Cherokee Nation and territory-which, indeed, she had not- by her assent as a member of the United States, to treaties made under its authority, in which the independence and sovereign character of this Nation of Indians was distinctly recognized, she has forever and effectually waived that right.

Subsequent to those treaties, the United States, by the Convention of 1802, with the State of Georgia, bound themselves to endeavor to obtain the extinguishment of the Indian title to these lands. Let this endeavor be made; but let it be made in conformity with both the spirit and the letter of that instrument-'peaceably and on reasonable terms.' The very assent to this convention, acknowledged, on the part of each party to it, that the then proprietors of the lands in question had it in their power to alienate them or not, at their own option. How has it come to pass, that this power has since departed from them?  That power has not passed from these Indians; they have never forfeited or abandoned it.

If, however, the Cherokees refuse to part with their lands, and the obligation of the General Government to the State of Georgia is still urged and insisted on by the latter, then let Georgia herself estimate their value, and the amount be paid to her out of the national treasury.

It has been urged that in the treaties of 1785, 1791, and 1798, the Cherokee Indians expressly yielded up the character of independent nations, by placing themselves under the protection of the United States.- This position is utterly at variance with the fundamental law of nations, that 'a nation that has placed herself under the protection of another, has not on that account forfeited her character of sovereignty.'

But the assumption of the right of jurisdiction over the Cherokee Nation and territory by the State of Georgia, is, if possible less surprising to your memorialists, than the extraordinary methods she has taken of asserting that right. She has passed laws abridging their freedom of speech on subjects of national concernment- a tyranny never exampled in the history of free governments; she has deprived these Indians of the power of giving testimony in her courts of justice, in cases where white men are parties-a refinement on the one-sided justice of the Inquisition; her legislators have, as if personally to interest each individual in the State in their reckless course, sought to operate on their avarice and cupidity, by the lures of gain in a lottery of these identical lands; and more recently her Legislature has set at defiance the civil process of the highest judicial tribunal in this Union --thus casting off the last remnant or moral restraint and exposing to the shame of her sister States and the contempt of the world, a character destitute of principle, and governed only by avaricious lusts.

It is with pain and with sorrow that your memorialists have viewed these acts. We had hoped that the Genius of Freedom, exiled from the Eastern continent, had in this Western world, found an abiding place for her foot; and that here at least, her banner would long have floated over a free, because virtuous people, and her white garments would not here have been stained by crime, and polluted by tyranny.

If the times have gone by that 'tried men's souls,' yet we have fallen upon the days that try men's principles.  Considerations of justice and humanity are forgotten in the anxiety to uphold this party and keep down that. We see official documents proceeding from the executive department of our national government bearing on their seals the insignia of party, and on their face a disregard to treaties and contempt of righteousness. More particularly do we not allude to an order, issued by the War Department, under the date of May 30, 1830, in which the following admonition is held out to the Cherokee Nation of Indians-'The President views the Indians as the children of the government-He sees what is best for them; and that a perseverance in the refusal to fly the dangers that surround them, must result in their misery and destruction.'

Here do we see the President of the United States, regardless of one Treaty which says-

'The said Indians for themselves and their respective tribes and towns, do acknowledge all the Cherokees to be under the protection of the United States:'

'The hatchet shall be forever buried, and the peace given by the United States, and friendship re-established between the said States on the one part, and all the Cherokees on the other, shall be universal; and the contracting parties shall use their utmost endeavors to maintain the peace given as aforesaid, and friendship reestablished'-

And of another Treaty, which provides-

'The United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation, all their lands not hereby ceded:

'All animosities for past grievances shall henceforth cease, and the contracting parties will carry the foregoing treaty into full execution with all good faith and sincerity'-

And of yet a third which again reiterates the promises of peace, friendship and protection in these words;

'The peace and friendship subsisting between the United States and the Cherokee people, are hereby renewed, continued and declared perpetual;'

'The treaties subsisting between the present contracting parties are acknowledged to be of full and operating force:'

'The limits and boundaries of the Cherokee Nation, as stipulated and marked by the existing treaties between the parties, shall be and remain the same, where not altered by the present treaty:'

'And (the United States) will continue the guarantee of the remainder of their country forever, as made and contained in former treaties.'

Here do we see the chief magistrate and first executive officer of the Union, throwing aside these repeated and solemn guarantees for the maintenance of which the faith of the nation has been pledged and its character staked, and telling this confiding and persecuted people, 'Depart--or abide at your peril.'

These things grieve us. The hatchet has been dug up; and if we turn to use it amongst ourselves, the curse be upon him whose avarice would not let it lay buried.

In conclusion, your memorialists pray that in whatever shape the question of our Indian relations may come before your honorable bodies during your present session, such consideration only may be given it, as shall preserve inviolate the pledged faith of the nation; and such consideration, too, as can be sanctioned by the high principles of justice and humanity.

And your memorialists, as in duty bound, will ever pray.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Georgia and the Indians.- Much curiosity has been evinced by the public in anticipating the finale of the conflicting claims to exclusive sovereignty which have been asserted by the State of Georgia and the Cherokee tribe of Indians over the territory occupied by that tribe.  In the case of George Tassels, an Indian who was lately convicted of killing another Indian and under the laws of Georgia, sentenced to be hung the Writ of Error issued by Chief Justice Marshall if it had been obeyed by the authorities of the State would have taken the case before the Supreme Court where the question would have been settled in a regular and peaceable manner. But the State of Georgia has taken a short cut to end the matter. Orders were immediately issued to hang the Indian, and as our readers are apprised, these orders have been carried into effect.  Tassels is in his grave ' this fact being suggested to the Supreme Court as he was the plaintiff in Error the suit must abate. But as our readers will have seen by a statement in our last paper the Cherokee Nation have filed a Bill in the Supreme Court for an injunction to restrain the State of Georgia from trespassing on their lands or executing the laws of that State within the bounds of the Cherokee Territory. That the Supreme Court has jurisdiction in such cases, is doubted by some on the authority of the 11th article of the Amendments to the Constitution, which is in these words:

'That the Judicial Power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in Law or Equity, commenced or prosecuted against any one of the U. States, by citizens of an other State, or by citizens or subjects of any foreign State.'

On the other hand it is asserted that that Court has exercised jurisdiction in several cases wherein the objection was raised, and particularly in the case of Cohens vs. the State of Virginia.  Whether that Court has jurisdiction in this case or not we think nothing could more clearly show than the conduct of Georgia herself in this matter, that justice requires a tribunal higher than any in that State to decide this important question. We do not mean to express any opinion of the claims to jurisdiction set up by Georgia, but we think a stronger exemplification of the truth of the old saying that 'Gold's corrupting,' can scarcely be found than in the avidity which that State has exhibited to seize on the territory of the Indians and oust them right or wrong by the oppression of burdensome laws. The zeal which is exhibited in this attempt, can easily be accounted for when it is recollected that the Indians Territory is understood to contain rich mines of Gold, ' that by the laws of that State her public domain is divided by lottery among the people. Under these circumstances the venerable and upright judges of the Supreme Court would form a tribunal quite too disinterested to suit the purposes of Georgia in her controversy with the Indians.  But, the 'poor Indian' who is scorned and scoffed at by a certain set of political zealots in our country, when supplicating justice from the Supreme Court, will be just as sure of the protection of his rights, as if he were the proudest nabob in the land.- Florence Ala. Gazette.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














five column format

INDIANS.

From the Vermont Statesman.

THE INDIANS.

By agreement with Georgia, the United States are bound to purchase of the Cherokee Indians all their lands laying within the said State, at which time said lands become sole property of Georgia. This contract was entered into on the part of the United States in consideration of full 'value received,' and on the part of Georgia, of value conveyed. There can, in fairness, be no dispute about the justness and validity of Georgia's claim on the government. It is as binding as a note of hand from one individual to another, or from one firm of copartnership to another. Every citizen of the United States is bound by it, both individually and collectively, as much, and in the same manner, as he would be by a paper which reads as follows: 'For value received of the Sovereign People of the State of Georgia, we, the Sovereign People of the United States, jointly and severally, promise to convey to them the country of Switzerland, as soon as it can be purchased ON REASONABLE TERMS..' [Signed by their agent, the President of the United States, according to order.] This would be an uncommon contract, but it would be a true one, an enforceable one, and one not without a precedent. The Government would be bound to take all honorable measures to ensure its fulfilment, and when fulfilled, every honest citizen would consider, that he had only paid his part of an honest debt. But it would by no means be incumbent on the Government to violate other contracts in order to hasten the fulfilment of this. If this country had agreed, in consideration of -- no matter what -- say a ship's cargo of watches -- to protect the Swiss Government from foreign intrusion, they would be obligated to use all exertions to fulfil the contract.  And after they had got possession of the watches, it would be bad philosophy which would teach them it would be just to allow, and invite the surrounding nations to perplex and harass them, or to send agents among them to misrepresent facts in order that we might make a better bargain with them to remove to Siberia, and the Georgians might be sooner be put in possession of their territory.

As a nation, the Cherokees are as independent as the Swiss. Their title to their possessions is more ancient than the memory of man can tell.  Even tradition extends not back to the time when they first came in possession of their lands. For centuries they have sat by the same council-fire, fished by the same streams, roamed the same wilds in the same chase, and defended the same soil with their bravery and blood. They have no written title of ownership, yet what nation can boast a more valid claim? It was given them by the Almighty -- the 'King of kings -- the Giver of all gifts to men.' They own no other conveyancer -- they need no other. Before the Indian had heard of the white man, or the white man of the Indian, it was theirs. Their domain was then extensive, and as a people they were powerful. But avarice appeared among them, and their possessions vanished; vice picked their warriors, till they are dwindled to, as it were, a handful of men, inhabiting a small, though fertile, patch of territory, within the chartered limits of a State. That nation, which could once defy in arms the whole physical force of the white man on this continent have been brought to the necessity of purchasing protection at the hands of its once diminutive suitor for mercy, and, again to see that unforfeited protection wickedly withdrawn. When the U. States agreed to protect the Indians, it was as complete an act of bargain and sale as any act could be. So much land was given for so much protection. When Gen. Jackson permitted that protection to be withdrawn, he violated the faith of this nation, against the will of this nation, and for this very act he has justly and fairly forfeited the confidence of this nation. Whether they will judge the man by his measures, and reward him according to his deeds, remains to be seen.

The Georgians are not much to blame in this matter as the General Government. No doubt, the Indians are troublesome neighbors to the Georgians -- troublesome in peace, and in war, vastly so. From the nature of things, no great friendship can exist between them. There must be a continued conflict kept up between two of the most incorrigible passion -- avarice on the one hand, and revenge on the other. Nothing but the strong arm of National power can keep them from clashing. This has been withdrawn, and Georgia has done as she has. She has done that, which, if permitted to remain undone, let no after history record, or if recorded, let it be read with shame. The arm of the Executive, which was sworn to sustain the Indian, has beckoned his enemy on. It has played the traitor, and let it share the traitor's reward. Again we say, let every contract with Georgia be fulfilled to the very letter; let not the people be mistaken by the notion, that it is wrong to purchase the Indians' lands, for it cannot be wrong to do so; it is fulfilling a fair contract, and violating no rule of justice. But, at the same time, let the Indian have his due. Let no faith be broken. Let it be remembered, that a tawny skin is a far more honorable badge than a tarnished honor.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: MARCH 12, 1831.

We invite the reader's attention to the documents on our fourth page, referred to in our last.

* * * * *

The advocates of the policy of the Government toward the Cherokees urge as proof positive, of the correctness of that policy and the justice of the claim of Georgia, that the Indians have no right to erect an independent government within the sovereign limits of the State and without its consent. Such reasoning discovers great ignorance of the subject, or a fixed determination to misrepresent facts and mislead the public mind. It is only begging the question and assuming that which is the ground of dispute. No body affirms that the Cherokees can erect an independent government within the sovereign limits of Georgia; but the question is, how far do the sovereign limits of the state extend? Does the sovereignty of the State terminate at the boundary line established by treaty between the Cherokees and the United States, of which Georgia forms a part, as the former contend supported by the first jurists of the country, or does it extend to the chartered limits, as General Jackson and many of his supporters affirm? This is the point, and to us it appears utterly ridiculous to assume the case itself, and spread it before the world as an unanswerable argument. It is indeed a summary way of getting over a difficulty.  We are tired of such a mode of arguing; at the same time we know many well meaning persons, for want of proper reflection, are led astray it, and consider it conclusive. It is no more conclusive than the common argument, It is so, because it is so.

When our opponents say that the Cherokees have no right to erect an independent government within the sovereign limits of Georgia without its consent, we reply, true, as we understand what those limits are. If it is meant that the Cherokees cannot establish a government where they are, within their territorial possessions, the language is still unfortunate, for they are making no such attempt. But if it is meant that they cannot continue their government without the consent of Georgia, then here is the same assumption of the case itself. Thus do the advocates of State rights, as they call themselves, profoundly reason, to convince the world of the justice of their acts in violating the treaties and faith of the Union, and in robbing the Indians and expelling them from their patrimonial possessions. And it is by no means to the credit of the enlightened people of North America that such arguments are received by many as conclusive.

Those who talk of the consent of Georgia being necessary before the Cherokees can erect a Government must be very ignorant of the history of their own country, and the intercourse of their rulers with Indian nations. When the Cherokee Government was erected, where was Georgia, before whose authority the representative and minister plenipotentiary of the seven clans of the Cherokees might have appeared, made obeisance, and craved the privilege of erecting a government within its sovereign limits? And let the wise men of the nineteenth century tell us the time when this Cherokee Government was not in existence? Nothing more is necessary than to propose such questions, in order to show the folly of the language and arguments of many persons who undertake to reason upon this subject.

Many of that portion of the people of the United States to whom we have alluded in the foregoing remarks also believe that the President has acted honorably towards the Cherokees. So doubtless they believe, and are as sincere as the individual, who, prompted by the rules of honor, meets a fellow being in a deadly combat. Such an act is accounted by many honorable, will now become a murderous act! Let the President be tried by these laws and we venture to say, he will be found wanting! He has not acted honorably towards the Cherokees, unless it is honorable to violate the pledges of protection promised to the Indian at various times from the origin of the Government to the present time; to refuse to enforce the provisions of the treaties; to amend the laws of the United States regulating intercourse with the Indians; to violate his own promise made through the Secretary of War, that the intruders should be kept out of the Cherokee Territory; if all these, and many other of which our readers are too well apprized to render it necessary for us to repeat them, are indeed honorable acts, then has he pursued an honorable course toward the Cherokees.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the (Hudson, Ohio) Observer and Telegraph

REASONS FOR ESPOUSING THE CAUSE OF THE INDIANS

1. It is the cause of justice. The Indians contend for nothing, to which they have not, according to the showing of all parties, an absolute right. Their Governments are older than ours. Their right to the soil they occupy, extend far back into the ages of the past; and that right has been acknowledged, and confirmed, in repeated instances, by our Government, which is comparatively in infancy.  The Indians have indeed, a better right, to extend her laws over us, and require us to submit, or else remove back to the other side of the ocean, whence we came, than we to lord over them.

2. It is the cause of humanity. These oppressed children of the forest, constitute a part of the human family, and as such, come in for a share of our benevolent regard. They are distressed in their present condition, and know not what to do. They are comparatively few and feeble, while their enemies are many and strong. One wave of affliction after another breaks over them, until they are well nigh overwhelmed with despair. Unless some arm of mercy interpose for their deliverance they regard themselves as lost.  Rather than submit to the cruel and oppressive laws of Georgia, they will seek refuge in the grave. Nor can they bear the thought of leaving the land of their birth, where they tasted the first sweets of civilization, and bore the first fruits of a Heaven-born religion, to remove, with all their helpless and decrepid ones, a thousand miles into a barren wilderness, where they would be exposed to the depredations of savage enemies on every side, besides being harassed with apprehensions of actual starvation. They cannot bear the thought. Under these circumstances, they appeal to the humane feelings of this great, and hitherto magnanimous People. And Oh who, who, that does not carry a heart of stone in his bosom, can remain unmoved by the solemn tone of remonstrance, mingled with notes of distress, which they are constantly pouring into the ears of the Nation?

3. The cause of the Indians, is the cause of our common country, and therefore we would espouse it. As a Nation, we shall exist, only in the present state. Of ours, for our National sins, as such, we must be punished while we exist in a National capacity, unless the horrible doctrine be maintained, that Nations, as such, are not responsible for their misdeeds; a doctrine, which is at variance with the positive declarations of God's word, and contradicts the whole tenor of the divine administration, from the days of Nimrod, to the present hour. Where now is Babylon the Great; and where is Tyre, and Sydon, and the Cities of the plain?  Where is the Glory of ancient Egypt, of Greece, and of Rome? With these awful visitations of Heaven for National crimes, before our eyes, can we, dare we, venture upon the commission of a deed, which has no parallel, in the dark catalogue of National sins? It is not to be expected, that those who break loose from the individual responsibilities, by which they are held, and trample under foot their most sacred obligations, will feel much compunction in the commission of National sins, or much dread of those terrible judgments, which sweep away the guilty Nations of the earth. That this class of citizens are numerous among us, we are not at liberty to doubt; but, that they constitute the mass of our population, who can believe? Yet if those, who are not included in this class, do not wake up, and put forth a united effort to save the Nation; if they remain inactive, at such a crisis as this, will they not be accessary to the ruin of their country, and by their lukewarmness, awaken the indignation of Heaven?  And when through their guilty remissness the Nation is ripe for the judgments of Heaven, what mark will they exhibit, as a sign, for the destroying angel to pass them by?

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the New York Observer.

LETTERS FROM WASHINGTON -- NO. XI. WASHINGTON CITY

Jan. 29, 1831.

Messrs. Editors.

Among the visitors at Washington this winter, having interests pending in the breast of Congress, or of the Executive, and some of both -- are to be seen representatives of different tribes of Indians, from the extreme South, from the far West, and from the upper and cold regions of the North West Territory. And they are in may respects an interesting spectacle -- interesting especially, as making a powerful demand upon the sympathies of the nation. But alas! come to Washington for sympathy? and be obliged to depend upon men, and with whom, in the giddy whirl and furious dashing onward of mad policies, the kinder elements of our nature are smothered and strangled the moment they make a demonstration of influence?  It is sad, indeed, to see these simple, once confiding, how doubting children of the forest -- the original tenants of this wide domain, holding their title from God, and invoking God their advocate -- waiting here and waiting on the nation for an adjudication of their rights -- and all with little prospect, or hope of relief. Their spoilers are their judges.

The Cherokees are here -- whose cause has long been conspicuous. The Creeks are here on a like errand, though I do not know precisely its form. A Delegation from the Choctaws is expected.  The Quapaws are a nation, whom the Government lately bought in the Arkansas Territory, and them a title on the flats of the Red River, which prove untenable by reason of the floods, besides being disputed by the older and wilder tenants, who have threatened extermination to these intruders. Having been driven from the flats in two successive seasons, and lost their crops, and have been reduced to beggary and starvation, and their existence being menaced by the savages, they have come to pray their Great Father to restore them their former possessions; and have received for answer, I am credibly informed, that they may sit down in their former place, until it shall be wanted by their white brethren! Their representatives here are good looking men, and well dressed -- but do not speak English. The representatives of the Southern Indians are most of them educated men, speak pure English, are well accomplished in manners, and I may add, in affairs of State -- having been schooled in policies of Government by experience. They know their rights, and are prepared and resolved to assert them -- I do not mean by the sword -- but before the tribunals of national legislation and national justice. There are few men, who understand better than they do the temper of this nation, of Congress, and of the Executive, in relation to their claims, and few, that can predict policy results on these questions, with most infallible certainly. They understand the temper and views of every member of Congress, and of the respective districts, which they represent. They are men of good character, polite, dignified. They respect themselves, and show all proper respect to others.

The New York tribes, nearly or quite all of them are represented here -- those resident in the State, and those removed to Green Bay. They have sundry petitions pending. But the most important are for the confirmation of their purchases at Green Bay -- originally made (in 1821 and 1822) under the supervision and with the sanction of Government -- but since disturbed by other acts of Government.

You may, perhaps, have noticed the last paragraph of the late Report of the Secretary of War on Indian affairs -- which reads thus: 'The Commissioners appointed to further the execution of the Treaty of Butte des Morts, have discharged the trust confided to them, and have made their report.  The misunderstanding between the New York and Green Bay Indians has been examined and adjusted. The report, to be confirmed, only requires your approval, agreeably to the second article of that Treaty.'

I should be very sorry, if the general character of our public official documents for correctness, were to be determined by this specimen. How should it happen, that all the parties interested in the questions submitted to that Commission in August and September last, at Green Bay, should come flocking to Washington this winter, praying for hearing and adjustment of the same questions here, if they had been adjusted there? None at all.  Did the Commissioners, in their report, misrepresent the result of their doings? On the contrary -- they expressly recorded the unqualified dissent of all the parties to the resolves and aware of the Commission. How then could it be, that the 'misunderstanding was adjusted?' The fact is -- it was only and not a little aggravated -- and that solely in consequence of the unfortunate character of the instructions, by which the Commissioners were bound -- they being ordered to make an allotment of lands to the New York Indians, not on the basis of the acts and pledges of Government, which had removed and planted them there -- nor of their Deeds of purchase, duly solemnized by the original parties, and ratified by the President of the United States; but the Commissioners were ordered to go up to Green Bay, and count the heads of the New York Indians located on the premises, and of the two great nations the Menominies and the Winnebagoes -- then to take into consideration, that as agriculturists the New York Indians would want only a little patch of land a piece, and that the Menomenies and Winnebagoes, as wild hunters, would require a wide and vast range -- and by this imaginary and undefined rule to make the distribution. In other words: the more improved a man's condition is, in these days, the more certain is he to be robbed of his rights. If the New York Indian had been a wild savage, his chance, in the present instance, had been apparently much better. But the secret lies deeper. The wild Indian can easily be overreached, disposed, and thrown beyond the Mississippi; and the more limited the territorial patch of the domesticated Indian, the less will he be in the way of the white man.

But notwithstanding 'the misunderstanding had been adjusted,' the New York Indians of Green Bay and the Menomenies are here -- praying for a hearing and adjustment of the same questions, said to have been adjusted last August and September. The New York Indians come -- self-moved -- and aggrieved; -- the Menomenies, passively -- moved by others -- to answer certain purposes. And after waiting here all winter for the decision of their great Father, the New york Indians will not unlikely be obliged, besides the evils and pains of uncertainty, to come all the way from Green Bay another year to ask redress of Government. And what their decision will be, after waiting one or two, or three winters more -- no one can predict.

I have been surprised to discover, how Indian affairs are acted upon here at Washington, and even adjudicated, without competent information. Take for instance the getting up of the instructions for the Commission to Green Bay. The proper officer, not being himself possessed of the necessary information, (this supposition being the only sufficient apology,) puts in requisition a hand, which had not only been upon the premises, but concerned in the very mischief required to be ratified; and which of course could hardly be expected to execute an instrument to expose, reprobate, and disannul its own acts.  Consequently the Commission entirely failed. And the responsible officer, being called to report upon the case, and still ignorant, imagines, that all is well, and well done -- and reports 'the misunderstanding as adjusted.' But upon the very heels of this report, as if to mock and belie it, come pouring down from Green Bay about twenty Indians, with a possee comitatus of Government agency, whose language in this matter, is: 'No, Sir -- this concern is very far from being adjusted.' Mistakes of this sort are altogether the most charitable view, which could be taken of the facts. But they are said mistakes for the poor Indians.

There is to be sure a little awkwardness in being obliged so soon to come down from the high complacency and bright aspect of the concluding paragraph of the Report from the War Department, and undertake this business de nove.  There are, however such strong tendencies of the current of opinion from the members of either house of Congress, from the State of New York, who are in the confidence of the present Government -- bearing upon and urging a reconsideration and adjustment of this matter, that it is difficult to give it the go by. The President can have no interest in prejudicing the rights of the New York Indians at Green Bay -- and his feelings, left to himself when acquainted with the case, would doubtless lead him to the proper results. But the misfortune is -- that the President is too apt to resign questions of this sort to the Secretary of War -- who always feels qualified to decide them by intuition -- abstractly -- under the charm of one single, naked rule viz: You must go beyond Mississippi. To beat this out of his head, would require to beat his head off his shoulders. The spirit, which dictated the letter from Franklin, Tenn. of the 26th July last, is rather too dominant. By the by:  there is one argument in the letter, rather unfortunate for some of our citizens, viz; 'The lordly dignity of man -- which leaves women to be hewers and drawers -- is peculiar to savage life.' The author saw Seneca women working in the field at their settlement near Buffalo.  Ergo; The Senecas are savages. How may citizens in the United States are proved savages by the same rule! The wives and daughters of white men in some large districts of our country, it is well known, not only toil in the field; but stand behind the chairs of the men at table, and resume not to eat, till their lords have risen. Ergo: they are savages -- and ought, doubtless, to go beyond the Mississippi.

To appreciate the decree of civilization and refinement (for refinement, even in high degrees, is not uncommon) to which many of our Indians, who have been located in the bosom of the white, have attained -- it is necessary to compare them with the wild men of the forest.  Let a man go to Green Bay, and look at the New York Indians there, and the natives of those regions, with whom they are surrounded. And there is not so much difference between the highest circles, the most cultivated character in the State of New York, and the lowest most wretched of her Indians here, as well as the Cherokees and Creeks, are well dressed gentlemen, of good manners -- themselves good society for any sensible man -- sitting at the public tables throughout the City undistinguished from the common mass except it be in superior delicacy of feeling. And yet the public functionary, on whom their doom very much depends, has solemnly declared, in an official document, edited for their [blank]. . .Georgia the Indian lands [blank]. . .comfort and edification -- and in proof of their irreclaimable savage nature, as also in apology for ejecting them from their peaceable tenantry -- he has declared: that 'the wild turkey, though you shall take the egg, and hatch it in your barnyard, will not forget his nature, but will seek the tallest forest tree for his roosting place.' And he adds: 'Of this there are abundant evidences!' -- viz. that a wild turkey's egg will hatch a wild turkey.

The

Menomenies here are, indeed, somewhat like 'wild turkeys' -- or some other wild animals of a baser sort. They 'roost' indeed for the present in a very fine parlor at Gadsby's.  But they look very much like having an inclination to 'seek the tallest forest tree' in preference. Heaven forbid, that I should make sport with the law condition of those poor men. And heaven pardon me -- that I have found it necessary to speak with apparent levity, even for a moment, for a benevolent purpose -- and to show the contrast between the cultivated and the wild Indian.  For the Secretary of War has again solemnly declared, that 'the Almighty hand has stamped upon every creature a particular genius!' meaning, as the argument shows -- that the Indian can never be improved in his condition. And, therefore he ought to go beyond the Mississippi. Again he says: 'It is Utopian though to think of civilizing Indians. Nature must first be changed.'

Having fallen by accident upon this famous letter from Franklin, I can but notice the categorical and unfeeling manner, under which the poor Indians seem to be dismissed, with a final overture. They are virtually told in that letter,Congress has made provision for your removal beyond the Mississippi. I now offer you that provision -- on the condition that it be now accepted. Otherwise, it will be considered as forfeited, and will be withholder. And you will also be delivered over to the power of that states where you are -- and you must help yourselves. Weep my country; -- and all her children be ashamed! If indeed they are savages, why not bear with them a little longer? Where is patient? where is kindness? Where is dignity? And besides -- when the authority for such a conditional overture? It is, indeed, assuming a great deal to say: The President will do no more -- Congress will no more -- take this or nothing -- and if you refuse it, the only alternative is -- to be abandoned by the Government -- to be thrown beyond protection. The organ of the will of Government, sent on a mission of kindness to a class of dejected and helpless dependents, himself assuming the prerogatives of legislation -- and dealing out threats to enforce submission to his own will!

Yours, etc.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CONGRESS.

From the National Intelligencer.

SENATE.

Feb. 14, 1831.

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN laid on the table the following resolution:

Resolved, That the President of the United States be required to inform the Senate whether the provisions of the act, entitled 'An act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on the frontiers,' passed the 30th March, 1802, have been fully complied with on the part of the United States' Government; and if they have not, that he inform the Senate of the reasons that have induced the Government to decline the enforcement of the said act.

February 15.

The resolution yesterday submitted by Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, was then taken up.

Mr. BENTON objected to the form of the resolution, and wished it so modified as to make the call more simple.

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN was willing to modify, but should have been pleased if the gentleman from Missouri had stated in which respect he desired the modification. He could then be able to give a proper answer. After a few remarks from Mr. F. in favor of his resolution, and a description of the views of the present Executive in relation to the Indians.

Mr. HOLMES addressed the Senate, and in the course of his remarks made allusion to the assumption of certain powers by the President on the Indian question, as encroaching on the Legislative power and jurisdiction.

Mr. BELL asked for the yeas and nays on agreeing to the resolution and they were ordered.

Mr. FOREYTH had hoped that the two Houses of Congress were done with the Indian discussion, more particularly as the matter had been brought before the Supreme Court. He replied to some of the remarks of Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN.

Mr. NOBLE said a few words as to the oppressive nature of the laws of Georgia relative to the Indians within that State, and made some reference to his vote of last Session on this interesting question.

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN again took the floor, and in a speech of considerable length, replied to the remarks of Mr. FORSYTH.  He went into a history of the Indian Intercourse Law of 1802, and spoke of the measures pursued during the Administration of Gen. Washington in regard to the Southern Indians.

When he had concluded, Mr. SMITH, of Md. moved to lay the resolution on the table, with a view to proceed to the farther consideration of the resolution heretofore submitted by Mr. GRUNDY, as yesterday modified.

The Senate, on motion of Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, resumed the consideration of the resolution yesterday submitted by him, and which had been under consideration this morning.

Mr. FORSYTH rejoined to the remarks of Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN and Mr. NOBLE.

After a few further remarks from Messrs. NOBLE, WHITE, and FRELINGHUYSEN.

Mr. Benton moved to lay the resolution on the table, to give the Senator from New Jersey an opportunity to modify it, so as to call for certain specific information as to the Indian intercourse law of 1802: but the motion was negatived, 16 to 25.

The question was then put on the adoption of the resolution, and decided in the affirmative by yeas and nays, as follows:

YEAS -- Messrs. Barnard, Barton, Bell, Benton, Burnet, Chambers, Chase, Clayton, Dickerson, Dudley, Ellis, Foot, Forsyth, Frelinghuysen, Grundy, Hayne, Hendricks, Holmes, Iredell, Johnston, Kane, King, Knight, Livingston, McKinley, Marks, Naudain, Moble, Poindexter, Robbins, Robinson, Ruggles, Sanford, Seymour, Silsbee, Smith, of Md. Smith, of S. C. Tazewell, Troup, Webster, White, Willey, Woodbury -- 43.

NAYS -- Messrs. Bibb, Brown, Tyler -- 3.

February 16.

Mr. SPRAGUE presented the memorial of certain inhabitants of Wiscasset and Chesterville, in Maine, praying for the protection of the rights and privileges of the Indians.

In presenting it, Mr. SPRAGUE asked of the Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs, whether it was the intention of that Committee to make a report on the subject at the present Session.

Mr. WHITE, (the Chairman of that Committee) replied that the Committee had not yet come to any determination on the subject.  He could not, therefore, inform the gentleman whether the Committee would or would not make a report.

Mr. SPRAGUE then said that he should move that the memorial lie on the table. The motion prevailed.

* * * * *

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

February 8, 1831.

Mr. EVERETT, of Massachusetts, in presenting, on Tuesday last, a memorial from certain citizens of Massachusetts, praying that the Indian Tribes may be protected, in the rights secured to them by the laws and treaties, observed, that he had long felt it to be the duty of the House to consider the all-important subject of this memorial. He should himself, by way of resolution, have called the attention of the House to the subject, had no other member expressed an intention of doing so, if it had been possible, under the rules of the House, to move a resolution. But it was known to the Chair that, for several weeks past, there had not been a moment when it was in order to move a resolution. A petition from a very respectable community in the State, which he had the honor, in part, to represent, had been placed in his hands.  By the rules of the House, a petition cannot be debated on the day on which it is presented, but must lie on the table one day. As petitions are received only one day of the week, on Mondays, Mr. E. observed that the memorial which he presented must, under these rules, like on the table till that day, and then come up as unfinished business of petitions. He begged leave, therefore, in presenting this petition, to give notice, that, when it should come up, on Monday next, he should feel it his duty to ask the attention of the House, to the very important question of protecting the Indian Tribes in the possessions and rights secured to them by treaty and the laws of the United States.

February 14.

The petition laid on the table by Mr. EVERETT, of Massachusetts, last Monday, from sundry citizens of Massachusetts, praying the repeal of the Indian Law of last session etc., was announced by the Chair as now before the HOUSE for disposal.

Mr. EVERETT rose, and was proceeding to address the Chair, when

Mr. TUCKER interposed and demanded that the question of 'consideration' be put, and the SPEAKER announced this to be the question.

[This question precludes debate on any motion unless the House decides in favor of its consideration.]

Mr. LUMPKIN demanded the Yeas and Nays on the 'consideration,' and they were ordered.

Mr. EVERETT said it was with great regret he was obliged to say that he considered the demand for the question of consideration out of order; the petition had been received by the House, and if this motion were entertained by the Chair, it would cut off all debate on the petition, which Mr. E. said he had a right to discuss, on presenting it, if he thought proper.

The SPEAKER said the House had a right to decide whether it would consider the gentleman's motion -- it had a right to refuse to receive the petition itself.

Mr. EVERETT. But the House has received the petition, Mr. SPEAKER.

The SPEAKER said the petition had been received and laid on the table; that the House had a right now to say whether it would consider the gentleman's motion touching its reference, and therefore the demand for the question of consideration was in order; and he proceeded to refer to the rules, and explain his construction of them, to show the propriety of his decision.

Mr. VINTON moved a call of the House, which was agreed to, and the Clerk having called the roll of the members, and the attendance appearing to be pretty full, further proceeding in the call was suspended.

Mr. BELL asked if the House decided in favor of 'consideration,' what time would the discussion be in order; could it be continued from day to day, or would it be limited?

The SPEAKER replied, it could only be continued today, and the next days on which the presentation of petitions would be in order, (namely, on Monday alone.)

Mr. EVERETT again rose, and said he felt himself under the necessity of appealing from the decision of the Chair, on the correctness of entertaining the demand for the question of consideration; and he proceeded in support of his appeal at some length -- arguing that this was no motion, or proposition offered to the House, but simply a petition from a portion of his constituents, which they in the exercise of their constitutional right had presented to the House through him their representative. He had laid it on the table, under the rule; it came up today as a matter of course; its consideration required no motion, and he had made none; the matter before the House was the petition itself, and to that he had a right to speak; it was a constitutional right to which the rule of consideration could not apply, and could not cut off. It was with unfeigned reluctance he made the appeal, but a sense of duty constrained him to do so.

Mr. TUCKER, in a few remarks, defended his call for the question of 'consideration,' and his motive for making it. His object was to save the time of the House from being wasted in a useless debate.

The SPEAKER then rose, and after stating the case, read the rules in point, which he explained at some length, to show the correctness of his decision in entertaining the demand for 'consideration.' He referred particularly to the 5th rule, which is as follows: 'When any motion or proposition is made, the question will the House now consider it, shall not be put, unless it is demanded by some member, or is deemed necessary by the Speaker.' During the whole time which he had presided in the Chair, he had never exercised the privilege of requiring the question of consideration; it was now required by another member, and he had no right to refuse it, it being in order under the rule.

Mr. WAYNE asked if he was to understand, that the motion of the gentleman from South Carolina, (Mr. TUCKER,) was in order, before the gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. EVERETT) had submitted any proposition.

The SPEAKER replied, that he considered there was, virtually, a motion before the House, on taking up the petition for disposal.

Mr. WAYNE thought that did not follow of course.  The gentleman from Massachusetts had not submitted any proposition relative to the petition; and until he did that, the House could not know what his motion would be, or decide whether they should consider it. The House would be voting in the dark. He maintained that the SPEAKER would be right had the gentleman made any motion for the disposition of the petition, but at present the demand of 'consideration' he thought premature.

Mr. TUCKER then withdraw his call for the question of consideration.

Mr. EVERETT said it was his intention to debate the petition which he had presented to the House; and when the SPEAKER decided that he could not do so, he denied a right which was sanctioned by the practice of this House. During the last war many important questions were debated on the presentation of petitions.

The SPEAKER. There must still be a motion before the House to authorize debate.

Mr. EVERETT. If I am entitled to the floor [several members were attempting to address the Chair], I will then submit a motion before I sit down.

The SPEAKER. It is in the power of the Speaker, or of any member, to require that every motion be reduced to writing, and the Speaker requires that the gentleman send his motion to the Chair in writing.

Mr. EVERETT accordingly sent to the Chair the following motion.

That the said memorial be referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs, with instructions to report a bill making further provision for executing the laws of the United States on the subject of intercourse with the Indian tribes; and also, for the faithful observance of the treaties between the United States and the said tribes.

The motion having been read --

Mr. WICKLIFFE demanded that the question be put on the 'consideration' of the motion. He had no idea of commencing another Indian war at this period of the session.

Mr. CONDICT called for the yeas and nays, and they were ordered; and the Speaker having stated the question --

Mr.EVERETT said if he understood the Chair that it was in order to preclude debate on his motion, by the question of 'consideration,' he must appeal to the House from the decision of the Chair.

The yeas and nays were ordered on the appeal.

Considerable debate now ensued on the appeal, which as it cannot be reported fully, is not attempted at all; the preceding outline being sufficient to shew the reader the nature of the points which arose, and the course of proceeding on them, which is all that is intended by the sketch.  The appeal was supported by Mr. EVERETT and Mr. BATES, of Massachusetts, and it was opposed, and the decision of the Chair defended, by Mr. WAYNE and Mr. Thompson, of Georgia. Finally,

Mr. EVERETT said, yielding to the wishes of several of his friends, he would withdraw the appeal, and meet the question at once.

The question was then put -- 'Will the House now consider the motion?' and was decided in the affirmative, by yeas and nays, as follows:

YEAS -- 101. NAYS 93.

Mr. EVERETT then rose, and addressed the House until near four o'clock, in support of his motion; when, being evidently much exhausted, (having not long since recovered from severe illness.)

Mr. WAYNE and Mr. VANCE rose at the same moment, to request that he would yield to a motion for adjournment; and

The House adjourned.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






We have been somewhat at a loss to conceive under what provision of the Constitution or laws of the United States, an individual state has a right to keep a standing army. But as we perceive the great guardian of the Constitution, the President of the United States, who has frequently evinced his jealousy lest it should be infringed, so much so indeed that he has refused to enforce the treaties and laws made for the protection of the Indians, because in his opinion they are unconstitutional, has not made his objection to the raising and maintaining an army now stationed within the Cherokee territory, we presume we must take it for granted that all is right.  We allude to the Georgia guard, and we should like to know in what respect it differs from an army? If a state has a right to keep fifty armed men for an indefinite period, she has a right to keep five thousand; and if one state has that right all the others have, and what is the use of the regular army of the Union? Guard -- perhaps the name makes this military band differ from an army, or

an organized collection of armed men.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For the Cherokee Phoenix.

The following letter was written at the commencement of the year 1830, at the request of an Association of Ladies in Hartford, Connecticut, convened for 'supplicating justice and mercy to the Indians.' It was addressed to the Connecticut Delegation in Congress, but by a change of arrangements not sent to them, and is now offered for the columns of the Cherokee Phoenix, merely as an expression of the sympathy which prevails not only in this part, but in many other sections of our country.

LETTER TO THE DELEGATION OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT

FROM AN ASSOCIATION OF LADIES

It may excite surprise, perhaps be accounted presumption, for females thus to address the constituted authorities of government. Yet when the subject that prompts, and the motives that actuate us, are candidly balanced, we trust to be acquitted of having unwarrantably transgressed the bounds of that subordinate sphere, where our duties and felicities centre.  Anxiety for the fate of that portion of our aborigines who are in danger of dismission from their native territory, has painfully oppressed our minds; nor will it be deemed unnatural that the cause of the helpless should excite commiseration in a sex whom nature has taught both the need and value of protection, who, accustomed to associate every hope that cheers, every charity that sweetens life with the idea of home, involuntarily sympathize with those who may be exiled from its sanctuary.

You have doubtless contemplated with pleasure the rapid advance of some of our Indian tribes in civilization, promoted as it has been by the counsels of sages, and the efforts of Christians.  Their exchange of savage habits for the plough-share and the pruning-hook, for the school, the press, the temple of the living God, must be far more profoundly weighed, more correctly appreciated by those, who as legislators are familiar both with the latent causes and ultimate ends of national prosperity. Yet we should sincerely lament to see them leaving their peaceful villages for a distant wilderness, mournfully forsaking, their household hearths, and their fathers' sepulchers, for an alien's wandering, and a stranger's grave. We tremble when we think how the fires of intemperance might rage among them, were the barriers of civilized life withdrawn, and the fountains of religious knowledge obliterated.

We dread the extinction of that ancient race, the strong and noble features of whose character gave prominence and romance to the earliest annals of our country. Should the nations of Europe hereafter inquire where is our red brother so long a dweller within our gates, we would not like Eden's patricide be compelled to reply 'we know not.' It will probably be alleged that we have viewed this subject solely through the medium of feeling.  This was our intention. After having manifested that feeling which it would have been painful to suppress, we count it a privilege to submit its guidance to a wisdom which we do not possess, and a power to which we have neither the right, nor the ambition to aspire. We have also confidence to believe that a delegation from the State of Connecticut, will not disregard an appeal for justice and mercy, however humble its source. Disclaiming in truth, every political motive, every party prejudice, we simply ask your pity for our Indian brethren in the name of our common Redeemer.

If during this period of absence from your homes, their tender and varied scenery are still dear to your heart, still bright to your eye, if the voice of a mother, a sister, a companion steals over your hour of musing with cherished melody, if the sports of your joyous children, the smile of your cradled babe, ever mingle with your slumbers, remember the poor son of the forest, in whose heart are the same affections, and consecrate to his defence these awakened, these holy sympathies. We entreat you to exert your influence in his favor; as far as is consistent with adherence to the Constitution of your country; and may the blessing of 'him who is ready to perish' be as a shield to your souls in the day when earth ' her distinctions shall vanish, and the highest and the lowest stand equal, trembling suppliants of Almighty mercy.

H.

Hartford, Con. Jan. 1830

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






For the 'Cherokee Phoenix.'

THE CHEROKEE MOTHER.

Ye bid us hence.  These values are dear,

To infant hope, to patriot pride,

These streamlets tuneful to our ear,

Where our light shallops peaceful glide,

Beneath you consecrated mounds

Our fathers' treasur'd ashes rest,

Our hands have till'd these corn-clad grounds,

Our children's birth these home have blest.

Here, on our souls a Saviour's love

First beam'd with renovating ray,

Why should we from these haunts remove.

But still you warn us hence away.

Child, ask not where! I cannot tell,

Save where wide waters uncultured spread,

Where unknown waters fiercely roll,

And savage monsters howling tread;

Where no blest Church with hallow'd train,

Nor hymns of praise, nor voice of prayer,

Like angels sooth the wanderer's pain;

Ask me no more. I know not where.

Go seek thy Sire. The anguish charm

That shades his brow like frowning wrath,

Divide the burden from his arm,

And gird him for his pilgrim-path:

Come, Moaning babe! Thy mother's arms

Shall bear thee on our weary course,

Shall be thy shield from midnight harms,

And baleful dews, and tempests hoarse.

But thou, Oh Father! old and blind,

Who shall thy failing footsteps stay?

Who prop thy sorrow-stricken mind

Driven from thy native earth away!

An exile in thy hoary hairs,

And hopeless when life's toils are o'er

to mix thy mouldering dust with theirs,

Those blessed sires, who weep no more.

Ye call us brethren. When ye mark

The grass upon our thresholds grown,

Our hearth-stone cold, our casements dark,

Our fated race like shadows flown,

Amid your mirth, your festive songs

Will no remorseful image lower?

No memory of the Indian's wrongs

Rise darkly o'er your musing hour?

Will a crush'd nation's deep despair,

Your broken faith,- our tear-wet sod,

The babe's appeal, the chieftain's prayer,

Find no memorial with our God?

H.

Hartford Con: Feb. 11th 1831.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

The census of Tennessee shews the population of the State of Tennessee to be 684,822, of which 142,370 are slaves.  Total increase since 1820, 202,009.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






DIED -- At Qugillogee on Friday the 4th inst. FRANCIS NEELY, infant son of Evan and Sally Nicholson. Aged 11 months and 19 days.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The following are the documents which we promised our readers last week:

From the Georgia Journal.

Col. Sanford to Gov. Gilmer.

AGENCY, AT SCUDDER'S Jan. 22, 1831.

His Excellency George R. Gilmer --

SIR -- in my letter of the 15th inst. to your Excellency, I mentioned that Col. Nelson was charged with an expedition to the upper mines. On Monday the 17th inst. he returned to Head Quarters, having successfully accomplished the object of his march. I regret, however, to add, that in the performance of that duty, he has had to encounter difficulties of the most serious and embarrassing nature. I regret it the more, inasmuch as I may have induced the belief that the law in relation to this territory would be readily submitted to, and would itself thus become a sufficient safeguard of the interest it was designed to protect. I must confess, however, that I have been mistaken: not, indeed, in the character of those from whom the opposition has arisen, but from the daring and outrageous manner of their resistance. Col. Nelson, in his enterprise upon Daniel's (Upper Mines,) having succeeded in arresting several persons guilty of working the mines since the 1st, their friends and former associates became apprised by some means of their canture, and from their subsequent conduct, no doubt, resolved upon their release. For this purpose they assembled in force (between 50 and 60) early in the morning of the 16th, at Leather's Ford, having ascertained that the command with the prisoners would cross the Chestatee at that place. The first act of their hostility was indicated by their having caused a number of obstructions in the passage of the river, with the view of harassing the detachment, and otherwise perplexing and retarding its movements.  There were, however, avoided without any great difficulty, and the opposite shore having been reached in safety, the van escorting the prisoners resumed its line of march. It had proceeded but a short distance, when the Sergeant commanding the rear, brought intelligence of its being attacked, to Col. Nelson. Having secured the prisoners (11 in number) with a sufficient guard, he hastened immediately to the scene of the engagement. Upon his approach, the assailants desisted from their attack, with the exception of three, who continued the assault with great fury, until checked by the bayonet.  One of these, the vilest of the vile, received a couple of severe wounds, believed at the time, to have been mortal; but upon examination, it was found that he was not likely to experience the fate as richly merited by his infamous life, and still more infamous conduct in this affray.  Previously to the rencounter, he had, I learn, professed the utmost contempt of Georgia, her laws, her officers, denied her jurisdiction over this territory, and encouraged those who were inclined, to violate her recent enactments in relation thereto, with the protection of his valorous arm. In the practical demonstration of his prowess, he has learned a lesson, which may hereafter be serviceable to himself, and a hint to all others who may be disposed to invade our rights or infringe our laws. Its good effects have already been experienced, for I understood, that no less than 70 of these desperate and abandoned wretches have suddenly disappeared from their former haunts in the settlements. Even before the occurrence of the affair at the Ford, individual members of the guard, when alone, had been insulted, and menaced in a manner that evidenced the most inveterate and rancorous feeling. Aware of their hostility, from what he too had seen, Col. Nelson advised his men to a cautious and circumspect deportment whilst passing them, and to refrain from any expressions or observations, in the most remote degree calculated to enrage or provoke them. In obedience to this order, the command were proceeding quietly and peaceably, when the outrageous abuse of this horde, elicited a reply from one of his men. In an instant, as if by pre-concert, the whole clan commenced gathering stones, billets of wood, and every species of missile, discharging them at the guard.  It was with the utmost difficulty that they were restrained from returning this unexpected salutation with a volley of musketry. Again and again were their pieces levelled, whilst the often repeated order, 'reserve your fire,' alone prevented their discharge. Your Excellency will discover in this attach, a plan previously arranged and digested with considerable military tact. They calculated that by engaging with the rear, that the front having charge of the prisoners, would be necessarily called to its relief, and that an opportunity would thus be presented of effecting their escape in the confusion which would ensue. The precaution of the commanding officer prevented the accomplishment of this design. Having failed in their attempt, they next sought his arrest by legal process, and accordingly a warrant was obtained, demanding the surrender of himself and command.  Seeing the very improper purpose for which this was issued, he determined that it should not prevent him from doing his duty, and accordingly marched to Gainesville with his prisoners, where eight of them were committed for trial at the next court. Having thus gotten rid of his charge, he declared that it was neither his wish nor intention, whilst apprehending others for violating the law, to oppose any resistance to it himself; that the course he had pursued, was founded in a sense of duty; if in its discharge, he had done wrong, he was willing to submit himself to any tribunal having cognizance of his offence. The hue and cry against the Guard for its conduct in this transaction, has spread far and wide, through the country. Falsehoods, accusing them of crimes of the most atrocious and aggravated character, are daily fabricated and circulated for the purpose of rendering them odious to the public. The motive for this is too palpable to be mistaken for a single moment. The mines under the protection given them, are no longer a source of profit and employment. Misrepresentation and calumny have busied themselves in exciting clamour; and clamour it is thought will effect the removal of the troops.  The mines will then be left defenseless, and an opportunity again afforded them of renewing their depredations whilst impunity is secured them by their numbers. These are the calculations of the idle and the dissolute.  These are their avowed objects, and really Sir, they have set at work systematically for their accomplishment.  In my former letter, I said something about this class of people. I cannot now dismiss them without expressing to your Excellency my conviction that there does not exist on earth, elsewhere, beings so vicious and so depraved. To me they seem to be predestinated and incorrigible, and that the punishments of this world are inadequate to their crimes.  Yet, even, with these miscreants, when compelled to an intercourse, I have inculcated a respectful deportment, and I hope your Excellency will believe that nothing has been done which the good of the country did not imperiously demand. This has been my constant aim, and every thing will be done having a tendency in the least degree towards its promotion.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Georgia Athenian.

Colonel Nelson -- The Gold diggers, etc. The following letter was received by a gentleman in this town a few days since, and we have taken the liberty to lay the interesting information it contains before the public. The letter is dated at Gainsville, Hall County, the 7th of February, and is from a source that we know from personal acquaintance to be highly respectable.  After alluding to a former letter, the writer says:

'On the 15th last month, a Sergeant Sappington of Georgia's standing army, came to Leathers' Ford in this county. He there met an individual by the name of Cron, a short distance from a gate leading into the yard of Mr. Joel Hasley.  Sergeant Sappington, in a very peremptory manner, ordered Cron to go back and open the gate. Cron pointed to others nearer the gate, and remarked, they can open the gate.' Sappington, in a more authoritative tone, bid him again open the gate, when Cron replied he would not; for which Sappington, by a severe blow with his musket, brought Cron to the ground. This blow was inflicted on the cheek bone of Cron, and by reason of it he has been since, then unable to transact business; indeed, if I am correctly informed, he has been confined, and his recovery is still despaired of. This act of lawless savagism produced very naturally a good deal of indignation at the Ford.

'On the 16th ult. Col. Nelson having arrested several prisoners in the Nation, (on suspicion of their having dug gold since the first of January, but without a warrant authorising it,) arrived at the Ford, and having met a detachment of the army at that place, ordered them to join him and aid in conducting the prisoners to this place. The detachment of three or four men alluded to, at the time of receiving the order, was dismounted, and the Colonel leaving a Sergeant Henderson to conduct them, proceeded some three hundred yards with the prisoners and his guard, where he awaited his remaining company. He was, at the time of stopping, entirely out of view of the point where he left his men. Henderson was detained a little in waiting on one of his men, who was endeavoring to replenish his flask, and while thus waiting was addressed by a Mr. Ligon, (who is a man of worth and respectability,) and asked what would be done with the prisoners. Henderson, in a very abrupt and uncourteous manner, told him to ask no questions.  Ligon observed he thought himself in a free country, and hoped he had the liberty of speech. This self-important Sergeant in reply told him he should not take to him; this enraged Ligon, and he commenced abusing Henderson and his company by words, saying that if they were not a set of inhuman desperadoes, they would never compel prisoners, no matter how high the crime, to wade a river when the ground was covered several inches in snow; nor would a soldier have treated an individual as Sappington had Cron the day previous.

These remarks carried such a piercing wound to the sensitive feelings of Sergeant Henderson, that he immediately cocked and presented his musket at the old man. Ligon told the Sergeant he would not present his arms so readily at him if he were on a footing, and immediately inquired of the bystanders for a gun.  Taylor (who was afterwards severely stabbed) said to Ligon he thought a gun could be had; at which moment Henderson strained off to his commander, and possibly informed him he had been attacked.  In a few moments Col. Nelson and eight or ten of his guard returned, making a furious charge on Taylor, and, at the same time, inquiring for a man of Ligon's description. Taylor was standing weaponless; three or four of the guard rushed on him with fixed bayonets, commanding him to surrender, at the same time piercing him on all sides with the bayonets. Taylor attempted to ward off the stabs, and endeavored to get out of the way. After receiving his most dangerous wound, Taylor seized a maul, and threw it with some violence at one of the guard.

'I notice Col. N. supposes the number in battle array on the occasion to be 60. I am credibly informed there were not more than 15 or 20, and but two of those participated in the conflict, and with them it was a matter of necessity, that is, in self-defence. Taylor has not recovered; Ligon, by the timely aid of his friends, escaped uninjured.  Thus ended the brilliant achievement of the 16th ult. and had it been me, sooner than have blazoned to the world, I should have let it sleep, and numbered it among the little unfortunate deeds of my life.'

* * * * *

Some of our readers may be still in doubt as to the truth of the case -- they many not know who to believe, Col. Sanford or the writer of the letter. We are however happy to relieve that doubt by copying from the Hiwasee in the following statement given by eye-witnesses. The facts contained in it corroborate the reports we had frequently heard touching the affair, and confirms the particulars stated by the Gentleman in Gainsville. This must settle the question with disinterested readers.

* * * * *

NEWTOWN, HALL COUNTY, GA.

Feb. 6, 1831

Mr. PRINTER: You will probably have seen, in the Georgia papers, a communication from Col. Nelson, giving an account of an affair that took place at Leathers ford, on the 16th of last month. He says, that as he was conducting eleven prisoners from the Cherokee Nation, to Gainsville, he was met by about sixty men at Leathers ford, who attempted to rescue the prisoners, 'with every kind of weapons except guns.' He adds, 'we charged upon, and dispersed them all without injury to any of the mean under my command. One of the assailants received three severe stabs of which his recovery is considered doubtful.'

This statement is untrue, he was not met at that place by any number of men, nor was he attacked by any man. If it is true that he appeared with his guard and some prisoners on the opposite side of the river, on the fifteenth of January last; and on the next day, he crossed, conveying his prisoners to Gainsville.  The people of the village at the ford, manifested no disposition to rescue the prisoners although they were forced to wade the river cold as the day was. The principal part of the guard passed quietly through the place with the prisoners, and were out of sight, when a dispute took place between a citizen here, and the remainder of the guard (five in number,) relative to their right to compel the prisoners to wade the river. The dispute grew warm, and the guard galloped off, and returned in ten or fifteen minutes, with the Col. at their head and several more of the guard in full charge. The gentleman with whom they had the dispute, wore a white hat, and upon their coming up, a part of the guard attacked him, a part pursued Major Taylor (formerly a citizen of Athens, Tennessee) round a house and gave him three severe wounds, one through the arm into his body, one in the breast, and one in his hip. We are happy to say that the old gentleman has so far recovered, as to be able to start home. While they were bayoneting him, the old man got a large maul and threw it, but missed his man. He then retreated; the Col. ordered a fire, one gun fired, the old man wheeled upon them, called for the man who had shot him, he being under that impression as his wounds, at that moment began to bleed. A march was ordered immediately.

This sir, is a correct account of the affair.  The undersigned were present, and saw the whole of it. Not a single weapon was raised by any man after the return of the guard, except the maul by Major Taylor.

The prisoners, they were conveying to Gainsville, were taken in the Nation on suspicion of digging gold. They were made to wade all the waters, and every mud hole for fifteen miles. Some who could not keep up, were beat with the sword, etc.

This is not all that deserves notice. One of their sergeants crossed the river on the fifteenth, and knocked a man down with his gun, for refusing to open a gate for him.  No insult had been offered. This account is given in detail, that the people may be undeceived with regard to Nelson a communication.

The undersigned were present, saw the affair, and vouch for the truth of this statement.

H. SMALL,

ROBT. LIGAN

U.H. SNOW,

R. HALL,

P. KROFT.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






An Indian chief of the Creek nation, being once appointed to, negotiate a treaty of peace with the people of South Carolina was desired by the governor and council to speak his mind freely, and not be afraid, for he was among friends: 'I will speak freely; I will not be afraid,' said he; 'for why should I be afraid among my friends, who never am afraid among my enemies?'

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the New York Observer

Washington City

Feb. 15, 1831

Messrs. Editors.- I went to the House of Representatives yesterday in expectancy of hearing Mr. Everett on the Indian question. The privilege he claimed of discussing the merits of a petition on its presentation was out of the usual course, and met with a prompt and determined opposition- not probably so much from a conscientious regard to order, as on account of a fixed aversion to the admission of the subject for discussion.  After about an hour's vigorous squabbling, speaker and all, like so many wrestlers, it was decided, 101 to 93, to consider Mr. Everett's motion of reference, 'c.  The merits of the petition were then open to debate-Mr. Everett upon the floor. He made a very decent and satisfactory apology for urging this debate out of the usual course, viz: the momentous importance of the subject, as demanding instant attention, and the well known impossibility of introducing it in any other form. Mr. Everett spoke two hours and ten minutes, and the House adjourned.

There is something worthy of notice, in the getting up, or getting in of this discussion. And now it is in, it is to be hoped it will not come out, till something shall have been said and enacted to relieve the almost hopeless prospects of the Indians. I cannot say, however, that I have much faith that anything saving will be within reach.

But to the peculiar features of the introduction of this discussion. Mr. Everett had declared his purpose yesterday week, by a formal notice to the House. And in the meantime every possible device and all possible strength had been organized to defeat Mr. Everett's intention-' of course to bar all discussion on the Indian question, the present session. And it was discovered, (imagined to be discovered) that a question of order might be so framed from the rules of the House, as to answer all the purpose of a bar,-relying upon a majority to disposed to stand in the way. 'Will the House now consider?'- the petition motion, or proposition of the gentleman from Mass (Mr. Everett?)--So, that whatever ground, or form Mr. Everett might choose to assume, he could be met by the question of 'consideration;'- in other words, by the temper of the majority at the instant. Mr. Everett at first appealed from the decision of the chair--denying that the existing rules of the House relied on, comprehended the pending question. At the instance of his own friends, however, and for other purposes than a conviction of his error, he withdrew his appeal, and threw himself directly on the temper of the House-and the House sustained him, as I have stated. So that the device, so ingeniously manufactured, failed.

It was curious, and rather portentous, to see the working of the moral elements- of the nation, I may say, in its representative capacity-on this great question-all reduced to so narrow a circle, a glance of the eye. It required but little imagination-nay none at all- nought but the soberest, the commonest observation to read the strong and unequivocal symptoms of the scene, so rapidly, not to say, wildly enacting. Here at a glance and in an instant, were to be seen and felt the quick pulsations of the wide community, on the question sought, on the one side, to be agitated, on the other to be avoided. The quick and fiery glances of the eye, the hurried manner, the whispering groups--holding rapid converse-the earnest labor even of the chair to exclude the disagreeable theme--all had a language in it not to be mistaken.  When the ayes and noes were finally announced, the buzz ceased, and the conflicting elements seemed reduced to the condition of obeyance to whatever challenge might happen to fall upon them.

Mr. Everett was heard with fixed and deep attention. But there were men, who took him down-his words, I mean-to hold him to account.  Not unfrequently, in the progress of his speech, members would start suddenly from their seats, and make a hurried conversation with other members.

There are times when one feels a deep and thrilling interest in passing events. There are times, when a word means nothing. And then again there are times, when the same word means everything-everything momentous. For instance: the word impeachment. The same tri-syllable may, under certain circumstances, be bandied about in every one's mouth-it may be sounded even by a noisy declaimer in a parliamentary assembly, and that in a menace of elevated men;-and still be inoffensive-innoxious-when the conscience of all concerned are clear, and all hearts strong.

But in the present instance there has been at least a questionable assumption of power.  It will not be readily granted by this whole community, that the Judiciary of this nation is set up for nothing-and that the head which controls the Executive arm of the law, is at the same time a Court to determine the law-to pronounce unconstitutional, statutes and ordinances, which have been in force for generations-to suspend their operation-and virtually to enact other regulations-and that to the derangement of customs affecting the vital interests of whole communities. The plea of conscience, as controlled by opinion, can never be admitted in vindication of such a course. For the only conscience allowed to an executive officer of government, or by which he is bound in the discharge of his offices, is to maintain the law. No matter what his private opinion may be. He must either do his duty, as thus prescribed-or vacate his place.  Admitting a long established usage of state to be unconstitutional. Usage has given it sanction and authority. And for an Executive, to suspend that usage, at his own discretion, is enacting law against law-- or against usage, which nothing but the authority of the Judiciary could annul.

How nearly within this mooted case comes the current treatment of our Government towards the Indians, in withdrawing from them the protection guarantied by Treaties, and for ages afforded from the same source, without even a question, is sufficiently evident. Existent covenants and hitherto unbroken usage are known to be set aside-at the will of the Executive;-and the machinery necessary to the keeping of those covenants, constructed for that very purpose, and long time in actual operation--withdrawn. And this without consulting the Judiciary--without giving the Judiciary time to speak-or allowing it is a matter that concerns them. The Judiciary is forestalled and precluded. Here, indeed, is made a very grave question.  The conflicting interests on the one side-the lovers and advocates of good faith on the other-and the bold measures of Government, deciding questions the alone and most sacred trust of the Judiciary-such interests, and such sympathies, and such high proceedings coming together-meeting at a single point, after having been for months and years collecting their forces, might well be supposed to light up a blaze at the moment of contact.

The advocate of Indian rights, being admitted to speak, unfolds the simple history appertaining to the question-draws the line, with unerring hand, and with the light of a sunbeam, between Executive and Judiciary prerogative-and then, when every ear is attent (sic), and every pulse beats high with passion, there drops incidentally--only incidentally- from his lips, though in a connection not unintelligible, the word, Impeachment. It is he who speaks, his own circumspection, the classical purity and precision of his diction, the time, the circumstance, the question-which give significancy and importance to the word. And I dare to say-that no single word was ever uttered in that Hall of such mighty and portentous import. It came upon the deep feeling of the rapt listeners, like the voice which rends the summer stormy cloud. The murmurs of discontent which ran through the Hall, and the and the startled apprehensions of those, who felt there was too much truth in the story to be so plain--told unequivocally what fearful elements that word embodied in such connection.

Doubtless, the whole subject matter, or the supposed errors have been carried too far to be conveniently disposed of. Will the aggressors on the sanctity of public covenants ' on the holier elements of the Constitution, tread back?- There is no hope of such a result. Will the people endure the violence done to their faith-and to the sacred institutions? This can hardly be expected. Evidently, there is but one step more between the present and the crisis; a decision of the Supreme Court. By that time, it is devoutly hoped, that sobriety will have chastened intemperate passion-that those who have exceeded propriety will halt-that the rest will forgive-and all bow in submission to the supremacy of law.

What this discussion in the House got up in this way will come to, I know now.  It will be in order only on Monday of each week. Mr. Everett will doubtless occupy next Monday-and the only remaining Monday of this session will hardly suffice for the Georgians and others to discharge themselves of the kindling and burning fires within them. It is not unlikely, therefore, that they will suspend the rules of the House, and devote most of the remainder of this session, after Monday next, to the Indian question. And so it should be. For to sleep upon it, is death-death to the hopes of Indians, and unatonable offending on the part of the nation.

Simultaneously with this movement in the House, a resolution was offered in the Senate by Mr. Frelinghuysen, calling for information of the President-whether the intercourse law of 1802 had been duly observed between the Government and the Indians; and if any parts of that law had been suspended-what might be the reasons. I quote the substance-not having the resolution before me. It was agreed to on Tuesday (next day) by a vote of 43 to 3. The President will probably delay his answer, so as to exclude a discussion of this question in Senate from the present Congress. I am sorry to have lost the discussion on the resolution having understood there was some animated debate--in which Mr. Frelinghuysen was conspicuous-and that he did himself much credit. Mr. Forsyth is represented to haave said:- that he (Mr. Forsyth) had spared that gentleman (Mr. Frelinghuysen) heretofore--(last session) and that it now depended on his good conduct, whether he should realize the same favors in future!

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the New York Observer.

[From a Correspondent.]

WASHINGTON, Feb. 14, 1831

The House presented today the most deeply interesting scene it has exhibited during the present season. The friends of the Indians have for some time been devising ways and means to bring up their neglected case before the Representatives of the people. The Committee who should have attended to the subject, have delayed and delayed until last Monday, Mr. Everett introduced a memorial from his constituents on behalf of the Indians, with a motion that it be referred to the Committee on Indian affairs, of which you remember Mr. Bell is Chairman, with instructions to report a bill intended to restrain the Executive in the course it is pursuing towards the Southern Indians, and asserting the powers of Congress touching these tribes. This morning Mr. E. attempted to call his motion up, and a singular scene ensued; but through the good Providence of God, though this advocate of Indian rights failed in his immediate object, the great end was secured by a fair vote-that of obtaining a hearing on this important subject.

On Mr. E's. making his motion or rather renewing his resolution of last Monday, he was proceeding to debate upon it, when the Speaker declared that he was not permitted to speak on behalf of a petition presented by a portion of the American people, the Speaker denied to them and to all memorialists the sacred right of petitioning. He then appealed earnestly, but firmly from the decision of the Chair to the House. Before the appeal could be taken, a half dozen members were on the floor with Mr. Speaker- Mr. Speaker on their tongues, and then up starts a member and moves a call of the House, that is, the names of the whole are called over like a company of soldiers at a military parage, until the roll is finished, when, if any have been absent, it is moved perhaps to continue the call, and if carried, the names of absentees are called until they appear in the Hall, the Sergeant at arms being, if necessary, despatched after them. This motion, like that for an adjournment takes precedence of all others, and precludes all debate, 193 were found to be present.

During the roll call there was the utmost activity throughout the House. The Georgia members were scattered here and there conversing with apparently intense interest with various members, you may imagine for what nor were 'the friends of humanity,' as Mr. Everett calls the advocates for Indians, idle on the occasion. It seemed to be felt to be a great crisis, and one when all must take sides. From the galleries of the Hall the Cherokee Delegation looked down upon the movement below with anxious hearts, as if their fate might depend upon the decision now about to be made.

A motion was now made on the question of consideration. This motion is often made by the opponents of a bill which they wish to strangle in the birth. Now came the momentous question: Shall the House consider the resolution of the gentlemen from Massachusetts? If decided in the affirmative, the way would be open to Mr. Everett to stand forth before the American people- the advocate of the injured and oppressed. If not, it would be impossible to say whether the subject would be touched again. The friends of the Indians might despair. Every heart palpitated as the yeas and nays were called. Mr Everett stood at the clerk's side watching the count, when at length his heart must have bounded within his as he saw 101 FOR consideration, 93 AGAINST it. The result brought tears to the eyes of one of the Cherokees, who sat near me. 'Now,'said he, 'there is some prospect we shall find justice here.'  It is true that Mr. Cambreleng of your city, and Mr. Buchanan voted in the affirmative, but I believe no other members who oppose the Indians. One of the oldest and most judicious members informed me, shortly after the vote was taken, that he considered the result most auspicious, and as laying the foundation of a strong hope that the Indians would triumph.

Mr. Everett now took off his surtout, retreated a few steps to the desk of a friend (his own being quite near the speaker in the front row) and commenced his speech. In the meantime the extensive galleries had become well filled, though not uncomfortably crowded. Many members gathered round, while others thickened near the fire-places, and some began to take notes. Mr. Buchanan took his seat near him with pen and paper to take notes for an answer. Mr. E. does not appear in usual health this winter. His countenance has a pale hue and is a little inclined to emaciation. His general debility has detracted some from the strength and fullness of his voice. MR. Bates of Massachusetts sat near him as an encouraging ally, and will prove, when he shall speak, a very forcible one, not a whit inferior to the literary champion of the north. The excellent moral character which generally distinguishes the leading defenders of the Indians, both in the Senate and House, is a beautiful comment upon the justice of their cause.

Mr. E's exordium was marked by no particular elevation of verbal expression, by no display of professional eloquence, by chiefly by the ardent conception of the magnitude of the cause in which he had embarked, the thorough feeling of the importance of what he had undertaken. He declared his solemn conviction that it was the most important subject which had ever come before the Congress of the American people-that he had been so loudly admonished of this from that quarter of the state of Massachusetts which he represented, he could not be silent though many other tongues might vindicate the cause with far superior ability. He alluded to the singular fact that days and weeks had been spent by both branches of Congress on the case of a single individual, while not a day had been devoted to seventy thousand Indians, who had been seeking justice at our doors, and what was still worse, all attempts at even discussing the subject were met and resisted with the utmost pertinacity. And if we boldly stepped forward to discharge our consciences in this matter, our motives were openly assailed. A minority (alluding to the vote of last year) of the most respectable names in this House, almost equal to the majority, had been arraigned in the columns of the Government paper ( the Globe) as having acted from vile and factious motives in their endeavors to sustain the faith of treaties and the integrity of the laws of the land. For what he was then saying and about to say, he expected, he said, that a hundred presses would open their fire upon him, but the discharge of his duty was a higher consideration than the favor of those who in their adulation of power, would forget the rights of man, and the sacred character of the Constitution. He then went on to animadvert upon the dangerous course of the administration, which had ceased to act as the Executive should act, that is, execute the laws and treaties, and instead thereof had suspended their operation, or suffered States to nullify them without interposing any check to this arbitrary exercise of power. The Massachusetts orator never forgets his wonted courtesy and mildness, and it is well known that elegance and correctness, rather than Websterian energy and might, are the predominant traits of his mind; but on this occasion; inspired by the great theme on which he dwelt, he rose to an unusual degree of earnestness, and seemed powerfully intent on the end in view. He necessarily touched on many of the arguments used by himself and others last year, and went into many documentary particulars, 'c. At 8 o'clock I left him speaking and can only say that the subject cannot be again taken up this week except by a special order.  Monday being the only day assigned for debating on petitions. If it be possible for the industry of men to bring this matter to a conclusion the present session, it will be done, and as the case now stands, the Philo Indians have a good prospect of a majority on their side. Let those who look with solicitude for the final result continue their prayers to Him who has all hearts in his hand, and they may yet have the satisfaction of rejoicing in the fulfilment of their hopes.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Missionary Herald

CHICKASAWS

Ill Effects of the late Treaty.

Testimony similar to what is subjoined, respecting the feelings of the Indians, and the effects of the treaties recently made with the Chickasaws and Choctaws, has repeatedly been given. This is added only to show how well different statements agree.

'I have not yet had much opportunity of knowing what is going on in the nation. The following facts have come to me from sources that may be relied upon. When the nation were invited to enter into negotiations preparatory to the late treaty, they at first refused to comply; but after much persuasion they permitted a delegation to be selected with this specific understanding, that they were not to cede away their country. As you have learned ere this from the public prints, the delegation adhered to their instructions for some time after the address of the president; but at length like the Choctaws, they were prevailed upon to negotiate. Since the terms of this negotiation have been published in the nation, very great dissatisfaction has been manifested by the warriors. It is replied that the Indians are only clamorous in their opposition when they are intoxicated; but let the objector inform us what proportion of the nation has been uniformly sober since the treaty; and whether the following is not a fact- That Indians when dissatisfied are remarkable for their taciturnity, if sober, and when drunk, if they are not equally as remarkable for their frankness in expressing their real feelings?

It is true, that since I have known the Chickasaw Nation, there has not been a time which I can recollect, to be compared with the present for dissipation. Before their own laws were abrogated, and a Christian  code given in their place, there was a heavy penalty for vending a drop of whiskey in the nation; and in consequence of this salutary law they were the most temperate people I have known. We have lived here many months together without seeing a single individual intoxicated.  But now multitudes of men and women whenever they get a few dollars, are off with their kegs and pack-horses to the nearest village and return with their poison, to retail it at 75 cents and upwards per quart. I am informed that it is no rare occurrence to see a horse sold for a keg of whiskey.  Unless, in the providence of God, this desolating tide is soon checked, it will sweep from the nation everything that is valuable. Oh that Christians would pray that God may interpose, and save this oppressed people from destruction.

A number of Indians have just returned from a neighboring county in the white settlements, where they were cited by the civil officers. One was prosecuted by a white man, and although the Indian gained the suit, yet his expenses necessarily incurred amounted to $200. This loss is attributed to the extension of Mississippi laws. The perplexity, into which they are thrown by these novel proceedings, I think will probably induce the nation to remove, although we repeat it they will go against their will. The delegation have started to view the country west of the Mississippi. If the nation are driven away, nearly all the civilized part of the population will take reservations, whilst the entire mass of the heathen party will be consigned to the dark forests of the west.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the National Intelligencer.

To the Editors- I have read the petition of the citizens of Freeport, Maine, disapproving of the memorials in behalf of the Cherokees, in defiance of the laws of Georgia, and for asserting the right of the Indians 'to set up an Independent Government within the chartered limits of a Sovereign State, without such State's consent.' This Indian Government has been set up long before the white man from Georgia received the parchment of the charter so much talked of, from his royal master of England. At the treaty of peace of 1793, Great Britain surrendered all rights she ever asserted, by virtue of this charter; that is, not of subjugating the Indians by cruel laws, but the right of preemption, to the United States' Government, and not to the State of Georgia. The United States, thereafter, have repeatedly guarantied to the Cherokees the peaceable possession of their lands, and the protection of the United States, which as we Indians understand it, does not mean conquest and oppression.  The right to make treaties was relinquished by Georgia and the other States comprising this Union, to the President and Senate of the U. States, who have established the treaties between us, and from which she, Georgia, holds titles and possession of all the lands in the State. These treaties are valid and constitutional when an Indian sells dirt; but when he calls for protection from the encroachment of the white men, these treaties are immediately held up to the world as blank paper-as unworthy of notice. The Freeport petition goes on to state-'We believe that the United States are under the most solemn obligation to the State of Georgia to extinguish the Indian title to lands within her chartered limits, as soon as convenient, without doing gross injustice to said Indians.' So, do we believe it; and also believe, from the compact of Georgia and the United States, that this must be effected 'on peaceable and reasonable conditions.' without 'any injustice.' Will the petitioners above mentioned believe this much? They also state that they believe that 'the present administration have dealt honorably and justly with respect to the Indians.' Let me pass by that, and tell what I believe the Cherokees did, and how justly they dealt in the late war, with General Jackson, by fighting bravely in defence of Georgia and the United States, under his command. The General, as a soldier, has admitted the valor of my honored father in that campaign.  They did not withdraw their aid when it was wanted, by constitutional scruples, but freely shed their best blood in the cause of the United States, at the battle of the Horseshoe. Sirs, the Cherokees have loved General Jackson, and still love his memory, as they understood his character as their general, before he was installed in the Chief Magistracy of the United States. They have nothing to do with the party warfare that now rages in this country. They have only raised up their hands and voice for law, justice, and the fulfillment of treaties. Their appeals to the American people come from the heart. They hold your bond, in which you have promised them protection.  Will the people of Freeport, and all whose minds are enlisted in favor of justice, believe that the United States are also under obligations to fulfil their treaties with the Cherokees? Yours, 'c.

JOHN RIDGE

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: MARCH 19, 1831

We issue this week but half a sheet. The reader will see the reason in the editorial article below.

____________________

The law of Georgia making it a high misdemeanor for a white man to reside in the Cherokee Nation without taking the oath of allegiance and obtaining a permit from his Excellency the Governor or his agent, is now in a course of execution. On last Sabbath; after the usual time of Divine service, the Georgia Guard arrived and arrested three of our citizens, viz: Rev. Samuel A. Worcester, missionary of the American Board for Foreign Missions, Mr. John F. Wheeler, one of the printers of the Cherokee Phoenix, and Mr. Thomas Gann. The two last mentioned are citizens with Cherokee families. Mr. Isaac Proctor, assistant missionary at Carmel, had the evening before been taken, and came with the Guard as a prisoner.  They were conducted to the residence of Mr. Tarvin, where they were kept under guard during the night. In the morning they were marched off by way of Etahwah, where, we presume the same evening, the Rev. John Thompson, another Missionary of the American Board, was arrested.

Our object is now simply to give facts as they have occurred before our eyes, and not to indulge ourselves in remarks-the scene has just commenced and we must wait until it closes. Although our readers will recollect that the law under which these worthy men are taken is express, and the punishment severs, imprisonment in the penitentiary for not less than four years, yet I would be doing injustice to the good people of Georgia to say, that the law, enacted as this has been, at a time of great excitement, will assuredly be executed.  The Court may honorably acquit them, and thus save the credit of the State. It does not become us, therefore, to anticipate the result, and comment upon these proceedings at this time. Nor are we disposed to censure the guard for doing what they undoubtedly feel to be their duty, as officers of the State; we can speak of them only as respects their conduct in doing that duty. We must observe, however, that we cannot see the propriety and the use of such a military movements to arrest, without a process, a few unarmed and peaceable individuals, and we had rather by a great deal they had come on some other day instead of the Sabbath. The men of whom they were in pursuit, were not going to run away and leave the country- They would have been as sure of finding them on any other day as on the Sabbath.

In justice to the commanding officer, Col. Nelson, we must say that he acted with a great deal of civility ' kindness towards his prisoners while in this place. He was so accommodating as to allow Mr. Worcester to return with a guard in the evening and take supper and attend worship with his family-he also gave him the same privilege in the morning. We wish we could say that all acted kindly, but we are obliged to notice quite a different behavior, a behavior, however, we have reason to believe, disapproved by the commander.

Sergeant Brooks, whose proclamation we not long since published, but who, instead of 'Commanding the Georgia Guard' turns out to be only a Sergeant, was despatched with two privates to arrest Mr. Wheeler, then boarding in the family of the Editor. When he came to the gate leading into the front yard, Mr. Candy, another boarder and one of the printers, was coming through the back yard into the house. Seeing that Mr. Candy was likely to get into the house before him, and supposing, perhaps, his intention was to alarm Mr. Wheeler, the Sergeant make up to him, commands him to halt, draws out a pistol and threatens to shoot him if he moved another step! Mr. Candy accordingly halted, and they entered and arrested Mr. Wheeler. As they were going out we heard Brooks say to Mr. Candy, 'Never do such a thing again-If I had ordered these men they would have sent a ball through you in a moment'- or words to that effect.  Yes, 'master Brooks,' but where would have lain the dreadful responsibility of shooting an innocent man.  We Indians know that a soldier is bound to obey the orders of his superiors; but would you have ordered them to shoot? There's the rub: Such overbearing and self-important spirit is contemptible, and ought to be detested and rebuked by every honest citizen of Georgia. What did he mean by the expression, 'Never do such a thing again?' Did he mean, as we suppose he did, that he must not intercept him? What evidence had he that such was the object of Mr. Candy?  None at all. And if it was really a violation of some military rule for Mr. Candy to go into his room when he, the sergeant, was approaching, a mere request to stop would have been sufficient. Notwithstanding the Indians have been described as an ignorant set, yet, it appears no allowance i to be made for their failings, but they must be treated as though they had all the military laws and usages of guards at their tongue's end.

The cheerfulness of the prisoners while they were kept under guard in this place indicated their innocence, and showed plainly that they were suffering, not for any crime committed, but for principle's and righteousness' sake. They have counted the cost, and if they are to be sentenced to four years hard labor in the penitentiary, they will go there cheerfully and suffer the penalty of a cruel and anti-republican law with meekness, their consciences bearing them witness that they are not felons, though cast amongst a horde of thieves and robbers.

In connection with what we have already said, it may not be amiss, and certainly the present is a suitable time, to direct the reader's attention to the charge which has been frequently alleged against Mr. Worcester- that of interfering with the publication of the Cherokee Phoenix.  Besides the charge of interference in political concerns made against him in common with his missionary brethren, he has been held up in the view of the public as the read Editor of this paper.  This charge, like all other unfounded statements, has met with believers, and many who effect to believe it have been busily employed in circulating it to the prejudice of our publication, and to the injury of the usefulness of this worthy minister of the Gospel. The first public statement to this effect was made, soon after the commencement of the paper, by a certain religious Editor in Knoxville. This statement was followed by a disclaimer from Mr Worcester, and a demand for proof from the Editor. No proof was adduced. Soon after the impression became very general among the frontier inhabitants that the proprietors of the Cherokee Phoenix had committed a fraud on the public, for, instead of having an Indian editor, there was an intermeddling missionary behind the curtain, who busied himself in opposing the new projects of the Government and was striving to promote his own interest. About this time written charges were lodged in the War Department against Mr. Worcester, which charges were forwarded by Col. M'Kenney, who was then at the head of the Indian Bureau, to the Prudential Committee of the American Board for investigation. As there were no proofs accompanying the charges, the Committee of course considered the disclaimer of Mr. Worcester sufficient. In answer to a letter of the editor, requesting that the name of the informer might be communicated to him, Col. M'Kenney said, that they of the War Department were now satisfied that the charges were unfounded, and that of course it was not necessary to give up the name.

We give these particulars to show what efforts have been employed to make the public, and even the Government believe a thing originating altogether on suspicion. Nor are such efforts unemployed now, nor employed uselessly. It is the object of the enemies of the Indians, all despisers of religion ' scorners of Indian Improvement, to place the missionaries in an unfavorable light, and every incident having that tendency is eagerly grasped at for that purpose. We say all, for we have seen the slander, of which we are now speaking, eagerly circulated by them, down from the Poney Club to Duff Green's Telegraph, the organ of the administration.

And what, reader, do you think is the circumstance which has a tendency to create even a suspicion that Mr. Worcester has been (for he cannot now be) acting as editor of the Cherokee Phoenix? Why, he was our neighbor, ' we have been in the habit of frequent intercourse with him, in assisting him to learn the Cherokee language and to translate the Scriptures. More than this we know not. Now he is gone, rudely torn from his work by an unrighteous law, perhaps to a loathsome jail, and finally to the penitentiary, what will his slanderers say?  On whom will the charge if interfering with the editorship of the Cherokee Phoenix fall? We hope those who have not been inclined to believe our simple declarations heretofore will now be convinced. There is now no white man here on whom we might call for assistance, if we were disposed so to do. The Cherokee Phoenix is more that ever a Cherokee paper, for the mechanical part of the labor is likewise performed entirely by Cherokees. Although the removal of Mr. Wheeler will derange our paper some, yet we hope before a great while we shall be able to issue it regularly.

_________________

We learn from our Washington papers that the Choctaw treaty has been ratified by the Senate. This is more than we expected.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














five column format

From the New York Observer.

MEMORIAL OF THE AMERICAN BOARD.

The following is a copy of a memorial expressive of the views of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, on the subject of the removal of the Indians. It was presented to both Houses of Congress on Monday Feb. 7th.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled -- the Memorial of the Prudential Committee of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions humbly and respectfully represents:

That the late annual meeting of said Board, which was held in the tenth of October last, the Memorialists were directed 'to prepare and present to both Houses of Congress a memorial earnestly and respectfully expressing the views and sentiments of the Board on the subject of the proposed removal of the Indians, residing in the States of Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi, in reference to the benevolent plans of extending to those Indians the blessings of civilization and religious instruction.'

In the discharge of the duty thus assigned them, the Memorialist respectfully approach the National Legislature, and offer the following statements and reasonings.

Before entering, however, upon the great subject of this memorial, it seems due to the Honorable Bodies addressed, and to the Memorialist themselves, to state, why the Board deems itself called upon, in its associated capacity, to address Congress in behalf of the suffering Indian Nations.

The object for which the Board was formed, and which it has invariable kept in view, is purely of an philanthropic and religious nature, it being no other than the diffusion of Christianity, with civilization in its train, among heathen nations whenever accessible, without distinction of country, climate, or nation. In the pursuit of this object, the Board sought access to the South-Western tribes of Indians in the United States, as soon as possible after the termination of the last war. The Rev. Cyrus Kingsbury, an agent and missionary of the Board, while proceeding to the Cherokee Nation in the year 1816, had various interviews with the members of the government, and particularly with Mr. Crawford, then Secretary of War, on the subject of the civilization of the above mentioned tribes.  As the result of these interviews, it was stipulated by the government, that two thirds of the necessary expense of erecting the first buildings for the commencement of schools for Indian children, should be defrayed from the treasury of the United States.

In accordance with this arrangement, buildings were erected in the Cherokee Nation the next year, in the Choctaw Nation one year later, and among the Cherokees of the Arkansas in 1820. At these places, the contemplated schools were commenced as soon as possible, and have been continued ever since.

About the period last mentioned a law of Congress took effect, by which $10,000 annually were appropriated to the civilization of the Indians. This sum was apportioned by the Secretary of War, among the different benevolent societies, by which schools for Indian children had been instituted. The establishments of the Board being more numerous and more expensive than those of any other Society, the aggregate of the sums assigned to the schools under its care was considerable. In some years it was nearly $4,000. For the year preceding October 1, 1830, it was $(?); and for the current year is $ (?).

This allowance from the Government of the United States to the missionary schools under the care of the Board has always been gratefully received and faithfully expended. It is not to be understood, however, that the expenditure of money for the government in promoting the civilization of the Indians, is to be view in the light of a personal favor conferred on the directors of the societies, or the missionaries and teachers, by whose care and assiduity it is applied; for, as a general thing, every additional expense creates additional labor and responsibility.  But, as an expression of benevolence on the part of the government of the United States towards the Indians, it was gladly received and cheerfully applied to their benefit.

An erroneous impression has gone abroad, to this effect: that the missionary establishments among the Indians originated solely in the liberality of the government; that they were sustained almost entirely by the same liberality; and that the missionaries and teachers had been enabled, as a consequence of what they received from the national treasury, to make for themselves very comfortable and even desirable residences. The fact, is, however, that the missions to the Indians were planned and undertaken before any provision was made by the government on the subject, and without any expectation that the government would make them the channels of its benevolent aid in the work of civilization; that there never has been a year, in which the Board did not spend four times as much from its treasure, as was advanced from the treasury of the United States for the schools under its care; that, during the year preceding last October, only one twelfth part as much was paid by the United States for schools under the care of the Board, as was paid from its own treasury, the donations of individuals, for the christianization and civilization of the North American Indians. It is due to those excellent men and women, who have volunteered their services for the instruction of the Indians, and especially to those prominent among them, whose names have frequently appeared in public documents, to add, that the supposition that they engaged in their self-denying employment from motives of personal ease and comfort is altogether destitute of probability and has not the shadow of proof to justify it.

There are not in the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and Choctaw nations, east of the Mississippi, and among the Cherokees of the Arkansas, regular missionaries, preachers of the gospel, under the direction of the Board, -- teachers of children and youth with several farmers and mechanics, making in the whole, adult laborers of both sexes, engaged for an indefinite length of time, without any compensation except food and clothing during their stay, in the arduous and exhausting work of instructing the ignorant and reclaiming the uncivilized. The number has sometimes been greater; and the average has hardly been less, at any time within the last ten years. Since the beginning of these operations, fourteen missionaries and assistants have died, and more than that number have left the field of labor with constitutions so impaired, that they were not capable of sustaining any service.

As the Board needed correct information, regard to the character and condition of the Indians, and the effect of labors for their benefit, the most responsible officers of the institution made no fewer than six journeys of inspection and examination of these missions. The first Corresponding Secretary of the board, a man of powerful talents and great benevolence, died among the Cherokees, after having passed through the Choctaw Nation, on one of these exploring journeys.  In the course of the other visits of this kind, the various states were inspected, the fullest accounts received, and the information sought, which could enable the Board to carry forward the work with intelligence and discretion.

The memorialists mention these facts, for the purpose of showing, that, although the ordinary business of the Board is transacted at a distance from the seat of these mission, yet the real state of the Indians and of the operations designed for their good, may be much better known by the directors, than it is by hundreds of respectable men, who live within twenty miles of the Indian boundary. This will be still more apparent, when it is considered, that a continual correspondence is necessarily in progress between the missionaries and their directors, so that scarcely a week has elapsed, for the last thirteen years, in which letters were not received, directly from the Indian country, written by men of undoubted veracity, who had no interest in deceiving.

It was probably for these reasons, that officer at the head of the Indian Bureau, as it is termed, acting under the immediate direction of the present Chief Magistrate of the United States, addressed a letter to the Corresponding Secretary of the Board, in the month of June, 1829, requesting his opinion on the subject of the removal of the Indians.  This fact, if none of the preceding, will exonerate the memorialists from the charge of improperly interfering with a subject, which is in the view of the memorialists, not merely political, but eminently of a philanthropic and moral character.

Besides, when the first missions were established among the Cherokees, some of that tribe were extremely distrustful of the intentions of the government and people of the United States. They feared that their land would one day be taken from them without their consent. On all occasions, the agent of the United States took pains to assure the Indians that their fears were groundless; that the United States were bound by treaty not to take their land without their consent, or to permit any intrusions upon their land. The missionaries are bound, by the nature of their government, and by the common principles of humanity, to repeat the same assurances, and to say, that the government and people of the United States would always fulfil their engagements with Indians; that the meaning of the treaties was clearly understood by both parties, and would never be disregarded by the general government.

The memorialists, therefore, speaking in the name and behalf of the Board, feel bound to address Congress in their associated capacity, not only from a regard to the character and consistency of missionaries and agents, who have been entrusted by the government with the expenditure of the civilization fund, as well as from respect for the government, with the administrators of which the memorialists have had correspondence for the last thirteen years.

After these statements and explanations, which seem to the memorialists proper and even necessary, they proceed to assign reasons, why, as they are constrained to think, it does not comport with the honor of the general government, nor with the accomplishment of the 'benevolent plans of extending those Indians the blessings of civilization and Christian instruction,' to remove them from the land of their fathers against their will.

It appears to the memorialists, that the only way of obtaining the free consent of the Indians, in their present circumstances, to a removal, is to place fair arguments, and suitable inducements before them, assuring them at the same time, that they are at perfect liberty to accept of proposals made in reference to their removal, or to decline such proposals, and that, in case of their declining, they are to be protected in their rights, as secured by treaty, and by existing laws of the United States.  The memorialists are not about to enter upon any legal or constitutional argument with reference to the rights of the Indians, nor to dwell upon the imperious obligation of preserving the faith of the nation inviolate. Leaving these topics for such memorialists as think it their duty to address Congress in their individual capacity, we proceed to state our apprehensions, in regard to the inevitable misery, which will be brought upon the Indians by their removal.

It was last year estimated by the Secretary of War, that the southwestern tribes, whose speedy removal is contemplated, contain 75,000 souls. If all this number are to be precipitated into a new residence, within two or three years, there seems no rational ground of concluding, that the mass of the people will not be plunged into the greatest distress. The memorialists are aware, that appropriations are made by law for providing sustenance for emigrants during their journey, and for a year after their arrival. All preceding experiments, however, in this process of removal, prove, as has been alleged by the emigrants themselves, that such provisions answer their purpose very inadequately. There is apt to be both a failure of supplies, and improvidence in using them.  It is alleged that Indians are improvident; and it is known that they are particularly so, when in a state of despondency. The memorialists believe it to be a fact, that the mass of the individuals, who compose the four south-western tribes are decidedly and strongly opposed to a removal, that no consent of any considerable number has been, or will be given, unless under the apprehension that laws will be imposed upon them, in the making and execution of which, they have no influence, and under which, as they are officially informed from the highest source, they can not live. Just and humane government, as the memorialists apprehend, will hardly place any reliance upon a consent thus given. The state of mind, in which the Indians go, is vitally important, as to their being able to improve their condition. If the representations made to the memorialists, from sources in which they have the fullest confidence, are correct, the Indians will generally feel, that they have been unrighteously deprived of their inheritance, in violation of justice and of the most solemn stipulations.  Whether they are mistaken or not, in this view of the case, there can be no doubt the state of vexation and despondency, into which they are thrown, will be very unfavorable to their improvement, and even to their existence as a people. Uncivilized tribes are, indeed, to some extent unstable as to the state of their feelings. It may be that flattering representations will, for a season, dispel the clouds of despondency, which obscure the visions of futurity; but whenever the emigrant reenters to the reality of his condition, and reflects upon the land of his birth, and the manner in which he was deprived of it, the same feelings of discouragement will be apt to return.

The evils of such a condition will be greatly aggravated by the anarchy, which will be almost certain to prevail. It is doubtful whether any tribe of Indians has been preserved from anarchy, or had its condition improved, by the minute agency and interference of white rulers. But there are not several examples of tribes, greatly improved in their government, manners and habits, by their own efforts, made with the advice of our enlightened statesmen, and by means of intercourse with our citizens. Such will be the state of the emigrants, such their dependence, and such their intercourse with officers and agents of the United States, that it cannot be supposed they will have a regular government among themselves.  No plan has been adopted, either by themselves or others, for their benefit in this respect. By a sudden exercise of power over them, they have been deprived of the privilege of executing their own laws, -- a privilege which they had immemorially possessed, -- and have been threatened with severe penalties if they enact laws in future. How is it possible that, with these facts fresh in their recollection, they should have courage and enterprise to begin a new government, in new and unexampled circumstances? It may be said that the President of the United States will assure to them the right of governing themselves. But this right has been assured them many times, and they have even been assisted in the work of new modelling their institutions, by the personal advice of some of our most distinguished statesmen. The result of a removal, in such circumstances, will be, as there is much reason to fear that they will have no laws except the arbitrary orders of military officers, issued on every new emergency; and this state of things will lead them speedily into hopeless anarchy.

Again, there is much reason to apprehend, that the emigrants will be greatly annoyed by vagrant white men, who will intrude upon the Indian [See 4th page] territory.  The western side of this territory will be an illimitable desert, affording every facility for the admission of the worst of men, who have addicted themselves to the half-savage life, and some of whom now traverse these regions. A military force could not exclude this class of persons, unless some portion of it were placed, within short distances, on every part of the Indian frontier; that is, on the four sides of the large parallelogram, which is to be considered as the permanent residence of the Indians; and it would require more men, than now belong to the regular army of the United States, to leave small detachments at military stations, keeping up a constant communication with each other, on a line of 1,700 miles. The circumstances of our own country and of the world are such, as to furnish a perpetual succession of unprincipled and adventurous men, who will not cease to make a prey of every exposed Indian tribe, till the last remnants of the aboriginal race are destroyed. If this result were inevitable, it would be useless to write or speak on the subject. But your Memorialists verily believe, that it is easy to protect the southwestern tribes on the land of their fathers. A smaller quantity of land will satisfy them here, than in any other place. Their title to a new country can never be equal, certainly not in their own estimation, to that by which they hold their present possessions. If their present limits shall proved to be larger than are necessary to their greatest prosperity, there is no doubt these limits may be reduced in a manner perfectly fair and honorable to both parties. If their limits are not too large, the people of the United States ought not to ask for a reduction of them. Let it be firmly and decisively announced, that the intercourse law of the United States will be enforced for the protection of the Indians, and their confidence will be speedily restored.

It has been frequently represented, that the tribes under consideration cannot remain where they now are, on account of the annoyance which they will experience from bad neighbors. But, as your memorialists apprehend, there is a great mistake on this subject. That the Indians cannot remain, if the laws of their white neighbors are to be extended over them without their consent, is very true; but if things were to continue in this respect, as they have been the last forty years, there is every reason to conclude, that the annoyance experienced from vagrant and lawless whites would be constantly diminishing, as it certainly has been diminishing, till intruders have become embolden by the present state of the laws. Let it be firmly and decisively announced, that the laws of the United States, and of all the states in the neighborhood of the Indians, respect the territorial rights of the tribes, as heretofore exercised and enjoyed by them, and there need be little apprehension from bad neighbors.

In determining the expediency of a removal, it seems vitally important, that the new country for the emigrants should be thoroughly explored, and its capability of sustaining Indians fully ascertained.  Your memorialists are apprehensive, that the permanent injury will be inflicted on the emigrants, for want of this previous knowledge. Though considerable uncertainty prevails on the subject, yet it seems admitted by all, that the far greater proportion of the contemplated new residence for the Indians (probably four-fifths of the whole) is an immense prairie, nearly destitute of wood and deprived of running water four or five months of the year.  It is hardly necessary to say, that such a country can never be inhabited by a people only partially civilized. Of that part which is covered with wood, a considerable portion is represented as mountainous and barren. After these deductions are made, a small portion of good land remains; but nearly the whole of this, as your memorialists are informed, falls within the country already appropriated to the Choctaws and the Cherokees of the Arkansas. It is certain that fourteen Chickasaws, who were deputed by their countrymen to explore the new country, and who performed their tour with an agent of the government, in the fall of 1823, returned unanimously dissatisfied; and as your memorialists are informed, the late treaty negotiated with the Chickasaws stipulates, that the treaty is not to take effect, unless a country can be found with which the tribe will be satisfied; a condition, which, as your memorialists are informed, the Indians suppose, cannot be complied with.

It would seem superfluous to observe, that a measure, which is recommended for its humanity and benevolence, cannot be entitled to that character, if whole tribes of men, with whom the people of the United States have sustained the most solemn relations for half a century, are to be suddenly, and contrary to call their expectations, transferred by irresistible necessity from their patrimonial possessions, for which they entertain the strongest attachments, to a new country, of which neither themselves, nor the people of the United States, have any accurate and definite knowledge, and concerning which there are serious apprehensions that it will never answer the purpose, for which it is set apart. If there is a failure here, the ease is remediless. Your memorialists need not ask, whether it becomes a wise and provident government, and a just and humane people, to dispose of all the great interests, of the whole temporal condition, of feeble and dependent allies, while nearly all the great facts, which must have a bearing on that condition, are still unascertained; and while these facts do not seem likely to be ascertained, till the period shall have been past, when they can have any influence on the decision of the question now pending.

It has indeed been asserted, though the assertion has not been sustained, as your memorialists believe, by any probable evidence, that nearly the whole territory of 600 miles long and 250 miles broad, to be set apart for the Indians, is very fertile, and capable of sustaining a great population. If this should prove to be the case, it is certain that so vast a country, with such advantages, must be immensely more valuable, than the territory now in possession of the South-western tribes. It will therefore be an object of intense cupidity to the neighboring whites, as the population west of the Mississippi shall increase.  Considerations of this sort already fill the emigrant Indians, and those who suppose they shall be obliged to emigrate, with the most gloomy forebodings in regard to their ever having a permanent residence; and it would seem that these forebodings must exert a most disastrous influence on any plans, which the Indians might otherwise have formed and executed, with reference to the improvement of their condition.

There is still another consideration, respecting the place designed for the Indians, which is deemed particularly worth the attention of the National Legislature. It is this Immediately after the emigration of the Indians, should it take place according to what is now proposed, the emigrants will find themselves between a pressing white population on the East, and a boundless prairie on the West. This prairie, though often called a desert, produces herbage sufficient to sustain vast herds of buffaloes a large part of every year. It has no permanent human inhabitants; but is visited by various tribes of savages, most of them hostile to each other. The emigrants will therefore, as your memorialists apprehend, be in the most unfavorable circumstances, in regard to civilization.  These are the very circumstances in which, as the history of this continent proves, the natives are least likely to become permanently attached to the soil, and to perceive the necessity of those institutions, which are essential to civilized society. Pushed in by intrusive borderers of no very inviting character on one side, and allured by game, or provoked to deeds of war on the other, with an illimitable field for savage enterprise stretching to the Rocky Mountains and beyond them, it cannot be expected that the regular community of industrious settlers will be formed and sustained. It was remarked, many years before the present question of removal arose; that Indians could never be civilized in any great numbers, till they should be surrounded by white, and confined within their own territories which should have been previously reduced within moderate dimensions.  This is precisely the situation of the south-western tribes; and the recent history of the Cherokees, Chickasaw, and Choctaws, thus circumscribed in their limits, compelled to agriculture, ' aided by the philanthropic ' Christian efforts of their white brethren, completely justifies the theory which had been previously formed. If these advantages, so manifestly flowing from the causes here mentioned, should be abandoned, your memorialists cannot see that any hope will remain of these tribes ever becoming thoroughly civilized.

The concluding topic, which the memorialists think demands the serious attention of Congress, and which it especially becomes benevolent societies to state and urge, is the unhappy effect, which a removal of the Indians would seem unavoidable to produce upon the various plans of civilization and general improvement, which are now in successful operation among the three tribes last mentioned. For several years, these have been developed and carried forward, with the countenance and co-operation of the general government, by benevolent societies and individuals, of various religious denominations and in different [See 2d. page] parts of the United States.  The result has been such as to afford great encouragement and hope to all friends of human happiness, who have made themselves acquainted with the facts and circumstances of the case.

The whole population of these tribes has for some time relied upon the productions of the soil, and upon domestic animals, for the means of subsistence. A large proportion of the men are industrious cultivators of the soil, and of the women manufacturers of cloth for the use of their own households. The mass of the people have between dwellings, utensils, and clothing, than any previous period of their history. Both cattle and corn are exported. The conviction is universal, that without a laborious attention to agriculture and the common arts of civilized life, they cannot be comfortable, and rise to a proper elevation, even were it possible to preserve their community in any other way. Schools have been established, at great expense and labor, which are now exerting a very benign influence. Places of public worship are provided, and regular Christian churches are formed, embodying a considerable number of exemplary professors of religion. A constitution of civil polity, suited to the wants of the people, and adequate to most of the purposes of good government, has been formed in more than one of these tribes. Salutary laws have been enacted and enforced; and more has been done by these people alone to banish the use of ardent spirits, than has ever been done before, with the aid of causes and agents of every description, for this immensely important object.

But, if the process of removal goes on, your memorialists apprehend, that all these associations will be broken up.  Inhabitants of the same neighborhood will not remove at the same time, nor be placed again in the vicinity of each other. All the bones of society will be dissolved. Children, in the midst of the education will be interrupted; and the delays will be so various, and their new circumstances so different from their former ones, and a relapse into habits of vagrancy and indolence so natural, that it cannot be expected that the business of education will ever be resumed by the same individuals. It is well known that when our own people remove from the old to the new states, several years ordinarily elapse before common schools can be put into operation.  During this interval, many a youth loses the proper opportunity of obtaining the most necessary learning; a loss which proves to him irreparable. If this takes peace among a civilized people, removing from the enjoyment of long established institutions, with the intention of recommencing them again as soon as possible, what will be the effect of a removal upon men, who have just begun to form such habits, as are indispensable to the whole process of civilization? Such of the natives, as are truly converted to Christianity, need all the aid, which they can receive from each other's contiguity, familiar acquaintance, and mutual interests, to sustain them amid the trials to which they are exposed, even under the most favorable circumstances; but if they are dissociated and thrown among strangers, in the midst of untried circumstances, and bereft of the ordinary supports of religion and virtue, it would seem impossible but they must be great sufferers in their moral, as well as in their temporal condition.  It will be a great aggravation for all these evils, and will go toward insuring their continuance, that the confidence of the Indians in the professions and promises of the whites will be irrecoverably lost. This they declare beforehand will be the result, and it seems so natural as to be nearly or quite inevitable.

The thought that the labors for many years should be suddenly lost; that so many sacred pledges (as they have been received and understood) should be forfeited; that children should be interrupted in their education and dispersed in the wilderness; that industrious formers should be taken from their wellknown acres and allured to the chase of animals or the fortune of war; and that Christian neighbors and friends should be separated from each other; and thrown among men of characters entirely dissimilar to their own -- the thought that all these evils should be brought upon whole tribes of men, without any fault of theirs, is exceedingly painful. Should it be said, that these evils may be guarded against by the emigrants, your memorialists apprehend, that this is too much to expect from any means and resources, and fortitude and zeal, providence and perseverance, within the reach of partially civilized men.  Indeed, a general removal of a community can never be achieved without exposure to a serious deterioration, in regard to morals, manners, and enjoyments; and it needs very high attainments of mind and heart to preserve a community, in such circumstances from a most ruinous catastrophe.

It should be considered here, that ardent spiriti, which has always been the bane of the Indian tribes, will probably be always within the reach of the emigrants; and that white intruders will be brought to the Indian country, with this noxious article, by far stronger incitements than ever heretofore; as large disbursement of money will be made, for years to come, by the government of the United States, to the various tribes of the Indians, or their accredited agents. A state of mental despondency, of disgust, and general dislike of the treatment received, is of all other states of mind most favorable to the prevalence of unrestrained intemperance, from which the poor victims could never be recovered.

Since the process of removal began, the evils of intemperance, have greatly increased in every tribe as yet seriously affected by that process; particularly the Choctaws, the Chickasaws, and the Cherokees of the Arkansas. Among the latter, as the memorialists have been informed in the most authentic manner, there were more deaths from drinking whiskey, in six months of the last year, than in six years previously: this enormous increase of the evil is accounted for simply by the fact that dealers in whiskey were allured into the new Indian territory by the expectation, that in accordance with the treaty of 1828, the United States would disburse considerable sums of money to the emigrants. And yet this very place, thus immediately invaded and defiled by unprincipled men in the pursuit of gain, has been represented as a sanctuary for Indians, to which their corrupter and tempters could never gain access.

Thus have the memorialists, in the discharge of a solemn duty, which they conceive to be imposed upon them endeavored to lay before the National Legislature, in a respectful and dispassionate manner, several considerations of great importance, in relation to the proposed removal of the Indians. They do not flatter themselves, that they have escaped all error on the subject, but from their long and intimate acquaintance with the tribes more especially interested, they think they cannot be mistaken, in regard to most of the principles, on which the preceding observations are founded.

In conclusion, the memorialists would humbly implore for our national rulers light and guidance from the Unerring Source of all wisdom; and would express the earnest desire that neither the government nor the people of the United States may sanction any measure toward the aborigines of this continent, which shall deprive them of any right, or place them in less favorable circumstances than at present, in regard to their progress in civilization and Christianity; but that, on the contrary, such a course may be pursued, as shall sustain the good faith of the country, and, from its generosity and benevolence, redound to the lasting honor of the age, in which we live.

Signed in behalf of the Presidential Committee of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions.

WILLIAM REED, Chairman.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

From the New York Observer.

LETTERS FROM WASHINGTON.

NO. XIV.

WASHINGTON CITY

Feb. 21, 1821

Messrs Editors -- Mr. Everrett has this day concluded his speech on the Indian question, and the House have adjourned, refusing to make a special order for a further hearing of it. Of course it will not come up again till next Monday. Whether the gentlemen, who wish to speak, will be able to satisfy themselves on that day, or whether a special order will then be arranged for this object -- remains to be determined. Hr. Haynes, of Georgia, and Mr. Bell, of Tennessee, have been up today in reply to Mr. Everett -- Mr. Bell being still upon the floor for Monday. The latter gentleman is probably as good an advocate for Georgia, as is likely to stand up. He is an accomplished and powerful orator. I love to hear him -- although his argument, necessarily, is an entire failure thus far. He has promised, however, to triumph -- the poorest thing he has said.

Mr. Bell has said today, with some severity -- that Mr. Everett's argument is only a new and improved edition of his argument last session. There is some truth in it. And why not? How could it be otherwise? The text is the same -- and Mr. Everett has not forgot, even yet, the connection between a text and a sermon. I hope, however, we shall soon have the whole speech. It will not be found tautology, even along side of the other. It ought soon to be forthcoming -- and to be scattered and read through the nation. It was a great, consistent, irresistible argument. His peroration was superlative, both in structure and sentiment.  It was hard to shield the heart against its subduing power.

Two of the Cherokees stood immediately behind and over me. In the midst of Mr. Everett's peroration, I though I heard something like a drop of rain fall upon the cape of my cloak, near to my ear. I looked up, and the head of one of these Cherokees had fallen upon his hand, and he was endeavoring to conceal his tears. Sirs -- there is honesty and great power in tears. Never did I stand in such a place before -- never can I expect to again. The moment I discovered the fountain and the cause of that summons of my attention, -- a world of thought and an ocean of feeling rushed upon me. First, I felt like being dissolved and annihilated -- as if I could not stand before that tear. All the sins of the nation done to this people seemed embodied, concentrated in it -- crying for atonement. An innocent drop in itself -- but charged with such associations and such a cause, it seemed to my conscience -- (as a part of the conscience of this community) -- as if charged also with the element of Jehovah's wrath. If the voice of God could hear the cry of Abel's blood, will not his eye regard the Indian's tear, and make inquisition? --- thought I.  I looked at the majestic columns of marble, which encircle the Hall, and it seemed -- that they would dissolve, and the lofty dome, supported by them, crush in its falling ruins those very men, who a year ago enacted the ill-fated doom of their red brethren. It seemed so -- for my own weakness practised nought by illusion on all surrounding objects. An Indian bending over me in tears! I knew him -- had talked and sympathized with him. I loved him. But now he asked no sympathy. He was overtaken in an unexpected moment. And he sought to hide his grief -- and in that very effort his grief was betrayed.

A man may listen for hours -- and even days -- the most luminous and powerful ratiocination, that was ever uttered by man -- and on almost any theme -- and still remain in his moral affections unmoved.  But who can sustain himself against a tear? Would, that this whole nation could have stood in my place. He, who had been there, would need no other argument.

This seems to me an eventful day. I do not mean this age -- but this day of the year -- of the month -- of the week. To me it seems. For besides the unsubduing scene I have just referred to, ominous I fear, two Indians from the North West called upon me this morning for a trifling errand, and as they retired. One of them whispered to me -- that the Indians, now at Washington, from various parts, in view of their present discouraging prospect -- more discouraging than ever, so far as their hope has been in man -- have agreed to observe a day of religious solemnity on that account -- a day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer; and as they immediately withdraw, I understood no more. I confess, Sirs, though perhaps as much alive upon this theme, as is common among the friends of Indians, under all the appeals which have ever been made to me under all their forms -- and with all their concentrated influence and power, and with all the admonitions of judicial visitation from the hand of God, I have ever heard or imagined, as awaiting this nation for the injuries we have done and are ready to do to this afflicted and imploring people; -- as if I had hear nothing, seen nothing, felt nothing before -- the announcement of this contemplated religious solemnity, in such circumstances, for such purposes, and to be observed by such a group -- the representatives of such a people -- has moved me, as if I had been come over by an unexpected and mighty wave of the sea! Are they, indeed, about to give themselves to prayer? to weep before the throne of God? to prefer their complaints into the ear of Him, who will punish the oppressor, and pity the oppressed? Having suffered the breach of all covenants between themselves and us -- are they about to seal a covenant with Jehovah -- that he may be their advocate and their defender? I would not, that they should pray against me; I would not, that they should pray against my people. I would not see them on their knees, and hear them lifting their voices, mingled with their tears, and saying unto God; 'Be thou the avenger of our cause -- and visit our oppressors.' Are there no invisible stores of wrath in the magazines of Jehovah's retribution? Where -- and how far distant -- an on what contingency is suspended -- the scourge of civil discord? And when once it has been broken loose, where will it be restrained? Where sleepeth the spirit of general strife among the nations, that his face should not look on us? Where is the earth quake, and pestilence, and famine -- and the numberless scourges of God's avenging hand -- which ever lie in abeyance to his summons?  Dare we challenge them? Can they not -- will they not, some of them, and in their wasting, desolating power, be wakened up by the prayers and strong cryings of these poor Indians? They have appointed a day, in which they are to spread their cause before the throne of heaven. They have no expectancy from earth. Their hearts are sickened by disappointment. They are gathering up their wasted and lost affections -- arming their wounded spirits with a new species of courage -- and beginning to lift their eye up where Jehovah dwells. We, (Christians once) have taken their lands 0-- and they have taken our religion -- and learned to use it against us. Not, that they would hurt us. O no.  Nor desire our hurt. Far from it. But we have taught them to pray -- to pray in distress -- and for relief from trouble. But, peradventure, God cannot give them relief, except as he turns his hand upon their oppressors, to humble their pride, and make them will to be just.  Shall the sufferer, in the hour of his importunity, while prostrate before the throne, dictate to God the methods of his deliverance? He thinks of his misery -- and he prays for relief as God shall please. This is all.  And God chooses his own methods.

For one, I fear the prayers of these Indians.  I never looked upon them, as I do this day. I had ever supposed that they were in our hands. But, as I am a Christian, I verily believe -- we are in their hands.  They have betaken themselves to a weapon, whose strokes are invisible -- they have engaged in a warfare, the guidance and control of which are vested in the controlling hand. We cannot meet them on this ground, except we come as they -- weeping and repenting. There are no truths more true than these: God will hear prayer, and punish pride -- when the prayer cometh up from the oppressed. And, it is more blessed to be the injured, than the injurer.

Yours, etc.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Five column format

From the New-York Journal of Commerce

THE INDIANS.

How the question is viewed for Foreigners. The London Times, a paper as friendly to this country as any other in the metropolis, thus comments upon that part of the President's message which related to the Indians:

The Message proceeds to congratulate Congress on the success which attended the 'benevolent' policy of the United States, which has for nearly 30 years aimed at the 'removal' of the Indians beyond the white settlements! The removal of the Indians means simply their expulsion from every foot of land which they and their ancestors for numberless generations had possessed and enjoyed by indefeasible right, long previous to the existence of the North American Republic. We do not mean to deny the incalculable advantage to the whole world, derived from the substitution of a civilized for a savage community, through the vast region which at this moment form the dominion of the United States, but things ought to be called by their proper denominations. The unhappy Indians are 'treated with' as the wild beasts are treated with, they are hunted off the earth, wherever a white man chooses to raise his loghouse. There is no 'benevolence' in this, but the pure selfishness of unbridled power. The 'removal' means a violent expulsion; the expulsion is followed in almost every instance, and even with a single generation of mankind, of extinction. Within the short term of 30 years, many once numerous and powerful tribes of the Indian race; thus ousted from their homes, have perished. General JACKSON philosophizes upon these sufferings of the ancient occupants of America, which, says he, upon 'a comprehensive' view of the general interests of the human race, is not to be regretted.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

Which horn will you take? In a short debate which occurred in the United States House of Representatives on Friday last, Mr. Bates of Massachusetts reduced the anti-Indian interest to a sad dilemma. Id.

He regretted (he said) not to see the Chairman of the Committee on Indian affairs in his place. In this dark sea he thought the House had a right to know from the pilot by what course, or what star it was sailing. If the Indians are the citizens of the States and subject to the jurisdiction of the States as contended for, he would thank any disciple of the school of strict construction, or of any other, to show the authority of this Government to purchase their land, to remove or educate them, as proposed. Mr. B. said some of his constituents wished to sell their lands and remove, and would be very thankful if the Government would buy them out and aid in their removal. If the Indians are in fact independent nations, or tribes, as he supposed they were, then, no difficulty appears in the case; but if they are citizens of the States, wand subject to the jurisdiction of the States, he saw no power in the Government to interfere.  The policy seems to be, to consider them as independent for all purposes beneficial to us, and as citizens for all purposes prejudicial to them.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The Indian Question. This subject, so interesting to the friends of humanity and the foes of oppression is now before Congress, and the fate of the aborigines depends on the justice, the mercy ' the magnanimity of our honorable Senators and Representatives.  Could the members of Congress but divest themselves of the baneful influences of party, there would be no danger, at this time, of trusting the question to their decision. But now, members of Congress are not what they ought to be, what the Constitution intended they should be. They do not speak the sentiments of their constituents, whom they ought to represent, but those of the Chief Magistrate and of his party.  The removal of the Indians has always been a favorite project with the President, and though opposed by all the principles of justice, mercy and law, he sees in the measure a 'policy,' that justifies every thing, however tyrannical or unconstitutional.

Under the present state of party discipline in the United States, we are glad to see that other rights, excepting those of the Indians, are to be affected by their removal. The State of Missouri has rights, which may be regarded while the Jackson party would turn a deaf ear to the just claims of the poor Indians. The Legislature of Missouri apprehends, and certainly not without cause, great injury from the removal of the Indian tribes from Georgia, and Alabama to their territory and has remonstrated against the project, which to the members of the Legislature, appears calculated to disturb the peace and harmony of Missouri -- the course of her trade with Mexico, and the execution of her laws. Interest as well as the love of mercy, has prompted this remonstrance, and it is fervently hoped that Congress, in now considering this subject, will reconsider the cruel, unjust and disgraceful act of the last session, which, while it deprived the Indians of their rights, fixed stain of disgrace on our national character. Providence Journal.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX

NEW ECHOTA: MARCH 26,1831

The Georgia Guard who arrested Mr. Worcester and others went by way of Hightower and arrested the Rev. John Thompson.  They also took Mr. William Thompson.  The latter had resided for the last few years at that place as a blacksmith, but had removed on the first of March, and was at the time of his arrest a citizen of Carroll County. The prisoners, six in number, were not conducted to the place of encampment, five miles further. Next morning the Guard, instead of going directly into Georgia, turned their course towards their headquarters, where they arrived the day following, in true military style, under the sound of fife and drums. Here Col. Nelson delivered the prisoners into the hands of the Governor's agent, Col. Sanford, who took them under his special charge. Perceiving that Mr. William Thompson was one of the number, he immediately ordered to have him put in jail. However, by means of the intercession of his companions and the officers who arrested him, Mr. Thompson was discharged and permitted to return home, after lying in jail but a short time. Four of the others, viz: Messrs. Worcestor, Thompson, Wheeler and Gann were, on Thursday morning, marched towards Laurenceville with a sufficient Guard under the command of Sanford himself.  They arrived there on the same evening, the court being in session. On the next day they were brought before his honor Judge Clayton by a writ of Habeas Corpus for examination. The case was continued to Saturday, on which day his honor discharged Messrs. Worcester and Thompson, because the first was a Post master and the and the other a

missionary, considering both in the light of Agents of the Government. It is proper to observe that the counsel for the prisoners did not make a plea to that effect, but studiously refrained from it. The other two, Gann ' Wheeler, together with Messrs. J. A. Thompson ' B.F. Thompson, who were arrested on the same charge in Laurenceville on Thursday evening, were bound, in the sum of $250 each, to appear at Court in September.  It is thought there is very little hope of their escaping the penitentiary, for the Judge decided that the law is constitutional, and there is no clause in it which can except them from its operation, as in the case of the missionaries. We are yet unwilling to believe that such an unrighteous law can be executed in a Christian land.

The foregoing is the history, told in a few words, of this affair, as far as it has proceeded. We were very much surprised to hear that the missionaries were discharged on the ground of their being agents of the government. Who ever thought of such a thing before? It shows that a Judge may twist a law into what shape he pleases, if policy makes it necessary, for we are confident the greatest hostility was directed against the missionaries, and that the law was intended particularly to embrace them. We know it was so understood in Milledgeville and elsewhere. If the missionaries are agents of the Government, as Judge Clayton has decided, then the public may rest assured Gen. Jackson will reform them out. It could be he would like to do it very well, but it is a matter of thankfulness that they are not his agents, and are still out of his lands.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






PONEY CLUB

This is the name given to an association of thieves scattered along the frontier in Carroll and other new counties in Georgia.  It is this club which Brooks, Commanding the Georgia Guard, said in a circular he would root out of the nation, and not permit to live within the limits of the Cherokee territory. This promise was very good, but like all other promises of the white man lately, it meant exactly the reverse of what it was supposed to mean. The club, instead of being expelled, has been introduced by authority. Some of the leaders and the most abandoned members, and a few who were accessary in the murder of Chuwoyee are authorized to settle in this nation, and are permitted by Georgia to occupy some of the improvements abandoned by emigrants. We understand all the Philpots and others of their connections are thus snugly brought into the nation. It is certainly mortifying to see such people receiving encouragement and protection from laws, when at the same time men of undoubted virtue -- men fit for any Society in the civilized world are dragged about as felons. In what a humiliating position are placed the honor and virtue of a state when such things are permitted.

This 'poney club' has been a great pest to those Cherokees living near the frontier. They have stolen property to large amount from them, we presume not less than five hundred head of cattle and horses. It is said there are not very few left for them to steal. But when they have nothing to steal, they easily find other methods to harass the Cherokees. The following is but an instance among many.

A few days since two of these white men came to a Cherokee house, for the purpose, they pretended, of buying some provisions. There was no person about the house but the woman of whom they inquired for some corn, beans, etc. The woman told them she had nothing to sell. They then went off in the direction of the field belonging to this Cherokee family. They had not been gone but a few minutes when the woman of the house saw a heavy smoke rising from that direction. She immediately hastened to the place and found the villains had set the woods on fire but a few rods from the fence, when she found already in a full blaze. There being a very heavy wind that day the fire spread so fast, that her efforts to extinguish it proved utterly useless.  The entire fence was therefore consumed in a short time. It is said that during her efforts to save the fence the men who had done the mischief were within sight, and were laughing heartily at her! To permit all this we are told is honorable.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






five column format

From a Correspondent.

WASHINGTON 6th March, 1831.

The motion for the writ of Injunction has been made on the 5th Inst. according to the notice given to the State of Georgia, and the Bill of complaint with necessary affidavits have been read to the Court of Mr. Sargeant; and a supplement to the Bill since drawn has also been read. The Court asked whether the service of notice was proved on oath, and whether the Bill was sworn to, all of which were answered in the affirmative. The Court decided to hear the argument for the motion on Saturday next. Those particularly noticed as present in Court were, J. C. Calhoun, Senator Clayton, Senator Forsyth, Wilde and Foster of Georgia, Webster, Evans, Bates, Burges and Senator Burns.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Five column format

CONGRESS

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28

The SPEAKER announced that the first business in order, was the consideration of the memorial concerning our Indian relations presented by Mr. EVERETT.

Mr. HOFFMAN moved to suspend the rule, in order to take up certain appropriation bills which he specified, but he did not obtain the unanimous consent of the House.

Mr. SUTHERLAND then obtained the floor, and stated that there would not be time at the present session to discuss the Indian memorial. He therefore moved that the petition be laid on the table.

Mr. LAMAR asked for the Ayes and Noes.

Mr. POTTER moved a call of the House, and asked for the Ayes and Noes, which were ordered. The House then refused a call of the House.

The Ayes and Noes were then ordered on the motion to lay the Indian petition on the table.

The general appropriation Bill, with the amendments made by the Senate, was referred to the Committee of Ways and Means.

The amendments made in Committee of the Whole to the bill making appropriations for the Indian Department was concurred in.

Mr. BATES moved to amend the bill by adding a section, requiring the annuities to the Indians to be paid in the manner in which they had heretofore been paid.

Mr. BATES explained the manner in which the annuities had been paid from the foundation of the Government, until this policy was reversed by an order issued from the Department of War, in June last, which prescribed that these annuities shall be hereafter paid to the individuals composing the nation, each according to his proportion. There ought, he said, to be sufficient reason given to satisfy the House of the propriety of this change. He wished to know at what age individuals were to be regarded as entitled, whether the annuities were to be varied by rank, or number of family. How are the annuities to be paid? Is the agent to go in quest of the individual, or are the latter to come to the Agency. The individual share would be about 40 cents. The total amount of annuities is above, two hundred thousand dollars; and the whole, under the new arrangement, must be paid in specie. How is it to be transported? If the 18,000 Cherokees come to the agency for their money, they must be maintained while there. Some will have to come 200 miles, and the expense would more than consume the 42 cents due to each. The great mass of Indians have but one name each, the Fox, the Raccoon, etc. There are hundreds of the same name. Suppose 3 or 400 Raccoons come; how is the receipt to be given., Before half of the Raccoons are gone through, those already paid may put on a new coat of paint and come again. And so the young Raccoons may come in the same way. It will, therefore, be found impossible to execute this order.

He stated that a greater door for fraud could not be opened than by the adoption of this order. He denied the right of the government to issue this order. These annuities are not gratuities, donations of gifts -- but debts due, not to individuals of a nation or tribe, but the nations or tribes themselves. It has been the practice to pay the Cherokee annuities into their Treasury, and he wished to know by what right these debts are to be paid to individuals. The Executive might as reasonable refuse to pay the Massachusetts' claim to the State, and determine to pay it to the individual citizens; and there would doubtless be found citizens who would prefer this mode.

He would not state the object of the change, but he took a view of the effect of it; which would be to deprive the Cherokee Nation of the means of trying the force of the treaties which have been made with them by the United States, before the Supreme Court of the United States.  Georgia desires that her courts shall decide the constitutionality of these treaties, and by those who have in their pockets tickets in the lottery by which the Cherokee possessions are to be parcelled out among their spoilers; but the Cherokees desire that the Supreme Court of the United States shall deine the question; and to obtain this decision, they must employ and pay Counsel. An order on the War Department by the Cherokee Nation has been disregarded, and they are thus deprived of the means of paying their Counsel. The Creek Delegates here on giving assurance that they are not in any way connected with the Cherokees have had their order on the Government for their expenses paid, while the Cherokee Delegates have not been able to obtain a dollar.

Mr. BATES are (sic) an extract of a letter from Mr. Jefferson in answer to complaints from some of the Cherokees that the annuities were partially distributed, in which he states that the distribution was made, according to the rule prescribed by the Cherokee Nation, and that the United States Government had no control over the distribution. He also read a letter from the Guerodee agent. Col. Montgomery, stating that no complaint on the subject of the annuities had been made to the United States Government through him.

Mr. POTTER spoke afterwards.

Mr. Buchanan moved ten previous question, which was seconded, Ayes 87, Noes 64.

The bill was then ordered to be engrossed, and read a third time today.

The bill was subsequently passed.

The bill to carry into effect certain Indian Treaties was read a third time.

Mr McDUFFIE moved an amendment making appropriation for carrying into effect the Choctaw Treaty.

After a few words from Mr. STANBURY and Mr. LUMPKIN --

Mr. STRONG asked for the Ayes and Noes on the question which was ordered.

Mr. McDUFFIE expressed his belief that the bill of the last session gave the President the means to carry this treaty into effect.

Mr. WAYNE and Mr. LEWIS dissented from this construction of the Indian Bill.

Mr. WICKLIFFE moved to amend the amendment by appending a provision that the appropriation shall be paid out of the 500,000 dollars appropriated by the Indian Bill of last session.

Mr. LEWIS asked for the Ayes and Noes, but the call was not sustained.

The amendment to the amendment was then agreed to.

The call for the Ayes and Noes on the amendment as amended was withdrawn; and the amendment being agreed to, the Bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time today.

WEDNESDAY, March 2.

The amendment which went to appropriate 80,000 dollars for the expenses of the Choctaw Treaty out of the Treasury, and not out of the sum of 500,000 dollars appropriated by the Indian Bill of last year, being read.

Mr. BELL explained, and strenuously advocated the amendment, answering several queries of Mr. VINTON in relation to the expenditure of part of the appropriation of last year.

Mr. ELLSWORTH opposed the amendment, insisting that the $500,000 of last year was intended to cover the expenses included in this sum.

Mr. STORRS took similar ground, and quoted the Indian Bill in support of his position -- comparing the treatment of the House by the Executive to the child's play of 'shut your eyes and open your mouth.'

Mr. POLK replied -- contending that the House had abundant light and insisting that the objects of this appropriation never were contemplated when the $500,000 were granted by the bill of last year Mr. HUNTINGTON further quoted the law, and argued to show that the object now proposed might be paid for out of the sum in that law; and, whether or not the House might now so direct.

Mr. BURGES earnestly argued on the same side.

MR. WICKLIFFE advised that no reply be made -- as the speeches would avail nothing, save for political effect.

Mr. BELL replied -- insisting on the distinct character of the objects now asked for; arguing with great warmth to show that the President would have violated the act of last session if he had applied the money then given him to the objects of education, farming utensils, rifles, council houses, etc., comprised in the present appropriation, and then the gentlemen would have taken opposite ground, and cried out aristocracy, etc., and repelling the idea suggested by Mr. BURGES that the fund in the hands of the President was to be reserved as a treasure for bribery.

Mr. STOORS replied and explained. Mr. WHITTLESEY remonstrated against the consumption of time in this debate.

Mr. WILDE demanded the question, and threatened a full discussion should debate be further pursued.

The question was taken accordingly, and decided in the affirmative, Ayes 92 so the House concurred and the clause was stricken out, which takes the 80,000 dollars out of the 500,000 dollars of the last year.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS.

SPEECH OF MR. EVERETT.

Of Massachusetts, in the House of Representatives, on the 14th and 21st of February, 1831. On the Execution of the Laws and Treaties in favor of the Indian Tribes.

[On Monday, 7th February, 1831, Mr. E. Everett presented to the House of Representatives the petition of sundry citizens of Massachusetts, praying that the Indian tribes may be protected in their rights secured to them by the laws of the United States, and the treaties subsisting between the United States and the said tribes. In presenting this memorial, Mr. Everett observed, that he had long felt it to be the duty of the House to consider the all important subject of this memorial. He should himself, by way of resolution, have called the attention of the House to the subject, and no other member expressed an intention of doing so, if it had been possible, under the rules of the House to move a resolution. But it was known to the Chair, that for several weeks past, there had not been a moment when it was in order to move a resolution.* A petition from a very respectable community in the State which he had the honor, in part, to represent, had been placed in his hands. By the rules of the House, a petition cannot be debated on the day on which it is presented, but must lie on the table one day. As petitions are received only one day of the week - on Mondays- Mr. E. observed that the memorial which he presented must under these rules, lie on the table till that day, and then come up as the unfinished business of petitions. He begged leave, therefore in presenting this petition, to give notice, that, when it should come up, on Monday next, he should feel it his duty to ask the attention of the House to the very important question of protecting the Indian Tribes, in the possessions and rights secured to them by treaty and laws of the United States.

On Monday 14th of February, the subject, according to this notice, came up. A motion was submitted by Mr. Everett, that the petition should be referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs, with instructions to report a bill making provision for executing the laws relating to the intercourse of citizens of the United States with the Indian Tribes; and also for the faithful observance of the treaties between the United States and the said tribes.

This motion was supported by Mr. Everett, in a speech delivered on the 14th and 21st of February, in substance as follows:]

Mr. Speaker. In presenting this subject last week to the House, I observed, that it was with regret that I found myself obliged to bring it forward in a manner, strictly parliamentary indeed, but somewhat unusual. I should have preferred to submit this great subject to the consideration of the House by the more usual course of a resolution . I have had a resolution prepared for that purpose and lying in my desk for several weeks, but the Chair knows that there has not been a moment for several weeks, when a resolution could be offered but by the unanimous consent of the House. Such consent I could not ask on such a subject. I should have been better pleased to meet the subject on a report from the Indian Committee, to whom in connexion with very numerous memorials from various parts of the country with the Presidents Message, and with the petitions of the Creek and Cherokee Indians, it has been referred. No report, however, has proceeded from that committee and to intimation has been given that any is to be expected.

In this state of things, urged by my sense of duty, admonished by several expressions of public sentiment committed to my charge by the people I represent, and looking upon the subject as one of great, of paramount--aye, sir, of most painful importance-a subject eminently requiring the interposition of this House-I have felt myself constrained (in forbearance of others much better qualified to take this step) to make this effort to bring it under the consideration of the representatives of this People.

I should think, sir, that a positive decision of this question by Congress would be highly desirable to the friends of the Administration. They cannot, I should think, wish to leave with the Executive the responsibility of sitting still and witnessing the violation of a very large number of treaties and compacts, and of the clearest provisions of law. No man surely can pretend that such a policy can be within the competence of the Executive; and if, for reasons of necessity, or reasons of State, or any other reasons, the treaties with the Indians are to be annulled, and the laws touching our intercourse with them converted into a dead letter, it surely cannot require an argument to prove, that Congress is the only power by which this can be done with any show of rightful authority.

I cannot disguise my impression, that it is the greatest question which ever came before Congress, short of the question of peace and war. It concerns not an individual, but entire communities of men, whose fate is wholly in our hands, and concerns them not to the extent, of affecting their interests, more or less favorably within narrow limits. As I regard it, it is a question of inflicting the pains of banishment from their native land on seventy or eighty thousand human-beings, the greater part of whom are fixed and attached to their homes in the same way that we are.  We have lately seen this House in attendance, week after week, at the bar of the other House, while engaged in solemn trial of one of our own functionaries, for having issued an order to deprive a citizen of his liberty for twenty four hours. It is a most extraordinary and astonishing fact, that the policy of the United States toward the Indians--a policy coeval with the Revolution, and sanctioned in the most solemn manner on innumerable occasions--is undergoing a radical change,which, I am persuaded, will prove as destructive to the welfare and lives of its subjects as it will to their rights; and that neither this House nor the other House, has ever, even by resolution, passed directly upon the question.

But it is not merely a question of the welfare of these dependent beings, nor yet of the honor and faith of the country which are pledged to them, it is a question of the Union, itself. What is the Union? Not a mere abstraction; not a word; not a form of government: it is the undisputed paramount operation, through all the States, of those functions with which the Government is clothed by the Constitution. When that operation is resisted, the Union itself is in fact dissolved. I will not now dwell on this idea; but the recent transaction in Georgia have been already hailed in the neighboring British provinces as the commencement of that convulsion of these United States, to which the friends of liberty throughout the world look forward with apprehension, as a fatal blow to their cause.

If any further apology were needed for bringing this matter before the House, it might be the fact that it has been frequently referred to us. It has formed a prominent topic in the two annual communications of the Chief Magistrate.  Numerous memorials on both sides of the question have presented it to us; reports in both Houses have discussed it; but owing to some strange fatality it has never been plainly and decidedly met.

The Secretary of War tells us that a new era has within a few years arisen in relation to our Indian affairs. He does not indicate precisely what marks the new era; but in one respect there has unquestionably arisen a new era in this department, that of substituting Executive decision for Congressional enactment.  Formerly the Executive only carried into effect our laws and treaties made by the treaty making branch of the Government. Now the President, 1st permits the States to annul the treaties, and to proceed on their declared want of validity; and, 2d. annuls the laws himself, and permits his secretary to come down to Congress with an argument to prove that a law substantially coeval with the Government is unconstitutional. I am willing to receive the Secretary's argument for what it is worth; but really, sir, I have studied the Constitution, unsuccessfully, if the mere opinion of a Secretary, with or without an argument, renders a law unconstitutional, and makes it cease to be obligatory. But to this I shall return, repeating only now, that the assumption of these principles in our Indian affairs does, indeed constitute a new era.

Sir, I know the delicacy of this subject. I approach it with reluctance and pain under the most imperious sense of duty. I would gladly put it by, could I have justified myself in so doing. I know, by past experience, the odium I am to incur. I know that, humble as I am, the denunciation of hundreds of presses throughout the country await me. I have seen within the week in a paper published at this place, and which has been made the channel of the most confidential communications between the President and the People; I have seen the course of the minority of this House who voted on the Indian Bill last year--a minority comprising some of the most respectable friends of the President, and amounting to very nearly one half of the House-ascribed to vile faction.

But disagreeable as the consequence may be, to one who lives strife as little as I! I cannot keep silence, when unconstitutional, by those executive officers who have no other duty in reference of the laws, but to enforce them, when I see treaties violated by States who are parties to them; treaties sanctioned by all the formes of the constitution and ratified by the Senators representing the very States foremost in the violation. I cannot keep silence when I see the Constitution invaded; the honor of the country tarnished; the Union impaired. If my whole course during the six years that I have been honored with a seat on this floor, will not protect me in the judgment of others from the imputation of vile and factious motives; I shall have at least the consciousness in my own bosom, that a sense of public duty, and that alone, has impelled me to the course I have taken.

Sir, the Secretary says a new era has arisen in our Indian affairs. This is true.  Up to the year 1828, the course of proceeding in our Indian affairs is well known at least in reference to all the tribes, whose rights are now in controversy. The United States had negotiated treaties with all the Southwestern tribes. Our relations with them and the boundary between them and us were regulated by treaty, and by the intercourse law framed in pursuance of the same policy. A limited and qualified sovereignty, sufficient to enable them to contract these treaty obligations, was conceded to the tribes. No state had pretended to extend her laws over either of these tribes till the year 1828. To show the various views entertained of this subject, I will cite several authorities which abundantly sustained me in this position. The distinguished individuals whom I quote, and the present chief magistrate at the head of them, took views somewhat different from each other, but none of them, I believe, intimated, that the separate States possess the right now claimed.

In 1821, the Creek Path Indians being dissatisfied with the conduct of their brethren of the upper towns, applied to General Jackson, then Major General of the Southern division, requesting him to use his influence with the General Government to procure for the said Creek Path Indians an inalienable reservation of a part of their lands on consideration of selling their proportionate share of the common lands of the Nation.

General Jackson was in favor of this project, and wrote to Mr. Calhoun, then Secretary of War, as follows:

'I do believe, in a political point of view, as well as in justice to these people, their prayer ought to be noticed.  It is inviting to Congress to take up the subject and exercise its power under the Hopewell treaty, of regulating all the Indian concerns as it pleases. This is a precedent much wanted, that the absurdity in politics may cease of an independent sovereign nation holding treaties with people living within its territorial limits, acknowledging its sovereignty and laws, and who, although not citizens, cannot be viewed as aliens, but as real subjects of the United States.'--Here the right of legislating for the Indians is claimed not for the States, but for the United States; and this under the Treaty of Hopewell, a treaty negotiated before the adoption of the Federal Constitution, and containing the amplest guaranties of the rights of the Cherokees.

In treating with the Cherokee Indians in 1828, Messrs. Campbell and Meriwether citizens of Georgia, animated by a strong zeal for the acquisition of Indian lands, use this language: 'The sovereignty of the country which you occupy is in the United States alone; no State or foreign power can enter into a compact with you. These privileges have passed away, and your intercourse is restricted exclusively to the United States.'

In the year 1824, March 10th the Cherokees are spoken of in the following manner, in a letter addressed by the Senators and Representatives of Georgia, to the Secretary of War;

If the Cherokee are 'to be viewed as other Indians, as persons suffered to reside within the territorial limits of the United States; and subject to every restraint, which the policy and power of the General Government require to be imposed on them, for the interest of the Union, the interest of the particular States and their own preservation, it is necessary that these misguided men should be taught by the General Government, that there is not alternative between their removal beyond the limits of the State of Georgia and their extinction.'

In 1824, Judge White, now the distinguished Senator from Tennessee, gave an opinion, in which he expressed himself as follows:

' Under the parental care of the Federal Government the Cherokees have been in a good degree reclaimed from their savage state.  Under their patronage, they have become enlightened; they have acquired a taste for property itself. There must be, laws to protect it, as well as to protect those who own it. By what community ought these laws to be enacted: Laws there have always been, and laws there must be, emenating from some power capable of enacting them. Where is that power? It must be in Congress, or in the Cherokee. Congress has never exercised it, the Cherokees always have. I have never heard that their power was doubted.'

Governor Troup, in 1825, March 35th, issued a Proclamation, from which the following is an extract.

'Whereas it is provided in said treaty, that the United States shall protect the Indians against the encroachments, hostilities, and impositions of the whites, so that they suffer no interruption, molestation, or injury in their persons, goods, effects, their dwellings, or the lands they occupy, until their removal shall have been accomplished according to the terms of the treaty:

'I have therefore thought proper to issue this my proclamation, warning all persons citizens of Georgia, or others, against trespassing or intruding upon lands occupied by the Indians, within the limits of this State, either for the purpose of settlement of otherwise, as every such act will be in direct violation of the provisions of the treaty aforesaid, and will expose the aggressors to the most certain and summary punishment, by the authorities of the State and the United States.'

'All good citizens, therefore, pursuing the dictates of good faith, will unite in enforcing the obligations of the treaty, as the supreme law, 'c.'

Governor Troup, being exceedingly desirous to hasten the survey of the lands; acquired by the treaty of the Indian Springs, asked permission to survey them; of General McIntosh, the Chief of the emigrating party, as a necessary preliminary.

In 1826, a Senator from Mississippi, now deceased, (Mr. Reed) disclaimed any right on the part of the [See 4th PAGE] State to extend her jurisdiction over the Indians. 'At the last session, said he, of the Legislature of Mississippi, a proposition was made to extend the civil power of their courts to their own citizens, who had contracted debts within the State, and had fled to this savage sanctuary. The matter was debated many days, and it was at last decided that there existed no power in the State, to extend its laws in the manner sought by the proposition.'

These authorities, I think, will abundantly prove that the claim of the Southern States to exercise jurisdiction over tribes, with whom there existed treaties, forms a new era. whether it be that to which the Secretary of War alludes, I pretend not to decide.

While the Secretary of War announces this new era, the President in his Message at the opening of the Session informed us, that 'the benevolent policy of the Government, steadily pursued for nearly thirty years, in relation to the removal of the Indians beyond the white settlements, is approaching to a happy consummation.'

This statement appears to me of variance with that, which was made in the annual message of the last year. In that document we were told, that it has long been the policy of Government to introduce among the Indians the arts of civilization, in the hope of gradually reclaiming them from a wandering state.  This is certainly a benevolent policy; and this is the policy, which has been steadily pursued for nearly thirty years.  But last year, the President added, 'this policy has, however, been coupled with another, wholly incompatible with its success. Professing a desire to civilize and settle them, we have, at the same time, lost no opportunity to purchase their lands, and thrust them further into the wilderness.  By this means, they have not only been kept in a wandering state, but have been led to look upon us unjust and indifferent to their fate. Thus, though lavish in its expenditures on the subject, Government has constantly defeated its own policy.'

Last year the benevolent policy of settling and civilizing them had been thwarted by another, that of removal to the West, declared to be incompatible with its success. This year the removal to the West is declared to be the benevolent policy, which has been steadily pursued. In my judgment, the view taken in the message of last year is the sounder.

But the policy of removal has, I grant, been pursued steadily for thirty years, but never in the same manner as now. It was never thought of, that all the treaties and laws of the United States respecting the Indians could be annulled, and the laws of the States extended over them; laws of such a character that it is admitted, nay urged, that they cannot live under them. The policy of removal has been pursued by treaty, negotiated by persuasion, urgency, if gentlemen please, with importunity. But the compulsion of State legislation and of the withdrawal of the protection of the United States was never before heard of.  If the President means that the policy of removal under this compulsion is thirty years old, I do not know a fact, on which his proposition can stand for a moment. However pursued, the policy of removal had been attended with limited success. Vast tracts of land had indeed been acquired of the Southwestern tribes, but chiefly by bringing their settlements within narrower limits. Between the years of 1809 and 1810, about one-third of the Cherokees went over to Arkansas, and the hardships and sufferings encountered by them were a chief cause why their brethren, the residue of the tribe, resisted every inducement held out to persuade them also to emigrate.- The Choctaws, by the Treaty of Doak's Stand, acquired a large tract of country between the Red River and the Canadian, but would not in any considerable numbers emigrate to it. In 1826, a part of the Creeks were forced by the convulsions of that tribe to emigrate, under the treaty of that year. In 1828 the Choctaws and Chickasaws sent a deputation to explore the country west of Arkansas, which returned dissatisfied with its appearance.

While the policy of removal was going on with this limited success, that of civilization, the truly benevolent policy, was much more prosperous. The attempt to settle, to civilize and to christianize some of these tribes succeeded beyond all example. If the accounts of their previous state of barbarism are not exaggerated, the annals of the world do not, to my knowledge, present another instance of improvement so rapid, within a single generation; unless it be that which has been effected, by a similar agency, in the Sandwich Islands within the last ten years.

During all the time that these two processes were going on, that of removal (declared last year by the President to be inconsistent with civilizing them) with partial success; and that of settling and improving their condition, on this side of the Mississippi, in which the success had been rapid and signal, no attempt was made to encroach upon their limited independence. The right of the United States to treat with them was not questioned; the States never attempted to legislate over them; and the possessions and rights guarantied to them by numerous treaties were considered by them, and by us, as safe beneath the protection of the National Faith. But at length, under late administration, of the General Government, the south-western States, taking advantage of political weakness of that administration, seemed determined to adventure the experiment, how fast they could go, to effect by a new course of State legislation, a revolution in the Indian policy of the country.

Georgia led the way. In 1828 she passed a summary law to take effect prospectively, extending her jurisdiction civil and criminal over the Indian tribes within her limits. In 1829, this law, with more specific provisions, was re-enacted to take effect on the first day of June, 1830. This example of Georgia was imitated by Alabama and Mississippi. By these State laws, the organization previously existing in the Indian tribes was declared unlawful and was annulled. It was made criminal to exercise any function of Government under authority derived from the tribes. The political existence of these communities was accordingly dissolved, and their members declared citizens or subjects of the states. What a contrast, in two or three years! In 1826, after many day's debate, the legislature of Mississippi decided, that it had no right to pass a law to pursue its own citizens, being fugitive debtors, into the Indian country. In 1829, the same State extends all its laws over the Choctaws, abrogates their Government and denounces the punishment of imprisonment on any person who should exercise any office under the authority of the tribe.

The Indians, as natural, looked to the Government of the United States for protection. It was the quarter whence they had a right to expect it; where, as I think, they ought to have found it. They asked to be protected in the rights and possession as guarantied to them by numerous treaties, and demanded the execution, in their favor, of the laws of the United States governing the intercourse of our citizens with the Indian tribes. They came first to the President, deeming, and rightly, that it was his duty to afford them this protection. They knew him to be the supreme Executive Officer of the Government; that as such he and but one constitutional duty of executing them. The President refused to afford the protection demanded. He informed them, that he had no power, in his view of the rights of the States, to prevent their extending their laws over the Indians; and the secretary of War, in one of his communications to them, adds the remark, that the President had as little inclination as power to do so.

When this decision of the President was taken, does not certainly appear. On the 23d day of March, 1829, he informed a Delegation of Creek Indians, that, if they remained, they must become subject to the law of Alabama. On the 11th of April, the superintendent of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, by direction of the secretary of War, stated to the Cherokee Delegation, 'That the Secretary of War, is not now prepared to decide the question involved in the act of the Legislature of Georgia, to which you refer, in which provision is made for extending the laws of Georgia over your people, after the 1st June, 1830. It is a question which will doubtless be the subject of Congressional inquiry, and what is proper in regard to it will no doubt be ordered by that body.'

'In regard to the act of Georgia, no remedy exists short of one which Congress alone can apply.'

On the 18th of the same mouth, a letter of the Secretary of War, to the same delegation, tells them, in the most positive terms, that the Indians must submit to the State laws.

On the 14th October, the Secretary, writing to Governor Forsyth, uses this language: 'At early period, therefore, when this question arose, the Cherokees were given distinctly to understand that it was not within the competency or power of the Executive to call in question the right of Georgia to assert her own authority within her own limits, and the President has been gratified to witness the extent to which a principle so reasonable in itself, so vitally important to State Sovereignty, has received the approbation of his fellow citizens. This oft asserted and denied right being settled, on the side of the State, to the extent that Executive interference could go, it was expected and hoped that a little longer continuance of that forbearance which Georgia has so long indulged, was all that was wanted to assure to her the purposes and objects she had before her; and after a manner, too, to which philanthropy could take not exception.'

Such was the fate of the question which was to be the subject of Congressional inquiry. In what way that popular sanction had been given, which the President appears to have taken in lieu of any legislative decision of this question, does not appear.

At the ensuing session of Congress a memorial was presented to this House, signed by three thousand and eighty five individuals of the Cherokee tribe. Another memorial was laid upon our table from the Creeks. The subject also was presented to us in the annual message of the President, disclosing a state of facts which seemed to inquire, as well as to invite the decisive action of Congress. Finally, the public mind was extensively awakened. Very numerous memorials, on the subject of the revolution which was going on in our Indian policy, were sent in to Congress. Some of these(and of this character was the first presented) approved the change: by far the greater condemned it.

In this way the question of the right of the State to extend her laws over Indian tribes, in contravention of treaties and the laws of the United States, was brought before Congress in the fullest and amplest manner. It was not, however, directly met. The President had, in the recess of Congress, declared that he could not and would not enforce the treaties and laws. The Secretary of War had almost sneered at the idea, that the Indians could possess rights under a treaty forty years old; as if the validity of a treaty were impaired by the length of time its provisions had been in force. But the treaties were still preserved in our archives.  The intercourse law founded upon them still stood unrepealed on the Statute Book; and it appears to me that the proper way in which this question was to be met, would have been a proposition to repeal the laws and abrogate the treaties.

In my judgment there was an error in the first step taken by the President. He decided a question which he had no constitutional competency to decide.  When the first movement was made by the States, he should have interposed to maintain the treaties and enforce the laws, and have referred the subject to Congress. What other power has the Executive over a treaty or a law but to enforce it? The principle assumed by the President and by the Secretary is, that whenever the Executive thinks a law unconstitutional, he may forbear to execute it. Now, how will this operate on other questions? Suppose Mr. Adams had thought the compact of 1802 unconstitutional, (as it was held to be in this debate last winter by a Senator from Alabama) could he have refused to enforce it; could he have forborne to expend an appropriation granted to carry it into effect? The President has plainly intimated, that the Bank of the United States is unconstitutional. Is he thereby authorized to put it out of the law?  A very respectable portion of the community regards the tariff as unconstitutional, and as such null and void?  The intercourse law was passed as it stands in 1802; the substance of it was enacted in 1791, and the Secretary of War, with full concurrence of the President, lays his hand on this law, which is forty years old, tells us it is unconstitutional, as such not obligatory.

Let us but consider the extravagance of this doctrine. The Constitution gives to the President a veto, if he may annul any law and all the laws in the statute book, on the simple opinion that they are unconstitutional?

But what, it may be asked, is the President to do; how is he to proceed with an unconstitutional law? I answer this question, by asking another, how is he authorized to arrive at the conclusion, that a law is unconstitutional? Is he created by the Constitution, a functionary to pass on the unconstitutionality of laws? I can find no such power given him in the constitution.

It is one thing for a law to be ascertained and declared unconstitutional, by the competent tribunal, and another thing for it to be thought unconstitutional, by any citizen or officer called on to obey or to enforce it.

The citizen is not found to obey an unconstitutional law; for it is no law. But if he undertakes to disobey a law because in his private judgment, it is unconstitutional; it is at his risk and peril; and it will not probably be long, before some process of law will teach him that he is not authorized finally to adjudicate such a question. An Executive officer, high or low, is certainly not bound to execute an unconstitutional law; but his simply thinking it to be unconstitutional is a very different affair.

Suppose a collector should think the tariff unconstitutional; could he forbear to collect the duty? Could the Secretary of the Treasury, holding the same opinion, remit the duty? Could the President direct his Secretary to remit it?

In the Government under which we live, a power is provided to pass on the constitutionality of law. The President is not that tribunal. His office is executive. The opinion he holds of the constitutionality of a law, (except when called to sign it on its passage) he hold not officially but as any other citizen, at his peril; and as it is his sworn duty to execute the laws, if he refuses to execute a law, for whatever cause, he is guilty of a high breach of official duty, and commits an impeachable offence. It is the province of this House to hold him to his duty.

There is no end to the absurd consequences which would flow from an opposite principle. To what would it not lead? If the President may annul another which he thinks unconstitutional; and so may any of his clerks. The clerk of your House may refuse to carry a bill which you pass to the Senate, if he thinks it unconstitutional; for in that case, it is no more a law, on this principle, than an old newspaper. And if gentlemen contend that they reserve to the President alone this dispensing power of refusing to execute laws, which in his private judgment are unconstitutional, they merely give us, instead of the anarchy which would arise from its being possessed by all the Executive officers, a perfect Oriental despotism, produced by imparting it to one.

We have heard a good deal said about nullification, and no small opprobrium attached to the word. Has it never occurred to some gentlemen willing enough to stigmatize that doctrine, that they themselves have lent their countenance to the same doctrine, not in their alone, but in practice? Georgia orders a survey of the Cherokee lands. The law of 1802 makes it highly penal to survey lands belonging or secured to Indian tribes by treaty. It subjects those who transgress the law to a thousand dollars fine and twelve months imprisonment, and authorized the President to call out a military force to execute the law. The President tells all concerned that he will not enforce the law, because he thinks it unconstitutional. Is not that nullification? The convention of the Judges of Georgia decide all the Indian treaties to be unconstitutional.  Is not that nullification? And yet, if I mistake not, propositions have been made in the quarter where this nullification is practised by wholesale, to censure the doctrine as theoretically advanced in a neighboring State.

I have remarked that the direct way to meet this question would have been to propose a law abrogating the treaties and repealing the intercourse law of 1802.

But a different course was pursued. A bill was presented, ably drawn and carefully worded, so as to leave this question entirely aside. Although the bill was an integral part of the policy of the State, designed to cooperate with it, and in fact build upon it as upon a foundation, it was so worded as not, in terms, to afford it any sanction. We were obliged to go to the President's Message, and to the reports of the committees of the two Houses of Congress, to ascertain its character. We did so; and we discussed the policy, as it discovered itself in those documents.

But harmless as the bill was in its terms, it could not have passed, but for the amendment moved by the gentleman from Pennsylvania, (Mr. Ramsay,) by which amendment it was provided that nothing in this act contained shall be construed as authorizing or directing the violation of any treaties existing between the United States and any Indian tribe. I was perfectly well persuaded, at the time, that this proviso would be without practical effect; but it saved the bill from being lost; and now from one end of the continent to the other, this proviso is held up to show that the Indian Bill of last Winter does not sanction the compulsory removal of the Indians; that the treaties are to be held inviolate; and that the Indians are to be protected in their rights; all the while that it is perfectly notorious, as I shall demonstrate before I sit down, that the Indians are not to be protected; that the treaties are violated; and that this proviso is a dead letter.

The bill passed, we all remember how, under the severest coercion by the previous question, that I have ever known, applied, too, for the purpose of shutting out the amendment of the gentleman from Pennsylvania. (Mr. Hemphill,)the object of which was to obtain information, in respect to the character of the country, to which the Indians were to be removed.  For I beg it may be recollected, after all we have heard of the factious course pursued by the minority, that all we asked was the adoption of the amendment of the gentleman from Pennsylvania, which proposed to send a respectable commission into this region, to see if it be fit for inhabitation of the fellow beings whom we are driving from their homes, and that this was denied us.

Still the act seemed to promise something to the Indians, for it bore on its face, that the treaties were not to be violated.  The money which it granted was granted conditionally; the condition was contained in a proviso; and, if that proviso were not acted up to, no appropriation was made, and no expenditure was lawful.

Just two, or perhaps three days after the passage of the act, the Georgia laws took effect, and went into operation over all the Indians included within the nominal boundaries of the State.

And here I reach a part of the subject, on which I dwell with great pain, the legislation of Georgia over the Cherokees.  It is my duty to inquire into the character of the Georgia laws, against which our interference is invoked, and our protection demanded. I speak of the laws of Georgia individually, and not of the other States, who have extended their jurisdiction over the Indians, because the legislation of Georgia is better known. I do not single out her laws invidiously. Neither do I pretend an acquaintance with her whole code. I have not seen it. A few laws only, that from a part of it, have come to my knowledge, but those are suffi- [See 2d. page] cient to establish my proposition, that those Indians have great and just cause to look to us for protection.

I will first speak of the effect of the  Georgia legislation upon the Cherokee government. The Cherokees, sir, have a very respectable representative government; respectable in its character; respectable in its origin. The first sketch of it proceeded from the same pen that drafted our own Declaration of Independence. In 1809 Mr. Jefferson gave this people the first elements of a system of government, adapted to their condition, which I will venture to read to the House.

'My Children, Deputies of the Cherokee Upper Towns

I have maturely considered the speeches you have delivered me, and will now give you answer to the several matters they contain.

You inform me of your anxious desires to engage in the industrious pursuits of agriculture and civilized life; that finding it impracticable to induce the nation at large to join in this, you wish a line of separation to be established between the Upper and Lower Towns, so as to include all the waters of the Highwassee in your part; and that having thus contracted your society with narrower limits, you propose, within these, to begin the establishment of fixed laws and of regular government.  You say, that the Lower Towns are satisfied with the division you propose, and on these several matters you ask my advice and aid.

With respect to the line of division between yourselves and the Lower Towns, it must rest on the joint consent of both parties.  The one you propose appears moderate, reasonable, and well defined; we are willing to recognize those on each side of that line as distinct societies, and if our aid shall be necessary to mark it more plainly that nature has done, you shall have it. I think with you, that on this reduced scale, it will be more easy for you to introduce the regular administration of laws.

In proceeding to the establishment of laws, you wish to adopt them from ours, and such only for the present as suit your present condition; chiefly indeed, those for the punishment of crimes and the protection of property. But who is to determine which of our laws suit your condition, and shall be in force with you?  All of you being equally free, no one has a right to say what shall be law for others. One way is to put these questions to the vote, and to consider that as law for which the majority votes, the fool has as great a right to express his opinion by votes as the wise, because he is equally free and equally master of himself. But would it not be convenient for all your men to meet in one place would it not be better for every town to do as we do-that is to say; choose by the vote of the majority of the town and of country people nearer to that than to any other town, one, two, three, or more, according to the size of the town, of those whom each voter thinks the wisest and honest men of their place, and let those meet together and agree which of our laws suit them. But these men know nothing of our laws. How than can they know which to adopt? Let them associate in their council our beloved man living with them, Col. Meigs, and he will tell them what our law is on any point they desire. He will inform them also of our methods of doing business in our councils, so as to preserve order and to obtain the vote of every member fairly. This council can make a law forgiving to every head of a family a separate parcel of land, which when he has built upon and improved, it shall belong to him and his descendants for ever, and which the nation itself shall have no right to sell from under his feet. They will determine too, what punishment shall be inflicted for every crime. In our States generally, we punish murder only by death, and all other crimes by solitary confinement in a prison.

But when you shall have adopted laws, who are to execute them? Perhaps it may be best to permit every town and the settlers to its neighborhood attached to it, to elect some of their best men, by a majority of its voters to be judges in all differences, and to execute the law according to their own judgment. Your council of representatives will decide on this, or such other mode as may best suit you. I suggest these things my children, for the consideration of the Upper Towns of your nation, to be decided on as they think best, and I sincerely wish you may succeed in your laudable endeavors to save the remains of your nation, by adopting industrious occupations and a government of regular laws. In this you may rely on the counsel and assistance of the Government of the United States. Deliver these words to your people in my name, and assure them of my friendship.

January 9, 1809

THOMAS JEFFERSON.

In 1817 this government received the sanction of the United States, in a treaty negotiated in that year by the present Chief Magistrate, as a Commissioner Plenipotentiary for that purpose. In the preamble to this treaty the incidents of 1809 are alluded to; the purpose of the Cherokees who remained on this side of the Mississippi, to begin the establishment of fixed laws and a regular Government is recognized, together with the promise made by Mr. Jefferson of the patronage, aid, and good neighborhood of the United States, alike to those who emigrate and those who stand behind. This treaty was unanimously ratified by the Senate of the United States. Thus originated and thus confirmed, the Cherokee Government subsequently assumed a highly regular form and an improved organization. Its practical separation was excellent, ' it did the United States no harm, because it was assumed as the principle of our government, that no change was to be wrought by the improved institutions of the Cherokees on their relations with us.

Of the orderly and becoming manner in which the Cherokee Government was conducted, we have the satisfactory testimony of Messrs Campbell and Meriwether, who went among them to negotiate a treaty in 1823.  I will read an extract from a letter addressed by them to the Council of the Cherokee Nation, dated Newtown, 16th October, 1823.

'Friends and Brothers: We are happy that a short time has been consumed in the correspondence between you and the State Commissioners.

'This has afforded as an opportunity of becoming partially acquainted with several members of this Council. For the whole body we entertain a high respect, and we trust, that, with some of you we have contracted individual friendships. In saying this, we do no violence to our feelings, neither do we lower the elevated character of the United States.  People who have never seen you, know but little of your progress in the arts of civilized life, and of the regular and becoming manner in which your affairs are conducted.

'Your improvement reflects the greatest credit upon yourselves, and upon the Government by which you have been improved and fostered.'

Such was and is the Cherokee Government which Georgia has avowed her purpose, by one sweeping act of legislation, to put down.  That State has enacted laws making it highly penal to exercise any of the functions of this Government.  Chiefs, headmen, members of the Council, Judicial, and executive officers, are all subject to four years imprisonment in the penitentiary, if they presume to exercise any of the functions of Government within their own tribe, and under the Constitution which we originally and repeatedly exhorted them to frame.

In this way the greatest confusion is at once introduced in to the concerns of this unhappy people. Their own Government is outlawed, and it is made highly penal to execute its functions. The protection of the United States is withdrawn, because Georgia, has extended her laws over the Indians; and Georgia herself, although asserting, and in many respects exercising her jurisdiction, has not yet organized it in such a manner as to keep the peace among this afflicted race. Their system of Government, instead of being regarded as almost all Governments, however defective are entitled to be, as an institution necessary for the well being of the people, which ought to be treated, with tenderness and not be destroyed till a substitute is provided has been abated and broken down as a nuisance.

But among the laws of Georgia extended over the Cherokees, there are some which from their nature, must take up immediate effect and among these I cannot but notice several whose operation must be as injurious to the welfare of the Indians as the entire system is destructive of their rights. At the late session of the Georgia Legislature a law was passed 'that no Cherokee Indian should be bound by any contract hereafter to be entered late, with a white person or persons; nor shall any Indian be liable to be fined in any of the Courts of Law for equity in this State on such a contract.'  I am aware that laws of this kind have been necessary among the dwindling remnants of tribes in some of the States, whose numbers are so degenerate that they are unable to preserve against the arts of corrupt white men the little property they possess.  But among the Cherokees are men of intelligence and shrewdness who have acquired and possess large accumulations of property, houses, shops, plantations, stock, mills, ferries, and other valuable possessions; men who understand property and its uses as well as we do, and who need all the laws which property requires for its judicious movement. Notwithstanding this, Georgia, at one blow, makes all these people incapable of contracting. Men as competent as ourselves to all business transactions, are reduced by a sweeping law of a state of pupilage.

[Mr. Foster of Georgia explained that his law was passed for the benefit of the Indians to prevent their being imposed on.  That it did not release white men from their engagements to Indians, but Indians from their engagements to white men]

I understand and stated the law precisely as the gentleman from Georgia states it. I know this character may be claimed for the law. But how does it seek the benefit of the Indians? By reducing them to a state of minority. Sir, it is for benefit ' protection of children, that they are unable to contract; but still they are children, and the law holds them to their infancy. And what sort of a boon is it to men of large property and active dealings to pass a law releasing them from their contracts? Does it not directly follow that, if they cannot be held to their contracts, no one will contract with them, and that the apparent limitation of the law which exempts the Indian while it binds the white man, is illusory, for who will contract with a person who is by law exonerated from compliance with its engagements? Such a law can have no other effect among Indians than among white men; and what would be the effect on the business of a community of white men, to enact a law releasing them from all engagements into which they might enter?

By the law of Georgia of 1829, the testimony of an Indian was declared inadmissible in any case, in which a white man is a party. This law was generally condemned during the discussions of last head. The objections taken to it were declared by some of the advocates of the course pursued by Georgia to be unreasonable, captious, and groundless, and were set down to the score of morbid sensibility and political philanthropy. Now, what has been the practical operation of this feature in the Georgia law?  Governor Gilmer thus describes it in his Message, at the opening of the session of the Georgia Legislature:

'It is also due to our Indian People that that provision in the law of 1829, should be repealed, which prevents Indians and descendants of Indians from being competent witnesses in the Court of the State, in cases where a white man is a party. The present law exposes them to great oppression, while its repeal would most probably injure no one.  Attempts have been made to strip them of their property by forged contracts, because of the impossibility of defending their rights by the testimony of those who alone can know them.  And although the moral feeling of our frontier community has been too correct to permit such infamous proceedings to effect their ends; yet the character of our legislation for justice requires, that the rights of those People should not be exposed to such danger.'

Such is the character, which Governor Gilmer gives of this law, and of its operation. I have heard some details of the oppressions to which he alludes. I have no reason to doubt their truth; but I will not repeat them to the House, without vouchers to support them. I will only add, that this law rejecting the testimony of Indians, remains unrepealed; and that their rights ' property are still dependent on the 'moral feeling of the frontier community' of Ga.  That frontier community must have better feelings ' principles, than usually actuate a part of every community, if in the continued operation of this law, the Indians are not subjected to the most grievous oppression.

I will mention another law of the new code.  Its design may be imperfectly apprehended by me; and if I err in the motive for which I suppose it was enacted I hope I shall be excused on the ground of the great difficulty of picking up here and there-one law, in this newspaper, ' another in that- the information, which, as it seems to me, ought to have been spread before us, in ample detail, to enlighten and guide our legislation. The law, to which I allude, subjects all white persons, who shall reside within the Cherokee country, without a permit from the Governor of Georgia or such agent as the Governor shall authorize, and who shall not have taken an oath of allegiance as a citizen of Georgia, to four years imprisonment at hard labor in the penitentiary. Now, I should be glad to be informed, where, on her own principles, Georgia gets the right to exact such an oath from all persons resident on her soil, granting the Cherokee country to be her soil. The Constitution of the United States gives Georgia no such right.  It is there provided, that 'the citizen of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States.' Grant that the country is subject to her laws: what right has she to render to the citizens of another State, an oath of allegiance as citizens of Georgia? If I go to Savannah or Milledgeville, and demean myself peaceably, I wish to know what right, under the Constitution, Georgia possesses to shut me up to hard labor in her penitentiary, if I will not take an oath as a citizen of that State.* I am told that this law is intended to strike at the missionaries.  I do not assert the fact, nor ascribe motives to men or bodies of men. If this is its design, as it will unquestionably be its effect, I trust it will be borne in mind, that the missionaries were introduced into the Cherokee Nation under very respectable auspices. It was during the administration of Mr. Madison, and with the express consent and approbation of Mr. Crawford, while this gentleman held the office of Secretary of War. His letter to Mr. Kingsbury, to this effect is among the documents formerly communicated to the House. The missionaries were the promised the protection, countenance, and cooperation of the Government, and the annual appropriation for civilizing the Indians was recommended to be made, and has been applied in furtherance of their operations. They are, to say the very least, an innocent and a harmless man. They expressly disclaim having interfered in the political relations of the Cherokees with the United States. They have unquestionably been the instruments of great good. If this region, and its ill-fated inhabitants, were swallowed up tomorrow by an earthquake, and sunk from existence, the missionaries would have left monuments of their benevolent labors which will last as long as the history or the memory of this generation lasts; yes, sir, as long as the Earth and the Heavens shall last.+ The law I have quoted is supposed to aim at their exclusion.

Thus as it is possible, that Georgia (and I again beg leave to say, that I name that State not individually) may be thought by some persons not to have gone beyond some abstract right of civil jurisdiction, capable of being reconciled with a 'possessory right,' in which the Indians were promised by the Executive to be protected. But Georgia has not stopped here. In the course of the year 1829, it was found that this region possessed, and probably abundance, veins of gold. As soon as this discovery was made, intruders from every quarter, and from all the States in the neighborhood flocked into the gold region and overran the land. The Indians demanded their removal by the Agent. The Agent referred the case to the Secretary of War and the Secretary of War gave the requisite orders for their removal. This took place before the first day of June, 1830. That day the laws of Georgia took effect. And very shortly afterwards I read a Proclamation in the papers, proceeding from a gentleman, whom I most highly respect, the Governor of Georgia, and which appeared to be of a character so strange and unexpected, that I could scarcely credit my senses as I read it. Let me read a portion of this Proclamation to the House, which bears date 3d June, 1830.

'Whereas it has been discovered, that the lands in the territory, now occupied by the Cherokee Indians within the limits of this State, abound with valuable minerals and especially gold; and whereas the State of Georgia has the fee simple title to said lands, and the entire and exclusive property of the gold and silver therein; and whereas numerous persons, citizens of this and other States, together with the Indian occupants of said Territory, taking advantage of the Law of this State, by which its jurisdiction over said territory was not assumed until the first day of June last past, have been engaged in digging for gold in said lands, and taking therefrom great amounts in value, thereby appropriating riches to themselves, which, of right, equally belong to every other citizen of the State, and in violation of the rights of the State, and to the injury of its public resources', 'c. And then the Governor warns 'all persons, whether citizens of this or other States, or Indian occupant, to cease all further trespass on the lands of this State, and especially from taking any gold or silver from the lands included within the Territory occupied by the Cherokee Indians,''c. All further trespass on their own lands, and all further digging for their own gild!

It is true the Governor, in his Message at the opening of the late Session of the Legislature in Georgia, attempts to justify this strange pretension. 'The right thus asserted,' says he, 'was supposed to be established by the customary law of all the European nations, who made discoveries of formed Colonies on the Continent; by the fee simple or allodial title which belongs to the State, to all lands within its limits, or already granted away: and the absence of all right in the Indians, they never having appropriated the mineral riches of the earth to their own use.' Neither had Georgia appropriated these mines by occupation.  As soon as the Cherokees knew their existence, they proceeded to take possession of, and to work them till they were driven away, by the laws of Georgia, and the troops of the United States.  What force there can be in English Common law of fee simple allodial title, to control the stipulations of a treaty between the United States and a tribe of Indians, I confess my inability to imagine. The argument from the customary law of the European conquistadors proves a great deal too much. It would justify the Governor, not only in seizing the gold mines, but in reducing the Indians themselves to bondage and to labor in the mines. The Portuguese did this and so did the Spaniards. The slave trade was projected by the benevolent Las Casas, to relieve the Indians from digging their own gold for their conquerors.

When this subject was under the consideration of the House at the last session, I certainly did not entertain very favorable auguries of the treatment, which the Cherokees were likely to receive; but it never entered into my head, that they were to be denied a right to their own mines.  On the contrary, I assumed it as a matter of course, that they were the lawful and admitted owners of this mineral wealth. Having, in the course of my remarks on this subject, had occasion to allude to the intruders into the gold region, before I could finish the sentence, in which I made that allusion, a gentleman who voted for the Indian bill, interrupted me, with the prompt assurance, that these intruders were ordered to be removed by the Executive. I was gratified at the information, although it was then no more (as I thought) than a matter of course. My next information on the subject was derived from Governor Gilmer's proclamation, claiming for Georgia the absolute property on the gold mines, and warning the Indians to desist from digging them.

Extraordinary as this is, I fear something more extraordinary remain to be told. By the intercourse law, the Executive is authorized to employ the military force of the United States to remove intruders from lands belonging or secured to Indians by treaty. This power has several times been exercised. But the Indians also possess by treaty, the rights of proceeding summarily to redress themselves. They possess the rights by the treaty of Holston negotiated in 1791. The Secretary of War in alluding to the right which the Indians thus possess, under the treaty of Holston, speaks of it disparagingly as a treaty forty years old. But it will be recollected, that with all the other treaties it was confirmed by an express article in that of 1817. What are the terms in which this right is secured to the Indians by the treaty of Holston?

'If any citizen of the United States, or other person, not being an Indian shall settle on any of the Cherokee Lands, such person shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the Cherokees may punish him or not as they please.' Treaty of Holstein, Art. 8th.

In pursuance of this right, guarantied by treaty, but flowing from that law of Nature, which is before all treaty, the Indians have exercised this power in protecting themselves from intruders; nor was it, that I know of, ever questioned by any Administration till this.

It has received the sanction of the present Chief Magistrate in the amplest terms.

In a letter of Path Killer and other Cherokee Chiefs dated Head Quarters, Nashville, 18th Jan 1821, General Jackson thus expressed himself.

'Friends and brothers: I have never told a red brother a lie nor deceived him. The intruders if they attempt to return, will be sent off. But your light horse should not let them settle down on your land. You ought to drive the stock away from your lands, and deliver the intruders to the Agent; but if you cannot keep intruders from your land, report it to the agent, and on his notice, I will drive them from your land.

I am your friend and brother.

ANDREW JACKSON.'

In pursuance of the authority conferred on the tribe, by the Treaty of Holston, an authority to the exercise of which they had been exhorted a few years ago, by Gen. Jackson, and of which the validity was I believe, never questioned before, the Cherokees, in the course of the last year, in consequence of the number and disorderly conduct of the intruders upon their lands, proceeded to remove a portion of them. This step, which they were perfectly warranted to take, occasioned a hostile incursion from Georgia, in the result of which one Indian was killed, and some other wounded and carried prisoners into Georgia. This occurrence occasioned the detachment of a party of United States' troops into the Cherokee country, who accordingly came, rather, as it would seem, to protect the intruders from the Cherokees, than the Cherokees from the intruders. Being there, orders were given to the troops to remove intruders from the gold region, and these orders were at first complied with, but with partial success; for as soon as a band of gold diggers were driven from one spot, they settled in another, like hungry vultures frightened from their prey. They are said to have been a colluvies of all classes and characters; a lawless and desperate gang.

And here ensued a scene of a character bordering on comedy, if any can be considered burlesque in so grave a matter.  I give it as it is related in the memorial of the Cherokee Indians, on our table:

'In another case, in the name and authority of George R. Gilmer, Governor of Georgia, a bill was filed in chancery, in the Superior Court of Hall County, in July last, against certain sundry Cherokees praying for an injunction to stop them from digging and searching for gold within the limits of their own nation; and the bill being sworn to before the same A. S. Clayton, he awarded an injunction against the parties names in the bill as defendants commanding them, forthwith, to desist from working on those mines, under the penalty of $20,000 dollars, at a time and place where there were unmolested several thousand intruders from Georgia and other States, engaged in robbing the Nation of Gold, for which the owners were ordered not to work by the said writ. Under the authority of this injunction, the sheriff of Hall County, with an armed force, invaded the Nation, consisting of a Colonel, a Captain, and thirty or forty militia of the State of Georgia, who arrested a number of Cherokees engaged in digging for gold, who were ar first rescued by the troops of the United States stationed near the place, and conducted fifteen miles to the military camp, when a council of examination was held, and the exhibition of their respective authorities was made which resulted in the release of the sheriff and his party, and a written order by the commanding officer of the United States' troops, directing the Cherokees to submit is the authority of Georgia, and that no further protection could be extended to the Cherokees at the gold mines, as he could no longer interfere with the laws of Georgia, but would afford aid in carrying them into execution. On the return of the sheriff and his party, they passed by the Cherokees who were still engaged in digging for gold, and ordered them to desist, under the penalty of being committed to jail and proceeded to destroy their tools and machinery for gleaning gold, and after committing some further aggression they returned. Shortly afterwards, the sheriff, with a guard of four men and a process from the State of Georgia, arrested three Cherokees for disobeying the injunction, while peaceably engaged in their labors, and conducted them to Wadkinsville, before the same A. S. Clayton who then and there sentenced them to pay a fine of ninety-three dollars, cost and stand committed to prison until paid and also compelled them to give their bond in the sum of one thousand dollars for their personal appearance before his next Court, to answer the charges of violating the writ of injunction aforesaid. In custody they were retained five days, paid the cost, gave the required bond, and did appear accordingly, as bound by Judge Clayton, who dismissed them on the ground that the Governor could not be prosecutor in the case. For the unwarrantable outrage committed on their liberty and persons, no apology was made, and the cost they had paid was not refunded.'

I confess when I first read the account of this incident in the papers last summer, I supposed it was the wild freak of some inconsiderate subaltern. I did not imagine that it could have taken place by order from the Executive of the United States. The affair is but partially explained in any document I have seen; but this much is certain, that orders were sent by the Secretary of War to the Cherokee Agent and to the officer commanding the troops of the United States, to forbid the Cherokees as intruders from digging the gold mines.  On the 26th of June, 1830, an order was issued from the War Department at Washington to the officer commanding the United States' troops in the Cherokee country, 'directing him, until further orders, to prevent all persons from working the mines, or searching for or carrying away gold or silver, or either metal from the Cherokee Nation.'

This order was communicated by the Agent to Mr. Ross, the principal Chief of the Cherokees, in a letter, dated 10th July, 1830, in which he says:

'I have also enclosed you a copy of a letter from the War Department, on the subject of the Gold Mines, by which you will see that all persons are ordered to be kept from digging for gold until further order; and have to request that you will, in such way as you think best make it known to the Indians, and also that you will advise them to desist for the present , as I am very desirous that no difficulties should take place between the United States' troops and them on the subject.'

And now, Sir, I think I may safely appeal to many gentlemen of the House, who voted for the Indian Bill last winter, whether it entered into their imaginations that under that bill and with its proviso, the Indians should be prohibited by the armed force of the United States from digging gold within the limits secured to them by numerous treaties.  There were gentlemen, I know, who voted for the bill, deeming the policy of which it is a part, but declaring it unnecessary to save the Indians. Others thought something ought to be done in consequence of the compact in 1802.  Others were influenced by some refined notion of a jurisdiction co-extensive with the charter. Did any of them mean or intend, that within less than three months-after adopting a proviso that the treaties should not be violated, the Cherokees should be driven, by the bayonet of our United States' troops from gold mines within the boundaries secured to them by treaty and law?

[To be concluded in our next.]

*The hour of the day assigned to resolutions being preoccupied with the discussion on another subject.

*These are the terms of the oath, 'I, A. B. do solemnly swear, or affirm as the case may be, that I will support and defend the Constitution of Georgia, and uprightly demean myself as a citizen thereof.'

+ Much information relative to the character and operation of the Missionaries among the Indian tribes, may be found in the memorial to Congress of the Prudential Committee of the Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, presented to the House of Representatives by Mr. E. of the 14th February.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: APRIL 2, 1831

Our readers will recollect that on the 15th of February the Senate of the United States passed a resolution, requesting the President 'to inform the Senate whether the provisions of the act entitled `An act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the frontiers' passed the 30th of March, 1802, have been fully complied with on the part of the United States' Government, and if they have not, that he inform the Senate of the reasons that have induced the Government to decline the enforcement of said act.' To this resolution the President replied in a message, dated February 22d. We cannot on account of its length, copy it entire into our columns, but shall give a specimen of it by inserting a few extracts. It is a well written message, probably penned by Mr. Berrian. The reason for withdrawing the troops from the Cherokee Nation is given in the following paragraph.

By the 19th section of this act, it is provided that nothing in it 'shall be construed to prevent any trade or intercourse with the Indians living on lands surrounded by settlements of citizens of the United States, and being within the ordinary jurisdiction of any of the individual States.' This prospective in its operation, and as applicable not only to Indian tribes which at the date of its passage were subject to the jurisdiction of any State, but to such also as should thereafter become so.- To this construction of its meaning I have endeavored to conform, and have taken no step inconsistent with it. As soon, therefore, as the sovereign power of the State of Georgia was exercised, by an extension of her laws, throughout her limits, and I had received information of the same, orders were given to withdraw from the State, the troops which had been detailed to prevent intrusion upon the Indian lands within it; and these orders were executed.

The President does not state the case fairly, and the reason he gives for withdrawing the troops is very unsatisfactory, even admitting the doctrine upon which he builds that reason to be correct.  It is very well known that the troops were not sent to prevent intrusion upon the `Indian lands' within the chartered limits of Georgia, only but they were sent to prevent intrusion upon the Cherokee territory. It is known also that but a part of this territory lies within the limits of Georgia. The President ought to have been a little more explicit in meeting the inquiry of the Senate. If the exercise of the sovereign power of Georgia was the reason of withdrawing the troops from that part of the Cherokee nation, what was the reason for withdrawing them from other parts where the sovereign power of Alabama, Tennessee, and N. Carolina has not been exercised? This question the President has left unanswered, and we presume is not disposed to answer.

A question similar to the above, we understand, was proposed by the Cherokee Delegation to the Secretary of War, who made evasive answers as long as he could, but upon being urged, replied that the Cherokees had appealed to the Supreme Court, and they need not expect protection from every quarter.- We copy another paragraph from the message.

Amongst the enumerated grants of the Constitution, that which relates to this subject is expressed in these words: 'Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes.' In the interpretation of this power, we ought certainly to be guided by what had been the practice of the Government, and the meaning which had been generally attached to the resolves of the old Congress, if the words used to convey it do not clearly import a different one, as far as it affects the question of jurisdiction in the individual States. The States ought not to be divested of any part of their antecedent jurisdiction, by implication or doubtful construction.  Tested by this rule, it seems to me to be unquestionable that the jurisdiction of the States is left untouched by this clause of the Constitution, and that it designed to give to the General Government complete control over the trade and intercourse of those Indians only who were not within the limits of any State.

We are not skilled in the rules of interpretation, but we would suppose that we ought also to be guided by what has been the practice of the Government since the adoption of the Constitution, and how the framers of that Constitution understood the clause, 'Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes. That the expression Indian Tribes, was understood to mean all Indians who lived in bodies or communities, is evident from the uniform practice of the Government.

The views which the President entertains in regard to the treaties are expressed in the following extract:

As early as 1784 the settlements within the limits of North Carolina were advanced further to the west than the authority of the State to enforce an obedience of its laws; others were in a similar condition. The necessities therefore, and not the acknowledged principles of the Government must have suggested the policy of treating with the Indians in that quarter, as the only practicable mode of conciliating their good will.  The United States at that period had just emerged from a protracted war for the achievement of their independence.  At the moment of its conclusion, many of these tribes, as powerful as they were ferocious in their mode of warfare remained in arms, desolating our frontier settlements. Under these circumstances, the first treaties, in 1785 and 1790, with the Cherokees were concluded by the Government of the United States, and evidently sanctioned as measures of necessity, adapted to the character of the Indians, and indispensable to the peace and security of the western frontier. But they cannot be understood as changing the political relations of the Indians to the States, or to the Federal Government. To effect this would have required the operation of quite a different principle, and the intervention of a tribunal higher than that of the treaty making power.

If indeed necessities suggested the policy of treating with the Indians when they were hostile, what suggested the policy of treating with the Choctaws just the other day, when no such necessity existed? Let President Jackson answer that. Let him tell the world what reasons actuated him to send commissioners to treat with those Indians, and when the treaty was made to submit it to the Senate for its ratification. If the Constitution gives him no such power, why does he assume it? What becomes of his professed adherence to that Constitution when he violates it with his eyes open? If his predecessors were wrong in treating with the Indians, they were conscientious-they considered them as capable of entering into treaties. But President Jackson says they are citizens of the States, and yet treats with them as independent communities! Who manifests less consistency?

In the foregoing extract there is one sentence which is worthy of particular notice. We will repeat it. 'At the moment of its conclusion, [Revolutionary War] many of these tribes, as powerful as they were ferocious in their mode of warfare, remained in arms, desolating our frontier settlements?'  Now it will be remembered by the attentive reader, that the right of jurisdiction and of soil has been urged by Georgia and her partizens on the ground of conquest. But what says President Jackson? At the close of the Revolutionary War, (the only time when they may have been conquered) the Cherokees and other tribes remained in arms, desolating our frontier settlements. This is something like putting his veto to one of their `knockdown' arguments. Let us hear no more of the right of conquest.

________________

We hope our readers will attentively peruse that part of Mr. Everett's Speech on the Indian question which we this day publish.  We shall insert the remaining part in our next.

_________________

In our account of the late visit of the Georgia Guard to this place we neglected to note one circumstance which ought to be known to the public. It appears that about 8 or 9 o'clock in the evening two young men were passing on the public road which leads by the house of Mr. Tarvin, where these troops were encamped, when they were fired upon by the Sentinel. It is said, and so the Georgia Judge, decided, that this Guard is not an army, but this thing of shooting at a peaceable man when travelling on a public road seems to intimate otherwise.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS.

SPEECH OF MR. EVERETT.

Of Massachusetts, in the House of Representatives, on the 11th and 21st of February, 1831. On the Execution of the Laws and Treaties in favor of the Indians.

[CONCLUDED]

The winding up of this affair was in keeping with its commencement and progress. The object of marching the troops into the Cherokee country, according to Maj. Gen. Macomb. 'was to guard against the difficulties which it was apprehended would grow out of the conflicting operations of the Cherokees and the lawless intruders, upon the mineral district within the State of Georgia.  Having fulfilled the instructions of the Government, the troops were directed to return for the winter to their respective quarters.'

On the 29th of October last, Governor Gilmer wrote to the Secretary of War, requesting the removal of the troops, on the ground that the State of Georgia could enforce her own laws. On the 10th of November, the Secretary answered him, that previous to the receipt of his letter, (two days before) the troops had been ordered out of the Cherokee nation, because the purposes for which they had been sent into it were in a great measure accomplished.

This object, according to the General Commanding in Chief, was to prevent collision between the Cherokees and lawless intruders in the gold district. It was answered, by removing both!

And here it is obvious to ask, how, on the ground assumed by Georgia and sanctioned by the Executive of the United States, the President could feel himself authorized to employ an armed force of the United States in removing gold diggers, lawless or lawful. Indians or white men, from the gold mines of Georgia, if Georgia's they must be? It is not his duty to enforce the laws of Georgia, nor to protect her property.- She maintains that she is able to do it herself. Nay, the still broader question present itself--what right, on the ground assumed by Georgia and the Executive, have we to go upon the soil of Georgia to remove or bribe away a part of her subjects of citizens. What right to keep an agent there, or to pay them an annuity?  Am I answered, it is done in pursuance of treaties? The treaties are declared unconstitutional and void. Sir, it happens now to accord with the interests of Georgia to permit it, but surely she will not bend her principles to her interest?

It has been urged against the Colonization Society, on very high authority, that it is unconstitutional for the United States to go into a State to remove a part of its colored population. In a very able report made to the Senate. I think at the first session of the twentieth Congress, I find the following argument:

'Before they leave this part of the subject, the Committee will observe, that the framers of the Constitution most wisely abstained from bestowing upon the Government thereby created any powers whatever over the colored population, as such, whether this population was bound or free.

'If the United States possess the right to intrude into any State for the purpose of withdrawing from thence its free colored population, they undoubtedly must exert practically its power of previously deciding what persons are embraced within this description. They must have the power of determining finally not only who are colored, but who are free persons. This committee believe however, that any attempt by the United States, to exercise such a power would not only be a direct violation of the Constitution, but must be productive of the worst effects.'

Now, Sir, it is not necessary to consider how far this argument applies to the operations of the Colonization Society.  But the principle that the Indian country is a part of the soil, and its population, a portion of the People of the State, I confess I do not know how gentlemen who stand on the ground of State rights ' strict construction of the Constitution , can move an inch in this matter. What, Sir, constitutional for the General Government to go into the counties of Georgia, into Hall and Habersham, to get the people of these counties together-people subject to the laws of Georgia-make a compact with them to move away in a body-take millions of money out of the Treasury of the United States, to effect this subject-to enable the President to go upon the soil of Georgia and buy off her people!  In what part of the Constitution on the principles which gentlemen set up is there a word to warrant such a policy, or to justify an appropriation of money to carry it into operation?

I know it has been answered, that it is constitutional to fulfil a compact. I must own that this mode of getting at a grant of power is, for statesmen who advocate a strict Constitution, liberal enough. According to this principle, the General Government may enter into a compact to do an unconstitutional act. On the ground upon which this new Indian policy rests, the compact of 1802 was itself unconstitutional and was so argued to be, in the Senate last winter. If the soil and jurisdiction of this territory were already Georgia's, the United States had no right to interfere with it, not even to extinguish the Indian title on peaceable and on reasonable terms.  Unless the principles of the Constitution vary with the complexion of those who are the subjects of its provisions.  The United States have just as little right to enter into compact to extinguish title of the red men of one county of Georgia, as that of the white men of another county. The gentleman are actually obliged to come to us for principles, on which they can remove the Indians. Unless the treaties are valid, the United States have no power to act in this matter. Gentlemen, deny the validity of the treaties in order to get at the soil; and then come back to the treaty-making power, to get the Indians removed from it.

The conduct which Georgia has pursued, with respect to gold, forcibly reminds me of the opposite course adopted by Mr. Jefferson, in reference to some iron mines discovered at the mouth of the Chickamauga, in Tennessee. Tennessee did not claim these mineral treasures; but the Indians themselves expressed a wish to cede these mines to the United States, for the purpose of having them wrought. Mr. Jefferson accordingly negotiated a treaty of cession for six miles square, including these mines; and gave the following reasons to the Senate as his inducement: 'As an establishment would occasion a considerable and a certain demand for corn and other provisions and necessaries, it seemed probable that it would immediately draw around it a close settlement of the Cherokees; would encourage them to enter on a regular life of agriculture, familiarize them with the practice and value of the arts, attach them to property; lead them of necessity and without delay to the establishment of laws and Government, and thus make a great and important advance towards assimilating their condition with ours.'

But the seizure of the gold mines, violent as that measure is; beyond anything that was or could have been apprehended loses its importance, when contrasted with another act of great unexampled, and I must add stupendous injustice. I refer to the law which has passed the Legislature of Georgia, for the survey and disposal of the lands of the Cherokees. Let it be remembered, then,

1. That there is a boundary, between the Cherokees and the States surrounding them fixed by numerous treaties and by law.

2. Let it be remembered, that the Treaty of Holston, which was negotiated in 1791, on instructions previously ratified by a unanimous Senate, contains this simple and expressive pledge: 'The United States solemnly guarantee to the Cherokee Nation all their land not hereby ceded.'

3. That as late as 1817, this as one of the previous treaties and was declared to be `in full force,' with all its `immunities and privileges;' and that this confirmation is contained in a treaty, negotiated by the present chief magistrate, and unanimously ratified by the Senate.

4. And that the Intercourse Act makes it highly penal, to survey the lands belonging or secured to any Indian tribe by treaty.

And now, sir, I hold in my hand a law of Georgia, authorizing the survey of the lands thus solemnly guarantied; their division into districts, and sections; and their distribution by a land lottery!

There is a provision in this act of Georgia, by which, if the President of the U. S. should execute his sworn duty, in enforcing the laws of the U. S. himself to imprisonment for five years in the Georgia Penitentiary; that being the punishment denounced by this State law on any person, who shall obstruct the surveys which it is most assuredly the duty of the President to do.

The law provides for the survey of the country into sections ' districts. The sectional surveyors twelve in number are to proceed with as little delay as possible to the duties assigned them. The survey of the districts is to be suspended until the next meeting of the General Assembly, and until further enactments for that purpose. The number of district surveyors is one hundred and ninety-six, and the Governor is authorized to call out a military force to protect them in the discharge of their duties.

The only mitigation of the severity, with which this bill acts on the Indians, is the provision contained in the thirty first section. By this section it is directed, that 'the Indians and their descendants, who have made improvements upon the territory, are to be protected in the possession of those improvements ' of the lots of land upon which the said improvements are made, until otherwise directed by the General Assembly, or until they are voluntarily abandoned by the Indian occupants. Indians not allowed to sell their right of occupancy to any person, unless it be to the Government of the United States, or to the Government of Georgia, for the use of the persons drawing such improved lots in the lottery, and no grant to be issued, until the Indian shall have abandoned the lots in their occupancy; the fortunate drawers of such improved lots, to forfeit their draws, should they by threats, or menaces or violence, remove or attempt to remove any Indian, from such improved lot.'

How much this mitigation is worth may be judged of by considering, that it exists only during the pleasure of the General Assembly, and that the evidence of the Indian occupants, and of all those able to support his title, is inadmissible in the 'Georgia Courts. In this state of things, it little matters, whether he be expelled at once, or his estate be thrown into a land lottery, to be drawn as a prize, and a 'fortunate drawer' planted at his door, or dogging him wherever he goes, till he voluntarily leaves his home.

Especially when we recollect, that, objectionable as this law is, a still more objectionable and oppressive measure was proposed and strenuously advocated, and if I am not misinformed, adopted, in the House of Representatives of Georgia. I derive my information from a letter, written from Milledgeville, and published in the Augusta Chronicle. I know nothing of its author, but that, as appears on the fact of the letter, he is a friend of the present Administration.

Extract of a letter to the Editor of the Augusta Chronicle from a correspondent in Milledgeville, dated 27th November, 1830.

'The particular question now and for several days past before the House, is the adoption of Mr. Hayne's substitute to the bill reported by Judge Schley, from the Committee on the State of the Republic.  This contemplates, as you are aware, the taking immediate possession of the Indian lands, and forcibly driving the Indians therefrom. How such a bill can be the subject of a moment's consideration in a Christian land, is to me the subject of the deepest astonishment, and yet many intelligent men believe and fear it may be successful. For my own part, I will not believe it possible, and indeed should scarcely credit the evidence of my senses, if such were the fact, God forbid such a fatal consequences! and I will confidently rely on his over-ruling goodness and protection to avert it, to save the Indians-nay tenfold, to save  our own State from the serious evils which must inevitably follow it. I must not trust my feelings farther on this point; perhaps they are too deeply and unnecessarily wounded. We will at least hope so. One thing is certain, that no effort is or will be spared to prevent the adoption of the measure; and I am proud to see among the opponents many, very many of the first and ablest men of the Assembly of both parties. Indeed it is by no means a party matter, 'c.

'Numerous as are the advocates of this measure, the array of talent against it is very powerful, and the arguments of its  opponents are sound and incontrovertible. To say nothing of humanity, the want of necessity or expediency; the ingratitude of opposing the President and his Administration which have long been and still are making every possible effort in our behalf; the folly of now necessarily arraying them against us, contrary to their will, and of indirectly giving their and our enemy, Mr. Clay, still further and greater power against them; the imminent danger of a direct and violent controversy with the General Government, all of which are directly opposed to this measure, the faith and honor of the State stand openly and irrevocably pledged against it. But for this pledge given by our Representatives, Mr. Wilde, and others on the floor of Congress, last session, against the exercise of any force against the Indians, any effort to drive them forcibly from the lands, the bill to encourage their emigration to the West of the Mississippi would not ' could not have passed.'

This bill with some amendments passed the House of Representatives of Georgia 76 to 55.

I read this to show that it is not merely 'the white savages of the North,' nor the opponents of this Administration, who condemn the course pursued by Georgia.

But I do not find that the law passed is essentially better. The evils is (sic) only delayed. The lands improved by the Indians are not exempted from the lottery. An amendment to that effect was rejected, by a vote nearly two to one; and after the lottery is drawn the unhappy occupant is only to keep possession till 'the fortunate drawer' can persuade him to go.

And now, Sir, is there a member of this House, who can recollect, that the United States have solemnly guarantied this land to the Indians; that we guarantied it for a valuable consideration, which we keep; that we guarantied it voluntarily, unanimously, and before the compact of 1802, and not feel that the guaranty ought not to be violated?

I again appeal to gentlemen, who, without approving of the principles of this policy, gave their votes for the bill of last session, qualified as it was by the Proviso, whether they would have lent their sanction to the measure, had they believed, that, within a twelve month, a law would be passed by Georgia, to send an army of surveyors into the territory of the Cherokees, and to subject any person who should presume to execute your laws, to the punishment of the Penitentiary, from the President of the United States, down to the lowest officer in the service?

Why, Sir, granting all these treaties made by the United States are unconstitutional and not binding; granting the truly atrocious proposition, that we break the treaty and keep the consideration; granting that Georgia still possess the power which, if she ever had it, by adopting the Constitution she gave up to the United States, ' that things now stand as they stood, under the old Confederation, all this would not mend her title to these lands. Under the Confederation, she admitted the right of the Cherokees to treat as independent nation. She treated with them herself; the treaty of Augusta in 1783 stands in her statute book; and in so doing recognizes their right to cede, and to keep what they do not cede. I will read to the House the first and sixth article of the treaty.

'Whereas a good understanding [See fourth page] and union between the inhabitants of the said state and the Indians aforesaid are reciprocally necessary and convenient, as well on account of a friendly intercourse and trade, as for the purpose of peace and humanity; it is therefore, agreed and covenanted-

'1st. That all differences between the said parties, heretofore subsisting, shall cease and be forgotten.

6th. And lastly, they, the said headmen, warriors, and chiefs, whose hands and seals are hereunto affixed, do hereby, for themselves and for the nation they are empowered to and effectually represent, recognize, declare, and acknowledge, that all the lands, woods, waters, game, lying and being in the State, eastward of the line herein before particularly mentioned and described, is, are, and to belong, and of right appertain, to the people and government of the State of Georgia; and they, the Indians aforesaid, as well for themselves as the said nation, give up, release, alien, relinquish, and forever quit claim to the same, or any part thereof.'

Now, what would have been thought of the transaction, if, the day after signing this treaty and accepting this cession; Georgia had laid claim to all the rest of the land; had passed a law disposing of it; had gone into the country,(supposing her to have been, what, at that period, most assuredly was not, strong enough for that purpose) with an army of surveyors; and divided it out for distribution by a lottery? It would have been thought an unparalleled breach of good faith.

But I will go farther than this; Suppose there had been no treaty at all-not even a state of peace-suppose that the armies of Georgia had done, what, at that time, it was wholly impossible to do-suppose they had overrun and conquered the land, even then the laws of nations and civilized warfare would not have justified this measure. Why, Sir, as a war measure, and in the hot bed of victory, such a thing has never, in modern times, been heard of, as the forcible seizure of the entire domain of a conquered people, ' a partition of it into sections, the unoccupied part of which are to be immediately taken possession of, and the improved parts thrown into a lottery with the rest. It comes to the precedent of the Norman Conquest, and goes beyond the partition of Poland. I doubt if a single Polish proprietor has been disturbed in the possession of his estate, from the date of the first partition to the present day.  Suppose that Russia and Austria and Prussia in addition to extending their laws over the Poles, had enacted a code, under which it was admitted, that they could not live, and cut up their lands, districts, and sections, thrown their estates into a lottery, granting to the proprietors no other privileges but that of occupancy, till they could be induced by legal duress and governmental persecution to emigrate to the deserts of Bucharia! What language would have furnished adequate terms for the condemnation of such a policy?

The very ground on which Georgia claims the right to pursue this course is the strongest reason, why she should not pursue it.  Sir, she denies that they are independent separate community. She says they are her citizens or subjects; calls them 'her people;' constitutes them an integral part of the community;and then passes a law to distribute their lands by a lottery. Does not this show that injustice of the measure?  Let her pass a law to dispose by lottery of the property of the people of Chatham and Effingham, of Richmond and Columbia; let her plant a 'fortunate drawer' at the door of each man's shop and house, and the gate of his plantation to worry him off to the foot of the Rocky Mountains. The very process of reasoning by which Georgia would withdraw the Cherokees from our protection can serve them only to bring them under her own, of all arguments against this oppressive policy.

But we live under a Federal Union, designed to bring the States, to a certain degree, under one government, and possessing tribunals of eminent jurisdiction, for the adjustment of controversies which are placed by the Constitution within the province of such tribunals. What is the aspect of this affair, in reference to this Federal Union, and the authority of its tribunals?

Let it then first be borne in mind that Georgia in 1789 voluntarily became a party to the Constitution, 'which is the supreme law of the land, and the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the Constitution or laws of any State; to the contrary notwithstanding;' and that it is also a provision of that Constitution or which Georgia is a voluntary party, that 'the judicial power of the U. S. Shall extend to all cases, in law and equity, arising under their authority.'

Under her new laws, Georgia has proceeded to take the life of an Indian, for a murder, alleged to have been committed on another Indian, within the Cherokee boundary. It belongs, in no degree, to my argument, to inquire into the guilt of this person. I have seen but an imperfect newspaper report of his trial, in a paper friendly to the policy of Georgia, which I mention only as authorizing the presumption, that the report is probably not strained against Georgia.  From that paper it appears that Corn Tassel, (such is the name of this Indian; it is also the first Indian name subscribed to the great Hopewell treaty) was found guilty of murder, chiefly on evidence, which would not be admissible against the life of a white man.  (I mean Indian evidence,) and on the testimony of a white man, whose evidence is contradicted by the Judge in his charge. Now, whatever maybe said against the admissibility of Indian testimony in cases of property, I am clear in a case of life and death as good evidence ought to be required to convict an Indian to death needs I think, as clear a warrant of credible evidence against him, as the jury that puts a white man to death. The other evidence to which I have alluded, is that of the officer who arrested Tassel, who testified that at first he talked only in the Indian language, but afterwards spoke English intelligibly. The Judge who sat in the trial, mentions it as a circumstance to be regretted that the prisoner at the bar 'could not understand him.'

But though I am inclined to think there was not evidence to establish the malice, I waive that point entirely and do not pretend that Tassel is an object of sympathy, I go upon the assumption, that he was guilty, though I do not think that proved on the trial as reported. This 'Unfortunate' being ( as he is justly called by Judge Clayton,) on his trial before a court and jury, whose language he did not understand, pleaded by his counsel to the jurisdiction of the court. The ground of this plea appears to have been, that, under the treaties between the United States are the Cherokees, the latter were independent of the laws of Georgia. This plea was reserved for the consideration of all the Judges. They overruled it, mainly on the ground, that these treaties were unconstitutional, and could not bind Georgia.

Here the momentous bearings of the question begin to appear.- Georgia decides, that numerous Indian treaties negotiated during nearly fifty years sanctioned by every branch of the General Government, under every administration, and by Georgia herself, at whose request and for whose benefit many of them were entered into, and all unconstitutional and void. Whence the Courts of Georgia derived the power to decide on the constitutionality of treaties and laws of the United States I do not know. Her Constitution does not give it to her, and if it did, it would be a void grant, for Georgia is a voluntary party to the Federal Constitution made prior to her own.

The right of deciding in cases arising under the Constitution, laws, and treaties, is one of the rights expressly granted by the People of Georgia to the Federal Judiciary. The allegation, that the Indian treaties are unconstitutional, is no more than might be made of any other treaties, that of Louisiana for instance, (which was at first supposed by Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison to require an amendment of the Constitution to carry it into effect,) and if the Judges of a State can entertain the question of the constitutionality of the Cherokee treaties, I see no reason why they cannot do it in the case of any others.

It will easily be supposed, that the unfortunate being whose life was at stake, would be disposed by his counsel to maintain the validity of these treaties; and he accordingly applies for that writ of error, which, under the Judiciary act, issues, as a matter of course, when duly demanded, this was a case arising under the law and the treaties, the validity of which was denied by Georgia, and affirmed on behalf of the Indian.

The citation issues in the usual form, the form in which it has been respected by the Courts of the most powerful and enlightened States of the Union, who understand and love their rights as well as Georgia. This writ the Legislature of Georgia instructs the Governor and all other officers; 'to disregard, and with it every mandate and process that has been or shall be served upon hi or them, purporting to proceed from the Chief Justice, or any Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States for the purpose of arresting the criminal laws of this State.'

In other words, Georgia repeals for herself a considerable portion of the twenty fifth section of the Judiciary Act of Congress, and annuls in all criminal cases, the second section of the third article of the Constitution of the United States.

Georgia, on the principles she has now asserted, has only to make it penal to do any act or thing under a law of the United States, and she thereby acquires exclusive jurisdiction over the subject, and to annul the law.

This is a much more compendious process than a convention of the people of a state, elsewhere proposed. And almost at the moment that this House resolves, by a majority nearly unexampled, that it will not repeal the twenty fifth section of the Judiciary Act, Georgia repeals one half of that section, and of the clause of the Constitution on which it is founded.

Where is this to stop? Is it to stop anywhere? What laws of the United States have not been declared unconstitutional?  What laws and treaties will not be acted on, as if they were unconstitutional, if a process so summary is permitted to obtain/

I will observe, in conclusion, that, till the validity of these treaties has been settled by that tribunal which is alone competent under the Constitution to entertain the question, and settled in favor of Georgia, Tassel could not be put to death by any lawful warrant. The very Judge who tried him is made, in the report to say, that he 'belongs to another nation'. And, till it is settled by the competent authority, that the other nation is subject to the laws of Georgia, the death of Tassel remains illegal. At the same time I admit there may be difficulties in this case.  The Constitution is clear, but it is not certain that the Judiciary Act gives full force and effect to all the provisions of the Constitution.- But although there may be no remedy for the wrong done to the being whose life is taken, (if he has lost that life at a bar to which he was not amenable,) this want of remedy for the wrong proves nothing in favor of the right of Georgia. It is greatly to be lamented, that she had not imitated the best part of the New York precedent, and granted a pardon or reprieve to Tassel. As a first case, a case of life and death of an individual of a different nation and language, appealing to the faith of the Union, and asking only to be tried by that tribunal by which (if the treaties are indeed valid) he had right to be tried, it is greatly to be deplored that a little time could not have been granted.

I will only add, that as there was a United States' force in the country when Tassel was arrested; and as Congress had just enacted in a law which the President signed, that the treaties should not be violated, I think those troops would have been as well employed, in protecting the life of a fellow being, pending his appeal to the Courts of the United States, as in driving the Cherokees from their own mines.

And here I may suitably consider the plea, that Georgia has done no more in this matter than other States, and particularly New York. No argument is more apt to be fallacious, than the argument from analogy. There is great danger of mistaking slight and merely circumstantial points of resemblance, for entire parallelism. I will examine this case briefly, but fairly. I will admit the points where it is a precedent in favor of Georgia; and I will point out those where it is not; premising that if the legislation of Georgia violates law and treaty, it by no means follows that the Government of the United States may withhold the protection which it owes, and which is demanded by those who are the victims of that legislation, because New York has adopted similar acts of legislation.

It is a matter of surprise, too, if the legislation of New York affords a sanction to that of Georgia, that it was not insisted on sooner. Three great negotiations have been held by citizens of Georgia, since the New York law of 1822, with the Creeks or Cherokees, and this precedent was never pleaded, as far as I can find in the record of the negotiations.

Now let us compare the cases. New York, in 1822, passed a short law, extending her criminal jurisdiction over the dwindling remnants of tribes within her borders, and there she has stopped. She leaves her Indians as she found them. She makes no attempt, by severe penal enactments to break down the organization of their tribes. She has neither claimed nor surveyed their lands, nor seized their mines.  As to the individual condemned by her Courts, Soo-non-gize, her Assembly pardoned him. Her law, I understand, has not since been acted upon;o and it is the opinion of the highest legal authorities in the State, that it leaves the rights and condition of the Indians, where it found them. Here then are points of great and vital difference.

The New York law, in its terms confined to crimes and offenses, was evidently intended, in its origin, to arm the State with power to protect the Indians, against the evil of imaginary and superstitious crimes; a power, as the event shows, designed to be called forth, only when such a peculiar occasion should require it. The Georgia Code is one of civil and criminal jurisdiction, the last of a series of measures, having for its great and viewed object to effect the removal of the Indians. Hence, while New York stops at the claim of criminal jurisdiction, and does not, in point of fact, enforce that; Georgia enacts the severest laws against the entire social existence of the tribe, claims their lands, seizes their mines, and substantially drives them from her borders.  If New York had gone into the Seneca Reservation with a score of surveyors, declaring the alternative of removal to the West, or extinction, and drawing a lottery for their lands, the case would have been more nearly parallel. Accordingly we find in the last place, that the Senecas never invoked our protection, because no practiced evil was done or threatened; the Cherokees invoke our protection, because the choice is set before them, of subjection to State removal to a desert, where they believe they must die.

There is, therefore, the greatest difference in all the matters of fact, which give a character to the two cases. In point of equity and justice, the New York Precedent could not of course alter the case; as one wrong affords no justification of another.

I will here also answer the argument drawn from the example of the colonies and of the States, before the Constitution.  The argument from the practice of the colonies is of two-fold aspect, looking to the question, as one of humanity and of right.

First, as to humanity. Grant that the treatment of the Indians by the colonies, was barbarous and cruel. We have lately been taunted with the fact, that when taken as prisoners of war they were sometimes sold as slaves to the West Indies; and our recollection has been refreshed with the circumstances, that, according to Cotton Mather, on occasion of storming an Indian fort, the huts within it took fire, and several of the wretched inmates were (as this author with detestable quaintness expresses it) 'Broiled' to death. These are the facts quoted against us. They were the incidents of a war of mutual extermination, between the Colonies and a powerful savage foe. But I let that pass.- What is gained by citing these facts? Suppose they prove the only thing they seem to prove, that the early settlers of New England were a blood-thirsty race, and treated the Indians barbarously. Is anything gained by Georgia and her sister States, by proving that fact? Those who would get an argument to support their policy, out of the fact, that in the seventeenth century, some Indians were sold to the West Indies as slaves, need not go so far back. The slave trade, till very lately, was carried on throughout the civilized world. All nations were stained with its built. The States of New England brought the slaves from Africa; the Southern States brought them into bondage. And what then? Is the traffic less atrocious; or is it inconsistent for anyone, North or South, at the present day, to denounce and reprobate it?

Let me not, however, be thought to admit the charge of barbarity against the early settlers of New England towards the Indians.  Some incidents occurred, in the perilous conditions in which the Colonists, in the early periods of their settlements were, placed- which I surely will not vindicate; but their conduct towards the Indians in the main was honorable and kind. The charges against them, from whatever quarter, are substantially unjust. They had a right to come to this Continent; they were guided hither by the hand of the same Providence, that had planted the Indians before them. There was room for both. Our forefathers had a right to a part of the soil; to be obtained by honest dealing with the natives. I have never pretended that the Indian had an exclusive right to all the land he could see from the top of the mountain, or over which the deer may fly before him in the chase. But what follows from this admission? That after we have made an agreement with an Indian tribe, and got all we need, and guarantied the rest, we shall not be bound to the faith of our compact: I trust not.

How then is the question of right affected by the practice of the colonies? It is said they legislated over the Indians. But this is vague and general. I want something specific and distinct. Did they, after making a long series of treaties with the Indian tribes, fixing boundaries, accepting cessions, and guarantying unceded lands, did they turn around, declare those treaties null, break down the boundaries and seize upon the land, in time of profound peace, and under the pretence that the treaties were unconstitutional? This is the kind of precedents wanted; not one resting in mere political metaphysics.

But grant they did all this, (no part of which they did) and grant they did it, as independent States,a before the Constitution of 1789. All this would not help the argument. The States under the confederation, were clothed with many attributes of sovereignty, which they gave up on entering the Union. They coined money, enacted navigation laws, imposed tariffs to protect manufactures. The right to treat with the independent tribes of Indians was not one of the rights ceded to the States, although conflicts existed between the Congress and some of the States as to the extent of their power in this respect. But all the sovereign powers I have enumerated were given up by the States in adopting the Constitution. When Georgia adopted the Constitution the Treaty of Hopewell was in existence, containing the most decisive guaranties of the rights of the Cherokees. Before the Constitution, Georgia claimed the right of treating with the Indians; but afterwards never. She frequently has requested the United States to treat for her benefit, and the United States have done it. And now the argument is, that Georgia has a right to annul all these treaties, because in former times, the colonies or the States extended their laws over the Indians!

But it is said that the late administration pursued the same policy of removing the Indians, and the friends of that administration are charged with inconsistency in opposing it. No one denies, that the last administration earnestly desired the removal of the Indians. It saw, what everybody sees, the inconvenience incident to the residence of the southwestern tribes in the neighborhood of the States, so resolutely bent on acquiring their lands. It is well known that the project of colonizing them west of the Mississippi, was submitted by Mr. Monroe to Congress, near the close of his administration and again with [See second page.] some modifications by Mr. Adams in 1823.  But it is a matter of equal notoriety, that neither the last administration, nor that which preceded it, contemplated the attainment of the project in any other way than by the joint and voluntary cooperation of the Indians themselves and the United States.  The idea that the States could annul the treaties was never countenanced by the President for a moment. It cannot surely be forgotten in what emphatic language, on a very trying occasion, Mr. Adams avowed his resolution to support the Indians in their rights secured to them by treaty and by law.

Georgia had passed a law authorizing the survey of a portion of Creek lands, ceded by the treaty of the Indian Springs, which the Senate of the United States had annulled and not ceded by that of Washington. Mr. adams immediately ordered the arrest and prosecution of the Surveyors.  Georgia declared a determination to support her surveyors by military force; and the President submitted the subject to Congress. In the message sent for that purpose, he used this language.  'It ought not, however, to be disguised that the act of the legislature of Georgia under the construction given to it by the Governor of that State and the surveys made or attempted by his authority beyond the boundary secured by the treaty of Washington of April last, to the Creek Indians, are in direct violation of the supreme law of this land, set forth in a treaty, which has received all the sanctions provided by the Constitution, which we have sworn to support and maintain.  In the present instance, it is my duty to say, that if the legislative and executive authorities of the State of Georgia should persevere in acts of encroachment, upon the territories secured by a solemn treaty to the Indians, and the laws of the U. S. remain unaltered, a superadded obligation, even higher than that of human authority, will compel the executive of the United States to enforce the law, and fulfil the duties of the nation, by all the force committed for that purpose of his charge.'

I may be permitted to add, that this message and other important documents in the Georgia controversy, were committed to a Select Committee of this House, of which I had the honor to be the Chairman, from which a Report proceeded, supporting in all points the principles laid down by the President, in the message I have just cited. It is obvious, therefore, that there is no foundation for the charge that the last administration was friendly to the policy of removing the Indians as now pursued. In fact, it is a matter of surprise that a charge so notoriously groundless should be adventured. Had Mr. Adams done what is now pretended; had he countenanced Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi in their policy, the South would never have been consolidated, as it was against him and I much doubt if the Chair of State would have been filled as it now is.

Sir, I think I have made out my case. I have shown that the Cherokee Indians have been invaded in the territory and rights, secured to them by treaty and by law. In addition to the particulars which I have mentioned, there are others set forth in their memorial, well deserving the consideration of the House. Most of these, for want of time, I must pass over; but on two of them I will dwell for a moment. Georgia has contended for a boundary line, and the treaty of the Indian Springs of 1825 (and in contravention of that of 1826 at Washington, by which the Treaty of the Indian Springs was annulled) which would take a million of acres of land from the Cherokees. The ground of this claim on the part of Georgia is, that the ancient boundary between the Creeks and the Cherokees was greatly to the north of the recent boundary; and that the Creeks and Cherokees, by compact between themselves, had no right to change it. If this were true; it would not effect the case, because the Treaty of the Indians Springs which gave Georgia Creeks lands being fraudulent in itself, could never have given any rights and was solemnly annulled by the Senate, the present Secretary of War voting in favor of annulling it. Nevertheless passing by the Treaty of Washington which fixed the boundary, and acting under that of the Indian Springs which the Senate declared void, the President has undertaken to settle a new boundary, equally to the dissatisfaction of the Cherokees and Georgia; and has actually dispossessed the Cherokees, by a simple executive order, enforcing a treaty declared by the Senate to be fraudulent, null and void, of 464,646 acres of land; occupied as they allege by their tribe for generations.

I might also speak of the countenance which has been given to intruders, in establishing themselves on lands vacated by the emigrants to Arkansas, by which serious evils and constant vexations are occasioned to the Cherokees; but I forbear, for want of time, to dwell on the subject.

Nor is the order given last Summer to change the mode in which the annuities are paid, less vexations. It has been called, and I think with justice, a small business. The annuity due to the Cherokees amounts I believe to by 6,666 dollars. It is by treaty due to the nation. Since the Cherokees took our advise, and established a regular government, it has been paid to the Treasurer of the nation. It constitutes a considerable part of the little revenue of the tribe. The President has seen fit to order its payment to the Treasurer to be discontinued, and to be made hereafter to the Indians individually. It amounts to about forty-two cents for each of the population. It must of course be paid in specie. A part of the tribe live a hundred or two miles from the agency. Shall it be sent to them? shall they travel this distance to receive their few cents? What is the object of this change? I have understood that it has been stated by the Secretary of War, in a letter published in the course of the last summer, that complaints had been made, that some of the Indians are defrauded by their chiefs of their share. However this may be with other tribes to which the same change extends, and of this I know nothing, I believe it is not so with the Cherokees. I have seen a letter from Mr. Montgomery, the Cherokee agent, dated last October, in which he declares that no such complaint has ever come to his knowledge. I hope there is no reason for the suggestion which has been made on very good authority, that this change in the mode of paying the annuities has been ordered, to deprive the Cherokee Government of the funds necessary to enable them to carry on the arduous and discouraging contest in which they are now involved with the Executive authorities of the United States, and with Georgia.

I have confided myself, for the reasons stated in the outset, almost entirely to the case of the Cherokees. There is a memorial from the Creeks on our tables, from which it would appear, that they suffer from the same policy. They are overrun with intruders, whom the Government of the United States does not remove; and the legislation of Alabama has been extended over them. I find the following account of it in a letter, apparently by a member of the legislature of Alabama : 'Tuscaloosa, (Al.) 9th January. The Indian bill, which has been passed in the House of Representatives provides for extending over the different tribes within the territorial limits, the civil and criminal laws of the State, prohibiting them from enacting any laws of their own-taxes their black population between the ages of twelve and sixty, with a poll tax of fifty cents. The Choctaw and the Chickasaw nations are however, to be exempt from the operation of this act, so soon as the treaty concluded by their respective nations with the United States shall have been ratified by the Senate. This was a favorite amendment of mine, and it was all I could do to soften, in this very small degree, the rigor of the law.'*

With the Chickasaws and Choctaws, treaties have been concluded under the law of last session, and, as I will demonstrate, in direct violation of its provisions.

Let me revert a moment to the history of the proviso contained in that law. The President's message took the ground, that the Indians could not be protected against the legislation of the State. The reports of the Committee on Indian Affairs, in the two Houses, took the same ground. The bill did not directly grapple with the point; and the great objection to the bill has, that it played into the hands of that policy. The House, as the event proved, was nearly in equilibria; the bill passed by a vote of 102 to 97. In this state of division in the House, the gentleman from Pennsylvania ( Mr. Ramsey) moved an amendment which prevailed. It provided that nothing in this act contained should be construed, as authorizing or directing the violation of any treaty between the United States and any Indian tribe.' Without this proviso I am persuaded the bill could not have passed.

By this clause, the House solemnly provided that the treaties were constitutional, and could not be violated. And it, as it would seem, the President thinks them unconstitutional, I do not understand how he could sign the bill. He though proper, by special message to guard the House against even construing a law passed at the last session, in a sense deemed by him unconstitutional; and in appending his signature to it, it would appear that he has endorsed, upon the official roll of the law, a sort of qualifying reference to that message; an entirely novel, singular, and , as I think, unconstitutional step. In this case, he signs a bill, in which the constitutionality of the treaties is expressly recognized, although he deems them all null inoperative.

With this act in his hand, and the half-million in his pocket; the Secretary goes down to the Chickasaws and Choctaws, tells them that the President will not protect them from the legislation of the States, and `under these circumstances,' negotiates the new treaties.  These treaties have not been submitted, (not being as yet ratified,) to the House of Representatives. From the best sources of information to which I have had access, I have been led to the opinion, that the tine of the Secretary's communication with the Choctaws, was of the most urgent and imperative  character.

No one denies that the extension of State laws over the tribes is, of itself, a violation of all the treaties; but in the case of the Choctaws, there were peculiar provisions in their treaties, which are contravened and broken. By the treaty of Doak's Stand, negotiated with that tribe, in 1820 by the present Chief Magistrate and the worthy gentleman (Gen. HINDS) who now represents the State of Mississippi, it was in their fourth article, stipulated as follows:

'The boundaries here established between the Choctaw Indians and the United States on this side of the Mississippi River, shall remain without alteration until the period at which said nation shall become so civilized and enlightened as to be made citizens of the United States, and Congress shall lay off a limited parcel of land, for the benefit of each family and individual in the nation!'

So unequivocal was the condition of the Choctaws, under these treaties that the State of Mississippi decided, in 1826, that they had not a right to legislate for their own citizens, wandering into the Choctaw nation, fugitives from the justice of the State.

In the face of these treaties, in the fact of the proviso of the law, under which he was acting, refusing expressly to authorize their violation, the Secretary goes to the Choctaws tells them in substance that the old treaties will be regarded by the Executive of the United States as unconstitutional, and knowing that their consent to remove depends upon this one fact and no other, he assures them the president will not enforce the treaties, and under these circumstances induces a portion of them, (how large a portion I know not,) to cede the lands of the nation. To effect this object, there is great reason to believe, that very large temptations were offered to the individuals possessing influence in the tribe.

Now I say, the law of the last session was conditional; and the appropriation contained in it was conditionally made.

The condition was that the Treaties should not be violated.

It is known to every gentleman in the House, that the sole consideration, which induced the Choctaws to agree to remove, was the assurance of the Secretary, that the Government of the United States would not protect them from the violation of the treaties.

It is unnecessary to press this matter much further. I have stated most of the grounds on which I rest one propriety and expediency of adopting my motion.

It is admitted by the States, that they consider these treaties as unconstitutional, and act accordingly.

The President acquiesces in this course on the part of the States, although it is his sole duty in reference to this matter to enforce the law, of which these treaties are a part.

Congress last winter made express provision against their violation.

They are violated. Let us then either make provision to execute, or let us abrogate them avowedly.

It is due to consistency, good faith, and common honesty.

The President has, with his annual message, sent us a letter from the Superintendent of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in which that officer states, that the law of 1802 `is the principal one which governs all our relations with the Indian Tribes.' and recommends its revisal and modification to suit the changes produced by subsequent treaties and other causes. The same message is accompanied by a letter from the Secretary of War, to which I have already referred; telling us that the provisions of the law are unconstitutional, and the President neglects to enforce them in favor of those tribes, over which the States have extended their laws.

Let us then, the Congress of the United States, if we think this law is constitutional, make a provision to execute it; if we think it is defective, let us amend it. If we think it is unconstitutional, let us repeal it. That law, by which all our Indian relations are regulated ought not surely to remain in its present state.

If the treaties are constitutional, let us enforce them. If they are unconstitutional, let us abrogate them; let us repeal the proviso of the last Session; declare them null and void and make what compensation we can to the deluded beings, who relying upon our faith, have at different periods, ceded to us mighty and fertile regions, as a consideration for the guaranty contained.

Sir, this is a dreadful affair, Heaven is my witness, that I would rather palliate than magnify its character; but I can think of nothing so nearly parallel to it, as the conduct of the British Government towards the native inhabitants of St. Vincents. This is a precedent from one of the worst periods of the British Government; till that of the Administration which drove America into revolution. It was a transaction on a small scale, in an obscure Island, and towards a handful of men. But it left an indelible stigma on those responsible for it; a stigma on an Administration, which nothing moderately unjust could disgrace; a stigma which would have been as notorious as it was indelible, but for the overshadowing enormity of the treatment of America, which succeeded. If we proceed in the path; if we now bring this stain on our annals; if we suffer this cold and dark eclipse to come over the bright sun of our national honor, I see not how it can ever pass off; it will be as eternal, as it is total.

Sir, I will not believe that Georgia will persevere.  She will not, for this poor corner, scarcely visible on the map of he broad and fertile domains, permit a reproach to be cast upon her and the whole union to the end of time.

As for the character of the country, to which it is proposed to remove the Indians, I want only light. It was all we asked last session; all I ask now. I quoted then all the authorities, favorable as well as unfavorable, with which I was acquainted. The friends of the policy refused us the only means of getting authentic information on the subject, a commission of respectable citizens of the United States sent out for the purpose. Since the subject was discussed last session, two more witnesses not then heard, have spoken. Dr James who was appointed to accompany Col. Long on his tour of exploration in the region, has thus expressed himself:

'The region to which Mr. McCoy proposes to remove the Indians would, such is its naked inhospitable character, soon reduce civilized men who should be confined to it, to barbarism.'

In 1827, before this question was controverted, a report was made by the commissioners appointed to lay out a road from the western boundary of Missouri to Santa Fe in New Mexico. These commissioners report, that, in the whole line of their march, extending seven hundred miles, if all the wood which they passed were collected into one forest, it would not exceed a belt of trees three miles in width!

But all this does not change the question.,  It merely suggests the possibility of an alternative of evil. If all the land were as fertile, as one small part of it probably is,; if it were as safe from the wild tribes of the desert, as it is notoriously exposed; if wood and water were as abundant as they are confessedly scarce; if it were the paradise, which it is not; so much the worse for the Indians, the miserable victims whom we are going to delude into it.  The idea that they can there be safe, is perfectly chimerical; and every argument to show that the land is good, is an argument of demonstration that they will soon be driven from it. If all these treaties cannot save them, nothing can.  What pledges can we give stronger than we have given?

It is partly for this reason that I urge the House to settle the question; and the more plainly we meet it if we settle it against the Indians the more humane will be our conduct. If we intend to be faithless to all these compacts, let our want of faith be made as signal and manifest as it can be.

Here, at the center of the Nation, beneath the portals of the Capitol, let us solemnly auspicate the new era of violated promises and tarnished faith. Let us kindle a grand council fire, not of treaties made and ratified, but of treaties annulled and broken. Let us send to our archives for the worthless parchments, and burn them in the face of day.  There will be some yearnings of humanity,as we perform the solemn act. They were negotiated for valuable considerations; we keep the consideration and break the bond. One gave peace to our afflicted frontier, another protected our infant settlements. Many were made when we were weak; nearly all at our request. Many of them were negotiated under the instructions of Washington, of Adams, and of Jefferson-the fathers of our liberty. They are gone, and, and will not witness the spectacle; but our present Chief Magistrate, as he lays them, one by one, on the fire, will see his won name subscribed to a goodly number of them.

Sir, they ought to be destroyed, as a warning to the Indians to make no more compacts with us. The President tells us that the Choctaw treaty is probably the las we shall make with them. This is well; though, if they remain on our soil, I do not see how future treaties are to be avoided. But I trust it is the last we shall make with them; that they will place themselves beyond the reach of our treaties and our laws; of our promises and our mode of keeping them.

There is one sad alleviation of the fate of some of these tribes. When the possession of the rural population of Italy were parcelled out among the Roman legions, by a policy too similar to that which we are now pursuing towards the Indians, it was the pathetic enquiry of a poor shepherd, who was driven from his native soil, his cultivated arm, and the roof of his infancy,

Impius haec tam culta novalia miles habebit

Barbarus has segetes? En queis consevimus agros?

It will be some sad alleviation of the fate of these dependent allies, (Pg. 3) whom we are urging into the western wilderness that their lands and their houses, their fields and their pastures, their civilized, improved and Christian homes, will pass into the possession of their civilized and Christian brethren; who, I doubt not, will do their best to mitigate the bitterness of the cup. At some future day, should they escape the destruction, which as I think impends over them beyond the Mississippi, some of their children will perhaps be moved by the desire to undertake a pious pilgrimage to the seats from which their fathers were removed. The children of the exile will not,I know, be turned unkindly from the door of the child of the 'fortunate drawer.' Here, they will say, are the roofs beneath which our parents were born, and for which our white brethren cast lots; here are the sods beneath which the ashes of our forefathers are laid; and there are the ruins of the Council House, where the faith of our Great Father was solemnly pledged to protect us!

Sir, it is for this Congress to say, whether such is the futurity, we will entail on these dependent tribes. If they must go, let it not be to any spot within the United States. They are not safe; they cannot bind us , they cannot trust us. We shall solemnly promise, but we shall break our word. We shall sign and seal, but we shall not perform. Let them go to Texas; let them join the Comanches; for their sakes and ours: for theirs to escape the disasters of another removal; for ours, that we may be spared its shame.

Now, Sir, I have done my duty. I have intended nothing offensive to any man or body of men. I have aimed only to speak the truth honestly and earnestly, but not opprobriously.  If, in the heat of the moment, I have uttered anything which goes beyond this limits, I wish it unsaid.

I am not without hopes that Congress will yet throw its broad shield over these, our fellow beings, who look to us for protection; being perfectly satisfied that, if the question would be presented free from all extraneous considerations to the decision of the House, it would be for the preservation of the treaties.

But however this may be, I am confident that the time is not far distant when the people will be all but unanimous in this matter. I believe that even now, could it be freed from all delusions coloring, and submitted to the mighty company o=in the Union of sober unprejudiced, disinterested men, their voice would reach us, like a rushing storm from Heaven. Rather than have this Hall made the theater of such a disastrous violation of the National Faith, they would speak to us in a tone which would shake these mossy columns to their base, and pile this canopy in heaps on our heads.

*Since this Speech was delivered, I have understood that bills have been introduced in both branches of the Legislature of Alabama, to repeal the law extending the jurisdiction of the State over the Indians; with what success I am not informed.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA:APRIL 9, 1831

The motion made by the Counsel for the Cherokees in the Supreme Court of the United States for a writ of injunction against the State of Georgia has failed. On the last day of the session Mr. Chief Justice Marshal gave the opinion of the Court, a copy of which we have received and which we publish below. A remark or two will suffice for the present.

The Court has decided that the Cherokee Nation is not a foreign state in the sense of the Constitution, and of course, as a nation, cannot maintain an action in the Courts of the United States. This decision places us in a peculiar situation.- While most of the rights for which we have contended are most explicitly acknowledged and conceded by the Court, we are at the same time considered to be in a state of 'pupilage,' unable to sue for those rights in the judicial tribunals. This is certainly no enviable position. Having rights, important rights, but no redress, except it be in the Executive and Congress of the United States, and those have already proved a broken reed which has been piercing us to our very vitals.  When we say that we have no redress in the Courts of the Union, we mean in our National  capacity, for so the Court has decided, and when it is said by the Court that it cannot exercise jurisdiction, we presume it is meant original jurisdiction, for that was the question before them.  It was only by considering the Cherokee Nation a foreign state, in the sense of the constitution, that it could have exercised jurisdiction and award the writ of injunction. Whether the Cherokees as individuals can receive protection from the Supreme Court in its appellate jurisdiction, is a question we are not capable of answering. We must leave that to futurity.

We have seen as yet but one Georgia paper which contains a notice of the failure of the application of the Cherokees.  From it we copy the following paragraph:

It will be seen, by the following letter from a respected correspondent at Washington, that the Supreme Court has decided entirely in favor of the State of Georgia, in the case of the injunction prayed by the Cherokees, to prevent the operation of the State laws over them--declining to take jurisdiction. Thus, the views of the State, with regard to her entire jurisdiction over the Indians within her limits, are fully sustained, in the last resort, and the Cherokees, therefore, must either submit altogether to our laws, or emigrate to the West of the Mississippi.

Putting aside this matter of jurisdiction, we ask, what views of Georgia are sustained not to say (fully) by the opinion of the Supreme Court. Does the Court say that the Cherokees have no property in the soil, but are merely tenants at will? that they have no right to self-government, but are subjects of the states? that the treaties are not binding, and the intercourse law unconstitutional? These are the views of Georgia. Now does the opinion of the Court sustain them? Far from it. No language can be plainer than the following: 'So much of the argument,' says the Court, 'as was intended to prove the character of the Cherokees as a state, as a distinct political society, separated from others, capable of managing its own affairs and governing itself, has in the opinion of the majority of the Judges, been completely successful.' If this sustains the views of Georgia and General Jackson (for we are told he also considered HIS VIEWS sustained by the Court) then we have all along been utterly ignorant as to what those views were.

We might say, and are prepared to say many things in regard to the present posture of Cherokee affairs, but for want of room we are obliged to defer further remarks to another time.

_______________________

THE CHEROKEE NATION

VS.

THE STATE OF GEORGIA,

JANUARY TERM 1831.

Opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall on a motion of the Cherokee Nation for a writ of injunction and subpoena against the State of Georgia.

This bill is brought by the Cherokee Nation, praying an injunction to restrain the State of Georgia from the execution of certain laws of that state, which, as alleged, go directly to annihilate the Cherokees as a political society, and to seize, for the use of Georgia, the lands of the nation which have been assured to them by the United States in solemn treaties repeatedly made and still in force.

If the courts were permitted to indulge their sympathies, a case better calculated to excite them can scarcely be imagined.  A people once numerous, powerful, and truly independent: found by our ancestors in the quiet and uncontrolled possession of an ample domain, gradually sinking beneath our superior policy, our arts and our arms, have yielded their lands by successive treaties, each of which contains a solemn guarantee of the residue, until they retain no more of thier former extensive territory than is necessary to their comfortable subsistence.  To preserve this remnant the present application is made.

Before we can look into the merits of the case, a preliminary inquiry presents itself. Has this Court jurisdiction of the cause?(sic)

The third article of the Constitution describes the extent of the judicial power. The second section closes an enumeration of the cases to which it is extended, with 'controversies' 'between a state or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens, or subjects.'  A subsequent clause of the same section gives the Supreme Court original jurisdiction in all cases in which a state shall be a party.- The party defendant may then unquestionably be sued in this court. May the plaintiff sue in it? Is the Cherokee nation a foreign state in the sense in which that term is used in the Constitution?

The counsel for the plaintiff have maintained the affirmative of this proposition with great earnestness and ability. So much of the argument as was intended to prove the character of the Cherokees, as a state, as a distinct political society, separated from others, capable of managing its own affairs and governing itself, has, in the opinion of a majority of the judges, been completely successful. They have been uniformly treated as a state from the settlement of our country. The numerous treaties made with them by the United States recognize them as a people capable of maintaining the relations of peace and war, of being responsible in their political character for any violation of their engagements, or for any aggression committed on the citizens of the United States by any individual of their community. Laws have been enacted in the spirit of these treaties. The acts of our Government plainly recognize the Cherokee Nation as a state, and the courts are bound by those acts.

A question of much more difficulty remains. Do the Cherokees constitute a foreign state in the sense of the Constitution?

Their counsel have shown conclusively that they are not a state of the Union, and have insisted that individually they are aliens, not owing allegiance to the United States. An aggregate of aliens composing a state must, they say, be a foreign state. Each individual being foreign, the whole must be foreign.

This argument is imposing, but we must examine it more closely before we yield to it. The conditions of the Indians in relation to the United States is perhaps unlike that of any other two people in existence. In the general,nations not owing a common allegiance are foreign to each other. The term foreign nation is, with strict propriety, applicable by either to the other.  But the relation of the Indians to the United States is marked by peculiar and cardinal distinctions, which exist no where else.

The Indian territory is admitted to compose a part of the United States. In all our maps, geographical treaties, histories, and laws, it is so considered.  In all our intercourse with foreign nations, in our commercial regulations, in any attempt at intercourse between Indians and foreign nations, they are considered as within the jurisdictional limits of the United States, subject to many of those restraints which are imposed upon our own citizens. They acknowledge themselves in the treaties to be under the protection of the United States; they admit that the United States have the sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade with them, and of managing all their affairs, as they think proper, and the Cherokees in particular were allowed by the Treaty of Hopewell, when preceded the Constitution, 'to send deputy of their choice, whenever they think fit, to Congress.' Treaties were made with some tribes by the State of New York, under a then unsettled construction of the confederation by which they ceded all their lands to the state, taking back a limited grant to themselves, in which they admit their dependence.

Though the Indians are acknowledged to have an unquestionable and heretofore unquestioned right to the lands they occupy until that right shall be extinguished by a voluntary cession to our government, yet it may well be doubted whether those tribes which reside within the acknowledged boundaries of the United States can with strict accuracy be denominated foreign nations.  They may more correctly perhaps be denominated domestic dependent nations. They occupy a territory to which we assert a title independent of their will, which must take effect in point of possession when their right of possession ceases. Meanwhile they are in a state or pupilage. Their relation to the United States resembles that of a ward to his guardian. They look to our government for protection, rely upon its kindness and its power, appeal to it for relief to their wants, and address the President as their Great Father. They and their country are considered by foreign nations as well as by ourselves, as being so completely under the sovereignty and dominion of the United States, that any attempt to acquire their lands, or to form a political connexion with them would be considered by all as an invasion of our territory, and an act of hostility.

These considerations go far to support the opinion that the framers of our Constitution had not the Indian tribes in view, when they opened the courts of the Union to controversies between a state or the citizens thereof, and foreign state.

In considering this subject the habits and usages of the Indians, in their intercourse with their white neighbors, ought not to be entirely disregarded. At the time that the Constitution was framed, the idea of appealing to an American court of justice for as assertion of right or a redress of wrongs had perhaps never entered the mind of an Indian or of his tribe. Their appeal was to the tomahawk, or to the government. This was well understood by the statesmen who framed the Constitution of the U. States and might furnish some reason for omitting to enumerate them among the parties who might sue in the courts of the Union. Be this as it may, the peculiar relations between the United States and the Indians occupying our territory are such that we should feel much difficulty in considering them as designated by the term foreign state were there no other part of the Constitution which might shed light on the meaning of these words.  But we think that in construing them considerable aid is furnished by that clause in the eighth section of the third article which empowers Congress to 'regulate commerce with foreign nations, among the several states, and with the indian tribes.'

In this clause they are as clearly contra-distinguished by a name appropriate to themselves, from foreign nations, as from the several states composing the union.- They are designated by a distinct appellation, and as this appellation can be applied to neither of the others, neither can the appellation distinguishing either of the others be in fair construction applied to them. The objects to which the power of regulating commerce might be directed, are divided into three distinct classes- foreign nations; the several states, and Indian tribes. When framing this article the convention considered them as entirely distinct. We cannot assume that the distinction was lost in the framing of the subsequent article, unless there be something in its language to authorize the assumption.

The counsel for the plaintiffs contend that the words 'Indian tribes' were introduced into the article empowering Congress to regulate commerce for the purpose of removing those doubts as which the management of Indian affairs, was involved by the language of the ninth article of the confederation. Intending to give the whole power of managing those affairs to the Government about to be instituted, the convention confined it explicitly, and omitted those qualifications which embarrassed the exercise of it as granted in the confederation.  This may be admitted without weakening the construction which has been intimated. Had the Indian tribes been foreign nations in the view of the convention, this exclusive power of regulating intercourse with them might have been and most probably would have been specifically given in language contra distinguishing them from foreign nations. Congress might have been empowered 'to regulate commerce with foreign nations including the Indian tribes, and among the several states.'  This language would have suggested itself to statesmen who considered the Indian tribes as foreign nations, and were yet desirous of mentioning them particularly.

It has been also said that the same words have not necessarily the same meaning attached to them when found in different parts of the same instrument. Their meaning is controlled by the context. This is undoubtedly true. In common language the same words (sic) has various meanings and the peculiar sense in which it is used in any sentence is to be determined by the context. This amy not be equally true with respect to proper names. Foreign nations is a general term, the application of which to Indian tribes when used in the American Constitution is at best extremely questionable. In one article in which a power is given to be exercised in regard to foreign nations generally, and to the Indian tribes particularly, they are mentioned as separate in terms clearly contra-distinguishing them from each other.  We perceive plainly that the Constitution in this article does not comprehend Indian tribes in the general term foreign nations, not we presume because a tribe may not be a nation, but because it is not foreign to the United States. When afterwards the term foreign state is introduced, we cannot impute to the convention the intention to desert its former meaning and to comprehend Indian tribes within it, unless the context force that construction on us.  We find nothing in the context, and nothing in the subject of the article which leads to it.

The court has bestowed its best attention on this question, and after mature deliberation the majority is of opinion that as Indian tribe or nation within the United States is not a foreign state, in the sense of the constitution, and cannot maintain an action in the courts of the United States.

A serious additional objection exists to the jurisdiction of the court. Is the matter of the bill the proper subject for judicial inquiry and decision? It seems to restrain a state from a forcible exercise of legislative power over a neighboring people asserting their independence, their right to which the state denies. On several of the matters alleged in the bill, for example on the laws making it criminal to exercise the usual powers of self government in their own country by the Cherokee Nation, this court cannot interpose, at least in the form in which those matters are presented. That part of the bill which respects the lands occupied by the Indians, and prays the aid of the court to protect their possessions may be more doubtful.- The mere question of right might perhaps be decided by this court in a proper case with proper parties. But the court is asked to do more than decide on the title. The bill requires us to control the legislation of Georgia, and to restrain the execution of its physical force. The propriety of such an interposition by the court may well be questioned. It savors too much of the exercise of political power to be within the proper province of the judicial department. But the opinion on the point respecting parties makes it unnecessary to decide this question.

If it be true that the Cherokee Nation have rights, this is not the tribunal in which those rights are to be asserted.  If it be true that wrongs have been inflicted, and that still greater are to be apprehended, this is not the tribunal which can redress the past or prevent the future.

The motion for an injunction is denied.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














Note: this issue is published in 4 columns only.

INDIANS.

From the National Intelligencer.

SPEECH

of Mr. Frelinghuysen in the Senate of the United States,

February 15th, 1831.

The following Resolution being under consideration, on its passage:

'Resolved, That the President of the United States to be requested to inform the Senate whether the provisions of the act, entitled 'An act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the frontiers,' passed the 30th March, 1802, have been fully complied with on the part of the United States' Government; and if they have not, that he inform the Senate of the reasons that have induced the Government to decline the enforcement of the `said act.'

An exception being taken to:

Mr. FRELINGHUYSEN, of New Jersey, addressed the Senate to the following effect:

Mr. PRESIDENT: I have presented this resolution for the purpose of certainly ascertaining the views and purposes of the Executive in respect to the Indian relations of the Government. We cannot officially rely upon any report or information but that which comes to us under the official sanction of the Chief Magistrate. And, sir, the Senate and the Nation have a right to know his policy.  I am aware, that the Secretary of War, in his report to the President of December last, has undertaken to dispose of the Intercourse Law of 1802, by a very short process. He has, indeed, cut the gordian knot. He assumes the whole ground of the Indian controversy; takes as established, without argument or proof, the whole matter in issue, and then very gravely draws the conclusion, that this law is unconstitutional, and ought not to be executed. He assert the red men to be citizens of the States, and inquires, as if surprised at the necessity of asking the question, whether a sovereign State has not the right to legislate over all her citizens, white and red? Sir, he has not even undertaken to show how the red men, the Cherokees for example, became citizens of Georgia, and yet the suggestions of his report are put forth as a serious exposition of public law.

A brief reference to the provision of this law, and the causes which led to its enactment, will shed very clear light upon its nature and obligation. Until the year 1795, the relations of the United States with the Indian tribes, chiefly rested upon the stipulations continued in our treaties made with these nations, and the principles of general law. About the time first named, our Government considered this subject to be of sufficient importance to engross the distinct deliberation and legislation of Congress, and accordingly, in the session of '96, the Congress of the United States raised a committee on regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the frontiers. While the matter was subsisting before this committee, a communication was made by the then President of the United States, (General Washington,) which while it illustrates the character of that exalted statesman, affords a very valuable portion of history, that will refresh the hearts and encourage the hopes of every friend of the Indians. After the treaties made by the United States with the Cherokees in the years 1785 and 1791, usually known by the names of the treaties of Hopewell and Holston, intrusions were repeatedly meditated upon the territories of that nation, and Governor Blount, of the territory south of Ohio, in 1796, apprized President Washington of these designs; upon which he addressed a message to Congress, as appears in the following extract from the Journals of the House of Representatives:

'TUESDAY, Feb. 2d. 1796- A message in writing was received from the President of the United States, by Mr. Danridge, his secretary, as followeth:

'Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives:- I transmit herewith a copy of a letter, dated the 19th of Dec. last, from Governor Blount to the Secretary of War, stating the avowal and daring designs of certain persons to take possession of land belonging to the Cherokees, and which the United States have by treaty solemnly guarantied to that nation. The injustice of such intrusions, and the mischievous consequences which must necessarily result therefrom, demand that effectual provision be made to prevent them.

GEORGE WASHINGTON.

United States, Feb. 2d. 1796'

Here the principles and spirit of Indian Intercourse are traced up to their head spring. We rejoice to find their origin, in the spirit of unbroken faith and sacred honor, that sheds its radiance over this Executive document. Sir, this record of other times, now, when to break faith with an Indian is construed into something short of dishonor-now, when the clouds are gathering over and around the hopes of those forsaken people-at this gloomy epoch in their history, to look upon this solemn acknowledgement of all their rights as 'a nation' and our sacred obligations by 'treaty' and under Washington's own hand, is a grateful subject for consolation.  Would, sir, that General Jackson might be persuaded to put away from him all those hasty, ill-considered counsels, that are leading him away from the bread and luminous path of illustrious precedents.

But to proceed with the history. This message and the letter were, in the first place, referred to the Committee of the whole House, and afterwards to a Select Committee of sixteen members, composed of Mr. Hillhouse, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Findley, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Franklin, Mr. Henderson, Mr. Harper, Mr. White, Mr. Abiel Foster, Mr. Dearborn, Mr. Malbone, Mr. Buck, Mr. Patten, Mr. Milledge, Mr. Gresnup, ' Mr. Crabb. In the selection of this committee, we perceive the importance that was attached to the subject matter of General Washington's communication and the principles that should regulate our Indian affairs. A committee of the first names in Congress, members from the different States, and Georgia of the Number, take up the treaties made with these tribes, and the duties, rights, and privileges that grew out of our relations, and reported to Congress the first intercourse bill, which became a law in May, 1796, and which, in all its material provisions, is now the subsisting and unrepealed law of the land.

These treaties had, amongst other things, traced and settled the boundary lines of territory between the United States and the Indians. And in the few sections of this law to which I shall invite the attention of the Senate, they will perceive that the Congress of 1796, of 1799, and of 1802, the several periods when this law came under public consideration, that these boundaries specified in the treaties were recognized and adopted and became the governing line of territory, in the first section of the bill. This law, like the treaties, runs the broad line between the State of Georgia and the Cherokees, and recognizes it as the boundary between separate and distinct nations-between 'citizens of the United States', and 'the Cherokees,' in specific and appropriate terms. No one of all the enlightened and exalted men who filled the seats of power, and aided in the counsels of the country in 1796, entertained the notion for a moment, that Georgia had even the color of a claim to the property or persons of these tribes of free and, as to her, independent people, and they legislated concerning them accordingly. After thus fixing the boundary, the second section of the law enacts, that if any citizen of, or other person resident in, the United States, or either of the territorial districts of the United States, shall cross over or go within the boundaries of said line to hunt, 'c. or shall drive or other wise convey any stock of horses or cattle to range on any lands allotted or secured by treaty with the United States to any Indian tribes, he shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, or be imprisoned not exceeding six months. And by the fourth section it is further enacted, that if any such citizen or other person shall go into any town, settlement, or territory be longing or secured by treaty with the United States, to any nation or tribe of Indians, and shall there commit robbery, larceny, trespass, or other crime, against the person or property of any Indian or Indians, which would be punished if committed within the jurisdiction of any State, against a citizen of the United States, 'c. such offenders shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, and be imprisoned not exceeding 12 months. Sir, who can fail to perceive how perfectly palpable is the distinction between the jurisdiction of any State of the United States, and the territory of the Indian nations. Every provision of this law is based upon this distinction, and would be absurd and incongruous without it.

Again, sir, the 5th section provides 'that if any such citizen or other person shall make a settlement on any lands belonging or secured or guarantied, by treaty with the United States, to any Indian tribe or shall survey or attempt to survey such lands, or designate any of the boundaries,  by marking trees or otherwise, such offender shall forfeit a sum not exceeding $1000 ' suffer imprisonment not exceeding 12 months; ' it shall moreover be lawful for the President of the United States to take such measures and employ such military force as he may judge necessary to remove from lands belonging or secured by treaty as aforesaid, to any Indian tribe, any such citizen or other person, who has made or shall be hereafter make or attempt to make a settlement thereon.' Here, again, the unambiguous principles all our national policy are developed too plainly to be mistaken, or misunderstood. A policy, thus sanctioned by the concurrent opinions of six successive President, and by the harmonious legislation of Congress for the last thirty five years, is suddenly assailed by the opinion of the Secretary of War, and sought to be frustrated and avoided- and for what, sir? For what? To enable the State of Georgia to break over this boundary-this sacred boundary-to invade the possessions of our allies-and deprive them of their property and liberties.

Let us for a moment review some of the features of Georgia legislation. Our act, be it remembered, prohibits all surveys or attempts at surveying of Indian lands, by any citizen of the United States, or other persons. Georgia has, by a late act of her Legislature, resolved to survey the Cherokee country- now listen-

Sec. 33. And be it further enacted,  That any person or persons who shall, by force, menaces, or other means, prevent, any surveyor or surveyors, from running any line or lines, or doing and performing any act required of him or them by this act, shall on indictment, and conviction thereof, be sentenced to the Penitentiary, at hard labor, for the term of five years.

And the following section still further discloses the nature of the proceedings in that State, of which we complain.

Sec. 7.  And be it further enacted by the authorities aforesaid, That all white persons residing within the limits of the Cherokee Nation, on the first day of March next, or at any time thereafter, without a license or permit from his Excellency the Governor, or from such agent as his Excellency the Governor shall authorize to grant such a permit or license, and who shall not have taken the oath hereinafter required, shall be guilty of high misdemeanor, and upon conviction hereof, shall be punished by confinement in the Penitentiary of hard labor, for a term not less than four years: Provided that the provisions of this section shall not be so construed as to extend to any authorized agent or agents, of the government of the United States, or to any person or persons who may rent any of those improvements, which have ben abandoned by Indians, who have emigrated west of the Mississippi: Provided that nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to extend to white females, and all male children under twenty years of age. Sir, the crisis has arrived, when this conflict must be decided. Here is direct repugnancy between the legislation of the United States, and that of Georgia.  Where is the executive arm of the General Government to protect our laws and our treaties from violation? I cannot, sir, anticipate that the president will refuse to execute the laws of the land. I must hear it from himself. I maintain it, sir, as one of the soundest principles of our Constitution, that the Executive does not possess the tremendous power of dispensing with the enforcement of public statutes. If a constitutional scruple shall affect the mind of a President of the U. S. in respect to any act of Congress, he must get rid of his scruples, or lay down his commission: but while he holds his office, he must faithfully execute every law. It is absolutely imperative. The people of this country will jealously watch over this branch of executive duty.  They will expect its fulfillment sir, to the very letter. Of all the men in this nation, the President is the last who should pause upon the requirements of any statute. He, at least, should be exemplary in obedience.

It may be and has been said, that the opinions of the President may be inferred from the report of the Secretary of War, made on this subject and by the President communicated to Congress. I know, sir, that a conclusion might be drawn from the silence of the Executive. But, on so momentous a question, I can leave nothing to inference. I submit, sir, that it is just and fair to the Chief Magistrate to propound a direct inquiry and obtain from him a direct reply.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This issue is printed in only 4 columns.

From Poulson's American Daily Advertiser.

WASHINGTON CITY, Feb. 6, 1831

Mr. ELLIOTT CRESSON.

My Friend:--Permit me to address you as such, in which character I view all the humane and benevolent who exercise sympathetic feelings for the Indians under their trials and sufferings.- Far was it from the expectation of Washington and Penn, when they entered into treaties of peace with our ancestors, that we, their descendants should so soon feel the inconvenience of violated faith, which they and other great men assured them should endure forever. Even now, do we believe that if partizan newspapers and leaders and aspiring politicians, did not throw clouds and darkness upon our rights, that Justice would be continued to our race by the people of the United States. It was with surprise and as unexpected to me as the noise of thunder in a cloudless sky, that I read the remarks of Judge Wilkins of Pittsburgh, calculated to tarnish the fair fame of William Penn, whose kindness, honour, integrity and justice is above all price, and cherished in the remembrance of even the South Western Indians. Is it true that the good people of Pennsylvania hold their tenures of land forced from the bleeding and weeping Indians, who like the wounded deer driven off by hunters from their standing forests and running waters, have languished away their doleful existence in the remote regions of the West?  Where is the monument of the injustice of that man recorded? It is not in the heart of an Indian! Did he even compel Indians to be amenable to Pennsylvania laws, and at the same time deny them the right of evidence in her court? If laws were passed by him, they were not to oppress  but to protect. Sir, we have nothing to do with the party warfare which rages in these United States.  But politicians should not in this enlightened age, seek the examples of cruelty, practised by some of the colonists, under British and Spanish influence, to Justify their favorite chief.  But I am yet to learn of the time and manner of Penn's injustice to my ancestors, or to other tribes of Indians who were his immediate neighbors.- If the plea of State necessity in this exercising oppression, to effect the removal of the children of the forest,(as they have been kindly termed) be permitted to obtain, and to disregard treaties, trample on the dignity of the Supreme Court, and set at defiance the Constitutional acts of the majority; they must not 'lay the flattering unction to their soul' that its disorganizing tendency will cease at the point of the extinguishment of Indian rights. It will extend far, and cut the vitals of these United States. It is a twin brother to nullification, which has reared its head and spoken the discordant sentiments of disunion in South Carolina. May I then, feeble as must be the voice of an Indian, raise it on this occasion, and call the attention of your people to the dangerous rock of state necessity.- We are all entitled to law and receive it as the boon guaranteed to us, by the great men who established the government, which declares that all men are by nature equal and possess certain inalienable rights--the pursuit of happiness, and the enjoyment of liberty and life. This is what is right, and demanded by the Cherokee Nation, whose rights are by treaty engrafted into the Constitution of the United States. They have yet a little spot of earth given them by the Great King of Kings, on which they desire to repose, and raise their children. For the love of righteousness and charity, let them enjoy it without molestation.

What have they done that they are outlawed from the favor of the Executive of the General Government? They have learned to read the word of God, and to worship him in spirit and in truth. They have only practised the lessons of Washington and other great men, the illustrious predecessors or the present Chief Magistrate of the United States. Then what is their offence? No- my dear friends, the people of Pennsylvania! to you I call for help to save my poor nation from destruction. You have done much for which we hope to be grateful- but preserve us still in your generous sympathy--let us live and enjoy the blessings of civilization and religion on the land of our fathers.

Yours respectfully,

JOHN RIDGE.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This issue is printed in only four columns.

CHEROKEE NATION

VS

THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

A correspondent of the N. Y. Journal of Commerce has the following remarks on the opinion of the Supreme Court.

In lucidness, argument, and touching eloquence, the judgment of the Court, written and read, as I suppose, by the great exemplar of the American bench, will in no wise depreciate the great author with his contemporaries, or subtract from his well earned reputation with posterity.  While it conducted him and his associates to a denial of the prayer of the Cherokees, in the character of original constitutional suitors in the Supreme Court, it furnished the most impassioned, and at the same time uncompromising and admonitory intimations, that the Cherokees ought to receive the protection of another department of the government. The several opinions read yesterday must be interpreted entirely to the credit of the Supreme Court: and most decidedly against the precepts and practice of the Executive in relation to the obligations of the government to fulfill it engagements, in solemn treaties to protect the rights and possessions of the Indians with whom it has negotiated. I had supposed the Court would award an injunction peadente lite, reserving its final decree for consideration until the next term. I had supposed it had not time to examine the merits of the bill, and compose a judgment worthy of the great question submitted so recently. I was mistaken. It came to judgment with full preparation, giving to the pleas of the counsel for the Cherokees full credit, and, in the absence of all reply, controverting all the questions involved, with an ability and sympathy equalled only by the appeal of Mr. Wirt in behalf of the 'poor Indian.' If you turn to the Act of Congress, 1802, relating to the intercourse of whites with Indians, 'c. you will understand, more satisfactorily, what the Supreme Court consider the remedy in cases of trespass or intrusion upon the possessions of the latter; and if you examine the Message of the President transmitted to Congress recently, you will see the views of the

Executive on the same subject.

The Indian relations with the whites will be better understood in future by all parties; and even the Cherokees, by the intimations to be found in the opinions of the Judges of the Supreme Court, will learn how to repress the lawless encroachments which they have recently experienced. In the opinion of the Chief Justice and his associates, their right of occupancy is as sacred as if they were actually holders, in fee, of their lands. This dictum is not qualified. In future, the Indians, at least of the Cherokee Nation, must look to the penalties annexed by Congress to cases of trespass upon them, and in a proper manner ask of the Executive such remedy, by force, as they find provided for the redress of their wrongs.

This topic being far more interesting than any other of immediate discussion, I cannot better employ myself, or occupy your useful and liberal columns, with any other. If I rightly comprehended the judgment announced yesterday, the Indians, as foreign states, cannot be parties to any cause of original jurisdiction in the Supreme Court; but under the Constitution, which assigns to Congress the power to regulate trade or intercourse with the Indians, penalties enacted in pursuance thereof may be enforced in the Courts of the United States, and where the action of the Executive in such cases is required, to decline or neglect its application, or the refusal to exercise it, constitutes a misdemeanor which may be visited upon the delinquent by impeachment. In relation to the Cherokees, I consider the conduct of General Jackson as little above that partaking of delusion. As it concerns him personally, I may be allowed to say, it is the offspring of ignorance and infatuation, such as characterize the policy, did I say,--the consummate folly of the Secretary of War.

_______________________

The Supreme Court of the United States have (sic) decided that they have not (sic) jurisdiction in the Cherokee suit which was argued by Messrs. Wirt and Sergeant. The Court were divided on the question- the Chief Justice, and Justices Johnson, M'Lean and Baldwin, against Justices Thompson and Story. We learn that the speeches of the counsel, as well as the opinions of the Judges, will be published. It is understood that all the Judges, except one, think that Georgia has acted wrongfully in extending her laws over the Cherokee territory, and molesting the Cherokees, as she has done.  The decision of the Court embraces only the point of cognizance; and it is strong evidence of the scrupulosity of a tribunal that has been so harshly and unwarrantably taxed with a spirit of usurpation.

With regard to the unfortunate Cherokees, it is doubtful what effect this result of their application to the Supreme Court will have upon them. We apprehend, while we sincerely deprecate, some ultimate violence - a melancholy and fruitless struggle. The Indians experience a fate like that of Neobe's children-they seem destined to perish all, by inevitable causes visible or invisible. From one source or other, fatal shafts are constantly sped, by which they are immediately destroyed, or driven into some field of gradual extermination. They can no longer escape the withering contact or ruthless cupidity of what is called civilization; this time as it is also styled, follows them as the waters of the deluge rose upon the fugitives to the mountains.

When they appeal to the immutable principles of right and the obligations of treaty, they find no umpirage by which their claims may be regularly adjudged, nor impartial power by which their humble fortunes may be shielded. They have surrendered the greater part of their original possessions, their best opportunities of defence and vengeance, under the forms of artificial law and  diplomacy. When they seek some security and protection, in reference to the relics of their territory and independence, they discover that all the solemn stipulations were but a mockery,--that law and diplomacy can be used to defeat all their hopes and endeavors. Authority to give redress is wanting her; inclination, there; technical difficulties beyond their comprehension, are presented to them as insuperable on every side: impotence will plead, or rave, or strike, in vain.  For whatever degree of national delinquency, or unlawful gain, may exist in this matter, there will be assuredly, Divine vengeance in some shape, or at some period.. Accordingly to 'the final proportions of Divine justice,' every wrong has it penalty, whether committed by individuals or communities. Above 'there is no shuffling;' 'the action lies in its true nature;'- Georgia herself, too arrogant and resolute to appear and answer before the earthly court, will be compelled,

'Even to the teeth and forehead of her faults.

To give in evidence'

at a tribunal of omnipotence, seemingly slow, in national instances, yet sure in its cognizance, and ultimately complete in its retribution. It is awful to think how the darker skin may be permitted in after ages to revenge the red upon the white--how the last of land and gold may re-act, or work out in distant consequences, that manifold devastation which is decreed against every cruel excess and every signal breach of the moral order. We could cite many cases from history, wherein the passions or the crimes of nations have been remotely visited by general calamities, --deadening decline and pervading wretchedness,--in a way to be satisfactorily traced to show an admonitory correspondence, vindicate the laws and providence of God to man.

National Gazette

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This issue is printed in four columns only.

Extract of a letter to the Editors of the New York Observer, dated March 9th 1831.

I have understood that Mr. Sergeant went elaborately into the argument for the Cherokees, and exhibited the fruits of an industrious study of the case, maintaining both by references to numerous authorities, and by the force of independent reasoning, that treaties are the paramount law, and that we were bound by such treaties actually made and ratified. Mr. Wirt with his usual argumentative energy, deep feeling, ' eloquent expression advocated the character of the Cherokees as a foreign nation, knowing if he could establish this point to the satisfaction of the court, every thing desirable would naturally follow. On Friday morning (yesterday) many were in attendance at Court to hear the opinion, the last and not the least act of the Supreme Court of the United States during its present term.  Among those present were Mr. Wirt, Mr. Berrien, Mr. Jones, Mr. Livingston, Mr. Coxe, Mr. Wilde of Georgia, the only Georgian present. As soon as Judge Marshall began to read the opinion of the court (of whom only himself, Johnson, M'Lean and Baldwin were present) all rushed forward to the bench, it being otherwise impossible to understand the Chief Justice on account of the tenuity and feebleness of his voice. The reading of the opinion occupied from 20 to 25 minutes, and before he had proceeded far, it was soon ascertained that a majority of the Court had decided the ACTION COULD NOT LIE, the Court had no jurisdiction over the case as presented, because they derived no authority from the Constitution to hear and decide on any case of the kind, unless both parties were sovereigns within the meaning of the Constitution. The Cherokees, and every other tribe of Indians, they decided, are not foreign nations in the sense of the Constitution, but 'domestic dependent Nations,' holding to the United States the relation of wards to their guardians.  The Court could not therefore take cognizance of their case. Moreover, if as the case was presented, jurisdiction should be exercised over it, it must be on the ground maintained by Counsel that the Cherokees are a foreign nation. But this would be contravening the Constitution, which has vested this political power in the political branch of the Government, the judicial branch having nothing to do with questions between the states and Foreign Powers. Thus you perceive the responsibility is thrown back upon the President. The laws are plain-the treaties are indisputable, but the President has taken the last final step, and every subsequent one will plunge him deeper in difficulties, until perhaps it will end in impeachment. Judge Baldwin, the youngest member of the Bench, dissented from the grounds of the decision, though he went a more desperate length against the poor Indians themselves. He contended that what are called treaties with the Indians are not treaties in the proper sense of the word because to the validity of a treaty, equal right, privileges and powers of the contracting parties are necessary--that from the nature of the relations existing between the United States and the Indians, treaties could not be formed with them in the same way and the same sense that they could be ratified with sovereign and independent nations, 'c. The opinion was tedious, though able and well written, occupying from 40 to 50 minutes. The tone of dissent was not thought to be very respectful to the other Judges, the Judge seeming to arrogate unusual loftiness of a motive to himself in making up his opinion. Judge Johnson then began to read an opinion of his own, (not uncommon, I believe for him,) but I did not stay to hear it, and probably few others.  I would send you the first two, but the Reporter to the Court, Mr. Peters, of Philadelphia, claims them. I understand, as private property, to be taken to Philadelphia, and there published for his benefit. The people of the United States ought to see this decision immediately. Mr. Wilde wished to obtain it to send to Georgia, believing it would very much allay the ferment there, but was not able. Returning to my residence yesterday, which is not far from Judge M's I called in to see him before his departure, which will not be for ten days. He conversed very freely on the subject of the Indians, spoke highly of their improvement in the arts of life and the knowledge of religion, manifested much interest in their present situation and future prospects, and spoke in the most unreserved manner of the change in the policy of the government towards them, of the 'new era' as Secretary Eaton calls it. He concurred in the decision of the Court, but remarked that the matter by no means necessarily ended here. Though the Court could not recognize these Indians or any other in the aggregate as a foreign nation, nor had any thing to do with executing or restraining the execution of laws, they could constitutionally try any case between individual Indians and the State of Georgia. And this we expect will be the way in which the holders of plantations, or the owners of any tract of land, however extensive, will be protected in the enjoyment of their rightful possessions.  The claim to sovereignty must be given up, but who shall dare to rob them of their fee simple property?  Perhaps I should be cautious in communicating by this channel the whole of our conversation, though not the slightest hint of the necessity of secrecy was suggested--there being another gentleman present-but as Judge M. is one of the most open, frank, and undisguised citizens of this republic, he is not unwilling. I presume, it should be known that he entirely disapproves the conduct of the President towards the Indians--declares it to be an entire departure from the principles and practice of Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, and Adams; aye, he did say that the manner in which they had been treated was an 'outrage on the feelings of the nation-a stain upon the American character and most deeply to be regretted.' He took no pains to disguise his astonishment that the President should not execute the laws to which his oath bound him. He spoke according to the natural independence of his character, and I doubt not he would rejoice with a majority of the Court in a fair and constitutional opportunity to give JUSTICE to the poor Cherokees. Deliverance, though long delayed, will, we trust, yet come. The delegation were packing up their things to leave the city today.

We published yesterday a brief sketch-very brief- of the grounds of the opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States on the Cherokee case. We regret that we have not the opinion of the Chief Justice at length. It is known to our attentive readers, that in consequence of a law passed at the first session of the last Congress, the Legislature of Georgia passed a law extending the jurisdiction of that State over the lands of the Indians within the territory of Georgia. The right of the State to pass such a law, was disputed on the part of the Cherokees, and in consequence their case was brought before the Supreme Court praying for an injunction on the part of the Cherokee Nation, to restrain the State and its officers from exercising such jurisdiction.

In last Monday's Centinel, we gave a brief sketch of the argument of Mr. WIRT, of counsel for the Indians, in which it was attempted to be shown, that the Cherokee nation was a foreign nation, and like all other foreign nations, was free, sovereign, and independent, both of Georgia and of the United States, and consequently that any law of Georgia to extend jurisdiction over their territory, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and null and void. The opinion of the Supreme Court did not sustain the reasoning of the learned counsel on these principles, and did not consider the Cherokees as a foreign nation.  From the very brief sketch of the opinion which has reached us, we infer that, in considering the Indian Tribes in question, as a nation under the 'pupilage' of the United States, they are to be regarded in contemplation of law, strictly as individuals, and, and as such are to be protected in their rights and privileges.  If then the lands in question have belonged to them, and they have not willingly alienated them according to law, the Indians may still be protected by possession of them. Whether a new process will be instituted, time will soon determine. Col. Cen.



___________________

It will be seen from the following outline of the decision of the propriety of which we have no inclination to dispute, that the Supreme Court has refused to entertain jurisdiction of the case in which the Cherokees have appeared as a foreign nation. It by no means follows that they are remediless under the grinding oppression practised against them; but they must bear and suffer for the time being. The noble philanthropy which has enlisted the highest talent on their behalf, will still champion them in another, and, it is earnestly to be hoped, a more successful effort.------------ New York Spectator.

______________________________

The opinion of the Supreme Court in the Cherokee case is represented, in some of the Administration appears, as a sanction of the pretensions and conduct of Georgia with regard to the Cherokees and their territory. Here is a gross error. The Court did not mean to give confirmation or countenance to Georgia. They merely declare that they have not the power to interfere in the manner required on the part of the Indians.---Nat. Gaz.

The statement of the National Gazette, that, in the late decision of the Supreme Court on the notion on behalf of the Cherokee Nation, the Court merely declared that it has not the power to interfere in the manner required, is entirely correct.  A different impression, however, seems to have been received by some, and the notion generally entertained of the effect of that decision appears to us to be not very definite. This is not at all surprising to those who have not before them the opinion of the Court, which discloses the whole merit of the legal question.--                     

Nat. Intelligencer.



____________________

We observed, the other day, that a correspondent of 'The Globe' expressed an opinion that the National Intelligencer seemed to have misunderstood the opinion of the court; and we have since seen, in the Richmond Enquirer, a letter from Washington, and probably from the same hand, containing the same suggestion. There seems to us to be a disposition to make the opinion of the Court to be what it is not, in order to sustain the Executive of the United States in the ground which it has taken on this subject. Others, again, consider the controversy between Georgia and the Cherokees as 'settled' by this decision. We repeat, what we have already said, that these questions were not touched by the opinion of the Court. They are all as open as they were before that decision, except upon the particular point that the Cherokees have no remedy in the Courts of the United States in the capacity of a foreign nation. We used, we believe, the very words of the opinion of the Court, when we said that it considered the Cherokee Nation or tribe as in a state of pupilage to the United States-as a domestic dependent nation-as being in a relation to the Union akin to that of a ward to a guardian. The separate opinion of one of the Judges, it is true, took much broader ground against the claims of the Cherokees; and if the Court had adopted his opinion as their own, The Globe and The Enquirer would be entirely justified in supposing that we did not understand what we heard with our ears, and which came with force irresistible over a mind wholly uncommitted upon the subject.

National Intelligencer

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Note: This issue of the Phoenix is printed in only four columns.

CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA: APRIL 16, 1831

___________________________

___________________________

CHEROKEE NATION

vs.

THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

Under this head we copied into our paper the views of intelligent editors and correspondents respecting the opinion of the Supreme Court on the Cherokee case. For our own part we think we understand the nature of the decision, and it is just as we supposed it would be if the notion for an injunction could not be sustained. But we perceive that an effort is making to mislead the public-to produce the impressions that the case has not only been dismissed, but the pretensions of Georgia ' the views of the Executive have been sustained by the Court. It is said by some that the case is 'settled,' forever put to rest, and a hope is entertained that nothing more will be said on the subject. Now we apprehend this is doing injustice to the Supreme Court. The case is not settled for the great question at issue between the State of Georgia and the Cherokees was not before that tribunal.  The only question before it was, whether it had original jurisdiction-'whether the Cherokee Nation was a foreign state in the sense of the Constitution, ' the decision went no further than to say, as we understand it, that the Court had not original jurisdiction, and that the Cherokee Nation was not a foreign state in the sense of the Constitution.' How such a decision can be understood and construed as sustaining the pretensions of Georgia and the views of the President of the United States, we are not able to say. Every body knows what the pretensions of Georgia and the views of Gen Jackson are-  Now let these be carefully compared with the views, expressed by the Court in their opinion-we may let them be diligently compared, and the public see if there is anything in the latter which supports the former. For our part, we can discover no similarity between them, but on the contrary a wide difference.

It is true the Court says that it cannot protect the Cherokees as a nation, but does it say that they are not entitled to the protection of the Gen Government? The opinion plainly intimates that it is the duty of the Executive and Congress of the United States to redress the wrongs, and to guard the rights of the Cherokees: if they are oppressed. The whole responsibility is thus thrown, by a judicial decision, upon those branches of the Government. The rights of the Cherokees are as plain, as sacred as they have been, and the duty of the Government to secure these rights is as binding as ever. What will the Cherokees do under such circumstances?  What else can they do but remain peaceably where they are, and continue to call upon the people of the U. States to fulfil their engagements, their solemn promises which have been repeatedly made and which have always been regarded until the commencement of Mr. Eaton's 'new era?' We see nothing to alter their determination to remain and to maintain their rights by all suitable measures. The land is theirs-their right to it 'unquestionable,' and it cannot be taken away from them without great injustice to them and everlasting infamy to the United States. They stand upon a perfectly safe ground as regards themselves-if they suffer, they will suffer unrighteously-if their rights and their property are forcibly taken away from them the responsibility will not be upon them, but upon their treacherous 'guardians.'

We hope the fears of the Editor of the National Gazette will never be realized. The Cherokees are for peace-they have been in amity with the United States for the last forty years--they have been her faithful allies in time of war-they have buried the hatchet long since, and given their word that the blood of the white man shall not stain their hands.- Why should they now fly to rash and unavailable measures to vindicate their injured rights.  They will not, at least we think they will not; and such is our advice. It is more blessed to suffer than to be the oppressors.- It is more blessed to lose, than to gain by unrighteous means. If the white man must oppress us--if he must have the land, and throw us penniless upon the wild world, and if our cries and expostulations will avail nothing at the door of those who have promised to be our guardians and protectors, let it be so. We are in the part of duty, and the Judge of all the earth will vindicate our cause in his own way and in his own good time.

______________________________

We understand on Wednesday morning; Mr. John A. Bell of Coosewaytee was arrested by a detachment of the Georgia Guard.  Mr. B. is a native and what the charge was we are unable to say; and in fact it is impossible to know, for these law officers go to work without a written precept.

____________________________

Our printers being unable to issue a sheet of a usual size, we present our readers with a smaller sheet.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














AN ADDRESS

Delivered before the Washington City Temperance Society, November 16, 1831,  By Thomas Sewall, M. F. Professor of Anatomy and Physiology and the Columbian Collage, District of Columbia.

We are convened, my fellow citizens, to attend the first anniversary of a Society for the Promotion of Temperance; an institution which, in accordance with the spirit of the times, has been established through our land by the almost united voice of the nation, and this for the suppression of one of the most alarming evils that ever infested human society; a vice too, so odious in its nature, so injurious in its consequences, and attended with so many circumstances of suffering, mortification, and disgrace, that it seems difficult to understand how it should ever have become a prevalent evil among mankind; and more especially how it should have come down to us from the early periods of society, gaining strength and power, and influence in its descent. That such is the fact, requires no proof. Its devastating effects are but too obvious. In these latter times, more especially, it has swept over our land with the rapidity and power of a tempest, bearing down everything in its course.- Not content with rioting in the haunts of ignorance and vice, it has passed through our consecrated groves, has entered our most sacred enclosures.  And oh! how many men of genius and of letters have fallen before it! how many a warm and philanthropic heart has been chilled by its icy touch! It has left no retreat unvisited; it has alike invaded our public and private assemblies, our political and social circle, our courts of justice and halls of legislation. It has stalked within the very walls of our Capitol and there left the stain of its polluting touch on our national glory. It has leaped over the pale of the church, and even reached up its sacrilegious arm to the pulpit, and dragged down some of its richest ornaments. It has ravelled equally on the spoils of the palace and the cottage, and has seized it s victims with an unsparing grasp from every class of society; the private citizen and the public functionary, the high and the low, the rich and the poor, and _______ and the ignorant,-______ is there a family among us so happy, as not to have wept over some of its members, who have fallen by the hand of this ruthless destroyer?

As a nation, intemperance has corrupted our morals, impaired our intellect, and enfeebled our physical strength. Indeed, in whatever light we view it, whether as an individual, a social, or a national evil; as affecting our personal independence and happiness, our national wealth and industry, as reducing our power of naval and military defence, as enfeebling the intellectual energies of the nation and undermining the health of our fellow citizens, as sinking the patriotism and valor of the nation; as increasing paupers, poverty, and taxation; as sapping the foundation of our moral and religious institutions; or as introducing disorder, distress, and pain into families and society; it calls to us in a voice of thunder, to wake from our slumbers, to seize every weapon and wield every power which God and nature have placed within our reach; to protect ourselves and our fellow citizens from its ravage.

But this occasion will not permit me to dwell on the general effects of intemperance, nor to trace the history of its causes.- I shall, therefore, confine myself, more particularly to a consideration of its influence on the individual-its effects on the moral, intellectual, and physical constitution of man-not the primary effects of ardent spirit as displayed in a fit of intoxication. It is the more insidious, permanent, and fatal effects of intemperance, as exemplified in the case of the habitual dram drinker to which I wish to call your attention.

1. The effects of ardent spirit on the moral powers:

It is perhaps difficult to determine in what way intemperance first manifests its influence on the moral powers, so variously does it affect different individuals.  Were I to speak from my own observation, I should say that it first appears in an alienation of those kind and tender sympathies which bind a man to his family and friends; those lively sensibilities, which enable him to participate in the joys and sorrows of those around him. 'The social affections lose their fullness and tenderness, the conscience its power, the heart its sensibility, till all that was once lovely and rendered him the joy and the idol of his friends retires,' and leaves him to the dominion of the appetites and passions of the brute. 'Religious enjoyment, if he ever possessed any, declines as the emotions excited by ardent spirit arise.' He loses by degrees his regard to truth and to the fulfilment of his engagements- he forgets the Sabbath and the house of worship, and lounges upon his bed, or lingers at the tavern. He lays aside his Bible-- his family devotion is not heard, and his closet no longer listens to the silent whispers of prayer. He at length becomes irritable, peevish and profane; and is finally lost to every thing that respects decorum in appearance or virtue in principle; and its is lamentable to mark the steps of that process by which the virtuous and elevated man sinks to ruin.

II. Its effects on the intellectual powers.

Here the influence of intemperance is marked and decisive. The inebriate first loses his vivacity and natural acuteness of perception. His judgement becomes clouded and impaired in its strength, the memory also enfeebled and sometimes quite obliterated. The mind is wandering and vacant, and incapable of intense or steady application to any one subject. This state is usually accompanied by an unmeaning state ____ edness of _____ quite peculiar to the drunkard. The imagination and the will, if not enfeebled, acquire a morbid sensibility, from which they are thrown into a violent excitement from the slightest causes; hence the inebriate sheds floods of tears over the pictures of his own fancy.  I have often seen him and especially on his recovery from a fit of intoxication, weep and laugh alternately over the same scene. The will, too, acquires and omnipotent ascendancy over him, and is the only monitor to which he yields obedience. The appeals of conscience, the claims of domestic happiness, of wives and children, of patriotism and of virtue, are not heard.

The different powers of the mind having thus lost their natural relation to each other, the healthy balance being destroyed, the intellects are no longer fit for intense application, or successful effort- and although the inebriate may and sometimes does astonish, by the flights of his fancy and the poignancy of his wit, yet in nine cases out of ten he fails, and there is never any confidence to be reposed in him. There have been a few who, from peculiarity of constitution or some other cause, have continued to perform intellectual labor for many years, while slaves to ardent spirit; but in no instance has the vigor of the intellect, or its ability to labor, been increased by indulgence; and where there is one who has been able to struggle on under the habits of intemperance, there are thousands who have perished in the experiment, and some among the most powerful minds that the world ever produced. On the other hand, we shall find by looking over the biography of the great men of every age, that those who have possessed the clearest and most powerful minds neither drank spirits, nor indulged in the pleasures of the table. Sir Isaac Newton, John Locke, Dr. Franklin, John Wesley, Sir. William Jones, John Fletcher, and President Edwards, furnish a striking illustration of this truth. One of the secrets by which these men produced such astonishing results, were enabled to perform so much intellectual labor, and of so high a grade, and to arrive at old age in the enjoyment of health, was a rigid course of abstinence. But I hasten to consider more particularly.

III. Its effects on the physical powers.

In view of this part of the subject, the attention of the critical observer is arrested by a series of circumstances alike, disgusting and melancholy.

1. The odor of the breath of the drunkard furnishes the earliest indication by which the habitual use of ardent spirit becomes known. This is occasioned by the exhalation of the alcoholic principle from the bronchial vessels, and air cells of the lungs- not of pure spirit as taken into the stomach, but of spirit which has been absorbed has mingled with the blood, and has been subjected to the action of the different organs of the body; and not containing any principle which contributes to the nourishment or renovation of the system, is cast out with other excretions as poisonous and hurtful; and this peculiar odor does not arise from the accidentally of occasional use of spirit; it marks only the habitual dram drinker, the one who indulges daily in his potation; and through its density varies in some degree with the kind of spirit consumed, the habits and constitution of the individual, yet it bears generally close relation to the degree of intemperance. These observations are confirmed by some experiments made on living animals by the celebrated French Physiologist, Magendie. He ascertained that dilute alcohol, a solution of camphor, and some other odorous substances, when subjected to the absorbing power of the veins are taken up by them, and after mingling with the blood, pass off by the pulmonary exhalants. Even phosphorus injected into the cranial vein of a dog, he found to pass off in a few moments from the nostrils of the animal in a dense white vapor, which he ascertained to be phosphoric acid.

Cases have occurred in which the breath of the drunkard has become highly charged with alcohol, as to render it actually inflammable by the touch of a taper. One individual in particular is mentioned, who often amused his comrades by passing his breath through a small tube, and setting it on fire, as it issued from it. It appears also, that this has sometimes been the source of that combustion of the body of the drunkard, which has been denominated spontaneous, many well authenticated cases of which are on record.

2. The perspirable matter which passes off from the skin becomes charged with the odor of alcohol in the drunkard, and is so far changed in some cases as to furnish evidence of the kind of spirit drank.  I have met with two instances, says Dr. McNish, the one in a claret, and the other in a port drinker; in which the moisture that exhaled from their bodies, had a ruddy complexion, similar to the wine on which they had committed their debauch.

3. The whole system soon bears marks of debility and decay. The voluntary muscles lose their power, and cause to act under the control of the will, hence all the movements become awkward, exhibiting the appearance of stiffness in the joints. The positions of the body, also, are tottering and infirm, and the step loses its elasticity and vigor. The muscles and especially those of the face and lips, are often affected with a convulsive twitching, which produces the involuntary winking of the eye, and quivering of the lip, so characteristic of the inebriate. Indeed, all the motions seem unnatural and forced, as if restrained by some power within. The extremities are at length seized with a tremor, which is more strongly marked after recovery from a fit of intoxication. The lips loose their significant expression, and become sensual-the complexion assumes a sickly leaden hue, or is changed to an unhealthy, fiery redness, and is covered with red streaks and blotches. The eye becomes water tender and inflamed, and loses its intelligence and its fire. These symptoms, together with a certain oedematous appearance about the eye, bloating of the whole body, with a dry, feverish skin, seldom fail to mark the habitual dram drinker; and they go on increasing and increasing till the intelligence and dignity of the men is lost in the tameness and sensuality of the brute.

But these effects, which are external and obvious, are only the 'signals which nature holds out, and waves in token of internal distress;' for all the time the inebriate has been pouring down his daily draught, and making merry over the cup; morbid changes have been going on within; and though these are unseen, and may be unsuspected, they are fatal, irretrievable.

A few of the most important of these changes I shall now describe.

4. The stomach and its functions.

This is the great organ of digestion. It is the chief instrument by which food is prepared to nourish, sustain and renovate the different tissues of the body, to carry on the various functions, and to supply the waste which continually takes place in the system. It is not strange, therefore, that the habitual application to the organ, of any agent calculated to derange its foundations, or change its organization, should be followed by symptoms so various and extensive, and by consequences so fatal.  The use of ardent spirit produces both these effects; it deranges the functions of the stomach, and if persisted in, seldom fails to change its organic structure.

The inebriate first loses his appetite, and becomes thirsty and feverish; he vomits in the morning and is affected with spasmodic pains in the region of the stomach. He is often seized with permanent dyspepsia, and either wastes away by degrees, or dies suddenly of a fit of cramp in the stomach.

On examining the stomach after death, it is generally found irritated, and approaching a state of inflammation, with its vessels enlarged, and filled with black blood; and particularly those of the mucous coat, which gives to the internal surface of the stomach the appearance of purple or reddish streaks, resembling the livid patches seen on the face of the drunkard.

The coats of the stomach become greatly thickened and corrugated, and so firmly united as to form one inseparable mass.  In this state, the walls of the organ are sometimes increased in thickness to the extend of ten or twelve lines, and are sometimes found also in a scirrhus, or cancerous condition.

The following case occurred in my practice several years since: a middle aged gentleman of wealth and standing, had long been accustomed to mingle in the convivial circle, and though by no means a drunkard, had indulged at times in the use of his old cognac, with an unsparing hand. He was at length seized with pain in the region of his stomach, and a vomiting of his food an hour or two after eating. In about eighteen months he died in a state of extreme emaciation.

On opening the body after death, the walls of the whole of the right extremity of the stomach were found in a scirrhus and cancerous condition, and thickened to the extent of about two inches. The cavity of the organ was so far obliterated as scarcely to admit the passage of a probe from the left to the right extremity, and the opening which remained was so unequal and irregular as to render it evident that but little of the nourishment he had received could have passed the lower orifice of the stomach for many months.

I have never dissected the stomach of a drunkard, in which the organ did not manifest some remarkable deviation from its healthy condition. But the derangement of the stomach in the is not limited to the function of nutrition merely. This organ is closely united to every other organ and to each individual tissue of the body, by its sympathetic relations. When the stomach, therefore becomes diseased other parts suffer with it.  The functions of the brain, the heart, the lungs and the liver become disordered, the secretions are altered, and all the operations of the animal economy are more or less effected.

5. The liver and its function:

Alcohol, in every form and proportion, has long been known to exert a strong and speedy influence on this organ when used internally.  Aware of this fact, the poultry dealers of England, are in the habit of mixing a quantity of spirit with the food of their fowls, in order to increase the size of the liver; so that they may be enabled to supply to the epicure a greater abundance of the part of the an- [see fourth page] imal which he regales as the most delicious.

The influence of spirit on the liver is exerted in two ways: First, the impression made upon the mucous coat of the stomach, is extended to the liver by sympathy; the second mode of action is through the medium of the circulation, and by the immediate principle on the liver itself, as it passes through the organ, mingled with the blood. In which-soever, of these ways it operated, its first effect is to increase the action of the liver and sometimes to such a degree as to produce inflammation. Its secretion becomes changed from a bright yellow to a green or black, and from a thin fluid to a substance tar in its consistency.  There soon follows also an enlargement of the liver and a change in its organic structure. I have met with several cases in which the liver has become enlarged from intemperance, so as to occupy a greater part of the cavity of the abdomen, and weighing  from eight to twelve pounds, when it should have weighed not more than four or five.

The liver sometimes, however, even when it manifests great morbid change in its organic structure, is rather diminished than increased in its volume. This was the case in the person of the celebrated stage actor George Frederick Cooke, who died a few years since in the city of New York. This extraordinary man was long distinguished for the profligacy of his life, as well as for the vigor of his mind and body. At the time of his death the body was opened by Dr. Hosack, who found that the liver did not exceed its usual dimensions, but was astonishingly hard, of a lighter color than natural, and that its texture was so sense as to make considerable resistance to the knife. The blood vessels, which in a healthy condition are extremely numerous and large, were in this case nearly obliterated, evincing that the regular circulation through the liver, had long since ceased; and tubercles were found throughout the whole substance of the organ.

I have met with cases in the course of my dissections, in which the liver was found smaller than natural, shrivelled, indurated, its vessels diminished in size and number, with the whole of its internal structure more or less changed. In consequence of these morbid changes in the liver, other organs become effected, as the spleen, the pancreas, 'c. either by sympathy or as consequence of their dependance on the healthy functions of the liver for the due performance of their own.

6. Of the brain and its functions

Inflammation and engorgement of this organ are frequent consequences of intemperance, and may take place during a debauch- or may rise sometime after, during the stage of debility, from a loss of the healthy balance of action between the different parts of the system. This ___mation is sometimes acute, is marked by furious delirium, and terminates fatally in the course of a few days, and sometimes a few hours. At other times it assumes a chronic form which continues much longer; and then frequently results in so effusion of serum, or as extravasation of blood and the patient dies in a state of insensibility, with all the symptoms of compressed brain. Sometimes the system becomes so saturated with ardent spirits, that there is good reason to believe, the effusions which take place in the cavities of the brain and elsewhere, are compose in part at least, of the alcoholic principle. The following case occurred, not long since, in England, and attested by unquestionable authority.

A man was taken up dead in the streets of London soon after having drank a quart of gin, on a wager. He was carried to the Westminster Hospital, and there dissected.  'In the ventricles of the brain was found a considerable quantity of limpid fluid, distinctly impregnated with gin, both to the sense of smell and taste, and even to the test of inflammability. The liquid appeared to the senses of the examining students, as strong as one third gin, and two thirds water.'

Dr. Armstrong, who has enjoyed very ample opportunity of investigating this subject, speaks of the chronic inflammation of the brain and its membranes, as frequently proceeding from the free use of strong liquors.

It is a fact familiar to every anatomist, that alcohol even when greatly diluted has by its action of the brain after death, the effect of hardening it, as well as most of the tissues of this body which contain albumen, and it is common to immerse the brain in ardent spirit for a few days, in order to render it the firmer for dissection.

On examining the brain after death, of such as have long been accustomed to the free use of ardent spirit, it is said the organ is generally found harder than in temperate persons. It has no longer that delicate and elastic texture. Its arteries become diminished in size and loose their transparency, while the veins and sinuses are greatly distended and irregularly enlarged.

This statement is confirmed by my own dissections, and they seem also to be in full accordance with all the intellectual and physical phenomena displayed in the drunkard, while living.

7. The Heart and its functions:

It has greatly been supposed, that the heart is less frequently effected by intemperance, than most of the other vital organs; but, from the history of the cases which have come under my own observation, I am convinced that it seldom escapes disease under the habitual use of ardent spirit. And why should it, since it is thrown almost perpetually into a state of unnatural exertion, the very effect produced by the violent agitation of the passions, the influence of which upon this organ is found so injurious.

The following case came under my notice, a few winters since. A large athletic man, long accustomed to the use of ardent spirit, on drinking a glass of raw whiskey dropped instantly dead. On carefully dissecting the body, no adequate cause of the sudden cessation of life could be found in any part except the heart.- This organ was free from blood, was hard, and firmly contracted, as if affected by spasm. I am convinced that many of these cases of sudden death which take place with intemperate persons is the result of a spasmodic action of the heart, from sympathy with the stomach, or some other part of the system. The use of ardent spirit, no doubt, promotes also the ossifications of the valves of the heart, as well as the development of other organic affections.

8. The Lungs and their functions.

Respiration in the inebriate is generally oppressed and laborious, and especially after eating, or violent exercise; and he is teased with a cough, attended with copious expectoration, and especially after his recovery from a fit of intoxication; and these symptoms go on increasing and unless arrested in their progress, often terminate in consumption.

The affection of the lungs is produced in two ways; first, by the immediate action of the alcoholic principle upon the highly sensible membrane which lines the tracheas, bronchial vessels, and air cells of the lungs as poured out by the exhalants and second by the sympathy which is called into action between the lungs and other organs already in a state of disease, and more especially that of the stomach and liver.

I have met with many cases in the course of my practice of cough and difficult breathing, which could be relieved only by regulating the function of the stomach, and which soon yielded, on the patient ceasing to irritate this organ with ardent spirit. I have found the liver still more frequently the course of this affection, and on restoring the organ to its healthy condition, by laying aside the use of ardent spirits, all the pulmonary symptoms have subsided.

On examining the lungs of the drunkard after death, they are frequently found adhering to the walls of the chest; hepatized, or affected with tubercles.

But time would fail me, were I to attempt an account of half the pathology of drunkenness.-Dyspepsia, Jaundice, Emaciation, Corpulence, Dropsy, Ulcers, Rheumatism, Gout, Tremors, Palpitation, Hysteria, Epilepsy, Palsy, Lethargy, Apoplexy, Melancholy, Madness, Delirium, Tremens, and Premature old age,  compose but a small part of the catalogue of diseases produced by ardent spirit. Indeed there is scarcely a morbid affection to which the human body is liable, that has not, in one way or another been produced by it; there is not a disease but it has aggravated, not a predisposition to disease which it has not called into action; ' although its effects are in some degree modified by age and temperament, by habit and occupation, by climate and season of the year, and even by the intoxicating agent itself; yet, the general and ultimate consequences are the same.

But I pass on to notice one state of the system, produced by ardent spirit, too important and interesting to leave unexamined.  It is that predisposition to disease and death which so strongly characterizes the drunkard in every situation in life.

[TO BE CONCLUDED IN OUR NEXT.]

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

From the New York Journal of Commerce.

I have reason to believe in the correctness of the information in relation to the non concurrence of Justices Story ' Thompson in the opinion of the Supreme Court delivered by Chief Justice Marshall dismissing the bill of the Cherokees. When it was delivered, I supposed the opinion of the Court to have been in point of fact, unanimous; Justices Johnson and Baldwin having arrived at the same conclusion by a different train of reasoning. I suppose I was mistaken. I have alluded once more to this subject, chiefly to correct a statement which appeared originally in one of your city Journals, and since in several others in the country, actuated by a similar motive. The opinion of the Supreme Court could not in any respect be considered in favor of Georgia.  The argument at the bar, was altogether ex-parte - that State having in no way participated in the case. But if the most powerful and overwhelming statements from the lips of the venerable Chief Justice in pronouncing the opinion furnished any adequate interpretation of the actual judgement of their Honors, as to the conduct of Georgia and that of the Executive of the United States, the decision was altogether in favor of the right of the Cherokees to be protected in their possessions. The Treaties with them confer upon the President and the Government at large all the power to enforce their stipulations and to these have been added specific laws, in aid of the protection which the Indians may claim.  One of the Acts of Congress for this purpose defines the boundaries between the white people and Indians of every tribe and enacts-

'That if any citizen of or other person resident in the United States or either of the territorial districts of the United States shall cross over onto or within the boundary lines, to hunt or in any other way to destroy game, or shall drive or otherwise convey any stock of horse or cattle or range on any lands allotted or secured by treaty with the United States to any Indian tribes, he shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars, or be imprisoned not exceeding six months, 'c.'

'That if any such citizen shall go into any town, settlement, or territory belonging or secured by treaty to any nation or tribe of Indians, and shall there commit robbery, larceny, trespass, or other crime upon the person or property or any friendly Indian, which would be punishable if committed within the jurisdiction of any State against a citizen of the United States ' he shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars and be imprisoned not exceeding twelve months, and when property is taken or destroyed, forfeit and pay to whomsoever the same belonged twice the just value thereof 'c.'

'That if any such citizen shall make settlements on any lands belonging or so used by Treaty to any Indian tribe or shall survey or attempt to survey such lands, or designate boundaries by marking trees or other wise he shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars and suffer imprisonment not exceeding twelve months. And it shall moreover be lawful for the President of the United States to take such measures and employ such military force as he may judge necessary to remove from lands belonging or secured by treaty as aforesaid to any Indian tribe any such citizen 'c.'

'That if any such citizen shall go into any town settlement or territory, belonging to any nation or tribe of Indians and there commit murder by killing any Indian in amity with the U. States, he shall suffer death 'c.'

Such are some of the many provisions which Congress has made to protect the Indians and pursuance of the Treaties made with them; notwithstanding which the President contends that he cannot protect the Indians while the Legislature of Geo., taking advantage of his dereliction or obliquity, asserts the right of the State to survey and designate boundaries  upon the lands of the Cherokees. I would ask if the Supreme Court has affirmed or approved either the conduct of the President or that of Georgia. Whenever the judgement shall be make public, the people will see, that it has not so decided; and also; that all representations to that effect are sheer fabric. It was due to the Court, and to the justice of the country, to free both from the effects of the gross calumny of certain presses, which have propagated a report that the former had pronounced judgment in favor of Georgia.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Extract of the speech of Mr. Burges, at the Dinner given him by a large number of the citizens of New York, March ____ 1831.

If under the advisement of the Secretary of State, we have lowered our heads to foreign nations abroad, why might call us to some account for a departure from etiquette we have under the same council carried ourselves highly and haughtily enough to those dependent 'remnants of once mighty nations' a name placed by the fortune of war, and the inexplicable revolution of human events , in a condition of pupilage and guardianship to the American people. How have these wards and pupils been treated? How have the high and holy relations of guardians and instructors to them been kept and preserved by us? We stand pledged to the whole Christian world by the declarations of our ancestors, repeated by us, in every (sic) the most solemn form to civilize and instruct the aborigines in the great principles of our benign religion.  By the obligations of the most sacred treaties and for a full and valuable consideration in broad lands ceded to the U. States, our government has at various times covenanted with tribes and nations to pay them annuities; to guarantee to them their respective governments and laws and territory; and to defend them in the quiet possession and peaceable enjoyment of all these, their great original and natural rights.  From the commencement of our peaceable relations with them to the close of the last administration, these covenants had been fully and sacredly observed and kept by the government of the United States. Mechanics and farmers have sojourned among them to teach these people the great fundamental arts of civilized life. by holy men, who have taken their abode among several of these nations, they have been taught letters and arts; and above all, learned the divine precepts of the Christian religion. The annuities, due to each nation and tribe by treaty, have, with good faith, been paid into their treasuries, to be disbursed according to their own laws and customs. So early as 1802, by a statute of the United States and called ever since, the Intercourse Law, a line of demarcation was drawn between their lands and territories, and those of the United States or the several States and territories. By this law, all mankind were excluded from these lands, unless by the consent of the owners, and a license for that purpose first obtained. How have these people profited by these benefits? I will call your attention more particularly to the Cherokees, because their nation has been most improved, and their present condition does most interest the sympathies of the world. These people have abandoned the chase for subsistence, and have become the cultivators of the soil. They raise flocks and herds; grow corn and cotton, and have established household manufactories for most of their own clothing. Such other kindred arts are cultivated among them as are necessary for this state of improvement. Under the advisement and instruction of Mr. Jefferson, they have succeeded in establishing a republican form of government, and have enacted wise and wholesome laws.- a bank, and a treasury manage their currency and finances; a press promulgates their constitution and laws. One native Cherokee has invented an alphabet of their language; and another, *   * *   *   edits a public paper printed in our and their language and letter, published for the information of their people, and received and read in most of the States in this Union. In half a century after letters were brought to this people by pious and learned missionaries, they have reduced their laws to writing in their own alphabet and language. A like achievement cost the Greeks not less than six hundred years.  The school house and the meeting house have been built by them in their villages, as our pious ancestors reared the like buildings in ours. In the one their children are taught in our and their language; in the other their whole people meet together, on our Sabbath, in the name of the Savor of the world, to worship the God of the whole earth.

So were our trusts as guardians to them, religiously observed and kept; and so have they profited and improved as pupils and wards to us, under our teachings and protection. O! how unlike for our glory, and their prosperity is the present to the past.  The President of the United States, soon after his inauguration, bade the Cherokee Delegation, then in Washington, to assure their people, from him that he would protect them against the demands of Georgia, and the intrusions of all persons. Mr. Van Buren had not then entered the Department of State or assisted the President by his advice. The next winter they are told by the same high functionary, that the lands in their possession were beyond question their own: but that he could not interfere with the laws of a sovereign State, or secure them against the jurisdiction of Georgia. That State had not then expressly laid claims to the lands of the Cherokees; but their legislature had passed laws abolishing their government, abrogating their laws, and subverting their national character. These laws went in to operation in June 1830.- The Cherokee lands are owned by the nation;and each individual owns nothing but his improvements on the soil. When the laws of Georgia had abolished the Cherokee Nation, the lands, as their politicians reasoned on the case, were left without an owner; and, as they say, lying within the limits of that state became at once as a thing derelict, the property of that republic.  Perhaps the gold, discovered in the Cherokee mountains has dazzled the moral perceptions of these good men. Be that as it may, they last autumn seriously contended that the Cherokees had not right to their own lands, and have there upon enacted laws ordering them to be surveyed and parcelled out for distribution by lottery; or otherwise, among a people, who if they have any title to them, have obtained it by their own legislation. When the Cherokee delegation arrived in Washington the last winter and applied to the President again for protection, against the outrages daily committed on them, they are told by him, that all had been done that could be done, and they had no other course but to migrate beyond the Mississippi.

What can have changed the conduct of the President from a solemn assurance of protection to a total desertion of all the rights of these unfortunate people? Who is his adviser-the keeper of his conscience?- The Secretary of State- The lands laws, government, the whole nation of the Cherokees have been sold by this heartless Cabinet Minister, to the infatuated politicians of Georgia. To favor and carry into full effect, this scheme against the Cherokees, a most flagrant injustice has been practised against all other Indian nations and tribes to which our government owes annuities. To deprive the Cherokees of the pecuniary power of contending with Georgia, these annuities amounting yearly to more than $545,000 have, by an order from the war office, been directed to be paid not to the nations and tribes as the several treaties covenant that they shall be paid; but to the head men, warriors, and common Indians, in a ratable proportion. In some of the tribes there are more individuals than there are dollars to be paid; and how can they receive the money from an agent, who does not know one from another; who could not, therefore, safely distribute the annuities without assembling them all together nor liken, without a scale graduated with the respective proportions to be paid to each grade of character in the tribe. In truth, the project must result in a double fraud which puts the enemy into the hands of agents, who can never produce any voucher that he has paid it over, and therefore will keep the most of it in their own coffers; and the other, to the Indian tribes and nations, which by this project can receive not a cent of their annuities for any purpose common to the whole people. Our conduct is without a parallel. What can be found in the history of our own or any civilized country, so cruel in practice, so utterly without the pale of any theory of moral principle? This is not a question of national interest, but of national morality and character.  The adviser of these measures, brings a calumny on our good faith in the great forum of the world; and we must, unless by a great national disavowal, stand condemned before all mankind.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The following brief view of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of the Cherokee Indians and the State of Georgia is taken from the Norwich Courier:

Indian Question-- It will have been seen by our readers that the Supreme Court of the United States have decided to disallow the injunction prayed for by the Cherokee Nation against the State of Georgia. The grounds of the decision are we understand two fold--that the Cherokees are not foreign Nation in the sense in which that term is used in the Constitution, and that no such process lies in the case of any foreign Nation, strictly such against one of the States.  The high character of this tribunal in learning and integrity will ensure, we doubt not, the entire acquiescence of the whole community in the legal correctness of the decision.--We regard this decision as entirely settling the question which they adjudicated.  But it will be readily understood by every one of ordinary discernment, that this decision affects not in the slightest degree the moral question as to the treatment of the Indians. The proceedings of Georgia are in the same degree censurable and without excuse, and the duty of protection by the General Government is precisely as strong. Whether they are foreign nations or sovereign and dependent States under the pupilage of the U.S. is an inquiry entirely aside from the consideration of their wrongs and the obligation to redress them. Indeed, if they are in a state of pupilage, if the General Government has taken upon itself the task of guardianship and obligated itself to defend and protect them, the duty is the more imperious and their oppression or connivance at oppression the more inexcusable.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Journal of Humanity

GEORGIA AND THE MISSIONARIES

Several Missionaries residing in that part of the Cherokee country which is claimed by Georgia, have been arrested by the authority of that State on a charge which exposed them to imprisonment in the Penitentiary for a term not less than four years. The facts are as follows:

At the last session of the Georgia Legislature a law was enacted, according to which white men residing within the limits of the Cherokee Nation must receive license from the Governor of Georgia to remain, and must take and oath to support the constitution and laws of that State, or be judged 'guilty of a high misdemeanor,' and on conviction 'be punished by confinement in the Penitentiary at hard labor, for a term not less than four years.' This enactment was supposed to be aimed at the missionaries; and copies of it were sent, we understand, to each of them. The law went into operation on the 1st of March. The missionaries, in accordance, it is believed both with their own feelings and with the advice of their friends remained at their posts.  To take the required oath would be to express approbation of the course of Georgia, and of her attempt to break down the Cherokee government. It was therefore out of the question.

Accordingly on the 12th of March, the Georgia Guard* appeared in front of the mission house at Carmel, and arrested Mr. Procter, teacher of the mission school. They inquired for Mr. Buttrick, missionary, who resides at the same station, but he was absent. The next day, (Sunday) the party reached New Echota, where they arrested Rev. Samuel A. Worcester, missionary,--Mr. Wheeler, printer, and Mr. Gaun; the two last being citizens with Cherokee families.  Mr. Worcester was permitted by the civility of Col. Nelson, the commanding officer, to return to his family, under guard, to attend worship that evening and that next morning. They left New Echota in the direction of Etawah where it is supposed that Rev. John Thompson, another missionary, was arrested.

Here our intelligence by the newspapers leaves us.  We learn, however, by a gentleman from Boston, that letters have been received there, giving an account of the trial of the prisoners, and their release on the ground that they were 'authorized agents of the government of the United States'--which class of persons are excepted from the operation of the law under which the arrest took place, by a proviso.

This proviso has been generally understood to men what are called 'Indian Agents;' but the authorities of Georgia were doubtless glad to find a plausible reason for regarding the prisoners as protected by it. The confinement of such men to hard labor in the Penitentiary for no other crime than a refusal to acknowledge the justice of the laws of the State, would have been an outrage that no honorable and impartial mind could regard with calmness.

The reasons for regarding the prisoners as agents of the Government, so far as we know them, are that Mr. Worcester is Postmaster at New Echota, and that the schools under the care of the missionaries were formerly supported partly at the expense of the United States. We say

formerly for the annual appropriation has been withdrawn within a year or two.  The missionaries and teachers may be considered as having been agents for the disbursement of that money. Perhaps also there may now be U. S. Property such as school houses, under their care.

*This is a military establishment, to continue, we believe, indefinitely. The Constitution of the United States says, that 'no State shall without the consent of Congress *** keep troops or ships of war in time of peace.' 'c Art 1 P 10.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






High handed Tyranny.- We never expected to record a transaction, countenanced by any public authority in the United States so oppressive and inquisitorial as that which is mentioned below. The arrest of missionaries, by an armed force, and on the Sabbath- men who have left the fairest prospects among their kindred for no conceivable object but to benefit and bless an ignorant but inquiring people,-men whose only offence consists in being white instead of red-men whose presence was earnestly desired by the Cherokees on account of the healthful instructions they were imparting, both intellectual and religious,-is, if we are not altogether mistaken, an act wholly unprecedented in the annals of the nation. It furnishes and awful comment upon the downward course of error and oppression.

New York Journal of Com.

_____________________

From the New York Advertiser.

The editor of the Philadelphia Gazette, who appears to possess a commendable degree of confidence in his own capacity, has taken up the Indian Question, under a belief, as he says, that he 'can throw new light on the subject,' and his object, so far as it is visible, appears to be to show, that the New England people ought not to take compassion upon the Indians, because their forefathers, in the early history of the colonies, treated them as badly as the Georgians do the Cherokees. He says, in allusion to the 'lamentations' in those states over the present state of the Indian tribe,-'Let those who indulge in those forlorn thoughts look back upon their own history-let them mark the treatment of the red men in the days of their fathers.'  And to show the propriety of his comparison, he quotes from Mather's Mugnalia, an account of a battle between the Narraganset Indians and the white inhabitants, in a war waged by the former against the latter, in which the white were victorious; and for which, that pious man devoutly acknowledges the overruling hand of Providence. The man must certainly want 'new light' on this subject, who finds a single point of resemblance between this case, and that of Georgia and the Cherokees-between a battle fought by the white people in their own defense in an offensive war undertaken against them, by the Indians, and contrary to the advice of their aged men, and an unprovoked attempt on the part of Georgia to force the Cherokees, by a series of unjust and oppressive measures, to quit their lands and their homes, and explore their way to some distant wilderness that the former may seize those lands for their own purposes. If there were any resemblance between the treatment of the Indians by the New England colonies, and that of the state of Georgia towards the Cherokees. If the former were at that early period as unjust, oppressive, and cruel as the latter- it requires very little 'light' new or old, to estimate the moral worth of a cause of the most atrocious character, which is attempted to be justified solely on the ground that others have behaved as bad as themselves.

The truth, however, is that there is nothing in the history of New England, even during the times when the Indians were numerous and powerful, and constantly threatening them not only with the most horrid barbarities, but with extermination, that bears any just comparison with the policy of Georgia towards the Cherokee now, when there is no war to be feared, no cruelties, no molestation, and no provocation; and when Mr. Clark gets a considerate share of 'new light' on the subject he will find it out.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

New Echota April 30, 1831

A correspondent residing in the Neighborhood of Tensewaytee writes to us, that on the 10th inst, there was quite a religious excitement among the people in that place, which is occupied by a Baptist Missionary Rev. D. O'Briant. He informs us that he was present at the baptism of a considerable Number.  'After the solemnity of baptism was performed, 'he says' a very mild invitation was given to the congregation to retire to the house of worship; but before the congregation had retired from the water, the following very disgraceful scene took place among the Geo. Guard. Three of their number pretended that they were so powerfully moved upon by the Spirit that they mounted their fine horses, returned to the place of baptism, telling the people to get out of their way or else they would ride over them, for they were determined to baptize their horses in the same place. They rode into the water mocking religion and repeating the sacred words of our blessed Saviour. Such is the example set by this Christian people of Georgia, if Christians they be.'

We hesitate for sometime whether it was proper to notice such conduct, for it may seem to some utterly incredible that civilized men should thus be engaged; but as our correspondent is a respectable man, and has vouched for the truth of the statement, we cannot do otherwise than comply with his request by making that statement public.

What we have to say on this subject for ourselves is simply this- The Georgia Guard are Officers of the State in a peculiar sense, being under the immediate direction of the Chief Magistrate, and the institution of Georgia, which the Government and other Officers of the State are sworn to support guaranties to every person the right to worshiping God in the manner most suitable to himself. But it appears these Officers instead of protecting, are taking the lead in molesting religious assemblies.

____________________

In our last, we said that Mr. John A. Bell of Coosawaytee was arrested by a detachment of the Georgia Guard. Since then we have learned that he was taken to their headquarters, alias 'Agency' also 'Camp Gilmer,' to be examined by His Excellency's Agency, Col. Sanford, and to be dealt with according to the laws of Georgia. It there appeared that the charge alleged against him was for executing the laws of the Cherokee Nation.- First; in levying upon ' selling the property of Ambrose Harnage- Second, in arresting ' keeping in custody a certain man charged with the crime of murder. On his arrival at 'Camp Gilmer' he was sent by the agent into Hall County to be committed on the first charge. He was not however committed. The Guard who had him in custody returned with him to the Camp, where he was imprisoned seven days, waiting for Sanford who had gone into Georgia.  On his return, another attempt was made to have him committed on the second charge, but without success. He was therefore discharged and has since returned to his family. We give the facts without any comment.

'One of the Congregation' is informed, of this communication, giving an account of the surrounding of the Methodist meeting house during worship by armed men, was received at this office when the editor was absent, ' that by some means or other it has been mislaid. This is the reason that it has not been inserted.

'A Freeman' has been received-with some corrections and alterations we shall endeavor to publish it in our next.

________________________________

We have again been visited by the Georgia Guard.  On the 16th inst. a detachment commanded by Sergeant Henderson made its appearance in this place, on the same errand as before, to catch white men. They commenced their work apparently with great success, for just as they rode up to Mr. Parvin, they met one Benjamin Murray, a young man without a home, but who had been in the nation for a number of years. Him they arrested. Some of them then posted off to Ougillogy, where they understood a number of the non jurors as Sanford calls them, were.  They charged upon several homes but no white men could they catch. On the following morning (Sabbath) they came in full charge to the Methodist meeting house near Adair's, at the very time when the Rev. Mr. McDoad was delivering his sermon to a respectable congregation of Cherokees. They surrounded the house, and each dismounting from his horse, took his position with a musket in his hand. Mr. M. continued his sermon while they thus guarded the assembly. At the close of the service they made inquiries for certain white men, loose men, as they called them, of whom they were in pursuit. Being told that there were none there of that description they marched on. They returned to this place on Sabbath evening and took their camp at Tarvin's, their headquarters when in this part of the country. They continued stationary until Wednesday morning when they started for 'Camp Gilmer'. Some went by Ougillogy and made another useless search. So they made to return with a white man in custody except 'poor Benjamin.'

_________________________

Greenwood Leflore Head Chief of the Choctaw Nation has published an able defense of his conduct, addressed to the editor of the Cherokee Phoenix, respecting the part he bore in negotiating the treaty for the removal of his nation beyond the Mississippi. A vindication of his conduct was rendered necessary, from the repeated attacks of that print, which characterized him with bribery and treason against his country.- Ala. Int.



We have not been favored with a copy of this defence of Mr. Leflore, and therefore are not able to present it to the readers of the Phoenix. If we have wronged the head Chief of the Choctaw Nation by charging him with bribery and treason (if indeed we have thus charged him) we are ready to do him justice, but we must first be convinced. We hope therefore he will send us a copy of his vindication.- Ed. Cher. Phoe.



_____________________

The Cherokees and Georgia.- It will be seen by reference to another column that the attempt of the Cherokees to obtain an injunction from the Supreme Court to stay the actions of the laws of the State of Georgia over their territory has failed, ' the Court has decided it that has no jurisdiction in the case. The National Gov. have also declared that the Cherokees are within the chartered limits of Georgia ' Consequently subject to her laws ' will not interfere in the rights of that State in extending her laws and authority over them.

We find the above in the North Carolina Spectator published in Rutherfordton. The editor seems to have fallen into a mistake in common with many others, in regard to the decision of the Supreme Court. To say that the Court decided that it has no jurisdiction in the case, is to say what is in fact true, yet the expression may be used by some, and understood by indifferent readers to mean widely different from the sense intended to be conveyed by the Court. What was the case upon which the Judges of the Supreme Court were called upon to decide?  It was thus: Is the Cherokee nation a foreign state in the sense of the Constitution, and has the Supreme Court original jurisdiction? This was the question, and they may with propriety say, as they have said, that the Cherokee nation is not a foreign state, and of course they cannot exercise original jurisdiction, yet at the same time they may entertain a case wherein is involved the question at issue between the State of Georgia and the Cherokees. It is in this light we understand the decision of the Supreme Court.  Whether our understanding is correct or not, every reader will judge for himself, as the opinion is now before the public. This much is unquestionably true- The opinion is decidedly in favor of the rights of the Cherokees, their right to self Government, and their right to hold their lands until they voluntarily cede them.

We do not know of any advocate of the Indians who had denied that the Cherokees are within the chartered limits of Georgia, but it is not true that the General Government has declared that they are subject to the laws of Georgia, unless the executive constitutes that government. It is only that department of the Government which has thus declared.  Congress has not. It has evaded the question thus far. The Supreme Court has not; but on the contrary it has given an opinion directly opposite to that of the executive.

The question then is by no means settled, ' until it is, either peaceably, or by force (as our neighbors threaten,) the Cherokees will not alter their determination to remain and to contend earnestly for their rights. They will continue to call upon the executive for the fulfilment of the treaties, and memorialize Congress to extend over them its broad shield of protection.

_______________________

Extract of a letter to the Editor from a Gentleman in the Choctaw Nation, dated 12th April, 1831.

You will wish to hear something respecting the Choctaws. It is with them a time of trouble and deep perplexity. It is with many of them a time of distressing scarcity. In consequence of the political troubles of the past season and the severe drought, multitudes made little or no corn.  One of the better class of the Choctaws has just come here, a distance of 30 miles to get a little corn. He has six small children, and has had no corn for them for six weeks.

But distressing as is their situation in regard to sustenance, this is not their greatest calamity. Their country and their homes are gone, and many of them have no expectation of enjoying any more days of peace and comfort in this world.  The nearer they approach the period, when they must leave their country, the more appalling it appears to them.  Some are determined at all events to stay. Others say they must go, they have no longer a home here, but they expect to see no more good. A woman came a few days since to get her little daughter into the school. She was anxious her daughter should enjoy the privilege of instruction, while there was an opportunity. ' I have six little children,' she said, '' soon we must go over the Mississippi, and, I know nothing what we shall do.'  Here sobs and tears checked her utterance, and she could only add a few broken sentences, expressive of her unfeigned grief. It would soften a heart of adamant to see the situation of these people, and to witness all that passes among them. But their trials have not yet come. I would not wish to employ any other argument, with those who have honestly advocated, in the great Councils of our nation, the removal of the Indians, than to have them witness the scenes of suffering, which their measures will inevitable (sic) bring upon the poor and the helpless. And is it so, that while the whole world is rising, as by one simultaneous impulse to assert and vindicate the rights of suffering, injured man, the native inhabitants of this highly favored land the asylum of the oppressed of all nations, are alone to be abandoned, the unpitied victims at an arbitrary and cruel oppression?

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






DROWNED- at Brainerd; on the 5th inst., in the 8th year of his age, Elizue B. Vail, son of Mr. John Vail, assistant missionary at that station.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Nashville, Tenn. has been made a port of entry, and Mr. Basil Shaw appointed Collector.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






POETRY

THE INDIAN'S LAMENT.

I go from all my heart loves best

On to the dark Pacific wave,

For the poor Indian can ne'er rest

But in his grave!

From every well known wood and wild,

Where every dearest hope was born,

From all that cheered me since a child,

I go forlorn.

My smiling fields, where harvest waves,

My peaceful cot, I love so well,

My father's bones ' moss grown graves,

A long farewell!

My outcast babes, that lingering stand

And weep to leave their mother's grave,

From the oppressors greedy hand,

What power can save?

Then Great Good Spirit, whom we feat,

Are thy red children all forgot,

Dost thou not mark the bitter tear,

Nor heed our lot?

We go from all our hearts love best,

On to the dark Pacific wave,

For the poor Indian ne'er can rest

But in his grave!

C.E.B.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






FRONTIER WICKEDNESS.

A gentleman in Michigan, in a letter to the Editor of the Hudson (Ohio) Observer, writes respecting the Indians as follows:

When their annuity is paid in money, the Indian Traders who are constantly pouring in their whiskey upon them, stand ready unjustly to take from them every cent. Neither are they very particular at all times to count what they take.  The following is a specimen of their open robbery at public payments, as related to me by two intelligent gentlemen who were present at the last payment at Chicago and saw the infernal deed.  The money was paid to the Chiefs of different tribes in half-dollars, to be distributed by them to individuals.

This money is commonly kept in small bags by the chiefs and wrapped in their blankets.--One of these tricked traders was seen to go to an Indian and thrust his hand into his money bag, and take from thence as many half dollars as his hand could hold with his fingers distended as much as possible. With his ill gotten gain, he retired to his store, and deposited it there; and soon returned to prey upon another Indian in the same way. The poor Indian made no resistance; but merely partly turned around to prevent the robbery. His money too would have been taken, but for the interference of one of the gentleman above mentioned. When he asked the robber what he was doing? he was insolently told, 'It is none of your business.'

Such kind of robbery, it is said is frequently practised upon the defenseless Indians, who have no means of redress.

Another method practised, is to take from them many dollars for only enough whiskey to make them drunk! Many murders have been committed among the Indians in the vicinity where I live (Michigan) by means of whiskey furnished by white persons. In addition to this, many are settling on lands which were never ceded to the United States by treaty in any form. Some of those who live near to me are making preparation to remove on to the Indian lands, and take possession in a few days.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














AN ADDRESS.

Delivered before the Washington City Temperance Society.  November 13, 1831. By Thomas Sewall, M.D. Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the Columbian College, District of Columbia.

[CONCLUDED]

It is unquestionably true, that many of the surrounding objects in nature are constantly tending to man's destruction.  The excess of heat and cold, humidity and dryness, the vicissitudes of the season, noxious exhalations from the earth, the floating atoms in the atmosphere, the poisonous vapors from decomposed animal and vegetable matter, with many other invisible agents, are exerting their deadly influence; and were it not that every part of this system is endowed with a self-preserving power, a principle of excitability, or, in other words, a vital principle, the operations of economy would cease, and a dissolution of its organic structure take place. But this principle being implanted in the system, reaction takes place, and thereby a vigorous contest is maintained with the warring elements without, as well as with the principle of decay within.

It is thus that man is enabled to endure from year to year the toils and fatigues of life, the variation of heat and cold, and the vicissitudes of the season- that he is enabled to traverse every region of the globe, and to live with almost equal case under the equator, and in the frozen regions of the north. It is by this power that all his functions are performed, from the commencement to the close of life.

The principle of excitability exists in the highest degree in the infant, and diminishes at every succeeding period of life; and if man is not cut down by disease or violence, he struggles on, and finally dies a natural death; a death occasioned by the exhaustion of the principle of excitability. In order to prevent the too rapid exhaustion of this principle, nature has especially provided for its restoration by establishing a period of sleep. After being awake for sixteen hours, a sensation of fatigue ensues, and all the functions are performed with diminished energy and precision. Locomotion becomes feeble and tottering, the voice harsh, the intellect obtuse, and powerless, and the senses blunted. In this state the individual anxiously retires from the light and from the noise and bustle of business, seeks that position which requires the least effort to sustain it, and abandons himself to rest. The will ceases to act, and he loses in succession all the senses.- The muscles unbend themselves, and permit the limbs to fall into the most easy and natural position. Digestion, respiration, circulation, secretion, and the other functions go on with diminished power and activity; and consequently the excitability is gradually restored. After a repose of six or eight hours, this principle becomes accumulated to its full measure, and the individual wakes and finds himself invigorated and refreshed.  His muscular power is augmented, his senses are acute, and discriminating, his intellect active and eager for labor, and all his functions move on with renewed energy. But if the stomach be oppressed by food, or the system excited by stimulating drinks, sleep, though it may be profound, is never tranquil and refreshing. The system in being raised to a state of feverish excitement, and its healthy balance disturbed, its exhausted excitability is not restored. The individual awakes but finds himself fatigued rather than invigorated. His muscles are relaxed, his senses obtuse, his intellect impaired, and his functions disordered; and it is not until he is again under the influence of food and stimulus, that he is fit for the occupations of life. And thus he loses the benefits of this wise provision of repose, designated for his preservation. Nothing, probably tend more powerfully to produce premature old age, than midnight revels or disturbed and unrefreshing sleep.

It is also true, that artificial stimulus in whatever way applied, tends constantly to exhaust the principle of excitability of the system, and this in proportion to its intensity, and the freedom with which it is applied.

But there is still another principle on which the use of ardent spirit predisposes the drunkard to disease and death. It acts on the blood, impairs its vitality, deprives it of its red color, and thereby renders it unfit to stimulate the heart and other organs through which it circulates; unfit, also, to supply materials for the different secretions ' to renovate the different tissues of the body, as well as to sustain the energy of the brain; offices which it can perform only, while it retains its vermillion color and other arterial properties.  The blood of the drunkard is several shades darker in its color, than that of temperate persons, and also coagulates less readily and firmly, and is loaded with serum; appearances which indicate that it has exchanged its arterial properties for those of the venous blood. This is the cause of the livid complexion of the inebriate, which so strongly marks him in the advanced state of intemperance.--Hence, too, all the functions of his body are sluggish, irregular, and the whole system loses its tone and its energy. If ardent spirit, when taken into the system, exhausts the vital principles of the solids, it destroys the vital principle of the blood also; and if taken in large quantities, produces sudden death; in which case the blood, in death by lightning, by opium, or by violent and long continued exertions does not coagulate.

The principles laid down are plain, and of easy application to the case before us.

The inebriate, having by the habitual use of ardent spirit, exhausted to a greater or less extend the principle of excitability in the solids, the power of reaction; and the blood having become incapable of performing it also, he is alike predisposed to every disease, and rendered  habl_ to the inroads of every invading foe. So far, therefore, from protecting the system against disease intemperance every constitutes one of the strongest predisposing causes.

Superadded to this, whenever disease does lay its grasp upon the drunkard, the powers of life being already enfeebled by the stimulus of ardent spirit, he unexpectedly sinks in the contest, and but too frequently to the mortification to his physician, and the surprise and grief of his friends. Indeed, inebriation so enfeebles the powers of life, so modifies the character of disease, and so changes the operation of medical agents, that unless the young physician has studied thoroughly the constitution of the drunkard he has but partially learned his profession, and is not fit for a practitioner of the present age.

These are the true reasons why the drunkard dies so easily, and from such slight causes.

A sudden cold, pleurisy, fever, a fractured limb or a slight wound of the skin, is more than his shattered powers can endure.  Even a little excess of exertion, an exposure to heat or cold, a hearty repast, or a glass of cold water, not unfrequently extinguishes the small remains of the vital principle.

In the season that has just closed upon us, we have had a melancholy exhibition of the effect of intemperance in the tragical death of some dozens of our fellow citizens; and had the extreme heat which prevailed for several days continued for as many weeks, we should hardly have had a confirmed drunkard left among us.

Many of those deaths which came under my notice seemed almost spontaneous, and some of them took place in less than one hour from the first symptoms of indisposition. Some dies apparently from a slight excess of fatigue, some from a few hours' exposure to the sun, and some from a small draught of cold water; causes quite inadequate to the production of such effects in temperate persons.

Thus, fellow citizens, I have endeavoured to delineate the effects of ardent spirit upon man, and more especially to portray its influence on his moral, intellectual, and physical powers. The sketch I have given is a brief one, but the occasion would not permit me to say more, and my feelings would not have allowed me to have said less.

But we are not assembled to brood over the evils of intemperance, and to spend our time in mourning the ravages it has made in our land, to weep over the broken-hearted fathers and mothers-the deserted wives and children-the suffering widows and orphans it has created.  We are assembled not merely to paint its horrors, and to deplore its desolations; we are convened to take counsel together, to learn the success of the society during the past year; the progress the cause of temperance is making thro' the land, ' to devise measures to promote its advancement; and not to devise only-we are called upon to execute as well as design. There is a work to be performed, and we are pledged not to draw back from its hardships, nor shrink from its responsibilities; and what can be done?  Permit me to suggest a few things which may be done, and which must be done, before the evils we deplore will be eradicated.

1. Let us keep in view the objects of this Society:--'To produce united vigorous, and systematic exertions for suppression of intemperance; to diffuse information and give circulation to publications which exhibit the evils of intemperance, and the best means of checking progress.'

Let us bear in mind, also, the obligation imposed on us--'To use all proper measure to discourage the use of ardent spirit in the social circle, at public meetings, on the farm, in the mechanic ship, and in all other places.'

These are the objects of the Society, and this the obligation resting upon its members. It is not a mere matter of formality that we have put our names to its constitution; we have pledged ourselves to be bold, active, and persevering in the cause; to proclaim the dangers of intemperance to our fellow citizens, and to do what we can to arrest the progress. In view of these objects and of this pledge, then, let us, if indeed we have not already done it, banish ardent spirit from our houses at once, and forever, and then we can act with decision and energy, and speak in a tone of authority; and our voice will be heard, if precept be sanctioned by example.

2. Let us use our utmost endeavors to lessen the number, and if possible utterly exterminate from among us those establishments which are the chief agents in propagating the evils of intemperance. I refer to those shops which are licensed for retailing ardent spirits. Here is the source of the evil.. These are the agents that are sowing among us the seeds of vice, and poverty, and wretchedness.

How preposterous and enlightened community, professing the highest regard for morality and religion, making laws for the suppression and punishment of vice, and the promotion of virtue and good order, instituting societies to encourage industry, enlighten the ignorant, reclaim the vicious, bring back the wanderer, protect the orphan, feed the hungry, cloth the naked, bind up the broken hearted, and restore domestic peace; at the same time to create and foster those very means that carry idleness and ignorance, and vice and nakedness, and starvation and discord into all ranks of society; that make widows and orphans, that sow the seeds of disease and death among us; that strike indeed, at the foundation of all that is good and great.

You create paupers, and lodge them in your almshouse; orphans, and give them a residence in your asylum; convicts, and send them to the penitentiary. You seduce men to crime, and then arraign them at the bar of justice--immure them in prison. With one hand you thrust the dagger to the heart--with the other attempt to assuage the pain it causes.

We all remember to have heard from the lips of our parents, the narration of the fact, that in the early history of our country, the tomahawk, and the scalping knife were put into the hands of our savage neighbors, by our enemies at war, and that a bounty was awarded for the depredations they committed on the lives of our defenseless fellow citizens. Our feelings were shocked at the recital, and a prejudice was created, as well to these poor wandering savages, as the nation that prompted them to the work, which neither time nor education has eradicated. Yet, as merciless ' savage as this practice may appear to us, it was Christian, it was humane, compared with ours; theirs sought only life blood, and that only of their enemies; ours seeks the blood of souls, and that of our own citizens, and friends and neighbors. Their avarice was satiated with a few inches of the scalp, and the death inflicted as often a sudden and easy one, our produces a death that lingers; and not content with the lives of our fellow citizens, it rifles their pockets. It revels in rapine and robbery; it sacks whole towns and villages; it laws waste fields and vineyards; it riots on domestic peace, and virtue, and happiness; it sets at variance the husband and the wife; it causes the parent to forsake the child, and the child to curse the parent; it tears asunder the strongest bonds of society; it severs the tenderest ties of nature.

And who is the author of all this--and where lies this responsibility? I appeal to my fellow citizens.

Are not we the authors? Does not the responsibility rest upon us? Is it not so?

The power emanates from us; we delegate it to the constituted authorities, and we say to them, go on, 'cast fire-brands, arrows, and death;' and let the blood of those that perish 'be on us and our children.' We put the tomahawk and scalping knife into the hands of our neighbors, and award to them a bounty.- We do more- we share the plunder. For the paltry sum of twenty dollars, we consent that a floodgate of vice and poverty, and death, be opened upon our citizens; and by the multiplication of those through our city, we receive into our treasury the annual sum of about six thousand dollars. One half of this to be expended in the support of the paupers it creates, the other half in improving our streets, and in ornamenting our public squares! Let us arouse, my fellow citizens, from our insensibility, and redeem our character for consistency, humanity, and benevolence.

3. Let us not confine our views, or limit our operations to the narrow boundaries of our own City or District.  Intemperance is a common enemy.  It exists every where and every where is pursuing its victims to destruction; while therefore we are actively engaged upon the subject in Washington, let us endeavor to do something elsewhere and much may be done by spreading throughout our country correct information on the subject of intemperance. To this end, every newspaper and every press should be put in requisition. Circulate through the various avenues, suitable tracts, essays, and other documents, setting forth the causes of intemperance, its evils, and its remedy; together with an account of the cheering progress now making to eradicate it.

Do this, and you will find thousands starting up in different parts of the country to lend their influence, and give their money in support of your cause, individuals who have hitherto been unconscious of the extent and magnitude of the evil of intemperance; you will find some who have been slumbering upon the very precipice of ruin, rallying round your standard. Indeed, we have all been insensible, till the voice of alarm was sounded, and the facts were set in array before us.

4. Appeal to the medical profession of the country, and ask them to correct the false idea which so extensively, I may say almost universally prevails, viz: That ardent spirit is sometimes necessary in the treatment of disease. This opinion has slain its thousands and its tens of thousands, and multitudes of dram drinkers daily shelter themselves under its delusive mask. One takes a little to raise his desponding spirit, or to drown his sorrow' another, to sharpen his appetite, or relieve his dyspepsia; one to ease his gouty pains, another to supple his stiffened limbs, or calm his quivering muscles.  One drinks to overcome the heat, another to ward off the cold; and all this as a medicine. Appeal, then to the medical profession, and they will tell you, eve- [See fourth page.][Continued from first page,.] ry independent, honest, sober, intelligent member of it will tell you, that there is no case in which ardent spirits indispensable, and for which there is not an adequate substitute.  And it is time the profession should have an opportunity to exonerate itself from the charge, under which it has long rested, of making drunkards. But I entreat my professional brethren not to be content with giving a mere assent to this truth. You hold a station in society, which gives you a commanding influence on this subject; and if you will but raise your voice and speak out boldly, you may exert an agency in this matter, which will bring down the blessing of unborn millions upon your memory.

5. Call upon the different Christian denominations of the country to introduce an article into their church polity, prohibiting the use, the commerce, and manufacture of ardent spirit among the members of their communion. Let this be done, and there will be less occasion than we now have, to weep over apostate professors of religion.

It is disgraceful to any Church that its members should be concerned in the distillation, sale, or use of this poisonous and demoralizing substance. It is offensive to God and ruinous to man.

What should we say of a Christian if such a thing could be, who should spread his life in writing and disseminating infidel books, or in propagating among his fellow citizens libertine sentiments?  What should we think of him who should spread the small pox of yellow fever among his neighbors, or sow the seeds of mania or consumption- and this for the acquisition of wealth? Yet such an one would be far less criminal, would be far more consistent, that he who manufactures or vends ardent spirits.

Will not all our churches of every denomination, consider this subject? The experiment has been made; our Quaker brethren have set and example worthy the imitation of all.- They have long prohibited both the traffic and consumption of ardent spirits in their society- and what is the consequence? They are distinguished all over the world for their sobriety, exemplary morals, and thrift in business. They have clearly proved also, that there is far less difficulty in maintaining a rigid discipline, in the entire exclusion of ardent spirit, than in enforcing a loose one in regulation, the conduct of those who have already become intemperate.

6. Much may be done by guarding the rising generation from the contagion of intemperance.

It is especially with the children and youth of our land, that we may expect our efforts to be permanently useful. Only let them once contract above for ardent spirit, and you may almost as well expect to turn the current of the Mississippi to nothing as to extinguish it. If you cannot stop them in the beginning, you can scarcely hope to stop them at all. You cannot convert the confirmed drunkard in to a sober man. The trial has been made a thousand times, and a thousand times has failed. It is a miracle if it be done at all, and must be effected by a stronger arm than that of man. It is true you many render his situation and that of his family more tolerable, by forcibly withholding ardent spirit from him; but in this, you neither slake his thirst, nor eradicate his propensity. Only light up the convivial hall and spread the temptation afresh before him and his appetite revives and he goes on with increased celerity to ruin.

Let us then guard with peculiar vigilance the youthful mind, and with all suitable measures impress it with such sentiments of disgust and horror of the vice of intemperance, as to cause it to shrink from its very approach. Carry the subject into our Infant and Sunday schools and call on the managers and teachers of those institutions to aid youth, by the circulation of suitable tracts, and by such other instructions as may be deemed proper. Let the rising generations be protected but for a few years, and the present rage of drunkards will have disappeared from among us, and there will be no new recruits to take their place.

7. Let intelligent ' efficient agents be sent out in every portion of our country to spread abroad information upon the subject of intemperance, to rouse up the people to a sense of their danger, and to form temperance societies; and let there be such a system of correspondence and cooperation established among these associations as will convey information to each and impart energy and efficiency to the whole. 'No great melioration of the human condition was ever achieved without the concurrent effort of numbers; and no extended and well directed association of moral influence was never made in vain.'

8. Let all who regard the virtue, the honor, and the patriotism of their country, withhold their suffrages from such candidates for office, as are concerned in the commerce or manufacture of ardent spirit; and above all, from such as offer it as a bribe to secure their elevation to power. It is derogatory to the liberties of our country, that office can be attained by such corruption- be held by such a tenure.

9. Let the Minister of the Gospel, wherever called to labor, exert their influence by precept and example, in promoting the cause of temperance;-many of them have already stepped forth, and with a noble boldness have proclaimed the alarm, and have led on in the work of reformation; but many timid spirits still linger, and others seem not deeply impressed with the importance of the subject and the responsibility of their station. Ye venerated men! you are not only called to stand forth as our moral beacons, and to be unto us burning and shining lights; but you are placed as watchmen upon our walls, to announce to us the approach of danger. It is mainly through your example and your labors, that religion and virtue are so extensively disseminated through our country that this land is not now a moral waste. You have ever exerted an important influence in society, and have held a high place in the confidence and affections of the people. You are widely spread over the country, and the scene of your personal labors will furnish you with frequent opportunities to diffuse information upon the subject of temperance, and to advance its progress. Let me then entreat you to arouse to a scene of the dignity and responsibility of your office, and ask you, one and all, to grant us your active and hearty cooperation.

10. Appeal to the female sex of your country, and ask them to come to your assistance; and if they will consent to steel their hearts against the inebriate, to shut out from their society the man who visits the tippling shop, their influence will be omnipotent. And by what power, ye mothers, and wives, and daughters, shall I invoke your aid?  Shall I carry you to the house of the drunkard, and point you to his weeping and broken hearted wife, his suffering and degraded children, robed in rags and poverty and vice? Shall I go with you to the almshouse, the orphan asylum, and to the retreat of the insane, that your sensibility may be aroused?- Shall I ask you to accompany me to the penitentiary and the prison, that you may there behold the end of intemperance? Nay, shall I draw back the curtain and disclose to you the scene of the drunkard's death bed? No- I will not demand of you a task so painful;-rather let me remind you that you are to become the mothers of our future heroes and statesmen, philosophers and divines, lawyers and physicians; -and shall they be enfeebled in body, debauched in morals, disordered in intellect, or healthy, pure, and full of mental energy?-- It is for you to decide this question. You have the future destiny of our beloved country in your hands. Let me entreat you then, for your children's sake, and for our country's sake, not to ally yourselves to the drunkard, nor to put the cup to the mouth of your offspring, and thereby implant in them a craving for ardent spirit, which, once produced, is seldom eradicated, rather 'bring them to your family altar, and make them swear eternal hatred to ardent spirit.'

11. Call upon all public and private associations, religious, literary, and scientific, to banish ardent spirit from their circle;-call upon the agricultural, manufacturing, and commercial establishments, to withhold it from those engaged in their employment; call upon the legislatures of the different states, to cooperate by the enactment of such laws as will discourage the vending of ardent spirit, and render licenses to sell it unattainable;--call upon the proper officers, to banish from the army and navy that article, which of all others, is most calculated to enfeeble the physical energies, corrupt the corals, destroy the patriotism, and damp the courage of our soldiers and sailors;- call upon our national legislature, to impose such duties on the distillation and importation of ardent spirit as will ultimately exclude it from the list of articles of commerce, and eradicate it from the country.

Finally, call upon every sober man, woman and child, to raise their voices, their hearts, and their hands in this sacred cause, and never hold their peace, never cease their prayers, never stay their exertions, till intemperance shall be banished from our land and from the world.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






INDIANS

SUPREME COURT OF THE U. STATES.

THE CHEROKEE NATION

VS.

THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

BILL IN CHANCERY.

To the Honorable Chief Justice ' the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, sitting in chancery.



Respectfully complaining show unto your honors, the Cherokee Nation of Indians, a foreign State not owing allegiance to the United States nor to any State of this Union, nor to any other Prince, Potentate, or State, other than their own:

That, from time immemorial, the Cherokee Nation have composed a sovereign and independent State, and in this character have been repeatedly recognized, and still stand recognized by the United States, in the various treaties subsisting between their nation and the United States.

That, long before the first approach of the white men of Europe to the western continent, the Cherokee Nations were the occupants and owners of the territory on which they now reside; deriving their title from the Great Spirit, who is the common father of the human family, and to whom the earth belongs.

That on this territory, they and their ancestors, composing the Cherokee Nation, have ever been, and still are the sole and exclusive masters, and governed of right by another laws, usages, and customs, but, such as they have themselves thought proper to ordain and appoint.

That, in the year of the christian era one thousand seven hundred and thirty-two, the monarch of several islands on the eastern coast of the Atlantic Ocean, under the name and style of George II; King of Great Britain and Ireland, by a charter in a country of his own subjects, there residing, affected to grant to them all the country on this continent, lying between the Savannah and Alatamaha rivers. That this country was at that time occupied and owned by several distinct sovereign and independent nations of Indians and among others, by the Cherokee Nation; and that the monarch who affected to grant it had not title to it whatever. These complaints are informed, ' believe, that the only title to which he pretended was derived from the circumstance that a ship manned by his subjects had, about two centuries and a half before, sailed along the coast of the western hemisphere, from the fifty sixth to the thirty-eighth degree of north latitude, and looked upon the face of that coast without even landing upon any part of it.  This, they are informed and believe, has been called a title by first discovery; which is not true, even in point of fact, as against the Cherokee Nation and the other Indian Nation; for they had discovered and occupied it long before the first European ship had ventured to cross the Atlantic Ocean; the time of their original discovery and settlement of it being buried in the night of ages beyond the era of Christianity, and probably far beyond the period when the British Islands, themselves the residence of heathen savages and barbarians, became a prey to the heathen conqueror from Rome.

That this pretended title by prior discovery, whatever may be its effect on the equally pretended claims by discovery of other European sovereigns themselves, to give them a right to oust the Indian proprietors from their possession. That the utmost length to which they have carried the unjust pretensions derived from their alleged discovery, is, that the first European discoverer has the prior and exclusive right to purchase these lands from the Indian proprietors, as against all other European sovereigns; a principle settled among themselves for their own convenience, in adjusting their mutual accounts of rapine on the western world; a principle to which the Indian proprietors have never given their assent, and which they deny to be a principle of the natural law of nation; or as in any manner obligatory on them.

That, whatever may be the theory of this wild and chimerical title by discovery, as among the European sovereigns themselves, these complaints are informed believe, that it was never alleged by George II the King of Great Britain and Ireland, or by his aforesaid grantees, the Georgia Company, in 1732, or at any time since, that the charter so granted gave to that company any right to disturb or to question the exclusive right of possession by the Indians, or to interfere in any manner with their own self-government within their respective dominions. That, on the contrary, the first adventurers under that charter, on their landing at the present site of the city of Savannah, entered into a treaty with the Creek Nation of Indians, who were admitted to be the proprietors of the lands of that quarter of the country covered by the aforesaid charter, and received from them a voluntary cession of a part of those lands for a valuable consideration; and the Creeks were left under the peaceable government of their own laws no pretention having been then, or at any subsequent time, set up that the charter conferred on the grantees any authority to introduce the system of British laws into the country owned by the Indians. That various treaties have been, from time to time made between the British colony in Georgia, between the State of Georgia, before her confederation with the other States, between the confederated States afterwards, and finally between the United States under their present constitution, ' the Cherokee Nation, as well as other nations of Indians: in all of which the said Cherokee Nation and other Nations, have been recognized as sovereign and independent States, possession both the exclusive right to their territory and the exclusive right of self government within that territory. That the various proceedings from time to time had by the Congress of the United States, under the articles of their confederation, as well as under the present Constitution of the United States, in relation to the subject of the Indian nations, confirm the same view of the subject in evidence of which these complainants refer to the printed journals of their proceedings and pray that they may be taken and considered as part of this bill. These complainants also pray leave to refer, as part of this bill, to the following treaties between the United States and the Cherokee Nation as published with the Laws of the United States and forming, according to the Constitution of the United States, a part of the supreme law of the land, to be administered by this honorable court, to wit, the treaty concluded at Hopewell, on the 28th of November 1785 between the commissioners of the United States and the head men and warriors of the Cherokees; the treaty concluded on the bank of the Holston on the 22d of July, 1791, between the President of the United States by his duly authorized commissioner William Blount, and the chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, together with the additional article thereto made at Philadelphia, on the 17th February 1792, between Henry Knox, the Secretary of War, acting in behalf of the United States, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee Nation; the treaty between the United States of America and the Cherokee Nation of Indians, at Philadelphia on the 26th day of June, 1794, the treaty between the same parties at Tellico, on the 2d October, 1789; the treaty between the same parties at Tellico, on the 25th of October, 1805; the treaty between the same parties at Tellico, on the 24th of october, 1804; another treaty between the same parties at the same place, on the 27th of October 1805; the treaty between the same parties, made at the City of Washington, on the 7th day of January, 1806; together with the proclamation of that convention by the President of the United States, and the elucidation of that convention of the 11th of September, 1807; the treaty between the United States and the Cherokee Nation of Indians, made at the City of Washington, on the 22d. day of March, 1816; another convention between the same parties at the same place, on the same day; a treaty between the same parties, made and done at the Chickasaw Council House on the 14th of September 1816; another treaty between the same parties made at the Cherokee Agency, on the 8th day of July, 1817 and a treaty between the same parties, made at the City of Washington, on the 27th day of February, 1817; all which treaties and conventions were duly ratified and confirmed by the Senate of the United States, and became, thenceforth, and still are, a part of the supreme law of this land.

That, by these treaties, the Cherokee Nation of Indians are acknowledged and treated with as a sovereign and independent State, within the boundary from time to time arranged between them and the United States, accordingly as that boundary was changed by successive cessions of their land to the United States, and that within the boundary as finally adjusted by the treaty of 1819, they are still sovereign and independent with the exclusive right of governing themselves by their own laws, usages, and customs, and without any right of interference with such their self-government, on the part of any one of the States composing the confederacy of the United States.

These complainants pray leave to call the attention of this honorable court to a more particular inspection of these treaties for the purpose of verifying the truth of the general principles thus deduced from them. The fact that the Cherokees are not citizens of the United States,nor of any one of those states, is admitted by the fact of treating with them as a separate and sovereign nation; and the provisions of those treaties are such as to place this tacit admission beyond the reach of controversy. Thus the Treaty of Hopewell, was a treaty of peace made to put an end to a long and bloody war which had existed between the parties to the treaty; and the first and second articles stipulate an exchange of prisoners, precisely in the style of equal sovereigns, treating under such circumstances; for example, by the first article of the Treaty of Hopewell,  'The head men and warriors of all the Cherokees shall restore all the prisoners citizens of the United States or subjects of their allies, to their entire liberty.' ,The second article presents a corresponding stipulation by the United States; thus exhibiting all the Cherokees in striking contradistinction to the citizens of the United States and the subjects of their allies, and this feature of contradistinction, these complainants will here remark, runs through every provision of this, and of every subsequent treaty, so as to exclude the possibility of the supposition that the Cherokees were regarded as citizens of the United States, or any one of these states, or as owing in any manner, allegiance to their laws. On the contrary both the language of the treaties and their substantive provisions have neither sense nor meaning, except upon the admission that the Cherokees were a separate, sovereign nation, with full capacity to treat as such, and to bind both themselves and the Untied States by the terms of these treaties. Again, the eighth article of the same Treaty of Hopewell contains this stipulation: 'It is understood that the punishment of the innocent, under the idea of retaliation is unjust, and shall not be practised on either side, except when there is a manifest violation of this treaty, and then it shall be preceded first by a demand of justice, and if refused, then by a declaration of hostilities:' the parties thus admitting themselves to be on an entire equality, in regard to that decisive test of sovereignty, the right of declaring war. Again; the sixth article of the same treaty contains a stipulation on the part of the Cherokees for the delivering up of any Indian or other person residing among them, or who shall take refuge in their nation, who shall have committed robbery or murder, or other capital crime on any citizen of the United States: a provision wholly idle if such refuges might be reached within the Indian nation of Cherokees, by the laws of the United States or any one of these states. By the fourth article of the same treaty, the boundary between the Cherokees and the citizens of the United States is designated, and the same article proceeds to stipulate, that if any citizen of the United States shall attempt to settle on any of the lands within that boundary, he shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the Indians may punish him, or not, as they please. Without detaining your honors with a farther specification of the provision of that treaty, by a detailed reference to each and every article as admitting their exclusive sovereignty, and their authority to give the law within their territorial limits, these complainants refer again to the provisions at large, both of that and of all the other treaties above enumerated.  These complainants show further to your honors that the second of the treaties enumerated, that of Holston, was made by and with the previous advice and consent of the Senate of the United States; in support of which, they refer to the message of the President Washington to that body, in August, 1789, and their answer thereto, as extracted from the journals of the Senate of the United States; of which a copy is here to annexed, as part of this bill, and marked A. This Treaty of Holston, entered into by the United States, after the adoption of the present Constitution of the United States, and under the double solemnity of a previous consultation with the Senate and their subsequent ratification of the treaty, contains the recognition of every feature of the sovereignty of the Cherokee Nation, which is to be found in the Treaty of Hopewell, and other additional ones of a character equally decisive; to all which these complainants pray the special reference of your honors. The eleventh article particularly, contains a distinct admission, that the territory of the Cherokee Nation is not within the jurisdiction of either of the states or territorial districts of the United States. And by the seventh article, 'The United States solemnly guaranty to the Cherokee Nation all their lands not hereby ceded.'

These complainants show farther unto your honors, that the United States of America, from their earliest intercourse with the Cherokee Nation, have evinced an anxious desire to lead them to a greater degree of civilization and to induce them to become herdsmen and cultivators,instead of remaining in their original hunter state. Of this fact, the fourteenth article of the said Treaty of Holston furnished evidence; which will be found to be followed up in all the subsequent treaties before referred to, in all the messages of the President of the United States to Congress touching the Indian tribes and in all the correspondence of the Executive Department of the United States with the agents from time of time established under the authority of the Cherokee Nation those humane and generous efforts were so far successful that many of them had already commenced agricultural pursuits when in the year 1808 they sent a double deputation to the City of Washington; that, from the Upper Towns to declare to the President of the United States their anxious desire to engage in the pursuits of agricultural and civilized life, in the country they then occupied, and to make known to him the impracticability of inducing the nation at large, to do this, and to request the establishment of a division line between the Upper and Lower Towns to make know their desire to continue the hunter life, and also the scarcity of game where they then lived, and under these circumstances, their wish to remove across the Mississippi River, on some vacant lands of the United States. To both these deputations, the President gave a favorable answer; declaring that those who chose to remain for the purpose of engaging in the pursuits of agricultural and civilized life in the country they then occupied, might be assured of the patronage, aid, and good neighborhood of the United States; and providing the means, also, of gratifying those who wished to remove to the west of the Mississippi, to continue the hunter state. In consequence of this arrangement, a part of the Cherokee Nation did remove to the west of the Mississippi, while the far larger portion of them did remain to engage in the pursuits of agriculture and civilized life in the country they then occupied. On the 8th of July, 1817, the before mentioned treaty at the Cherokee agency was made; the preamble of which recites the promises just stated as having been made by the President of the United States in 1808, 1809; and declares that that treaty is made for the purpose of carrying into full effect, the before recited promises, with good faith:  and in full reliance on this good faith, a large cession of their lands was thereby made by the Cherokee Nation. For the same purpose, and in final and complete execution of that purpose, the before mentioned treaty of, the 27th of February, 1819, was made at the City of Washington; reciting in the preamble thereto, that a greater part of the Cherokee Nation had expressed an earnest desire to remain on this side of the Mississippi, and were desirous to commence those measures which they deem necessary to the civilization and preservation of their nation; to give effect to which object, without delay, that treaty is declared to be made, and another large cession of their lands was, thereby, made by them to the United States.

By reference to the several treaties before enumerated, it will be seen by your honors, that among other proofs of the earnestness of the United States to promote civilization among your complainants, a fund is provided for the establishment of schools.  And your complainants, show farther unto your honors that, in full reliance on the sincerity and good faith of the United States, and grateful for the humanity so often and so zealously expressed in their behalf, the Cherokee Nation have made great progress in civilization, and in agriculture. They have established a constitution and form of government; the leading features of which they have borrowed from that of the United States; dividing, their government into three separate departments, legislative, executive, and judicial. In conformity with this constitution, these departments have all been organized- they have formed a code of laws, civil and criminal, adapted to their situation; have erected courts to expound and apply those laws, and organized and executive to carry them into effect; they have established schools for the education of their children, and churches in which the Christian religion is taught; they have abandoned the hunter state, and become agriculturists, mechanics, and herdsmen; and, under provocations long continued and hard to be borne, they have observed, with fidelity, all their engagements by treaty with the United States.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Utica Sentinel and Gazette.

The Cherokees and the Supreme Court.- The administration presses universally raise a note of exultation at the late decision of the Supreme Court on the case of the Cherokee Indians. Instead of taking the part of a weak and defenseless people against the tyranny of a 'sovereign state' we see them seizing upon every circumstance, which may tend to the slightest degree to hide the true question from the public eye; endeavoring, by every means, to palliate the conduct of Georgia, which aims at the total extinction of the Indian tribes.

Our neighbor of the Observer is peculiarly elated.  Raising himself high in the buoyancy of 'republican' feeling, and pouring down a flood of denunciations upon those who have advocated the Indian rights, he breaks forth, in the generous exclamation, 'that their ridiculous ' unwarrantable claim is denied!' Then, to cap the climax of this patriotism, comes the grave conclusion-a conclusion which follows universally, whatever the promises may be--that this decision affords 'another evidence of the good sense and discriminating judgement of Gen. Jackson!'

In relation to the decision of the Supreme Court, it seems to be generally admitted by the friends of the Indians to be correct. Our opinion was expressed week before last in its favor. But the man must be destitute of common sense or common honesty, who would make this decision a ground for justifying Georgia in her laws, or for justifying the Executive in withholding that protection which had been solemnly pledged to the Cherokees by national treaties.

We never contended that the Supreme Court had jurisdiction in the case, as presented before it. We never contended that the Cherokees were a 'foreign state,' in the sense of the Constitution. The decision of the Court is not against any opinion that we ever expressed. But we have contended that no state has a right to violate national treaties, 'the Supreme law of the land,' and that when it attempts to do so, it becomes the duty of the Executive to put forth the strong arm of government to maintain the national faith.

The decision of the Supreme Court, was one of a purely legal nature, apart from all moral, philanthropic, or equitable consideration. The laws of Georgia, or the claims of the Cherokees, were no part of the investigation.  It was merely a question of JURISDICTION, coming up under the third article of the constitution which declares that 'the judicial power shall extend-to controversies between a state, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens or subjects.' The Court, deciding that the Indian nations are not 'foreign states,' accordingly denied its jurisdiction in the case, and refused to grant the writ of injunction. That this decision is correct, appears from that article of the constitution, which gives to Congress the 'power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several states, and with the Indian tribes:' thus making the Indian tribes distinct from foreign nations. But this same article, it will be seen, takes it out of the power of Georgia, to 'regulate commerce' with the Cherokees.

Neither does the decision effect the power of Treaties made with the Indians. It will remain a truth while the constitution remains, that 'the President shall have power, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties'- not with foreign nation merely, but such as had been made since the existence of the government, with foreign nations and Indian tribes- and that 'TREATIES' once made, become 'THE SUPREME LAW OF THE LAND'- the President's opinion to the contrary notwithstanding.

In the opinion of the National Intelligencer, this decision will be rather, beneficial than otherwise to the Indians.  In the opinion of the Utica Observer, on the contrary, it has settled their fate forever, the conduct of Georgia so tyrannical and oppressive, is smoothed over in that paper with an artful sophistry and the Cherokees, once powerful, but now dependent, once sovereigns, but now 'in a state of pupilage,' are blasted with the reproach of 'savages' and turned over to the 'tender mercies' of tiger like and ferocious men.

The great question of the constitutionality of the laws of Georgia over the Cherokees remains undecided. This question has not yet come before the Supreme Court and this is the point in controversy. A private suit may be brought before the Supreme Court for individual damages, and this suit would involve the question of the constitutionality of these laws. In such a suit, there could be no question of jurisdiction in the case, nor could there be any appeal from the decision, except by a repeal of the Union. We feel exceedingly desirous to have the question decided by the competent authority, whether the treaties which have been so often and so long negotiated between the United States and the Indian tribes, are obligatory upon our government, or have been only made for the purpose of deluding the Indians, and enabling us in a cheap and comfortable manner to defraud them of their territory.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






A Council of the Chiefs of the Creek Nation has very recently terminated a sitting of several days. The object of the Chiefs in meeting was, we understand, to deliberate on the present situation of the Indians, and agree upon some course in relation to their future conduct: The Council, however, was broken up without anything being done.--Columbus Enq.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA MAY 7, 1831

In noticing sometime since the discharge of the Missionaries by Judge Clayton, we expressed some surprise that they should be considered as agents of the Government, and attributed the step taken by the judge more to motives of policy than to a strict adherence to the letter of the law. We spoke as we felt and as we believed then. We have since been favored with a letter signed by two missionaries, who, by the way, however, were not arraigned before Judge Clayton, reproving us, and giving as their opinion that the decision was correct. They think that the missionaries may in some sense be considered in the light of agents--1. they came into the nation under the sanction and protection of the General Government--2. they had the disposal of a portion of the funds appropriated annually by Congress for the support of Schools among the Indians. Considering the subject over, we are now also inclined to that opinion; but we are as fully persuaded that the law was intended by its framers to embrace the missionaries.

________________________

In our paper of this morning we present our readers with the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall, on the Indian question-and we see nothing in it more than a recognition of the doctrines for which Georgia has ever contended-that is to say that the Cherokee Nation residing within her jurisdictional limits, are subject to her municipal laws. It must be a triumphant feeling among the advocates of State rights, that principles so vehemently denied by the philanthropists of the United States, have been so firmly established by the decision of the Supreme Court--this must be the severest act of all. It is somewhat extraordinary that this decision should have first appeared in the Indian nation--We attribute it, however, to the attention of their advocate Mr. WIRT.--Sav. Georgian.



The best comment we can offer upon the above is to give an extract of the opinion itself.

'So much of the argument as was intended to prove the character of the Cherokees, as a state, as a distinct political society, separated from others incapable of managing its own affairs and governing itself, has, in the opinion of a majority of the judges, been completely successful. They have been uniformly treated as a state, from the settlement of our country. The numerous treaties made with them by United States recognize them as a people capable of maintaining the relations of peace and war, of being responsible in their political character for any violation of their engagements, or for any aggression committed on the citizens of the United States by any individuals of their community.  Laws have been enacted in the spirit of these treaties. The acts of our Government plainly recognize the Cherokee Nation as a state, and the courts are bound by those acts.'

Now if the editor of the Georgian can perceive in the above extract a recognition of the doctrines for which Georgia has ever contended, his perceptions must be sharper than has fallen to the lot of common minds to possess. As to the publication of the opinion in our paper we see nothing extraordinary. The Georgian may be mistaken in supposing that we received it through the attention of Mr. Wirt. We supposed that we were indebted to the attention of the Cherokee Delegation.

____________________________

There is a report, to which we are inclined to give credit, that the President of the United States and his Secretary of War intend to visit this nation sometime in the course of the ensuing summer.

_____________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

Mr. EDITOR- As I am not versed in writing I should, perhaps, do myself justice to apologize here. But it is unnecessary as my intention is to state facts in a plain and simple manner.

I say in your last paper a statement of a need of soldiers from the Georgia army making Mr. John A. Bell prisoner 'c.  We, have since that seen another movement of them. On last Sabbath our meeting house was surrounded by a band of them- nine in number.  They came in full charge in martial array, as if hostilities were actually declared. It was enough to chill the feelings of the bravest soldier to behold such a scene in time of peace. But what must have been the feelings produced on a company of timid females and children? They were collected in a house of worship, every moment expecting to see their spiritual teachers dragged away as prisoners. But as we have not heard of hostilities being declared we wish to know from whence these movements proceed? We hear of their making great threats, how they will treat us; and it is not an uncommon thing to have our houses surrounded by them in dark, and our kitchen as particularly searched, but we have not heard of their having search warrant. Sir, we are at a loss to know whether their intentions are to annoy and terrify or to take our property, for we hear them say that it is bad white men they want to take out of the nation. If this be the fact we think they should visit some other part of the nation, as our neighborhood does not at this time consist of such characters.- But there are the noted PHILPOTS and HITSON, who are permitted as good honest men to reside in the country by his Excellency's Agent, to set good example before us; and it is very well known that this same Hitson * has been caught in a dark rainy night shelling corn in the crib of Mr. John Martin of Coosewaytee, and after being caught he obtained permission to stay all night. In the morning Mr. Martin, not being willing to have stolen property about his house, insisted that he should take his corn with him, which he accordingly did. The character of the Philpots is too well known to need any description.

Why sir, if any of us are guilty of a criminal act deserving punishment, and if they would just send an officer with a written precept, they can make us prisoners without any display of arms.  But what are we to think of the present proceedings, for instead of a written precept our eyes are dazzled with their glittering bayonets, which seem only to frighten and drive us from our homes.  We know not whether their intentions are to murder us or not, therefore we do not like to risk ourselves in their custody. We have not forgotten the case of Major Taylor of Tennessee. I think I said a band of men armed, for I doubt very much their being soldiers. Now Mr. Editor, I would like to know whether this band were among the brave soldiers who fought for America when she was invaded by a powerful foe? I fear not. But it appears that those who have suffered the hardships and privations of a laborious campaign must now be harassed and hunted like outlaws by them, because their consciences will not allow them to foreswear themselves. As regards myself, I cannot consent to take the oath required by Georgia, I love my country,- (I mean the United States of America) I have fought for her liberty-I have borne the fatigues of a campaign in her service, but to submit to the requirement of an unconstitutional law I cannot.

A FREEMAN.

April 24, 1831.

____________________

*This Hitson was a miller and came into the nation in that capacity a number of years ago. He resided in the nation under a permit, until lately, when taking advantage by the laws of Georgia he took the oath of allegiance and obtained a permit from the Governor's agent to continue his residence. Thinking probably that there were no more restraints on him, and that he was now fully, to all intents and purposes, under the protection of Georgia, he commenced to steal from his former benefactors. He was however, detected in his first attempt upon Mr. Martin, and by means of the very lenient and peculiar treatment he received, he became so ashamed of his conduct, that immediately on his return and delivering his stolen corn to his family, he left the nation. In a few days after he returned and removed his family and effects. A good way to get rid of a thief.- Ed. Cher. Phoe.

____________________________

For the Cherokee Phoenix.

ANOTHER GRAND VICTORY.

MR. BOUDINOTT:- I wish to say to the world that on the 16th of this inst. I was arrested by a detachment of the Georgia Guard as one of those unfortunate white men that happened to be here when the spirit of Georgia rose to such a height that her legislature was pleased to pronounce that myself and all of my creed should quit the country forthwith, or make ourselves liable to be shut up in the strong house for a term not less than four years. And accordingly I was taken to headquarters, rather as a trophy of war than a prisoner to be delivered over to the civil authority then and there to be tried according to the laws of the land. My reason for saying trophy of war is this when I was taken to headquarters I was introduced to the commanding officer who immediately pronounced me as belonging to a certain Mr. Pope of Wilks County who is one of said guard. He, savage like, shouldered his musket and used as much authority over me as if he had captured me in Africa and brought me to Georgia for his use. The said Mr. Pope occasionally talked very freely to me, but allowed me to give no answer without a severe threat that the bayonet would be shoved through me.

In this awkward and unpleasant situation I remained from the 16th to the 25th. On the 25th I was handed over to the civil authority, and brought before a justice of the peace for examination. My kind mother hearing of my situation came to court and made oath that I was not 21 years of age until January next, and the court at once discharged me. In justice to the officers, and privates generally, I am bound to say that I was friendly and politely treated by all, accept the above named Mr. Pope.

BENJAMIN MURRAY.

May 2d. 1831.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

SUPREME COURT OF THE U. STATES

THE CHEROKEE NATION

vs.

THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

BILL IN CHANCERY.

To the Honorable Chief Justice, ' the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, sitting in chancery.

[CONTINUED]

They have understood that some of their white brethren, citizens of the United States, have sometimes indulged in speculative objections to their title to their lands, on the ground that they were mere savages, roving over the surface of the earth in quest of game, having never appropriated the soil to themselves by incorporating their own labor with it, and turning it to the purpose which the God of nature intended it, of supporting the greatest practicable amount of human life. Even if this hypothesis of fact were true, how such an objection could stand with those solemn treaties by which their boundaries have been designated and their lands within those boundaries guaranteed to them by the United States, they find themselves utterly unable to comprehend. Nor have they yet been informed how their white brethren have ascertained that this earth was designed only for the purpose of agriculture, and that no title could be acquired to any portion of it in any other manner than by actually digging in its bowels, nor how digging into one part of it can give a title to hundreds and thousands of miles at a distance from the part dug. They are still more confounded in attempting to reconcile this theory of a title derivable only from cultivation with the alleged title by discovery arising simply from sailing along the coast at several miles distance from the shore, without even touching the land; and finally, they are equally perplexed in reconciling this theory with the title which the U. States themselves assert to the untouched millions of acres which lie between their settlements and the Pacific Ocean, over which their people have never even chased their game, nor seen them from the distant mountain tops. But whatever foundation there may be for this theory, so unintelligible to your complainants for they are no longer savages, nor heathens in the hunter state. Under the promised 'patronage, aid, and good neighborhood' of the United States, they have become civilized Christians, and agriculturists, and have no more land than is sufficient for their subsistence and that of their posterity, and this land they hold under repeated, solemn, and still subsisting guaranties by treaty with the United States. They do not mean to allege that they have all become perfectly civilized, nor all public professors of Christianity, nor all agriculturists: but in all these respects they are willing that a comparison shall be instituted between them and their white brethren around them, and they are very little apprehensive of suffering by such comparison when instituted before this honorable court. If practicing justice, and the doing to others as we would have them do unto us, be the tests of civilization and Christianity, and the proportion of the cultivators of the soil to the whole number of the population be the test of the agricultural character of a nation, with reference to the theory in question, they apprehend that they have at least as little reason as their white brethren around them to shrink from such tests.

These complainants show farther unto your honors, that by the Constitution of the United States (to which they pray leave to refer as part of this bill) it is, among other things, provided that all treaties made, or to be made, under the authority of the United States, shall compose a part of the supreme law of the land, and it is further thereby declared, that the judges in every state, shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution or laws to the contrary notwithstanding.

That by the same Constitution it is further declared, that no state shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts: and these complainants aver, that all the treaties aforesaid are contracts of the highest character, and of the most solemn obligation.

The same Constitution further provides, that the Congress of the United States shall have power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes; a power which, from its nature, is exclusive, and consequently forbids all interference by any of the states.

These complainants further show unto your honors, that, in execution of this latter power, the Congress of the United States have, from time to time, passed various acts for the regulation of that commerce, and among others the act of 1802, 'to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace on the frontiers:' to all of which these complainants beg leave to refer, and to pray that they also may be taken as part of this bill. The great object of these laws is to consecrate the boundary arranged by treaty between the Indians and the citizens of the United States; and every provision is marked with the clearest recognition of the sovereignty of the Indians, and their exclusive right to give and to execute the law within that boundary.

These complainants show farther unto your honors, that, in violation of these treaties, of the Constitution of the United States, and of the act of congress aforesaid, the state of Georgia, one of the United States of America, at a session of her legislature, held in December, in the year 1828, passed an act which received the assent of the Governor of that state, on the 20th day of that month and year, entitled 'An act to add the territory lying within this state and occupied by the Cherokee Indians, to the Counties of Carroll, De Kalb, Gwinnett, Hall, and Habersham and to extend the laws of this state, over the same, and for other purposes:' a copy of which act, authenticated under the seal of the said state, these defendants herewith exhibit; and pray that it may be taken and considered as part of this their bill. That afterwards, to wit: in the year 1829, the legislature of the said state of Georgia passed another act, which received the assent of the Governor on the 19th December, of that year, entitled 'An act to add the territory lying within the chartered limits of Georgia, now in the occupancy of the Cherokee Indians to the counties of Carroll, De Kalb, Gwinnett, Hall and Habersham, and to extend the laws of this state over the same, and to annul all laws and ordinances made by the Cherokee Nation of Indians, and to repeal the 9th section of the act of 1820, on this subject,' of which last act a copy duly authenticated is also herewith exhibited, and these complainants pray that it may be considered as a part of this their bill.

That by these laws the state of Georgia professes to parcel out the territory, which belongs exclusively to these complainants, and is guarantied to them by the aforesaid treaties, among the several counties named in the title of the laws, to extend all the laws of Georgia, both civil and criminal, over the whole of the said territory: to abolish all the Cherokee laws and ordinances therein; and to declare, that in all cases of indictment and civil suits, it shall not be lawful for the defendant Cherokee to justify under any of these laws; and the courts of the state are forbidden to permit these laws to be given in evidence; to make it unlawful for the Cherokees to attempt to prevent the individuals of their own nation from enrolling for emigration, under the penalty of indictment and punishment before the state courts of Georgia; to make it unlawful in the Cherokee Nation to prevent the individuals of that nation from selling or ceding their lands to the United States, for the use of the State of Georgia, (whereas your complainants aver, that by the Cherokee laws, there is no such thing as individual title to land in the Cherokee country, but the whole of these lands, according to their laws, belong to the entire nation, as a nation, and can be sold or ceded by them only in their nation capacity;) to make it murder in the Executive, ministerial, or judicial officers of the Cherokee Nation to inflict sentence of death, though in conformity with their own laws, and declaring all those officers, so concerned in carrying their own laws into effect, principals, and subjecting all to indictment therefore, and death by hanging; extending the jurisdiction of the justices of peace of the State of Georgia into the Cherokee territory, and authorizing the officers who shall carry their process for service, to call out the militia of the state to overcome resistance; and finally declaring that no Indian; or descendant of any Indian, residing within the Cherokee Nation of Indians, shall be deemed a competent witness in any court of the state of Georgia, in which a white person may be a party except such person as resides within the said nation.

These complainants aver that both these laws of the State of Georgia are null and void, because they are repugnant to the aforesaid treaties which are yet subsisting and in full force between the United States and the Cherokee Nation; because they are repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, in the provision before referred to as contained in the instrument; and because they are repugnant to a law of the United States, to wit: the law before mentioned as having been passed in the year 1802, entitled, 'an act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on the frontiers.'

These complainants show further unto your honors, that by the aforesaid Treaty of Hopewell, the Cherokees acknowledged themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whatever. That a number of white man, citizens of the United States, having intruded into the Indian territory beyond the boundary established by the treaty, President Washington, in his message before mentioned to the Senate of the United States, adverting to that fact, declared it to be his determination to execute the power entrusted to him by the Constitution of the United States, to carry that treaty into faithful execution by the removal of the white intruders, unless a new boundary should be arranged by treaty, excluding them from the Indian territory those intrusive settlements; thereby avowing his opinion, that, as the President of the United States, he possessed the power and was constrained by his official duty to enforce in behalf of the Cherokees, the protection secured to them by that treaty.

These complainants show farther unto your honors, that by the second article of the treaty of Holston, before referred to, the Cherokee Nation again acknowledged themselves to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whatsoever; and stipulated that they would not hold any treaty with any foreign power, individual States, or with individuals of any State; a stipulation with which they have faithfully complied on their part, and that protection has been, in the main, extended to them, as well as was perhaps practicable, down to the year 1829.

They show farther unto your honors, that they are informed and believe, that, in the year 1802, the State of Georgia ceded to the United States a large body of lands alleged to be within her chartered limits, upon several conditions, one of which was, that the United States would extinguish, for the use of Georgia, the Indian title to the lands within her remaining limits, 'as soon as it could be done peaceably and on reasonable terms.' The State of Georgia thus admitting that the Indian title was a subsisting title, which remained to be extinguished, and that it could properly be extinguished only peaceably, and on reasonable terms, by the United States. This stipulation must be considered as referring to the uniform practice which had always prevailed in extinguishing that title, and to be construed and expounded by that practice; and that uniform practice had been to extinguish the Indian title by peaceable treaties held with the Indian nation in their national character, in which, terms were offered, rejected, or modified, at the pleasure of those nations, nothing being forced upon them. That the Cherokee Nation went on amicably to meet the wishes of the United States and of the State of Georgia, by ceding, from time to time, as much of their lands as they could spare, until by the cession of 1819, they had reduced their territory into a small compass as their own convenience would bear; and they, then, accordingly resolved to cede no more.- That the State of Georgia, although she already possesses millions of acres more than her people can cultivate, becoming impatient for the lands owned by your complainants, and forgetting her own stipulation with the United States, that the Indian title was to be extinguished peaceably and on reasonable terms, pressed upon the United States, (as your complainants are informed and believe,) the obligation of extinguishing that title at once, with an intimation that she expected the application of force to the Indians, if necessary for the accomplishment of her object, and with a menace that if the United States withheld it, she would herself apply that force and expel your complainants from their possessions. In the course of that correspondence the State of Georgia, (as your complainants are informed and believe,) reproached the United States with unfairness in those measures which had been so humanely adopted to civilize your complainants, and to turn them from the hunter state to those of agriculturists, and herdsmen, under a regular government and laws of their own, which, she alleged, had had a tendency to attach them to the soil, and to disincline them to cede it for the use of Georgia; and although, in her capacity of one of the States of the U.S. she had been a party to all the treaties which had those her measures in view, and had reaped the fruits of these treaties, by the large cessions which she had, from time to time received of the Indian lands, and although she had been also a party to all those acts of Congress which had looked to the accomplishment of the same humane and benevolent objects, from the time of the adoption of the present Constitution of the United States until she had gained the last cession under the treaty of 1819 she now affected to consider those measures, consecrated as they were by the best patriots of the United States, and sanctioned by herself, as a tissue of hypocritical pretenses of benevolence and philanthropy, which had no other object in view than to disappoint her own just hopes of engrossing to herself all the Indian lands within her remaining limits. These complainants have understood and believe, that Presidents Monroe and Adams, in succession, understanding the articles of cession and agreement between the State of Georgia and the United States, in the year 1802, as binding the United States to extinguish the Indian title so soon only as could be done peaceably and on reasonable terms, refused, themselves to apply force to these complainants, or to permit to be applied by the State of Georgia, to drive them from their possession; but, on the contrary, avowed their determination to protect these complainants by force, if necessary, and to fulfil the guaranty given to them by the aforesaid treaties.

That the State of Georgia, disappointed in this her unjust design upon these complainants and their territory, resorted in the next place, to the scheme of her legislation, before set forth, expecting, as your complainants believe, to accomplish by the morel force of her laws, that expulsion of them from their territory which she had been prevented by the just and honorable interference of the United States from effecting, or attempting to effect, at the point of the bayonet. Your complainants, unwilling to resist by force of arms, if it could be avoided, the unjust and unlawful pretension of the State of Georgia to parcel out their territory among her neighboring counties, and to extend her laws by compulsion over them, have applied to the present Chief Magistrate of the United States to make good the protection pledged to them by treaty with the United States; but, to their great surprise and regret, have received or (sic) answer from that Chief Magistrate, that the President of the United States has no power to protect them against the laws of Georgia.

Your complainants beg leave to show farther, unto your honors, that, at the last session of the Congress of the United States, an act was passed entitled 'An act to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in any of the States or Territories and for their removal west of the river Mississippi.' By this act, the President of the United States is authorized to cause so much of any Territory belonging to the United States, west of the river Mississippi not included in any State or organized Territory, and to which the Indian title has been extinguished, as he may judge necessary, to be divided into a suitable number of districts, for the reception of such tribes or nations of Indians as may choose to exchange the lands where they now reside and remove there; but there is a proviso annexed to this act, which declared, that nothing therein contained shall be construed as authorizing or directing the violation of any existing treaty between the United States and any of the Indian tribes.

Under this act, overtures have been made to your complainants to give them in exchange for their lands, other to the west of the Mississippi. These overtures, as it was their right to do, they have declined. They prefer to remain on their present lands, and to insist on their rights under their various treaties with the United States.

As a sovereign and independent state, it would be enough for them to say, that they do not choose to make the proposed exchange, without assigning any other reason therefore- then their non-pleasure. But as this offer of exchange has been held up before the world, as an evidence of great humanity towards these complainants and as the happiest means that could be devised, to save them from that extinction, which it is supposed that Indian tribes are fated to experience, from the approach and 'good neighborhood' of white population; and as your complainants are not disposed to be considered, either as so stupid as to be blind to their own best interests, or so contumacious as to resist, through mere obstinacy, the desire so strongly expressed by their brethren of Georgia for their expulsion; they beg leave to state in a few words the motives that have induced them to decline this offer of exchange.

In the first place, the territory which they now inhabit is wellknown to them, and has been found well adapted to all their wants.  It has been opened, improved, settled, built upon, and placed in a condition for agriculture, which they are now prosperously carrying on. It is well supplied with wood and water, enjoys a salubrious climate, and every convenience of commerce and intercourse suited to a civilized people composed of farmers, planters, mechanics, and herdsmen. The ports of the United States are all within the reach of these exchanges which their pursuits make necessary for their prosperity. They have schools established for the education of their children, and the means of furnishing them with instructors from among the citizens of the United States: they have places of religious worship established, in which the Christian religion is peaceably taught by Missionaries and Pastors, easily supplied from the United States, and the word of God is prospering among them; they have learned to relish the manners and pursuits of civilized life, and if their treaties with the United States shall be faithfully executed, they have continually brightening prospects of becoming, speedily, as civilized, as enlightened, and as Christian as the best portion of their white brethren.  This country, too, so fraught with every convenience and advantage to them, and so endeared to them by the great and multifarious benefits which they have already received, and are still receiving from it, is consecrated in their affections from having been, immemorially, the property and residence of their ancestors, and from containing, now, the graves of their fathers, relatives, and friends. Such are the grounds of their attachment to this country, and of their unwillingness to relinquish it.

On the other hand, they know little of the country offered to them in exchange; but the little they do now of it, convinces them that instead of being the Paradise which it has sometimes been described to be, it will become, if they except it, the grave not only of their civilization and Christianity, but of their entire nation itself. In the first place, they are by no means satisfied that the Indian title to it has been extinguished. But let it be admitted that it is so, those who have visited that country represent it as being for the most part barren, there being but, comparatively a small portion of it fit for agriculture. It is represented, and they believe it, to be destitute, in the far greater part, both of wood and water, and therefore wholly unfit for a settlement of planters, farmers, and herdsmen. It is, also, said to be sickly. It is far removed from all intercourse with the ports and markets  of the United States. And these complainants, if they could be tempted to remove, would have all their labors to commence anew in that distant wilderness, without any hope of enumeration. But the worst feature of the country is yet to come. It is surrounded and infested with fierce and powerful nations of Indians, in the wildest state of savage barbarity, who claim that country as their own, and wage a war of extermination on all the new tribes who enter it, and whom they consider as intruders. In evidence of this fact, these complainants beg leave to state, that their Cherokee brethren, who emigrated to the west of the Mississippi under the patronage and sanction of the President, in the years 1808,1809, and subsequently, under the treaty of 1817 before mentioned, were authorized, in the first place, to settle on the river Arkansas, in the territory of the same name, where they were assured, by the 5th article of the treaty last mentioned, that they should be entitled to all the immunities and privileges of all the treaties which had before been made with their nation. But the white population again growing up to them, they were required to remove again. This second removal was effected by the treaty, made at Washington on the 6th of May, 1828, between the United States and the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, to which these complainants refer, and pray that it may be taken as part of this Bill. The object of this treaty, as is alleged in the preamble is to provide for those Indians 'a permanent home, and which shall under the most solemn guarantee of the United States, be and remain, theirs forever.' The second article of that treaty runs thus: 'The United States agree to possess the Cherokees and to guarantee it to them forever, and that guarantee is hereby solemnly pledged, of seven millions of acres of land, to be bounded as follows:' [The boundaries are then given by that article.] By the third article, the United States stipulate to remove all white intruders and others, and to keep them off 'so that no obstacle arising out of a white population, or a population of any other sort, shall exist to annoy the Cherokees.' On the faith of these stipulations their Cherokee brethren removed to their new and permanent

home, where, in the language of the 8th article of the treaty, they were 'to enjoy the repose and blessings of such a state, in the future:' and the consequence, has been, as your complainants are informed and believe, that they have been delivered up to the tomahawks of the Osages, Sioux, and other savage tribes, with whom they are engaged in constant scenes of killing and scalping, and have to wage a war of extermination with more powerful tribes, before whom these complainants have no hope but that they must ultimately fall. Such is the region of country to which these complainants have been invited, and such 'the repose and blessings' which they have to anticipate from such an exchange. The only consequences which they could anticipate from it as inevitable, would be, first their relapse into all the habits of savage life in their own defence, and, finally and speedily, the dissolution and extinguishment of their entire nation.

With these views of the subject, they have decidedly rejected the offer of exchange, as they and a right to do; and as they had, at one time, flattered themselves that the laws of Georgia were merely held over them in terror, with the view of constraining them to accept that exchange, they had hoped that so soon as their firm and final resolution to reject it was made known, the State of Georgia would suffer those laws to fall as a dead letter, without any farther attempt to enforce them in practice. But in this hope they have been disappointed. In the face, and in defiance of all the treaties that have been referred to, and in equal defiance of the Constitution of the United States, and of the authority of the Congress of the United States, as expressed in the before mentioned act of 1802, the territory of the complainants, consecrated by so many sanctions, has been violated, and the aforesaid laws of Georgia of 1828 and 1829 have been let loose upon them in all their terrors; and that State has declared its determination to continue to enforce them upon these complainants, and upon their territory, so long as these complainants shall continue to occupy that territory. But while these laws are enforced in a manner the most harassing and vexations to your complainants, the design seems to have been deliberately formed to carry no one of these cases to final decision in the State courts, with the view, as your complainants believe and therefore allege, to prevent any one of the Cherokee defendants from carrying these cases to the Supreme Court of the United States, by writ of error for review, under the 25th section of the Act of Congress of the United States, passed in the year 1789, and entitled 'An act to establish the Judicial Courts of the United States.'  The constituted authorities of the State of Georgia seem to be under the impression that your complainants have no access to the jurisdiction of this honorable court, but by writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States, to the final decision of the highest court of the State of Georgia, under the aforesaid section of the Judiciary Act of the United States. The plan adopted, therefore, to deprive these complainants of the benefit of this jurisdiction, seems to be, and these complainants so believe and charge it to be, to harass them by the constant institution of judicial proceedings in the State courts, without carrying any one of them to final adjudication. In proof of the fact, that the design has been formed to deprive these complainants of the benefit of the jurisdiction of this honorable court, they refer to a charge delivered on the ______ day of ______ last, to the Grand Jury of the ______ Co. in the State of Georgia by the Hon. Augustus S. Clayton, the Judge of the Western District of the State of Georgia; and to a message of his excellency George R. Gilmer, the Governor of the State of Georgia, delivered to the Legislature of that State, on the day ______ of last past, which are annexed hereto ' which your complainants pray may be taken and considered as part of this bill. In illustration of the unjust, illegal, and oppressive manner in which the said laws of Georgia are enforced upon them; and, at the same time, in illustration of the mode adopted to deprive these complainants and their people of the benefit of a writ of error to the final decision of the highest court of the State of Georgia, under the 25th section of the act of Congress of the United States, passed in the year 1789, and entitled 'An act to establish the Judicial Courts of the United States.' The constituted authorities of the State of Georgia seem to be under the impression that your complainants can have no access to the jurisdiction of this honorable court, but by writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States, to the final decision of the highest court of the State of Georgia, under the aforesaid section of the Judiciary Act of the United States. The plan adopted, therefore, to deprive these complainants  of the benefit of this jurisdiction, seems to be, and these complainants so believe and charge it to be, to harass them by the constant institution of judicial proceedings in the State courts, without carrying any one of them to final adjudication. In proof of the fact, that the design has been formed to deprive these complainants of the benefit of the jurisdiction of this honorable court, they refer to a charge delivered on the ____ day of _____ last, to the Grand Jury of ____ Co. in the State of Georgia by the Hon. Augustus S. Clayton, the Judge of the Western District of the State of Georgia; and to a message of his excellency George R. Gilmer, the Governor of the State of Georgia, delivered to the Legislature of that State, on the day _____ of last past, which are annexed hereto, ' which your complainants pray may be taken and considered as part of this bill. In illustration of the unjust, illegal, and oppressive manner in which the said laws of Georgia are enforced upon them, and, at the same time, in illustration of the mode adopted to deprive these complainants and their people of the benefit of a writ of error to the final decision of the highest court of the State of Georgia, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, aforesaid, these complainants beg leave to lay before your honors the following cases, which have actually occurred.

In the autumn of the year 1829, one Jesse Stansal, a white man, entered the Cherokee territory and stole a horse, the property of one of the Cherokee people; he was arrested within the Cherokee territory, tried for the offence before a regularly constituted court of the Cherokee Nation, found guilty by the jury, and, in strict conformity with the Cherokee laws, was sentenced by the court to be whipped; which sentence was carried into effect. For this act, done within their own territory according to their laws, the Cherokee judge and jury were indicted by the Grand Jury of Hall County, in the State of Georgia, at the March term last of that court, for trespass, battery, and false imprisonment, alleged to have been committed on the said Jesse Stansal, contrary to the laws of the state of Georgia, and the good order, peace and dignity thereof.  On this indictment, a warrant was issued by judge Clayton, the judge of the court of Hall County against John Saunders, the Cherokee judge, and the Cherokee jury, who tried the case; under which warrant, the Georgia sheriff of Hall County entered the Cherokee territory, and there arrested the aforesaid John Saunders, the Cherokee judge, and George Saunders, one of the jury,* *   * *   *   * *   *   * to away their trial under that indictment. The counsel retained by them filed pleas to the jurisdiction of the court, setting forth the facts of the case, and relying upon the aforesaid treaties and intercourse laws of Congress. The pleas were over ruled, and the prisoners tried and found guilty by the jury; whereupon, errors in arrest of judgment were filed by the prisoners counsel, and there the prosecution stopped; the judge having not, to this day, passed judgment on the errors in arrest, and the prisoners having been admitted to bail. A copy of the record, as perfect as these complainants have been able to procure, is hereto annexed, and prayed to be taken as part of this bill.

In another case, a white man, by the name of Ambrose Harnage, entered the Cherokee territory, some years ago, in indigent circumstances, took the protection of its government, married a Cherokee woman, and, under the fostering care of the laws of that nation, acquired property and a large family, whose interests are identified with those of the nation.  This man having entered into a mercantile partnership with two Cherokee men, named Alexander McCoy and Leonard Hicks, fell out with them in a short time, and their controversy was, in due from (sic) submitted to the proper _____________ Cherokee country, and decided against Harnage. After this, he filed a bill in the Superior Court of Gwinett county, in Georgia, sitting in Chancery, of which the before named Augustine S. Clayton was judge, in which bill, among other things, he prayed for a writ of ne exeat against the said McCoy and Hicks. The bill, with its annexed affidavit, was presented to judge Clayton, who thereupon awarded the ne exeat, as prayed. This writ was served by the deputy sheriff of Gwinett County, on Alexander McCoy, a native Cherokee, at his dwelling house, in new Echota, a town of the Cherokee country, on the 20th day of August last, and under a guard of three men, he was carried about eighty miles to the common jail of Gwinett County, where he was kept in close confinement for ten days. He was then taken out under a writ of habeas corpus, and allowed the prison bounds until the sitting of the Superior Court of Gwinett County, on the second Monday of September, was then brought up for trial before his honor, judge Clayton, and discharged on the ground, that the affidavit of the plaintiff was not sufficient to have warranted the issuing of such a writ. Your complainants exhibit herewith as part of this bill the copy of the original process, under which McCoy was arrested, together with his affidavit.

The same deputy sheriff who arrested McCoy, as aforesaid, at the same time, arrested an elderly Cherokee woman, a married woman under process of the state of Georgia, in a plea of debt at the instance of the same Ambrose Harnage, and bore her off captive, from her husband and children, for Lawrenceville, in Georgia, a distance or eighty of ninety miles; but after having been carried about fifteen miles, she gave bail, and was permitted to return home.

In another case, a Cherokee man, named Corn Tassel, was arrested in the Cherokee territory, by process from the state of Georgia on a charge of murder alleged to have been committed by him on another Cherokee, within the Cherokee territory; having been taken to the prison of Hall County, your complainants are informed and believe that he has demanded his trial; but that the said judge Clayton refused to try him, and has remanded him to prison, for farther deliberation.

[TO BE CONCLUDED]

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Georgia laws and the Cherokees.- We refer the reader to an article on this subject, copied from the Cherokee Phoenix, in another part of this weeks paper. It will serve to show the high-handed measures in their true light- that light which is making 'darkness visible!'- carried on by the nullifying state of Georgia and present reforming administration. When that government which was originally instituted to promote the rights of the people, and hold the scales of justice between man  and man, shall lend her sanction to such gross violations of Constitutional law, and such an unwarranted proscription of an innocent and harmless people, may we not bid farewell to the fair 'Goddess of liberty,' who is already pluming her wings for eternal flight? who shall fix a barrier to such unprovoked oppression, and strike nerveless the cowardly arm which inflicts it?  We answer the people can- and we doubt not they WILL, when the period arrives when by a constitutional expression of their wished, they can shake corruption from its fearful height, and elect, for the next president, a man of justice, and a man of feeling! - Greensboro (N.C.) Pat.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA MAY 14, 1831

The following is said to be taken from the Repertory, a religious paper published in Macon, Georgia. We cannot but express our astonishment that a minister of the Gospel should thus publicly countenance that law of Georgia which must, whatever the Rev. Mr. Capers may say to the contrary, forever fix a stain on the `civilized code' of the state. Perhaps Mr. Capers was not aware that many of those whom he would most charitably denounce as the authors of the 'Savage Code,' the conductors of 'mock trials' and the encouragers of 'crimes at which humanity must blush,' are member in good standing of the Society (Methodist) the organ of which, in Georgia, he claims to be. But such a slander on the Cherokees cannot, we think, be relished by his brethren.  The main point on which he builds his remarks appears to be the reply of Christ to the Pharisees- `Render unto Caesar 'c.' But how will this Rev. Gentlemen dispose of the consciences of those who believe that Georgia is not the Caesar? The language of a writer may well be applied to this editor, who would, in his capacity of an expounder of the oracles of God, decide for others, upon mere assumption, where their allegiance is due- 'O the power of prejudice!'

__________________________

The Missionaries Arrested.- Under this article some remarks have been offered to the public, apparently as much to question the humanity of our laws, as to increase the unfriendly feeling of our Indian neighbors.- Much is said and much more will doubtless be said on a subject which seems to have elicited many painful feelings; but the unrighteous features of `the Act' for violation of which the 'arrest' was made is yet to be exhibited. The constituted authorities of the State have certainly the right, and are bound by moral obligations to enact and enforce such laws within the chartered limits of her jurisdiction, as should effectually secure our citizens from the `mock trials' and inhuman brutal treatment which some of them have received at the hands of the Cherokees--and if Christianity will justify a preference for the 'Savage Code' and its boasted declaration of Independence, it cannot sustain the propriety of a voluntarily subjection of its votaries, to the penalties of a law, which regards as its chief object, the suppression of crimes at which humanity must blush. The `conscientious scruples' which the `Oath' is said to have imposed upon its subjects, may be ascertained by a reference to its letter, viz:- `I, A. B. `do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be,) that I will support and defend the Constitution and Laws of the State of Georgia, and uprightly demean myself as a citizen thereof.'

`Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's and unto God the things which are God's is a precept which ALL MEN are required to obey.

[`Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor,' is another precept which ALL MEN are equally required to obey.]

________________________________

A gentleman recently from Washington, has informed the editor of the Rural Cabinet, that the Cherokee Delegation waited on the President, soon after the decision of the Supreme Court, and wished to know if he was angry with them. The President replied no- he was sorry for them- that they had been deluded by their pretended friends. The Delegation than asked the President if the Cherokees should be disposed to treat on what terms would the President meet them. The President informed them that he was willing to treat on the same terms as those stipulated with the Choctaws, and no other. It is further stated that the Indian Agencies within the Creeks and Cherokees are immediately to be discontinued, and that hereafter special agents will be appointed to distribute annuities.- Savannah Georgian.



It appears that another attempt is to be made to create an impression that the Cherokees are willing to treat. For the refutation of the principal statements contained above we might content ourselves by simply referring our readers to what we have said under our editorial head since the return of the Delegation. We have said, or at least we have intimated that the Cherokees were not disposed to treat, and would not treat under present circumstances. We have given their views and feelings- in this we think we cannot be mistaken. It is useless to talk of treaties when their validity is denied and their provisions superseded by executive will.-- We want no more mock promises, no solemn stipulations to be disregarded and violated the first opportunity. We are contending for liberty--we are contending for the validity of treaties-for the binding nature of the promises of the Government, and while the Executive denies these, we cannot compromise our principles by capitulating at discretion.  We cannot, without doing violence to our rights and opinions, consent to treat with General Jackson. If the Cherokees are ever compelled to treat, it will be with an administration that will do them justice, by acknowledging the validity of treaties, and executing their provisions--an administration that will be sincere, not hypocritical. So we feel, and so we have reason to believe, the mass of the Cherokees feel. Perhaps we shall be told by our great father-'If you persevere in this determination, you will lose your land without receiving a cent, for Georgia is ready to seize it.' We answer, be it so if thus it must be, and if the head of this great republic can thus conveniently redeem his pledge 'to protect possessors rights of the Cherokees.' Such an occurrence would be but another strong reason to decline to negotiate.

Now as to the conversation said to have taken place  between the President and the Cherokee Delegation, we are prepared to say that no such questions as are stated above were proposed by the Delegation. We have been told what the nature of the conversation was, but we will not relate it here, for our authority will hardly be sufficient to discredit the 'Gentleman recently from Washington.' We leave it to the Delegation to furnish us with a true account of the interview.

_____________________________

Georgia Surveyors- For the last two months the Georgia Surveyors have been overrunning the Cherokee territory.  We have seen two or three companies, and we have heard of several others. They are surveying the country into districts of nine miles square.

________________________

A detachment of the Georgia Guard headed by Brooks, we understand, arrested Doct. Butler, Missionary, the other day. They took him only as far as Head of Coosa ' there dismissed him, provided he would go to their head quarters when he had leisure. This reminds us of an instance somewhat similar. The last company who visited this place took one Jack Ward, but released him because he was an old man-and they would not take another because he was an invalid. These are fine examples of the Majesty of the law, which is not a respecter of criminals.



_________________________

CHANGE OF MINISTRY.

The following unexpected news from Washington will be interesting to some of our readers.

from the Globe of April, 20

It will appear, by the publication in our columns of today, that the Secretary of State has tendered his resignation to the President, who has excepted it. The grounds upon which distinctly stated in the correspondence, that comment on our part is unnecessary. On the 7th the Secretary of War tendered his resignation to the President: and yesterday the  Secretary of the Treasury and Secretary of the Navy handed in theirs; all of which have been accepted. From this it is inferred that a new organization of the Cabinet is to take place.

___________________________

The following resolutions were adopted by a large meeting which had convened to sign a protest against the distribution of the annuity among individuals. They convey the views entertained by the Cherokee people, and fully sustain what we have already said. We are pleased with their spirit.

Whereas it is the duty we owe to ourselves, our children, and to our friends abroad in the United States, to express our views and our feelings in regard to the controversy imposed upon us by our neighbors the Georgians, and the means exercised by them to effect their contemplated object, the expulsion of the Cherokee people from their native land, it is therefore unanimously Resolved by this meeting-

1st. That agreeably to the stipulations of numerous treaties subsisting between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, and which are in force, and sanctioned by every President except the present incumbent, and the laws of the United States exacted to carry the same into effect, we are entitled to protection, and that the following language of the Supreme Court, we respectfully believe, should awaken the American people to exert their influence upon their Chief Magistrate to carry the said laws and treaties into effect, to wit: 'So much of the argument as was intended to prove the character of the Cherokees as a State, as a distinct political society, separated from others, capable of managing its own affairs and governing itself, has, in the opinion of a majority of the Judges, been completely successful. They have been uniformly treated as a State from the settlement of our country. The numerous treaties made with them by the United States recognize them as a people capable of maintaining the relations of peace and war, of being responsible in their political character for any violation of their engagements, or for any aggression committed on the citizens of the United States, by any individuals of their community. Laws have been made in the spirit of these treaties. The acts of our government plainly recognize the Cherokee Nation as a State, ' the courts are bound by those acts.'

2d. Consequently the laws of Georgia, which have established an armed soldiery at our Gold mines and have taken the same in possession, and which soldiery in detachments patrol, over our country in armed bands and, without warrants even from their own State, are continually arresting our citizens, thereby reducing our people to endure not only civil but martial law, the way of which is in the breast of the petty Georgian officers, and establishing their poney club on places abandoned by Arkansas Emigrants, under a treaty made not with our Nation and its consent, and who are thus deeply seated within our limits, to steal from our people--' in sending numerous companies of Surveyors who are now engaged in running parallel lines of 27 miles distance from each line with the design of running cross lines to accomplish the object of dividing our country into nine miles Sections; are all repugnant to the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States, and as President Jackson is well advised of these measures and has withdrawn his protection, the people of the Union ought to know it, that they may be induced to award to our Nation, through an act of Congress, peace according to equity and good conscience.

3d. We congratulate the friends of our Nation in the able manner they have been sustained in their views of our rights, by the opinion of the Supreme Court, and ourselves, to know that every disinterested tribunal and honest individual have  sustained us in every right which we have asserted and claim, except that of being a foreign Nation in a Constitutional and political sense; and that we are not ashamed, under proper Guardians, to be 'In a state of pupilage' to the United States.

4th. The State of Georgia, being a component part of the United States, with whom our Nation has the relations of perpetual peace and friendship, we highly approve of the forbearance and prudence of our National authority, in the trials and insults they experience from that state, and of their determination to see our Nation righted by the vigor and energy and virtue of the American people.

5th

Resolved, That we entertain the highest respect for the firmness ' patriotism of our principal Chiefs; and also take this occasion to express our great satisfaction for the industry, ability, and zeal evinced in our behalf, by our Delegation, who have last winter attended the Congress of the United States, at Washington City.

6th

Resolved, that the proceedings of this meeting be signed by the President and vice Presidents, attested by the Secretaries, and sent to the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix for publication.

THOMAS WOODARD, Pres't.

FLUTE

TARCHUNGSEE

WATIE

TAHCAHSARTA,

CHARLES MORE,

AHNEWOHNESKETTEE,

ARCHEELUNG,

KAHHENAHE,

TEYOHLEE,

YONENUNGJOOWEYAH

CHOOLAH,

Vice Presidents.

ANDREW ADAIR } Secretaries

STAND WATIE, }

Runningwaters, Coosawattee District, Cherokee Nation, 10th May, 1831

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






SUMMARY.

KNOXVILLE, April 27

We have the pleasure to announce the arrival of the steamboat Knoxville. She greeted our shore on Monday last, at 11 o'clock, amid the firing cannon and the joyful congratulations of an immense crowd of spectators assembled to witness the pleasing spectacle. Joy seemed to beam from every countenance, and it was gratifying in passing along, to hear the expression of what seemed to be the universal impressions, that this was the dawn of a new era in the annals of East Tennessee.

The boat passed the town in handsome style, fell down again near the ferry landing, and came to a place prepared for the purpose.  Here Dr. King delivered to Col. Ramsey an appropriate address, which we are enabled to present to our readers today, together with the colonel's reply, which was delivered on board the boat.

Opinion of the Supreme Court.-- Finding in the Cherokee Phoenix a copy of the interesting opinion of the Supreme Court, on the application of the Cherokee Nation for a writ of Injunction against the State of Georgia, and, presuming the copy to be an accurate one, we lay it before our readers. The attentive reader will perceive how closely it corresponds, in every particular, with the impressions of its import which, soon after hearing it delivered, we endeavored to communicate to our readers. The correspondent of the Richmond Enquirer, who questioned the accuracy of our statement will now discover that it was he, and not we, who misunderstood the decision of the Court.--

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

SUPREME COURT OF THE U. STATES

THE CHEROKEE NATION

VS.

THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

BILL IN CHANCERY.

To the Honorable Chief Justice, ' the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, sitting in chancery.

[CONCLUDED]

In another case, a bill in chancery was filed in the Superior Court of Hall County, in July last, in the name of George R. Gilmer, Governor of Georgia, against sundry Cherokees, praying for an injunction to restrain them from digging the gold mines within their territory, which, by the laws of that territory they were authorized to do. In the bill, a title is asserted for Georgia to the whole of the Cherokee territory, as belonging to the ungranted and unsurveyed lands of the State of Georgia. The Cherokee mines are consequently claimed as part of those lands; and the bill being sworn to before the same Judge Clayton, he awarded an injunction against the parties named in the bill as defendants, they being Cherokee citizens, enjoining and commanding them to desist from those mines, under the penalty of twenty thousand dollars; and they were are the same time, summoned to answer the bill thus filed against them in Hall County. Under the authority of this injunction, the Sheriff of Hall County supported by a colonel, a captain, and thirty or forty militia of the state of Georgia, entered the Cherokee territory, came to the gold mines, and arrested a number of the Cherokees, who were engaged in digging gold; the persons thus arrested were, at first, rescued by the United States troops, and the Sheriff and his party themselves, made prisoners by those, but after conducting them (sic) troops; fifteen or sixteen miles, a council of examination was held, and an exhibition of their respective authorities made, which resulted in the releasement of the Sheriff and his party, and a declaration by the commanding officer of the United States troops that no farther protection could be extended to the Cherokees at the gold mines, as that officer could not interfere with the laws of Georgia. The Cherokees, notwithstanding, continued their searches for gold, as they had a right to do, and were again visited by the sheriff and Georgia militia, who ordered them to desist from taking the gold of Georgia; under the penalty of being committed to jail. Some of the Cherokees replied, that they were peaceably pursuing this business on their own soil, and were unconscious of having committed any trespass on the rights of Georgia; and if it was supposed by others that they had, they were willing to abide the consequences, even if they were to go to jail; that it was unnecessary to raise the militia of Georgia to take them, as the sheriff alone could do it, if he thought proper to arrest them. In place of arresting them however, the militia destroyed some of the machinery of the Cherokees for gleaning gold, committed some other trespasses with their fire arms on the property of a Cherokee woman, and with loud imprecations against 'the poor devils,' (the Cherokees,) retired for that time.  On the 9th of August following, however, the sheriff of Hall County again appeared at the Chestatee gold mines in the Cherokee territory with a guard of four men, under process of the state of Georgia, and there arrested three Cherokees what were peaceably and lawfully engaged in digging for gold in those mines, the property of their own nation; the charge being that these Cherokees had disobeyed Judge Clayton's injunction in continuing to work at those mines. Under this arrest these three Cherokees, to wit: Elijah Hicks, Benjamin F. Thompson, and Johnson Rogers, were taken, as state prisoners of Georgia, under an armed guard, were forcibly carried to the courthouse of Clarke County, in the state of Georgia, a distance of about seventy miles, before the aforesaid judge of the state of Georgia, Augustin S. Clayton; were, then and there sentenced by him to pay ninety three dollars cost, and to stand committed to prison till paid; and were further required each to give a bond in the penalty of one thousand dollars for their personal appearance at the next Superior Court of Hall County, in Georgia, on the third Monday of September, then ensuing, to answer to the charge of having violated that injunction; and in the meantime, strictly to obey the same. The said Cherokees were kept in custody by the aforesaid sheriff and his guard, on that arrest for five days. They paid the cost, and gave the bond ordered by Judge Clayton, and did appear at the Superior Court of Hall County, on the third Monday in September, where they were discharged by his honor, Judge Clayton, on the ground that the Governor of Georgia could not be prosecutor in the case; but the costs which they had been required to pay, were not refunded to them; nor did they receive any compensation or even apology for the lawless outrage which had been committed on their persons. In confirmation of the facts herein set forth in relation to this case, these complainants annex hereto, as part of their bill, a copy of the bill, in junction and subpoena in the case of George R. Gilmer, governor of Georgia, against David England and others, together, with the affidavits of Elijah Hicks and John Martin, all marked B.

Numerous other instances might be stated in the harassing and vexatious manner which the State of Georgia is carrying into effect her aforesaid unconstitutional laws against the persons and property of the Cherokee people, without regard to sex or age. But these cases will suffice to show that the determination is formed by the State of Georgia to carry them into full effect: and indeed this determination was solemnly announced by the Governor of Georgia, by two Proclamations issued by him in the month of _____ last, of which, copies; are hereby annexed, and those complainants pray that they may be taken and considered as part of this their bill.

These complainants had, at one time, flattered themselves, that if the State of Georgia should persist in enforcing these unconstitutional laws upon them, they could have been protected against such an attempt by the troops of the United States stationed at that quarter.- But shortly after the arrest of the Cherokees at their gold mines, as before stated, a written notice was sent by the commanding officer of the troops to John Ross, the principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, apprising him that these troops, so far from protecting the Cherokees, would cooperate with the civil officers of Georgia in enforcing their laws upon them: a copy of which notice is also hereto annexed as part of the bill.

Under these circumstances, your honors cannot but see that, unless you shall interpose for their protection, these complainants have before them no alternatives but these: either to surrender their lands in exchange for others in the western wilds of this continent, which would be to seal, at once, the doom of their civilization, Christianity, and national existence; or to surrender their national sovereignty, their property, rights,and liberties guaranteed as these now are by so many treaties, to the rapacity and injustice of the State of Georgia: or to arm themselves in defence of these sacred rights, and fall sword in hand on the graves of their fathers. How far either of these catastrophes would redound to the honor and good faith of the United States, these complainants willingly submit to the arbitrament of this enlightened and honorable court.- That these proceedings of the State of Georgia are wholly inconsistent with equity and good conscience, and tend to the manifest wrong and oppression of these complainants, and that they are equally violative of the good faith of those treaties to which she is herself a party, as well as of the constitution  and laws of the United States, these complainants fearlessly allege; that the wrongs with which they are menaced are of a character wholly irremediable by the common law: and that these complainants are wholly without remedy of any kind, except by the interposition of this honorable court, they have as little hesitation in averring.

But they are advised this honorable court does possess the power to interpose in their behalf. They beg leave, humbly and respectfully, to suggest, that by the constitution and laws of the United States, original jurisdiction is conferred on this court in controversies between a State and a foreign State, without any restriction as to the nature of the controversy; and the policy of the provision manifestly contemplates every case in which the claims or conduct of a single State towards a foreign State may jeopard the peace, safety and good faith of the United States; in all which it is essential that the controversy should be drawn to the forum of the nation, instead of being decided by the prejudiced tribunals of the litigant State. By the same Constitution it is provided, that that Constitution and the laws of the U. States, which shall be made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land and that the judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution or laws of any State to the contrary, notwithstanding. Under which last provision your complainants are advised that your honors have, on various occasions, decided that laws of particular States were unconstitutional and void, on the ground of being repugnant to the constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States.

That your complainants are a foreign state is not only evident by the only test which can be properly applied to such a question, the test of allegiance but has been again and again and still is unequivocally admitted by the United States, by the fact of their being acknowledged and treated with, in that character by the properly constituted authorities of the United States.

They bring before your honors a question of property and of personal as well as national rights, involving liberty and life, dependent for their ascertainment, on the construction of these treaties which have been declared to be the supreme law of the land.

They allege that laws have been passed by the state of Georgia, in violation of those treaties, as well as the constitution and laws of the United States by which the property and rights of these complainants have been wrongfully invaded and are still threatened with perpetual and irremediable invasion and final destruction.

They humbly and respectfully claim from your honors, in the exercise of your high judicial functions, that these laws of Georgia may be declared to be void, and their execution perpetually enjoined, because they are repugnant to those treaties and to the constitution and laws of the United States; because, being thus repugnant they violate those compacts to which the state of Georgia is herself a party; because they tend to the utter destruction of the property and dearest rights of your complainants, which stand protected by these treaties, and because they tend to compromit the peace, safety, and honor of the United States, for the preservation of which the treaties constitution, and laws of the United States were manifestly placed under the judicial guardianship of this high and honorable court, by the constitutional declaration, that they should be the supreme laws of the land, anything in the constitution or laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding.

Your complainants show farther unto your honors, that John Ross is the principal chief or executive head of the Cherokee Nation; and that, in a full ' regular council of that nation, he has been duly authorized to institute this, and all other suits which may become necessary for the assertion of the rights of the entire nation; as will appear by a copy of the legislative resolution made in the premises, and hereto annexed as part of this bill.

In tender consideration of all which, inasmuch as your complainants are wholly remediless in the premises, except by the interference of this honorable court; to the end, therefore, that the said State of Georgia, one of the United States of America, may be made defendant hereto, with apt words to charge her as such ' that, she may by proper officers, according to the established form of proceeding in this court, in like cases, true, fill, and perfect answer make to all and singular the promises, as fully and particularly as if the same were herein again especially repeated, and they thereto particularly interrogated; that the said State of Georgia, her governor, attorney general, judges, magistrates, sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, constables and all her officers, agents, and servants, civil ' military, may be enjoined and prohibited form executing the laws of that State within the boundary of the Cherokee territory as prescribed by the treaties now subsisting between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, or interfering in any manner with the rights of self government possessed by the Cherokee Nation within the limits of their territory, as defined by treaty: that the two laws of Georgia before mentioned as having been passed in the years 1828 and 1829 may by the decree, of this honorable court be declared unconstitutional and void; and that the State of Georgia, and all her officers, agents, and servants may be forever enjoined from interfering with the lands, mines, and other property, real and personal, of the Cherokee Nation, or with the persons of the Cherokee people for an account of anything done by them within the limits of the Cherokee territory: that the pretended right of the State of Georgia to the possession, government, or control of the lands, mines and other property of the Cherokee Nation, within their territory may, by this honorable court, be declared to be unfounded and void, and that the Cherokees may be left in the undisturbed possession, use, and enjoyment of the same, according to their own sovereign right and pleasure, and their own laws, usages, and customs, free from any hindrance, molestation, or interruption by the State of Georgia, her officers, agents, and servants; that these complainants may be quieted in the possession of all their rights, privileges, and immunities, under the various treaties with the United States; and that they may have such other and farther relief as this honorable court may deem consistent with equity and good conscience, and as the nature of their case may require.

May it please the Court to grant to your complainants the United States' most gracious writs of subpoena and injunction, commanding enjoining, 'c 'c., and these complainants, in duty bound, will ever pray, 'c. 'c.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






RUNNING WATERS,

17th May, 1831

Mr. BOUDINOTT,

Sir.- In your paper of the 14th inst. the following statement has come under my notice- 'The Cherokee Delegation waited on the President soon after the decision of the Supreme Court, and wished to know if he was angry with them. The President replied, no- he was sorry for them- that they had been deluded by their friends- the Delegation then asked the President if the Cherokees should be disposed to treat on what terms would the President meet them.- The President informed them that he was willing to treat on the same terms with the Choctaws, and no other.'

You have quoted this from the 'Savannah Georgian,' who obtained it from the Editor of the 'Rural Cabinet,' and he from 'a gentleman recently from Washington.' This scrap, unsupported as it is by a responsible name, deserves not my notice, and should go uncontradicted for Georgia news, what it was worth in that State: But as my fellow citizens, who are deservedly jealous of their rights, may attach some consequence to it, I beg permission to say to them, that the statement in regard to the conversation about a treaty and the basis of it is destitute  of foundation.  Aware of the duty we owed to the dignity of the Cherokee Nation and our own individual reputation, the language used by us in the conversation we had with the President at our parting interview was not of a character from which the President could deduce inferences of desponding humiliation in the minds of the Delegation-we felt none, and therefore could not exhibit any- sooner than ask the President if he was angry with me,  I would cut my tongue out of my mouth--I could not, unless the independence of my mind had been metamorphosed to the minds of his palace slaves.

The President did talk earnestly, with an uplifted hand, of his friendship to the Cherokees and his disposition to do them good--and also mentioned that he had just read in the Richmond Enquirer, that the Choctaw and Chickasaw exploring parties had returned and were well satisfied with the new country-he had recommended the Chickasaws to look at it for themselves, because he knew it was a good country. I asked him to what extent the United States traders were allowed to traffic among the Choctaws and Chickasaws in that country, and whether their number was to be limited at the discretion of the United States, or the will of those tribes? He observed that their number would be reduced at their option. 'I am glad to see you,' said the President, 'particularly at this time.  I know or I thought I knew that your claims before the Supreme Court could not be supported. The Court has sustained my views in regard to your nation.' This conversation was on the next morning after the decision of the Court, and as we had the only copy, kindly furnished us Mr. Peters, from the original, extant, we were somewhat surprised to hear him say, that he had been sustained by the Court, and as the opinion, as we understood it, acknowledged our rights, and were in opposition to his politics. However, he went on---'I blame you for suffering your lawyers to fleece you--they want your money, and will make you promises even after this, perhaps, that they can make you safe. I have been a lawyer myself long enough to know how lawyers will talk to obtain their clients' money.' The delegation here observed in reply, 'as a statesman and a warrior, we do not believe you would blame the Cherokees for the efforts they have made to maintain their rights for liberty before the proper tribunals, and if they have expended money in the support of their national rights, it was agreeable to their own inclination.' 'Oh, no' he answered, 'don't mistake me, I do not blame you, but I blame you for suffering the lawyers to fleece you- I am the friend of the Cherokees, they fought with me in the war ' freely shed their blood with the blood of my soldiers in defending the United States ' how could I be otherwise than their friend.' Something was now here said, on the part of the Delegation, of their abstract rights of justice, and that the Constitution of the United States and the States were made without the agreement of the Cherokees, with design to say something on the denial of the Court to grant an injunction, but the President here commenced to talk of the British treaty of 1783, and then continued to contrast the condition of the Catawbas to what they were, when he was a young man- then they were warlike and fought the Cherokees- 'At one time they took some of the Cherokee warriors prisoners, threw them in the fire ' when their intestines were barbecued, ate them-now they were poor and miserable, and reduced in numbers, and such will be the condition of the Cherokees, if they remain surrounded by the white people.' Mr. Wild, M.C. from Georgia was announced: and admitted, and the Delegation not desiring to be present in the drawing room of the President with a Georgian now rose to depart, and told him they had merely come in to pay the President their parting respects and they took him by the hand.  Mr. Taylor was the last who shook hands with him. Mr. Wild then being in the room, Gen. Jackson held his hand some time and shook it, and told him to tell the Cherokees at his return what he said--that he was their friend--' You can live on your lands in Georgia if you choose, but I cannot interfere with the laws of that state to protect you.'

I am, dear cousin,

Yours Respectfully,

JOHN RIDGE.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






Destruction of the Ga. Penitentiary by Fire.-- On Monday night last, a few minutes after 9 o'clock, fire was discovered to issue from the roof of the work-shops forming part of the Penitentiary Edifice, and in spite of all the exertions of those having charge of the Institution, aided by the citizens of the town, the flame spread rapidly to the main building and the whole was burnt, together with the wooden house in the yard, and the county Jail, about 60 yards off. The county Court-house was saved with much difficulty, and although the wind was light, the fire caught some houses at the distance of three hundred yards.- The light of this great conflagration was distinctly seen at Eatonton, twenty miles from this place. None of the prisoners escaped, or were burnt-all the books and papers of the Institution were saved. The loss in manufactured articles, raw materials, tools, 'c, may amount to eight or ten thousand dollars.- Temporary arrangements are making for the shelter of the convicts, who are kept at labor within the high brick wall that encompassed the building, and secured at night by being hand-cuffed and strictly guarded. In a short time a part of the cells, the construction of which was directed by the last Legislature, will be in readiness for their reception.

The buildings destroyed cost the State, we believe, upwards of an hundred thousand dollars, but the construction was very bad, and if the system of punishing crimes by Penitentiary imprisonment shall be persevered in, of which there may be some doubt, the demolition of an edifice so unsuitable to the purpose, will scarcely be a public loss. It is not doubted but the fire was communicated by some of the convicts--as yet, however, no discovery has been made that will fix it on any one of them. In the general confusion and anxiety to secure the convicts, a prisoner in the county Jail, of the name of Wilkinson, charged with robbery of the public mail, of which he had been the carrier, made his escape.

Southern Recorder.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS

From the Saturday Evening Post.

The Cherokees.--The National Gazette of this city, having expressed an apprehension that the unsuccessful appeal of the Cherokees to the Supreme Court of the United States might lead them to commit some violence, the subject has been adverted to by the editor of the Cherokee Phoenix, who in concluding a long article on the oppressions which the Indians are suffering under, says:- 'We hope the fears of the editor of the National Gazette will never be realized. The Cherokees are for peace-they have been in amity with the United States for the last forty years-they have been her faithful allies in time of war--they have buried the hatchet long since, and given their word that the blood of the white man shall not stain their hands. Why should they now fly to rash and unavailable measures, to vindicate their injured rights? They will not, at least we think they will not, and such is our advice. It is more blessed to suffer than to be the oppressors.--It is more blessed to lose than to gain by unrighteous means. If the white man must oppress us--it he must have the land, and throw us penniless upon the wide world, and if our cries and expostulations will avail nothing at the door of those who have promised to be our guardians and protectors, let it be so. We are in the path of duty, and the Judge of all the earth will vindicate our cause in his own way, and in his own good time.'

These remarks are dictated by sound sense.--Were the Cherokees to resist the oppressions of Georgia, the melancholy struggle would be brief and fruitless. It is better for them to leave the result to an overruling Providence, for he looks upon his red children with an eye of compassion, and will no more tolerate injustice in the 'pale faces' than he will cruelty from their hands. History furnishes many examples of the just retribution of Heaven overtaking and punishing a nation for its iniquities, and it is useless to imagine that we shall be an exception. Crime and injustice will certainly receive their reward in due season, no matter whose hand it is that is raised against his neighbor, or whose ear that is deaf to the calls of suffering innocence.

Injustice and oppression come with an ill grace from this confederation. We know what it is to bear with the despotism of the oppressor--we have felt the galling chain of tyranny--been encumbered with grievance until death was preferable to sustaining the load and we struggled to cast it off. Our cause was a righteous one, and we succeeded. The standard of LIBERTY was upreared and our country was offered as an asylum for the oppressed of all nations. But now, prosperity has made us proud-we have forgotten the writhing of slavery, for the wounds are long since healed; and we impose on those whose lands we now occupy, with equally as much injustice and tyranny, as was put upon our fathers by the unrighteous taskmasters of Great Britain.  Verily, the day of retribution will come.

No man feeling, can look upon the gradual extermination of the once numerous Aborigines of this country, without pain and regret. In the language of the National Gazette, the Indians experience a fate like that of Neobe's children-they seem destined to perish by inevitable cause, visible or invisible. From one course or other, fatal shafts are constantly sped by which they are immediately destroyed, or driven into some field of gradual extermination. They can no longer escape the withering contact or ruthless cupidity of what is called civilization:- this tide, as it is also styled, follows them as the waters of the deluge rose upon the fugitives to the mountains.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






PROSPECTS OF THE CHOCTAWS.

The Rev. Cyrus Kingsbury, in a letter to the editors of the N. Y. Observer, dated Mayhew, Choctaw country, April 11th says:

Our long suspense respecting the fate of the Choctaw Treaty has yielded to a certainty, which has brought with it no measure of comfort. Before the news of the ratification arrived, a strong hope was indulged that it would not be confirmed. A delegation which had been sent by order of the Secretary of War to explore the country in the length-and the breadth of it, and which returned about the first of March, brought back a different report from the one first received. It now appears that the proportion of land suitable for agriculture in the new country is small--some, who ought to be good judges say not more than sufficient for one of the Districts.  Those who are able will select the best places, and the rest must be satisfied with such as they can get. The Choctaws requested permission to explore the new country before the treaty was concluded, but this privilege could not be granted them. Whatever the consequences may be to them, they must now submit. Notwithstanding, the arbitrary and oppressive manner in which their country has been wrested from them, we hear no angry reproaches against those who have been the occasion of it. At least this is true of that portion of the Choctaws who have been brought under the influence of the Gospel. A deeply pensive sadness is manifest in their countenances, while at the same time it is evident they mean to exercise all the fortitude and submission of which they are capable. But in spite of all their efforts, many of them, and especially mothers, with large families of little children, cannot converse on the subject of removing without being deeply affected. An aged man, a member of our church and who would be respected by respectable people in any society, and who has been all over their country west of the Mississippi, told me last week, that 'he looked for no good when he went there.'  Some are determined at all events to stay where they are.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA, MAY 28, 1831

THE LATE JEREMIAH EVARTS ESQ.

In another part of our paper we have copied from the Charleston Observer an account of the death and last moments of this truly worthy man. Mr. Evarts was well known in this nation as an able and persevering advocate of the Indians. His Essays on 'The Present Crisis in the Condition of the American Indians' are a sufficient evidence of the ability with which he defended the injured rights of the Cherokees. He is now gone to receive the reward reserved for the righteous. He died as he had lived, a truly great and good man.

_________________________

POST OFFICE REFORM.

Who would have thought?--but so it is--The searching operation of the Government has penetrated into the wilderness! New Echota has fall (sic) under the proscription of Major Barry, the Post Master General. On last Monday our worthy P. Master, Rev. S. A. Worcester, who has given general satisfaction for the faithful and able manner in which he has discharged the duties of his office, was turned out, to make way for Wm. J. Tarvin, a trader who came into the nation under a license from the United States' Agent, according to the law of 1802, regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes, but who has since taken the oath of allegiance to Georgia, and is now selling spirituous liquor to the Indians against the express injunction of the law referred to above. The present administration must be Lynx-eyed if they can see from Washington 'public interest' suffering in these woods, and if they can 'promote' it in this manner. If the Post Master General had inquired of those who are interested in the management of the Post Office in this place, he would have learnt that they had a perfect confidence in the Gentleman whom he has turned out, and that the present incumbent would not have been recommended by them to that station. But no, it is the 'public interest' he is promoting, and he is doing it in a fine way.

_________________________

'In local appointments, it will be readily admitted, that public opinion in the particular town or district of country chiefly and directly concerned, ought to be consulted. As in the case of Post Masters for instance.'

This is a doctrine which the Nashville Republican, a leading supporter in Tennessee, of the present administration, admits to be correct; and it is unquestionably correct. But has it been observed? So far as one appointment has come under our immediate notice, it has been most palpably violated. In the case of the Post Office at this place the opinion of those chiefly and directly concerned has been most shamefully disregarded. We can think of no individual within twenty miles round who would have desired the change which has taken place, much less asked for it. We are even told that the place has not been solicited by Mr. Tarvin.  If it is so, we presume we are indebted to our friends in Georgia, who live a hundred miles off, for this striking evidence of the tender regard which the present reforming administration entertains towards us.

It is surmised by some that the object in removing Mr. Worcester from the Post Office is to make way for his arrest. This we think is not at all improbable. We shall however, soon know the true state of the case.

________________________

It may not be known to our readers that there are many white families in the nation especially along the frontier, who have been authorized to reside in it if on taking the oath of allegiance to Georgia.  They are admitted in the same manner as those who have Cherokee families, through the Governor's agent. This is what we would call legalized intrusion, ' perhaps it may in some measure assist the reader to understand the expression of the President, 'Intruders SHALL be turned out.' What protection have the Cherokees from intrusion if it is to be systematically and legally conducted? None at all. If Georgia has a right to bring in one family, she has an equal right to bring in enough to fill the whole country. All these proceedings sufficiently prove that notwithstanding the former declarations of the President, he has given the reins to Georgia, and that he is prepared to let her go all lengths. It is generally understood in Georgia, on the subject of taxing possessions of the Cherokee country, that he will make no opposition, but permit the state to do as she pleases. It is said by some that this understanding is derived directly from him, and a great confidence is _____ upon this that the next legislature will forcibly possess the country.

______________________

A few days ago three Cherokees were arrested by the Georgia Guard in Hightower on the charge of digging gold. Some say that they were taken only upon suspicion, the guard having found them selling some of the glittering stuff in a store.

_____________________________

The following resolutions were adopted at a meeting held last Saturday at this place for the purpose of signing a protest against the distribution of the annuity as contemplated by the President.  By the by, this project of paying the nation's money to individuals will cost the government no small trouble, and we seriously question whether President Jackson will succeed in this as well as he has in other Indian matters.  Of this he may be sure, a vast majority of the Cherokee people will not touch a cent of this money when offered to them according to the proposed plan. All the heads of families have protested against it and requested the Agent to pay to the Treasurer as usual. The President had better abandon the project-it is but a little business for him. But to the resolutions.

Whereas, it is incumbent upon us, as citizens of the Cherokee Nation, individually and collectively, to express to the people o f the United States our views in relation to the proceedings of the executive of the General Government towards our people, and the arbitrary course of the state of Georgia in its assumption of jurisdiction over the Cherokees, having for its primary object, the extinction of the Cherokee Nation as a distinct political community, it is therefore resolved by this meeting-

1. That in recurrence to numerous treaties into which the United States have entered with the Cherokees, the United States, by treating with them in their Nations capacity have recognized the right of the Cherokee Nation to 'Govern itself,' 'to manage its own affairs' and to exercise powers as a sovereign state-consequently, Georgia, being a component part of the United States, exercising jurisdiction over the Cherokees for the purpose of Governing them with its laws is a flagrant violation of, and in direct opposition to the promises for our protection stipulated in said treaties.

2. That the Cherokees possess a two-fold right to this territory, natural and conventional- the former by immemorial occupancy-the latter, by treaty guaranties of the United States; and that the establishment of a military station by the state of Georgia within our acknowledged boundaries, for the purpose of arresting our civil officers, confining them in jails, and for the purpose of forcibly taking possession of our gold mines, is an invasion upon our territory; which the treaty of the 27th Feb. 1819 had secured and reserved to the Cherokees.

3. That the survey of our territory, authorized by the late law, of Georgia, into sectional districts, and now on the eve of completion, is a violation of law of the U. States, enacted in 1802, forbidding citizens of the United States, under severe penalties, from entering into the Indian territories for the purpose of surveying or marking trees; That this law, being incorporated into the treaty of 1819, in order to afford to the Cherokees permanent protection as intended by the parties to said treaty, has been unconstitutionally and to the injury of the people of this Nation suspended by the present Chief Magistrate.

4. That although the Supreme Court of the United States has refused to grant a bill of injunction as prayed for by the Cherokee Nation, and although it cannot redress the past or future wrongs of the Cherokee Nation, yet, it is the opinion of this meeting; that so much of the opinion of said Court, as has touched upon the great point of controversy between the state of Georgia and the Cherokee Nation, is in favor of the latter; that if the Cherokees are a state, a distinct political society, separated from others capable of managing its own affairs and Governing itself, it follows that they are not subject to the laws of Georgia, and that the assumption of jurisdiction by that state over the Cherokee territory is an exercise of arbitrary power, in open violation of the supreme law of the land, interpreted ' pronounced by the highest Judicial tribunal of the Union.

5. That the above decision of the Supreme Court, namely, 'that the Cherokees are a state' 'c is binding on the President, who is to 'take care that the laws be faithfully executed' and on the people of the United States; therefore we claim, as a state, the protection of this great Republic, and call upon the good citizens thereof to use every lawful and constitutional effort, through their representatives and Chief Magistrate, to give effect to the points decided by the Supreme Court, to revive the force of treaties, to protect the liberties of the Cherokee people, and to save them from intolerable oppression.

6. That we cordially approve of the resolution, adopted at a large meeting of Cherokee Citizens at Running Waters, of which Thomas Woodard was president and Andrew Adair and S. Watie Secretaries.

Resolved, that the foregoing resolutions be presented to the Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix for publication, and that editors friendly to the cause of the Cherokees be respectfully requested to copy them into their papers.

Resolved, that the proceedings of this meeting abe signed by the President and Vice Presidents, and attested by the Secretaries.

A. MC.COY President

GEORGE HICKS, }

KAETEHEE, }     Vice

THOS. MURPHY, } Presidents.

TEKINY MURPHY }

PIGEON,            }

JNO. CANDY, }   Secretaries

ELIJAH HICKS, }

New Echota, Cherokee Nation May 21, 1831.

__________________________

CHEROKEE NATION,

18th May, 1831

MR. BOUDINOTT,

Sir,-- A Cherokee of respectability and veracity, has recently returned from Arkansas, and from the Cherokee Nation, west of the Mississippi. Elections for members of the Cherokee Legislature had taken place, which resulted in the election of Joseph Vann, President of the Committee,--Andrew Vann, Alexander Sanders, members of Committee,--Richard Rowe of the House of Representatives, and Edward Hicks clerk of the Committee. You will perceive that the above are all late emigrants from this nation. The civilization and degree of improvement in that tribe, who have taken their abode in that distant country must certainly not be as far advanced as the advocates of Indian emigration would have us to believe, if those who came from the east are considered by them more capable of managing their affairs. The famous Governor Samuel Houston, late of Tennessee, who deserted an amiable and accomplished lady of that state to associate with the Indians, in the wilds of the west, was also a candidate for a seat in the Indian Council, but was defeated and lost his election, which exasperated him so much, that he has abandoned his Indian wife, among them, and has signified his intention to banish himself to the Choctaw nation. This Gentleman, who traces his way to darker shades of the wilderness and paganism, had the assurance to deliver a speech in the City of New York before the Indian Board, against the civilization of our Nation, and was also active before the Congress which passed the Indian Bill in his misrepresenting our conditions, and declared this opinion that nothing could save our Nation from (his asserted) moral degradation but an emigration to the west. How soon false witnesses fall even in their chosen retreats, for 'truth is mighty and will prevail'!

I. S.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






VARIETY

From the Charleston Observer

THE LATE JEREMIAH EVARTS, ESQ.

Something more is due to the memory of the late Corresponding Secretary of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, than a mere notice of his death. The space which he occupied in the confidence of the churches- the zeal with which he had devoted his time, his talents, and his possessions to the cause of Missions,--and the success which crowned his efforts, and exhibited the results of a disciplined penetrating and practical mind, together whatever other strong, lovely and interesting traits of character for which he was distinguished--all unite in calling for a Biographical Sketch embracing the principal incidents of his life, especially as it has been, for more than twenty years, intimately interwoven with the history of Christian Missions.

Mr. Evarts was a graduate of Yale College, and held a rank for scholarship inferior to none in his class. He then pursued the study of the law-was admitted to the bar, and bade fair to take the lead in his lucrative and honorable profession.  But having early given himself to Christ, he was led often to enquire, as did the Apostle, 'Lord, what wilt thou have me do?' Nor was it long before he was shown that God had chosen him for a different employment.  If we mistake not, it was very soon after the formation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, that Mr. Evarts was invited to remove from New Haven to Boston to manage the fiscal concerns of that infant institution, and for this work his talents were admirably adapted. He gave up the honor that cometh from men, and he relinquished the prospect of worldly advancement for the cause of Christ. After the death of Dr. Worcester, the Corresponding Secretary of the Board, in 1821, Mr. Evarts was elected to succeed him; in this situation, he has done more, perhaps, than any other man in the country, daring the same time, in promoting the kingdom of the Redeemer. But the principal object which we have in view, is to give a brief sketch of his Christian character, as exhibited to the last trying crisis.

Mr. Evarts arrived in this city on Tuesday, the 3d of May, in one of the steamboats from Savannah, and was cordially welcomed at the house of the Rev. Dr. Palmer. He appeared very much exhausted, and retired immediately to rest. Medical attendance was soon procured; but nothing could be done in his case, except to mitigate the violence of his disease. On Wednesday night his rest was composed; but on Thursday his debility increased and became alarming; and on Friday, as there was no improvement, another physician was called in for consultation.  That day had been set apart by the Circular Church for fasting, humiliation, and prayer, in view of an approaching Sacramental Sabbath. Immediately after morning service, at the request of Mr. E. several Ministers met in his chamber, when though exceedingly weak and prostrate, he addressed them, and remarked that he knew his case to be extremely critical--that he found it pleasant to be in the hands of God, who would do all things well--that he had no painful solicitude as to the result of his sickness, but thought it his duty to use every means for his recovery. He then requested an interest in their special and united prayers:- 1st. That if consistent with God's will he might recover: 2dly. That he might have a sweet sense of pardoned sin and an unshaken confidence in the Saviour. 3dly That if God should spare his life, he might be wholly

and entirely the Lord's-consecrated to his service- and 4thly.  That if it should please God to remove him by this sickness, he might be able to glorify him on a bed of languishing and pain, and that His precious cause might be promoted by his death. He then expressed a firm and abiding hope in the Lord Jesus, and seemed like a little child, sweetly reclining on the arm of its faithful protector. By this effort, he was so much exhausted, that, at his request, the Ministers retired to another apartment for special prayer.  An anodyne was administered, and he spent a comfortable night.

Saturday, there was no material change in his symptoms. Still, however, he was more feeble, and his pains returned with violence.  Saturday evening, he remarked, 'tomorrow is the rest of the Holy Sabbath. I may be in eternity before it arrives. My mind is so weak, I cannot pursue a train of thought, but I bless God, it is tranquil. Not my will, but thine, O God, be done.' To one who remarked, we hardly know how to spare you from the Missionary cause: he said, 'don't mention it, don't mention it-the Lord knows best.' After taking a little gruel, he said, 'I shall require but little more nourishment in this world. My work is almost done-Jesus reigns-Blessed be he-I wish to lie as a penitent sinner at the foot of the cross.' About nine o'clock breathed out a short but comprehensive prayer in interrupted and broken petitions, making, at its close, a full and entire surrender of body and soul into the Redeemer's hands, and said, 'O dear Saviour, if this is the last night I have to pray on earth, let my unworthy prayer be exchanged for praise in thy kingdom above, Amen. Amen.'  Speaking of his family, he said, 'I pity them, but God is a faithful God, he will take care of them-He will take care of them, that is enough.' On being asked if he had any particular message to send them, he said, 'Give them my love, my dying love ' the Lord reigns.'  Anodyne was again administered, and his rest was composed.

In the morning his appearance was greatly changed, and during the day he was gradually sinking, yet he conversed considerably. To a young professor of religion who was in attendance, he said,'You have professed religion while young; so did I. I rejoice in it. All I have to say to you is, endeavor to aim at great attainments.  The present age demands great things of Christians. Be not satisfied with being half a Christian. Be entirely consecrated to His service. There are some things I could do if Providence wills that I should get better, but I have no will of my own. I can rejoice that I am in the hands of the Lord. My mind is perfectly clear.' To several young Christians, he said, 'I feel a great interest in young Christians. I want to exhort you to help each other. Live near to God. Be bold in His service. It is the only thing worth being bold in. Do not be afraid. He then laid his head back upon the pillow and gave them his hand. At 6 in the evening, was free from pain, conversed with his nurse. He then called for his Testament, selected the 13th chapter of the 1st Corinthians, and requested a friend to read it. After which he spent some time in silent meditation. Dr. Leland came in, and Mr. E. conversed with him with great interest, and in the course of his remarks, said 'I have given myself all away.' This is the land of Beulah, said Dr. L. is it not? 'I think it would be,' he replied, 'if I had strength to contemplate it.  I cannot converse much; but although I feel for my family, I am waiting to go. I have committed them all to God. He spoke with strong feeling of his son John, said, 'he rejoiced that he had come boldly and decidedly for the Lord.'

The next morning, the 10th, his symptoms of approaching dissolution appeared to increase. Dr. Palmer asked him, if he felt that he was near home; 'Yes, yes' was his reply. Is your mind comfortable? He bowed assent. After a little while, he requested some nourishment-then called the family together, mentioned M--in particular, who had been sick the night before, and asked a female friend, how long she thought he had to live. She replied that the question could not be determined; but that death appeared to be near. He said in reply, 'The will of the Lord be done. Attend now to what I say, as to the words of a dying man. To my dearly beloved wife, to my beloved daughter Mary, to my beloved son-in-law Green, to my beloved daughter Martha, to my beloved son John, to my beloved son William, to my beloved sister Washburn, to my beloved brother in Vermont, to my other beloved sister in Vermont, to all my relations and friends, grace, mercy and peace in the Lord Jesus Christ, by whom alone they and I can hope to be saved; and I wish, in these dying words to recognize the great Redeemer as the Saviour from sin and hell; able and willing to save all that come unto God by Him. To Him I commend my spirit, as to an all sufficient Saviour. He is the great champion and conqueror of death and hell.  And I recognize the Great Spirit of God, as the renovator of God's elect, and herein, if I gather strength, I wish to recognize, and acknowledge the Church of God, containing all who have truly dedicated themselves to Him, in a new and everlasting covenant, and here permit me a poor unworthy worm of the dust, to give thanks to many of the children of God from whom I have received confidence, kindness and favor, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ;-And one more duty;- Brother P. if any respect I have offended the children of God, I ask their forgiveness. If I have grieved them by impatience, or in any other way, I ask their forgiveness. And what I shall say now? If you think of anything, tell me. Have I spoken intelligibly' giving his hand to Mrs. Wright of the Choctaw Mission who was present;-he said- 'Sister Harriet, have I spoken intelligibly' If I have not, I am ready to give any explanation.'  Being then exhausted, he said, 'If the Lord give me more strength, I will speak again.'

About two hours after the Rev. Mr. Osborn, asked him if he recognized him. 'I think I do,- brother Osborn' Mr. O. asked, is your mind in a happy state? With great emphasis, he replied, 'It is.' Is Christ precious to you? 'He is.'  He does not fail you? 'He does not fail me?' Jesus can make a dying bed feel, 'c.--do you realize this to be true? 'Yes, Yes.' Have you anything to say to the Missionaries-any message? He said, 'O yes, O yes; but I am afraid, I shall make distinction-don't let me make distinctions.' No, was the reply--all Missionaries. Does not the Missionary cause appear more precious and important than ever? After a considerable pause, and with much expression of countenance, and emphasis of manner, he said, 'You have called me back to the world.' With the view of again fixing his thoughts on heaven. Mr. said, you can say 'for me to die is gain.' 'Yes, yes.' That subject suits you better, does it? 'Oh yes, O yes' Can you realize the following words-

'The world recedes, it disappears,

'Heaven opens to my view.'

'Not strongly'- but heavenly things are in your mind? 'Yes'--but added he with characteristic energy and force, 'Look here, see here, if I am required to give intelligible answers, I must be prepared; I am in great pain.'

About one in the afternoon, a female friend said to him, if you feel Jesus near in this trying moment, raise your hand--and he raised it; do you know me? Yes, and called her by name. ' What o'clock is it?' It is one. 'One o'clock, on Tuesday,' he replied--After this he requested to be alone., He had seasons of pain, and very laborious breathing--was restless and required to be moved frequently.  About nine o'clock in the evening, expecting that his time was come, he requested to be laid in the position suitable for that occasion. But in about quarter of an hour, he had a short return of violent pain, and when nearly exhausted, he said, 'dear, dear, dear'--a friend said Jesus-- Yes, yes, dear Jesus.' It was added--while on his breast I lean my head, and breathe my life out sweetly there.  When he burst forth with expressions of rapture which cannot be described- 'Praise him, praise him, praise him in a way which you know not of.' It was said, you will soon see Jesus, as he is, and you will then know how to praise Him. 'Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful glory. I will praise him, I will praise him. Who are in the room?' Dr. and Mrs P. and a Christian brother. 'Call all in--call all--let a great many come--I wish to give directions--wonderful--glory--Jesus reigns.' All the members of the family were called, but before they could be assembled, he sank down exhausted, and scarcely spoke again. He continued to breath free from any further paroxysm of pain until a quarter before eleven o'clock, when he fell asleep in Jesus.

Such is an imperfect sketch of an eminent servant of Christ, as he approached the gate of death. He referred everything to the will of heaven, and as he bade adieu to this world of trial and of sin, he reposed upon the arm of a covenant keeping God, with a hope full of immortality.

The body of Mr.E. at his request, was examined by his attending physician, and the result proved that his disease was a chronic pulmonary consumption. All the viscera, except the lungs, were perfectly sound. The lungs were almost completely decayed.

His funeral service was attended the following afternoon, and addresses were delivered by Drs. Palmer, and McDowell.  His remains are sent to his family in Boston.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






'THE INDIAN BUSINESS.'

We intended to copy a paragraph which we find in the columns of a contemporary under the above bill, but the low ribaldry of the article entitles it to nothing by contempt. The moral sense of any man who can stoop to cast reproach by such means upon these suffering and oppressed people and upon whose who have stepped forward as their advocates against high handed oppression and rank injustice must be miserably depraved. There are but few, thank God, in this state or in any other, where the people are not familiarized to oppression and slavery, who do not condemn the faithless and unjust policy which has been pursued towards these weak and defenseless people.

It is said the court have decided 'that Gen. Jackson is right in his construction of the laws and treaties.'  That Georgia is right in 'exercising jurisdiction over the Indians.'--'and that the Supreme Court cannot interfere with the courts of Georgia relating to the Indians.'  This is all untrue. No such decision has been made. The only question decided was that the Indians cannot as a nation bring an original suit or action in the Supreme Court of the United States. But so long as the law of Congress stands, which expressly provides that all causes in which the validity of any treaty or law of Congress, or any right claimed under a treaty or law of Congress shall be decided against, may be carried before the Supreme Court of the Union from the state courts, by appeal or writ of error, so long will the Indians have a clear and perfect right to bring their cause before this tribunal. In the justice of the Indian cause we rest with undiminished confidence; and that the Supreme Court will sustain their cause when properly brought before it, we doubt not. Even now, the men who have countenanced and advised these measures of oppression and tyranny are bowing before the scorn of the people of the United States, and shrinking into merited contempt.

Hamilton Intelligencer.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NOTICE

ALL persons indebted to Skaryougar late of this District, deceased, are hereby notified that payment is required by me within twelve months from this date, agreeably to the laws of this nation-also all persons who have claims upon the estate of the deceased are required to present them to me within the above specified period for settlement.

ISAAC BUSHYHEAD,

Administrator.

Ahmohee Dis't. C. N. May 13th 1831

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














INDIANS.

JUDICIAL VOICE OF TENNESSEE.

From Pecks Reports.

SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE

HOLLAND VS. ELIZABETH PACK.

An Indian residing within the bounds of the Cherokee country beyond the treaty line, is not subject to be sued under our laws, for any default as an innkeeper, being governed by the laws of her own nation.

A count in the declaration for the loss of a horse put into her care as an innkeeper, cannot be joined with a count in assumpsit. The defect will not be cured by pleading to each count an appropriate plea, if the jury find upon the whole case.

The objection will lie on demurrer, in arrest of judgement or writ of error.

Haywood, Judge, delivered the opinion of the Court.

Action against her as an innkeeper for the loss of a horse put into her care as such, and another count in assumpsit, for the value of the horse; pleaded not guilty to the first count., and non assumpsit to the latter. The jury find the issue for the plaintiff.  Appeal in the nature of a writ of error from the circuit court of Marion County to this court; errors assigned, misjoinder in action and that the court ought to have granted a new trial.

The court will now proceed to examine the case upon the evidence offered in the record, which shows that the cause of action arose within the limits of the Cherokee territory. The evidence is, that in 1815, plaintiff came to the house of the defendant, put up as a guest at her house, and that in the morning his horse, which he had put in her care, could not be found. Plaintiff proved further, that in 1819 she lived with her mother at a place caller Lowry's Place, which was reserved to Lowry by the treaty of 1817 and there acted as assistant housekeeper. The object of the plaintiff was to show that this was the place or public house at which his horse was lost. The treaty of 1817, shows that this place being reserved by that treaty for Lowry, in 1817, was in the Cherokee country up to that time.

Before coming to the principal point, I would briefly remark, that if in 1815 this place, at which she lived in 1819, was not the place of her residence, but some other, then, there is no proof that this other was kept by her as a public house, and then this action, which is founded upon that supposition, wholly fails. If the place where she lived in 1819 was the same place at which she lived in 1815, that we are informed by a public treaty which is the supreme law of the nation, was in the Cherokee territory. And then the main question is, whether the cause of action arising there, be governable by the law of the Cherokee Nation, or by the law of Tennessee; for if by the former, then the action should have been maintained upon evidence showing what that law is that makes her a public innkeeper, or how far such innkeeper is liable to the plaintiff for a horse lost under the circumstances above stated.

The Cherokees, tho, living within the limits of Tennessee, and upon lands, the dominion of which belongs to this state, and having themselves only the usufruct thereof, are yet an independent nation, subject to laws both civil and criminal, made by themselves, for the regulation of their internal affairs and exterior relations; as an independent nation, war is declared, peace made and treaties entered into with the United States, and sometimes with other nations, under the authority of their own great council; though by the international law which the United States and the European nation, who have had possessions in America, have acknowledged, it has been latterly understood and sometimes openly avowed that it is unfriendly and to be complained of as disrespectful for any of those nations to make treaties with tribes living within the limits of its neighbors.

By these Indians, war, when lawfully declared, is conducted according to the forms and usages which themselves have established, and when made captives, they are treated as prisoners of war, and not as offenders against the laws of this state or of the United States.

If under those laws, an Indian be put to death on the Indian territory by another, under circumstances which, by the laws of this state, would make such homicide to be murder, the slayer is not punishable by the law of this state, though the fact were perpetrated within its limits, for he has acted agreeably to the law of his nation, and is in all other countries as much justified as he is by the law of his own nation.

In a late instance, one of the six nations and a chief of the nation, was indicted in a court of the state which included their territory, for inflicting the punishment of death upon an Indian belonging to his nation, for an offence not thus punishable by the law of the state, and he was discharged from the indictment, being not amenable to the law of the state for his conduct.

The law of retaliation is in the Cherokee Nation in full force, as much as it formerly was amongst the northern nations of Europe, who assigned by law, to the relations of the deceased the right  to revenge his death, or to commute it for a sum to be paid in lieu of its exercise; and as the laws of England even to this day, give to the widow or heir the right to appeal the slayer, of the death of her husband or ancestor.

If war be declared by the Cherokee Nation, and one of them kill one of the people against whom the war is declared =, he is not therefore subject to be punished as a criminal because he is acting under the authority and laws of his nation. He cannot, by carrying on war against us be treated as a traitor or rebel, and he is only subject to our law when he comes within the limits of the state and beyond the territories of his own nation.  There he is bound to its observance upon the same principles and in the same degree, as a Frenchman coming into the country would be. He impliedly undertakes, because of the protection that is given him, to be obedient to the laws which affords it, and like a Frenchman in his own country what ever cause of complaint begins there though sued for the same in the courts of this state or of England, his liability is measured by the law of his own country which has been made for the internal regulation of their own affairs.  A Frenchman living in France, whilst claimed by England as subject to its sovereignty, was always admitted by the English law to be liable for transactions in France according to the French laws, tho' sued for in an English court. Should an action, for instance, be commenced in an English court for the culpable neglect or omission of duty by a French innkeeper in his own country, the declaration could not allege the law of England as the standard of his right, but only as the means of enforcing it. And the plaintiff could only resort to the law of the French to determine the liability of the defendant, the legality of his own claim and the extent of the retribution to which he was legally entitled. Just so was it in all respects with any other and all other, independent nations, and of the Cherokees, as well as others.  Their laws must govern the transaction which happen within their own borders, and the legal claims which are founded upon them, in whatever court of other nations the satisfaction for an injury sustained may be demanded. This action is not founded upon their law, but the law of Tennessee, and there is no evidence in this record to show what the Cherokee law is, upon the facts detailed in the evidence given and spread upon this record. Therefore, the verdict and judgement is without foundation-

There is a misjoinder of counts also in the declaration, and that defect may be taken advantage of by demurrer, in arrest of judgement, or by writ of error. Therefore, as the first fault in pleading has occurred with the plaintiff in forming his declaration, and the objections being taken, should be allowed, altho, the defendant did not avail himself of the mistake at as early a period as he might, yet, where the first fault is, there does the law impute blame, and requires reformation and deems it on mitigation that the defendant has been in fault as well as the plaintiff.

Judgement must be reversed.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






The Cherokees.-We have received the Cherokee Phoenix, containing the opinion of the Supreme Court on the late case presented by the Cherokee Nation against the state of Georgia.--The decision is a lucid and satisfactory document, worthy of the distinguished talents of Chief Justice Marshall. The abstract which we gave some weeks since, from the National Intelligencer, affords a fair view of the argument. The friends of the Indians have generally agreed in regard to the soundness of the decision. Even the Indians themselves we apprehend from the editorial remarks in the Phoenix, will yield their assent to it. But this has nothing to do with the great question of the Indian rights, nor with the conduct of Georgia, nor with the obligations of the General Government. These questions were not brought into view in the motion before the Court, and of course could not be decided.  Still the administration prints exhibit the decision as a perfect refutation of the Cherokee claims, and a triumphant vindication of the sound policy of Andrew Jackson!

This we are aware, is becoming an old subject.  But, though old, we hope it will not be suffered to sleep. The enemies to the Indians are wide awake. Their measures of oppression are going forward with accelerated power, and soon it will be too late to arrest them. Let it not be true in this case as it is in most others that

'Injustice, swift, erect, and unconfined,

Sweeps the wide earth, and tramples o'er mankind,

While prayers to heal her woes move slow behind.'

Every day adds strength to the power of Georgia.  Her measures are pursued with unrelenting severity, while President Jackson and all his partizans look quietly on, affecting to deplore the evil, but unwilling to put forth a single effort to oppose it. Utica Gazette.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






MISSION OF THE AMERICAN BAPTIST BOARD OF FOREIGN MISSIONS AMONG THE CHEROKEES.

Mr. Jones the missionary at the Valley Towns, in a letter dated Dec. 6th, 1830 remarks-

In my last, I mentioned six, who had been baptized at different times. We have cause for renewed thanksgiving on account of the Lord's continued favors, in countenancing our feeble efforts, to spread the knowledge of his name.

At our church meeting, this morning, we were overwhelmed with a sense of God's unbounded goodness, while ten Cherokees gave a clear relation of the work of the Holy Spirit on their hearts. Oh! how shall we find words to declare the loving kindness of the Lord, who is causing the wilderness to blossom as the rose.  Eleven persons, (one having previously related his experience to the church,) were then baptized and admitted to the church privileges.

A large company attended, though the weather had been very unfavorable to those who reside at a distance.

Monday Dec. 27. About a hundred persons stayed over night. Brethren John Timson, John Wickliff, and Dsulawee, assisted in conducting the devotional exercises last evening. On invitation, a number of persons came forward, with tears, to occupy the anxious seat. I trust the Lord's gracious work here has only commenced, and that he will get himself a great name among the Cherokees. Oh that our faith were more in exercise, on the divine promises, and our hearts more enlarged, in view of their fulfilment.

In the course of the past year our most sanguine hopes have been more than realized. Thirty-eight persons have been baptized on a profession of their faith, viz: thirty-seven of them Cherokees, two only of whom speak English, and one black man.

I am just now starting for New Echota, to get some Cherokee hymn books, and to attend a meeting of missionaries, (to which I have been invited by special messenger) the object of which is, to make statements of such facts as may be in our possessions, relating to the condition of the Cherokees: so that the friends of truth may be able to form a correct judgement on the subject: which is certainly very important in the present circumstances of the poor Indians. It is expected that all the Presbyterian and the United Brethren's missionaries will be there. I trust many prayers of the faithful will go up to God, which will doubtless be answered in that way which will tend most effectually to manifest his glory in the works of his providence and grace.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA JUNE 4, 1831

PROGRESS OF OPPRESSION.

We little thought when we were remarking last week on the Post Office reform in this place, that we should be able so soon to publish additional facts in regard to the means employed to effect the great object of the State of Georgia and the present administration of the General Government. The surmises of some that the removal of Mr. Worcester from the Post Office was but to pave a way for his arrest have turned out to be well founded, as will be seen from the following order of Col. Sanford addressed to each of the Missionaries under the care of the American Board, and the letters of Governor Gilmer to Messrs. Thompson and Worcester, which we have been permitted to publish.

SCUDDERS', May 28th 1831

Sir- After the receipt of the enclosed letter, ten days will be allowed you, to remove out of the unsettled limits of the State. If found residing within it, after the expiration of that time, you will be subject to arrest and to such punishment as the Law shall direct in case of illegal residence 'c.

Your ob't Serv't

J.W.A. SANFORD,

Comm'r. G. Guard.

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE 16th May, 1831

Sir,- Sufficient evidence has been obtained from the Government of the United States to convince the courts of this State that the missionaries employed among the Cherokees by the American Board of Foreign Missions are not its Agents, and therefore not exempted from the operation of the law forbidding white persons to reside among the Cherokees without license.  In continuing so to reside you must have known that you were acting in violation of the laws of the State. The mistaken decision of the Superior Court upon this subject in the late case determined in Gwinnett County has enabled you for a time to persist in your opposition to the humane policy which the General Government has adopted for the civilization of the Indians, and in your efforts to prevent their submission to the laws of Georgia.  However criminal your conduct in this respect may have been, I am still desirous that you should have an opportunity of avoiding the punishment which will certainly follow the continuance of your present residence. You are therefore advised to quit it with as little delay as possible. Col. Sanford the Commander of the Guard will be directed to cause to be delivered to you this letter, and to enforce the laws if you should persist in your disobedience.

Very respectfully yours 'c.

GEORGE R. GILMER.

REV. JOHN THOMPSON.

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, MILLEDGEVILLE, 16th May 1831

Sir,- It is a part of my official duty to cause all white persons residing within the territory of the State, occupied by the Cherokees to be removed therefrom, who refuse to take the oath to support the Constitution and laws of the State. Information has been received of your continued residence within that territory, without complying with the requisites of the law, and of your claim to be exempted from its operation, on account of your holding the office of Post Master at New Echota.

You have no doubt been informed of your dismissal from that office. That you may be under no mistake as to this matter, you are also informed that the Government of the United States does not recognize as its agents the missionaries acting under the direction of the American Board of Foreign Missions- Whatever may have been your conduct in opposing the humane policy of the General Government, or exciting the Indians to oppose the jurisdiction of the State, I am still desirous of giving you and all others similarly situated, an opportunity of avoiding the punishment which will certainly follow your further residence within the State contrary to its laws.- You are therefore advised to remove from the territory of Georgia, occupied by the Cherokees. Col. Sanford the Commander of the Guard will be requested to have this letter delivered to you, and to delay your arrest until you shall have had an opportunity of leaving the State.

Very Respectfully Yours 'c.

GEORGE R. GILMER.

REV. SAMUEL WORCESTER.

The reader will perceive from the letters of Governor Gilmer, that the General Government is leagued with Georgia in carrying this unheard of persecution against the missionaries. They are determined to remove them for the purpose of preventing their opposition to the humane policy of the General Government for civilizing the Indians.  May we be delivered from such civilization-we want none of it. If the missionaries must be punished, would it not be as well to punish them, at least, for some plausible reasons. Instead of barely making gratuitous assertions against them, let them be taken ' tried upon the charge of 'opposing the policy of the Gen. Gov. and exciting the Indians to oppose the jurisdiction of the State.' Such a course would be a little more becoming.

Whether the missionaries will think it best to remove is more than we can say. We think it probable, however, that some of them will. Dr. Butler is already under an arrest. And as to Mr. Worcester, against whom there seems to be the greatest animosity, there has not been a single moment since the passage of the Georgia law that he could have removed. And now it is impossible for him to remove if he is so disposed to do.  Mrs. W., on account of ill health, has been unable to leave the house for the last eight months, and at this time she is utterly unable to leave her bed. She cannot be removed without exposing her life to immediate danger.  It will be seen that Mr. W. has but ten days notice.

The Post Office at Spring Place is yet occupied by Mr. Byhan, but we understand that arrangements are in progress to have him displaced, and we presume it will be done shortly. In order to effect this, the Post Master General will have to do one of three things. Either to bring in a white man from the states, or to alter the mail routes, or to discontinue the office and the mail route from Head of Coosa to Spring Place.  To do the last would be to close the only channel through which we can carry on our correspondence and forward our paper to our subscribers. We may be mistaken, but we cannot suppress our fears that this course will be pursued.  Many acts of reform equally as astonishing as this would be, have been done. We are prepared to hear almost anything.

We could wish that this were the end of our account of the  progress of oppression,  but it is not.  The following note will speak for itself.

OOUGILLOGY, CHER. NATION,

June 1st 1831

MR. BOUDINOTT,

Dear Sir, The Georgia Guard, under the command of Col. Nelson, are now here with four prisoners, Messrs. Elliott and Dennis, white men citizens of this nation by marriage, and the Rev. Mr. Trott, also a white man, who are charged with a violation of the Georgia law, in living in this nation by its allowance and laws. The other is, Mr. John West, a young Gentleman, and a Cherokee, who is charged with the high crime of using insolent language to the Guard. These four I saw last night under Guard, chained together in pairs and fastened with locks. Mr. David Vann, a member of the Cherokee Senate, and Thomas Woodard are also arrested, but not chained, who are not allowed to know the reason of their arrest until they arrive at Headquarters, 70 or 80 miles from their respective residence. The Guard is still in pursuit of other men. They have a waggon (sic) along, in which they have a drum, on which they beat, and a fife to make martial music.

Your friend, JOHN RIDGE.

Hail Columbia happy land!



We have few additional facts to state. Mr. Trott is a Methodist Itinerant Missionary, under the direction of the Tennessee Conference. We understand he is not allowed to ride, and that he is indeed chained every night.- The Rev. Mr. Clauder, Moravian missionary, was also arrested Tuesday morning and kept under guard about two hours and then discharged ;on his claiming the privilege of having ten days notice.-- The Guard arrived in this place Tuesday evening and put up at their usual quarters. On Wednesday morning a file of men, seven or eight in number, went to Mr. M'Coy's and arrested him while he was at Breakfast-they also went to Mr. Hick's but did not find him (he being not at home) after making a particular search in the house. When Mr. M'Coy was taken to the Commander it turned out that he was arrested for presiding, as President, over a meeting of individuals in this place a week or tow since-Mr. Woodard was also imprisoned for a similar act. They were both discharged. As matters now go, it will soon become dangerous for anyone to open his mouth and utter his opinions.

We will not enlarge upon this subject. He who reads will understand.- To our Cherokee readers we say, have patience and forbearance. Cultivate good feelings even to our enemies. Let the public see that we are for peace and that we use none but peaceable measures to assert our rights. We do not yet suffer as others have suffered. Many have suffered death for opinions sake- we have not yet come to that.

__________________________

N. B. Since writing the above, we are informed the Guard passed by Springplace and arrested Mr. Jos. Vann. Mr. V. is a native, and we presume is as ignorant of the cause of this arrest as the others were. There is nothing wanting but a court of inquisition to complete the tragedy.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






 Painsville Tel.

Memphis, May 19

 Fatal Accident-- The steamboat Coosa was sunk on Saturday night last, by running foul of the Huntress a short distance below New Madrid, seven lives were lost, together with the entire boat and cargo. The Coosa was ascending the river, and the Huntress coming down, and such was the violence of the shock, occasioned by their meeting, that the former boat was broken entirely in two, and sunk in a few seconds. Those who were drowned were, at the time of the accident, asleep on the lower deck, and were carried down with the boat before any assistance should be rendered them.

The blame seems to rest with the pilot who was on duty at the time on board the Coosa. The Huntress remained with the wreck until 12 o'clock the next day, and rendered every assistance to the survivors which their situation required.

Since the Penitentiary was burnt, several of the convicts, for whom there was not profitable pork within the walls, have been employed, under a guard, in quarrying rock on the town common, to build the cells for their solitary confinement. One of this number named Hezekiah Williams, sent from Wilkinson County for man slaughter, having attempted to make his escape on Tuesday, and not stopping when required to do so by the guard, was fired on and killed.  If the circumstances are correctly reported, the shooting of the convict was absolutely necessary to prevent his escape, and perfectly justifiable.--Southern Recorder

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NOTICE

ALL persons indebted to Skaryougar late of this District, deceased, are hereby notified that payment is required by me within twelve months from this date, agreeably to the laws of this nation--also all persons who have claims upon the estate of the deceased are required to present them to me within the above specified period for settlement.

ISAAC BUSHYHEAD,

Administrator:

Ahomohee Dis't C. N. May 13th 1831.
      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    














CHEROKEE PHOENIX.

NEW ECHOTA JUNE 11, 1831

This number closed the third volume of the Cherokee Phoenix. Our three years' labor are at an end. We have but few words to say on this occasion, and they are quickly said.- We intend to continue our publication as usual. And as long as we can find means to sustain it. During the three years of its existence we have passed through good and evil report. We have had our share of trouble and vexation, but we have also been cheered and encouraged by the approbation of our friends and most of our readers. For this we feel grateful, and we shall still endeavor to merit that approbation by following the plain oath we have pursued- by adhering strictly to truth, and by doing what we can to entertain and enlighten our suffering brethren.

It may be proper to mention to our patrons and those who take an interest in the welfare of the Cherokees that we are suffering for want of money. The 'new era' has not only wrested from us our rights and privileges as a people, but it has closed the channel through which we could formerly obtain our own funds.- By this means the resources of the Phoenix are cut off. We must now depend, if we continue our labors, upon our patrons at home and abroad. To them we make our appeal.

Thanks are due to those of our brethren of the press who have honored us with their papers, and willingly transferred into their columns, for the information of the public, original articles from the Phoenix.  We have endeavored to gain their confidence in all our statements of facts.--If we have in any measure succeeded in obtaining that confidence, it shall not be abused. It is only through the medium of our exchange papers we can expect to be extensively heard, and our grievances made known to the people of the United States.

_________________________

In our last we mentioned the arrest of Joseph Vann by the Georgia Guard. We are told he was released after a few hours captivity. If we have been correctly informed, the Guard took him because they had understood that he had said he would not be taken!

_______________

CEDAR CREEK, CHEROKEE NATION

6th JUNE 1831

MR. BOUDINOTT, Editor of the Cherokee Phoenix.

Sir.-- The Circuit Court of Chattooga district being in session during the last week of the month of May, I availed myself of an opportunity to attend it, and there enjoy the agreeable society and conversation of my friends from various portions of our country, whose business concentrated them there. The few days spent in this manner afforded me relishing alleviations of the troubles and heart affecting trials I often endure, from the effects of the Georgia laws which have so long disturbed the repose of our people. I returned the 27th to rest in the peaceable circle of my family, ' to resume the agreeable occupation of superintending my agricultural affairs. The 28th dawned upon my farm with usual sweetness-I walked over my plantation, saw my growing corn, and the green verdant portions of my place, covered with luxuriant crops of rye and oats. Delighted with the anticipations of an abundant harvest, I returned to my stables to see my horses and other domestic objects. Contemplating the improvements I had made with my hands, my houses, my fields, my orchards, and garden,- rejoicing to know I had accumulated the means of supporting my wife and child; for the time my domestic pleasures superseded the thoughts of gloom which fill my heart on account of our national afflictions.

My attention was drawn to the noise of the tramping of horses, ' I saw approach, with glittering muskets and bayonets, the Georgia Guard, riding to the gate of my enclosure before my house.  I walked up into their midst, and was by them declared, a prisoner, and ordered to go to the officer commanding who had stopped at Mr. Hemphill's, five miles off, to whom I was accordingly conducted.  There I saw one of my neighbors, a young gentleman, Mr. John West, an Indian like myself, chained by the leg.  Of Col. Nelson, I asked for what charges they had arrested Mr. West. He said, it was a thing never told prisoners, until they arrived at Headquarters.  Col. Nelson allowed me the benefit of returning to repose with my family the ensuing night, and granted me other privileges during a long and tedious journey to Head Quarters, which I was told, was owing to the kind treatment I had manifested to a detachment of the guard, on a former occasion, which had tarried over night at my house. As for Mr. West, when they started with us, in their line of march, they put a chain of iron around his neck and fastened him to another prisoner, a white man and citizen by marriage, who was arrested for living in the nation contrary to the Georgia law, which requires of such the oath of allegiance. I requested the officer to suffer Mr. West to ride his own horse, but he refused.

We were conducted to, and crossed Mr. Ross's Ferry, at Head of Coosa, and passed in sight of the residence of our respected Principal Chief. A detachment was ordered off at Running Waters, in which I was ordered to go to Mr. Thomas Woodards, a respectable Cherokee of that neighborhood, whom they also arrested at his house. He was subsequently released, as he told me, after two days, at New Echota, and was there for the first time told it was for acting as chairman to a meeting of Cherokees, which passed resolutions expressing their views of the policy of the nation, its sufferings from Georgia, and the mode of it, and calling upon the people of the United States to commiserate their condition and to respect treaties, which were published in the Cherokee Phoenix.

As the Guard charged up to Mr. Woodard's house they discovered a negro boy belonging to Mrs. Brown approaching in haste from the opposite direction. Him they threatened to whip and ordered forward. On the way two of the Guard halted and whipped him, as they themselves told me afterwards, for coming to notify Mr. Woodard that the Guard were in the neighborhood. On that day we, in the evening arrived at Oougillogee, where I was allowed to lodge with my friend Nicholson, but the Guard advanced and staid all night at Mr. Hick's, where they once in a while beat the drum and played on the fife.  Next morning I came up with them and saw the Rev. Mr. Trott, a Methodist minister of the Gospel, ironed and fastened with locks about the leg. Mr. Trott was arrested for living in the nation without taking the oath of allegiance to the state of Georgia- the penalty is not less than four years hard labor in the penitentiary. At this place, Mr. West was suffered to return, and he afterwards told me that he was so treated because he had defended his father from aspersions cast upon his character by this armed band, which they termed, using insolent language to the Guard.

Col. Nelson pursued his march towards the capital of the nation, but suffered me, which was a great kindness, to be more expeditionly (sic) conducted to Head Quarters by two men armed with muskets and bayonets. On the 2d evening after leaving Oougillogee we reached it, which is in the nation, near Scudder's on the Federal Road, and first built by the United States troops, under the orders of John H. Eaton, late Secretary of War. Here Col. Sanford is quartered as the principal Chief commanding the state standing military, and to him I was escorted and introduced. He asked me for what I was arrested?

Answer, 'I suppose for sowing rye in a field abandoned by Arkansas emigrants.'

'You must,' said he, 'give possession to the man who has rented it from the state.'

'Said a company of guards and put the man in possession according to your laws,' was my reply. He said it was unnecessary, there was the law.  'Then give me a written order to yield possession.' He refused.  I told him my design was to have recourse to the United States laws for redress, and to try titles to the rye field before the Federal Courts and avoid those of Georgia. But he did not, he said, chose to do either of what I had demanded, and said he had no further business with me.

When I mentioned to Sanford of redress from the United States Courts, he said they, the Georgians, would have disregarded the writ of Injunction if it had been granted to the Cherokee Nation by the Supreme Court, that the State had gone so far that it would not recede, and would at all hazards take the lands from the Cherokees. Col. Nelson also told me, if the injunction had been granted Georgia would have sent into this nation 10,000 men.

On my return homewards, at Mr. Moses Downings, I saw a Cherokee man, named Henry, who had been whipped by a detachment of the guard, because he was found digging Snake root near the gold mine at Six's.  He was told not to dig for gold because it belonged to the Governor of Georgia.  Henry said, 'these fellows were very troublesome.'

On the subject of the rye field, I was detained from my business about 8 days, conducted 80 or 90 miles from home, and detained at Head Quarters in regard to it about ten minutes.

In the year, 1828, an Arkansas Delegation entered into a treaty at Washington, in which the United States granted inducements to our citizens, who were disposed to run away from the Georgians, to emigrate to that country, with a promise that the property they may abandon should be paid for to them by the United States. The lands of the nation being held in common and belonging to the Cherokees in the aggregate character of a state or nation, the Legislature of our country granted to all those who came into possession, being citizens of the nation, of those improvements so abandoned to be their rightful property.  By virtue of the law I became possessed of a field on which I sowed rye. Under a forced construction by general Jackson and the State of Georgia these places were declared to be for the use of Georgia, the titles of which were rightfully extinguished, according to the compact of 1802, from individuals under a treaty not made with our nation, but with a party altogether disconnected with it. In this arbitrary manner were many of our citizens ejected from these places by the state of Ga., by renting them to which people, contrary to the laws of the Cherokee nation and the United States. Because I refused to yield possession of the rye field to one of these renters, I have suffered in the manner above stated. If the state and its officers executed their laws, even according to their formalities of justice, a prosecution would have been the consequence. But the rye field is a subject which would be a good one to be discussed in the Supreme Court, and as it individually concerns me and my rights, the award of that august tribunal could not be doubted to result in my favor. But it is better for the policy of the state to wrest the rye field in as summary a manner as that of Neboths vineyard. I ask pardon in advance of the state of Georgia in particular, and its officers in general, for making these remarks, as I do not wish to be arrested for using 'insolent language.'

A word to you, citizens of the United States, on the trials my nation experiences. They must occasion to some of you, perhaps, sympathetic feelings.  We do remember the peace and tranquility we enjoyed before the present Chief Magistrate came into power. Since that darkness and clouds have rested upon our country. 'The good neighborhood' promised in treaties by his predecessors have vanished with the withdrawal of his protection, and we now experience the chilling and cold rebukes of our neighbor, the State of Georgia. Yet our treaties are declared to be in force by the Supreme Court, and we know they have been obtained by valuable considerations surrendered on our part. We do not wish to treat on compulsion by General Jackson's policy, and if we have mental courage enough, we shall never treat away our lands so ignominiously exerted. 

The deed must be done. The last drop of water and the last particle of our earth must be forced from our hands if they will have it in that manner. We are denounced as savages, and ignorance is ingrafted upon our name. May not our national and individual forbearance in these persecutions redeem us from these terms? But we would be less anxious for the consequences of these slanders if our women and children could once more enjoy peace and safety undisturbed--could we see our children going to school and preparing themselves for usefulness in the world. We are your friends, but we are not in the attitude of granting favors, but of asking for those rights which we once thought would be protected. Will you suffer the golden days of peace once enjoyed, to sink behind the mountains of State necessity?

'Oh Thou! by whose Almighty nod the scale

Of empire rises, or alternate falls,

Send forth they saving virtue round this land.'

DAVID VANN

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






From the Missionary Herald.

STOCKBRIDGE INDIANS.

Extracts from a communication of Mr. Stevens; dated at Statesburgh, near Green Bay, Jan 11, 1831

Statements respecting the Condition of the People, and the School.

['The Indians at this village have hardly yet become settled, having been, from year to year, emigrating in small bands from their former residences in the state of New York, In many respects, however, they have advanced far in civilization.]

I believe I have visited every family in the village, and have ascertained pretty accurately the number of men, women, and children; their condition relative to the necessaries and comforts of life; and the number of hopeful Christians. Exclusive of the Oneidas, who came from New York last season and settled near this people, there are 225 persons; 56 men, 63 women, and about 106 children. Fifteen men are professors of religion, and twenty are members of the temperance society.  Six or seven, who are not professors of religion, are apparently very serious. With a few exceptions, those who are members of the temperance society, and those who give evidence of seriousness, conduct with much propriety  The members of the church give as much evidence as far as we can judge, and being genuine and consistent Christians, as professors generally in the most orthodox churches among the whites.

The whole number of families is about fifty; most of which obtain the necessaries, and some of them nearly all the comforts of life. Not more than eight or ten families are miserably poor. The people own above twenty yoke of oxen, and between thirty and forty cows. Most of the families have hogs and poultry. Besides corn, potatoes, turnips, oats, peas, and some flax, they have  raised thie season past, as nearly as been calculated about five hundred bushels of wheat. If their mill for grinding was finished, most of them would soon be able to obtain the comforts of a civilized life.

There are only about twenty of the adults who cannot read in the Testament.

The people who came on last summer are settled on the river about three miles above the school house. Most of them appear to be industrious; but they are very ignorant, and few of them, either of the children or adults can read. The number of them is about ninety. They have united with this people, and have become one people. They have about forty children of suitable age to attend school, but they live too far from the school house to attend there. Some of them attend church on the Sabbath, and some of the children attend the Sabbath school. One of our young men, who lives in their settlement, collects their children at one of their houses on three evenings in each week, and teaches them to read.  They manifest a great desire to have their children taught. Four or five among them give evidence of piety.

Among the people in the settlement around the mission, there are sixty-eight children over five and under twenty years of age.  Fifty-two of them, we have now in school, though the number in a day does not exceed forty. From thirty-five to forty is my usual number. Several of the head men have visited the school, and they say it has never been in so good a state of progress as it is now, though I am almost discouraged at times, on account of the irregular attendance of the scholars. The mass of the people are very fare (sic) from sufficiently feeling the importance of having their children educated. It is only by continued exertion, that the school is kept in its present state. As to the improvement of the school, I can only say, that more than thirty of the scholars can read the New Testament intelligibly, and other school books; about a dozen are studying geography, and several arithmetic. Those are all pure Indian children. I do not know of a single exception. There may be one or two. The Sabbath school had been gradually rising in interest, during the past summer and autumn, but it is only within a month or six weeks past, that it has assumed the interesting features it now wears. The latter part of November, I visited many of the parents and children, and endeavored to excite them punctually to attend the Sabbath school, as well as the day school. About the same time I gave notice that on the first day of the ensuing year, there would be a public examination of the Sabbath school. This excited some interest, and on the 1st day of January, nearly all the youth and children, and a goodly number of the parents, assembled in the school house. The exercises were commenced by singing and prayer. The portions of scripture upon which the school was to be examined were the third chapter of John, fourth of Luke, and fifth of Matthew; also geography of Palestine, and the origin of the Old and New Testaments. Above five hundred questions were proposed to the scholars and teachers, to which answers were promptly given. This exercise occupied more than two hours. Then an appropriate hymn was sung and the parents and children were addressed, after which a constitution was presented and read for the organizing and regulating a Bible and Sabbath School Association. The objects being sufficiently explained, above sixty manifested a desire to be members. Here was seen the child of four or five years of age, up to the man and women of sixty, engaging in the study of the holy book of God. As soon as the names were taken, a Board of Managers were elected for the ensuing year, and the exercise of the day closed by singing a new year's hymn and prayer.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    










ADDRESS

OF THE

COMMITTEE AND COUNCIL OF THE

CHEROKEE NATION IN GENERAL

COUNCIL CONVENED

TO THE PEOPLE OF THE

UNITED STATES,

Some months ago a delegation was appointed by the constituted authorities of the Cherokee nation, to repair to the City of Washington, and in behalf of this nation, to lay before the Government of the United States such representations as should seem most likely to secure to us as a people that protection, aid, and good neighborhood which had been so often promised to us, and of which we stand in great need. Soon after their arrival in the City they presented to Congress a petition from our National Council, asking for the interposition of that body in our behalf, especially with reference to the laws of Georgia, which were suspended in a most terrifying manner over a large part of our population, and protesting in the most decided terms against the operation of these laws.  In the course of the winter they presented petitions to Congress, signed by more than four thousand of our citizens including probably more than nineteen twentieths and for naught we can tell ninety-nine hundredths, of the adult males of the nation, (our whole population being about sixteen thousand,) pleading with the assembled representatives of the American people, that the solemn engagements between their fathers and our fathers may be preserved, as they have been till recently in full force and continued operation asking in a word, for protection against threatened usurpation and for a faithful execution of a guaranty which is perfectly plain in its meaning, has been repeatedly and rigidly enforced in our favor and had received the sanction of the government of the United States of nearly forth years.

More than a year ago, we were officially given to understand by the Secretary of War, that the President could not protect us against the laws of Georgia. This information was entirely unexpected, as it went upon the principle, that treaties made between the United States and the Cherokee Nation have no power to withstand the legislation of separate States; and of course, that they have no efficacy whatever, but leave our people to the mercy of the neighboring whites, whose supposed interests would be promoted by our expulsion or extermination.  It would be impossible to describe the sorrow which effected our minds on learning that the Chief magistrate of the United States had come to this conclusion, that all his illustrious predecessors had held intercourse with us on principles which could not be sustained; that they had made promises of vital importance to us, which could not be fulfilled- promises made hundreds of times in almost every conceivable manner,-often in the form of solemn treaties, sometimes in letters written by the Chief Magistrate with his own hand, very often in letters written by the Secretary of War under his direction, sometimes orally by the President and the Secretary in our chiefs, and frequently and always both orally and in writing by an agent of the United States residing among us whose most important business it was to see the guaranty of the United States faithfully executed.

Soon after the war of the Revolution, as we have learned from our fathers, the Cherokees looked upon the promises of the whites with great distrust and suspicion, but the frank and magnanimous conduct of General Washington did reach to ally these feelings. The perseverance of successive Presidents and especially of Mr. Jefferson in the same course of policy, and in the constant assurance that our country should remain inviolate except so far as we voluntarily ceded it, nearly banished anxiety in regard to encroachments from the whites. To this result the aid which we received from the United States in the attempts of our people to become civilized, and the kind efforts of benevolent societies have greatly contributed. Of late years however, much solicitude was occasioned among our people by the claims of Georgia. This solicitude arose from an apprehension, that, by extreme importunity, threats, and other undue influence, a treaty would be wade, which should cede the territory and thus compel the inhabitants to remove. But it never occurred to us for a moment, that without any new treaty, without any assent of our rulers and people, without even a pretended compact, and against our vehement and unanimous protestations, we should be delivered over to the discretion of those, who had declared by a legislative act, that they wanted the Cherokee lands and would have them ceded.

Finding that relief could not be obtained from the Chief Magistrate, and not doubting that our claim to protection was just, we made our application to Congress. During four long months our delegation waited at the doors of the National Legislature of the United States, and the people at home in the most painful suspense, to learn in what manner our application would be answered; ' now Congress has adjourned on the very day before the date fixed by Georgia for the extension of her oppressive laws over the greater part of our country, the distressing intelligence has been received that we have received no answer at all; and no department of the Government has assured us, that we are to receive the desired protection. But just at the close of the session, an act was passed by which half a million of dollars was appropriated towards effecting a removal of Indians; and we have great reason to fear that the influence of this act will be brought to bear most injuriously upon us. The passage of this act is certainly understood by the representatives of Georgia as abandoning us to the oppressive and cruel measures of the State, and as sanctioning the opinion that treaties with Indians do not restrain State Legislation. We are informed by those who are competent to judge that the recent act does not admit to such construction, but that the passage of it under the actual circumstances of the controversy will be considered as sanctioning the pretensions of Georgia. There is too much reason to fear.

Thus have we realized with heavy hearts, that our supplication has not been heard, that the protection heretofore experienced is now to be withheld; that the guaranty in consequence of which our fathers laid aside their arms and ceded the best portions of their country means nothing and that we must either emigrate to an unknown region and leave the pleasant land to which we have the strongest attachments, or submit to the legislation of a State, which has already made our people outlaws, and enacted that any Cherokee, who shall endeavor to prevent the selling of his country, shall be imprisoned in the Penitentiary of Georgia not less than four years. To our countrymen, this has been melancholy intelligence, and with the most bitter disappointment has it been received.

But in the midst of our sorrows; we do not forget our obligations to our friends and benefactors. It was with sensations of inexpressible joy, that we have learned, that the voice of thousands in many parts of the United States has been raised in our behalf, and numerous memorials offered in our favor, to both houses of Congress. To those, numerous friends, who have thus sympathized with us in our low estate, we tender our grateful acknowledgements. In pleading our cause, they have pleaded the cause of the poor and defenseless throughout the world. Our special thanks are due, however, to those honorable men who so ably and eloquently asserted our rights in both branches of the national legislature.  Their efforts will be appreciated whenever the merits of this question shall be known,; and we cannot but think that they have secured for themselves a permanent reputation among the disinterested advocates of humanity and equal rights, justice, and good faith. We even cherish the hope that these efforts seconded and followed by others of similar character will yet be available, so far as to mitigate our sufferings if not to effect our entire deliverance.

Before we close this address, permit us to state what we conceive to be our relations with the United States. After the peace of 1783, the Cherokees were an independent people; absolutely so, as much as any people on earth. They had been allies to Great Britain and as a faithful ally took a part in the colonial war on her side. They had placed themselves under her protection, and had they, without cause, declared hostility against their protector, and had the colonies been  subdued what might not have been their fate. But her power on this continent was broken. She acknowledged the independence of the United States, and made peace. The Cherokees therefore stood alone; and in these circumstances continued the war.  They were then under no obligation to the United State and more than to Great Britain, France or Spain. The United States never subjugated the Cherokees; on the contrary, our fathers remained in possession of their country, and with arms in their hands.

The people of the United States sought a peace; and in 1785, the treaty of Hopewell was formed, by which the Cherokees came under the protection of the United States, and submitted to such limitations of sovereignty as are mentioned in that instrument. None of these limitations, however, affected to the slightest degree their rights of self government; and inviolate territory. The citizens of the United States had no right of passage through the Cherokee country till the year 1791, and then only in one direction, and by an express treaty stipulation. When the Federal Constitution was adopted, the treaty of Hopewell was confirmed, with all other treaties as the Supreme law of the land.  In 1791, the treaty of Holston was made, by which the sovereignty of the Cherokees was qualified as follows: The Cherokees acknowledged themselves to be under the protection of the United States and of no other sovereign. They engaged that they would not hold any treaty with a foreign power, with any separate State of the Union, or with individuals. They agreed that the United States should have exclusive right of regulating their trade; that the citizens of the United States should have a right of way in one direction through the Cherokee country, and that if an Indian should do injury to a citizen of the United States, he should be delivered up to be tried and punished. A cession of lands was also made to the United States. On the other hand, the United States paid a sum of money; offered protection; engaged to punish citizens of the United States who should do any injury to the Cherokees abandoned white settlers on Cherokees lands to the discretion of the Cherokees; stipulated that white men should not hunt on these lands; not even enter the country without a passport; and gave a solemn guaranty of all Cherokee lands not ceded. This treaty is the basis of all subsequent compacts; and in none of them are the relations of the parties at all changed.

The Cherokees have always fulfilled their engagements. They have never reclaimed those portions of sovereignty, which they surrendered by the treaties of Hopewell and Holston. These portions were surrendered for the purpose of obtaining the guaranty which was recommended to them as the great equivalent. Had they refused to comply with their engagements, there is no doubt the United States would have enforced compliance. Is the duty to fulfil engagements on the other side less binding than it would be if the Cherokees had the power of enforcing their just claims?

The people of the United States will have the fairness to reflect, that all the treaties between them and the Cherokees were made at the solicitation a nd for the benefit of the whites that valuable considerations were given for every stipulation on the part of the United States, that it is impossible to reinstate the parties in their former situation; that there are now hundreds of thousands of citizens of the United States residing upon lands ceded by the Cherokees in these very treaties; and that our people have trusted their country to the guaranty of the United States, if this guaranty fails them, in what can they trust, and where can they look for protection?

We are aware, that some persons suppose it will be for our advantage to remove beyond the Mississippi. We think otherwise. Our people universally think, otherwise. Thinking it would be fatal to their interests, they have almost to a man sent their memorial to Congress, deprecating the necessity of a removal.  This question was distinctly before their minds when they signed their memorial. Not an adult person can be found, who has not an opinion on the subject, and if the people were to understand distinctly, that they could be protected against the laws of the neighboring States, there is probably not an adult person in the nation who would think it best to remove; though possibly a few might emigrate individually. There are doubtless many, who would flee to an unknown country, however beset with dangers, privations and sufferings, rather than be sentenced to spend six years in a Georgia prison for advising one of their neighbors not to betray his country. And there are others who could not think of living as outlaws in their native land, exposed to numberless vexations, and excluded from being parties or witnesses in a court of justice. It is incredible that Georgia should ever have enacted the oppressive laws to which reference is here made, unless she had supposed that something extremely terrific in its character was necessary in order to make the Cherokees willing to remove. We are not willing to remove; and if we could be brought to this extremity, it would be not by argument, not because our judgment was satisfied, not because our condition will be improved; but only because we cannot endure to be deprived of our national and individual rights and subjected to a process of intolerable oppression.

We wish to remain on the land of our fathers.  We have a perfect ' original right to remain without interruption or molestation. The treaties with us, and laws of the United States made in pursuance of treaties, guaranty our residence and our privileges and secure us against intruders. Our only request is that these treaties may be fulfilled, and these laws executed.

But if we are compelled to leave our country, we see nothing but ruin before us. The country west of the Arkansas territory is unknown to us. From what we can learn of it, we have no prepossessions in its favor. All the inviting parts of it, as we believe are preoccupied by various Indian nations, to which it has been assigned. They would regard us as intruders, and look upon us with an evil eye. The far greater part of that region is, beyond all controversy, badly supplied with wood and water; and no Indian tribe can live as agriculturists without these articles. All our neighbors, in case of our removal though crowded into our near vicinity, would speak a language totally different from ours, and practice different customs. The original possessions of that region are now wandering savages, lurking for prey in the neighborhood. They have always been at war, and would be easily tempted to turn their arms against peaceful emigrants. Were the country to which we are urged much better than it is represented to be, and were it free from the objections which we have made to it, still it is not the land of our birth, nor of our affections. It contains neither the scenes of our childhood nor the graves of our fathers.

The removal of families to a new country, even under the most favorable auspices, and when the spirits sustained by pleasing visions of the future, is attended with much depression of mind and sinking of heart. This is the case when the removal is a matter of decided preference, and when the persons concerned are in early youth or vigorous manhood. Judge, then, what must be the circumstances of a removal, when a whole community embracing persons of all classes and every description from the infant to the man of extreme old age, the sick; the blind, the lame, the improvident, the reckless, the desperate, as well as the prudent, the considerate, the industrious, are compelled to remove by odious and intolerable vexations and persecutions, brought upon them in the form of law, when all will agree only in this, that they have been cruelly robbed of their country, in violation of the most solemn compacts, which it is possible for communities to form with each other; and that, if they c=should make themselves comfortable in their new residence, they have nothing to expect hereafter but to be the citizens of a future legalized robbery!

Such, we deem, and are absolutely certain, will be the feelings of the whole Cherokee people, if they are forcibly compelled by the laws of Georgia to remove; and with these feelings, how is it possible that we should pursue our present course of improvement, or avoid sinking into utter despondency? We have been called a poor, ignorant, and degraded people. We certainly are not rich; nor have we ever boasted of our knowledge, or our moral or intellectual elevation. But there is not a man within our limits so ignorant as not to know that he has a right to live on the land of his fathers, in the possession of his immemorial privileges, and that this right has been acknowledged and guaranteed by the United States; nor is there a man so degraded as not to feel a keen sense of injury, on being deprived of this right and driven into exile.

It is under a sense of the most pungent feelings that we make this, perhaps our last appeal to the good people of the United States. It cannot be that the community we are addressing, remarkable for its intelligence and religious sensibilities, and preeminent for its devotion to the rights of man, will lay aside this appeal, without considering that we stand in need of its sympathy and commiseration. We know that to the Christian and the Philanthropist the voice of our multiplied sorrow, and fiery trial will not appear as an idle tale.  In our own land, on our own soil, and in our own dwellings, which we reared for our wives and for our little ones, when there was peace on our mountains and in our valleys, we are encountering troubles which cannot but try out very souls. But shall we on account of these troubles forsake our beloved country?  Shall we be compelled by a civilized and Christian people, with whom we have lived in perfect peace for the last forty years, and for whom we have willingly bled in war, to bid a final adieu to our homes, our farms, our streams and our beautiful forests?  No. We are still firm.. We intend still to cling, with our wonted affection, to the land which gave us birth, and which every day of our lives brings to us new and stronger ties of attachment. We appeal to the judge of all the earth, who will finally award us justice, and to the good sense of the American people, whether we are intruders upon the land of others. Our consciences bear us witness that we are the invaders of no man's rights-we have robbed no man of his territory-we have usurped no man's authority, nor have we deprived anyone of his unalienable privileges. How then shall we indirectly confess the right of another people to our land by leaving it forever? On the soil which contains the ashes of our beloved men we wish to live-on this soil we wish to die.

We entreat those to whom the foregoing paragraphs are addressed to remember the great law of love. 'Do to others as ye would that others should do to you.'- Let them remember that of all nations on the earth they are under the greatest obligation to obey this law.  We pray them to remember that for the sake of principle, their forefathers were compelled to leave, therefore driven from the old world, and that the winds of persecution wafted them over the great waters and landed them on the shores of the new world, when the Indian was the sole lord and proprietor of these extensive domains. Let them remember in what way they were received by the savage of America, when power was in his hand, and his ferocity could not be restrained by any human arm.  We urge them to bear in mind, that those who would ask of them a cup of cold water and a spot of earth, a portion of their own patrimonial possessions on which we live and die in peace, are the descendants of those whose origin in inhabitants of North America, history of tradition are alike insufficient to reveal. Let them bring to remembrances these facts, and they cannot, and we are sure, they will not fail to remember, and sympathize with us in these our trials and sufferings.

LEWIS ROSS,

Pres't Committee.

JAMES DANIEL

JOS. VANN

DAVID VANN

EDWARD GUNTER

RICHARD TAYLOR

JOHN BALDRIDGE

SAMUEL WARD

GEORGE SANDERS

DANIEL GRIFFIN.Jun.

JAMES HAMILTON

ALEX M'DANIEL

THOS. FOREMAN

JOHN TIMSON

W. S. COODEY, Clerk

GOING SNAKE

Speaker of the Council.

JAMES BIGBEY

DEER-IN-THE-WATER

CHARLES REESE

SLEEPING RABBIT

CHU-NU-GEE

BARK

LAUGH-AT-MUSH

CHULEOWAH

TURTLE

WALKING STICK

MOSES PARRIS

J. R. DANIEL

SLIM FELLOW

SITUAKE

DE-GAH-LE-LU-GE

ROBBIN

TAH-LAH-DOO

NAH-HOO-LAH

WHITE PATH

NE-GAH-WE

DAH-TE-SKE

JOHN RIDGE.

Clerk of the Council.

 New Echota, C. N. July 17, 1930.

      
      
      
      
      
      

    
    






NEW ECHOTA: JULY 24, 1830

We recommend to the attentive reader the foregoing address of the 'Committee and Council' to the people of the United States. It is respectfully requested that every person into whose hands this sheet may fall, after carefully perusing it, will hand it to his neighbors.

That a document of the nature of the one now presented to the American public was called for by the peculiar circumstances of the times, no one will doubt. Every man must know, who has watched the progress of the Indian question during the last six months, ' who has been familiar with the doings of the Congress of the United States respecting the Cherokees and other tribes, and the proceedings of the state of Georgia, that by the refusal of the former to protect and the extension of the jurisdiction of the latter over them, they are placed under new and very trying circumstances, and, that their views, feelings, and the course they have determined to pursue should be speedily made known to the world.  Their views are fully expressed in the address, which, after a most attentive observation, we can freely testify, contains the sentiments of the nation at large. Indeed we have never known the people so firm and united as at the present time.- Their eyes are turned, not to the western country, but to that period when, by the judicial decision of the Courts of the United States, they must be either satisfied that they have rights, or that they have none.  They intend to wait for that time. It is therefore considered by them perfectly idle to talk about exchanging countries, or entering into treaties, while the great question remains unsettled.  If we are removed, say they, by the United States, from our land and possessions, we wish to leave in the records of her judicial tribunals, for future generations to read, when we are gone, ample testimony that she acted justly or unjustly. The reasonableness of this determination must appear evident to every mind.

The Cherokee think they have rights, secured to them under their various treaties and the laws of the United States. This opinion has never been shaken by all that the General Government has done and the proceedings and oppressive laws of the state of Georgia. Their views in regard to their rights for which they have so strenuously contended, are supported by some of the ablest lawyers of the United States. Of this we have the most ample evidence. And now that protection is withheld, and license given for the abrogation of those laws and treaties by State legislation, what must be done? Surely the Supreme Court of the United States is a proper tribunal where the great question at _____ must be settled. To this tribunal the Cherokee still freely refer their (cause?)