
CRITICAL CONDITIONS IN THE WEST, OCTOBER 6, 1781
MARCH 5, 1782

Evidence of Dancer and Suggestions for Defense News of the Surrender OF CORNWALLIS NECESSITY FOR AN OFFENSIVE OPERATION
AGAINST Detroit Virginia Finances Commissioners Appointed for
THE Settlement of Western Accounts Rise of Land Values.

John Floyd* to Thomas Nelson,' October 6, 1781
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]"

Jefferson 6th October 1781
Sir

As an Officer to whom the People of this County look for protection as far as the Militia Law puts it in my power; I take tiie
liberty of mentioning to your Excellency a short statement of the deJohn Floyd vjas appointed colonel of the militia of Jefferson County,
Kentucky, by Governor Thomas Jefferson, January, 178 1. He served under
Clark in the expedition against the Shawnee in 1780. In recommending his
appointment, Claik described Floyd as "a Soldier, Gentleman, and a scholar
whom the Inhabitants, from his actions have the greatest confidence in."
As a member of the Council of War (September 6, 1781) he favored an expedition against the Shawnee during the fall of that year. He rendeied
noteworthy service in the protection of the settlements from Indian raids and
finally met his death at the hands of the Indians April I2, 1783. James,
George Rogers Clark Papers (I. H. C, 8), 500.

'Thomas Nelson, Jr., a signer of the Declaration of Independence, was
born in Yorktown, Virginia, December 26, 1738. He was a member of the
Virginia House of Burgesses in 1761 and in 1774 when it was dissolved by
Lord Dunmore he was one of the eighty-nine members who protested this
violation of their rights. He was a member of the convention that met in
Williamsburg August i, 1774, and that of March, 1775, and was appointed
colonel of the Second Virginia Regiment by the convention in July, 1775.
He resigned his commission as colonel on his election to the Continental
Congress in 1775, where he served until 1777, resigning then because of
illness. In August, 1777 he was appointed commander of the Virginia state
forces. He returned to Congress for a few months in 1779 but again was
forced to resign. He was elected governor of Virginia June 12, 1781, commanded the Virginia militia at the siege of Yorktown, and was present at
the surrender of Cornwallis. Upon his retirement from the governorship
November 30, 1781 he was accused of maladministration for assuming ilictatorial powers during his term of office, but he was exonerated by the state
legislature. He spent the remainder of his life in retirement, and died in
Hanover County, Virginia, January 4, 1789.

'This letter is printed with some variations in Calendar of Virginia
Slate Papers, 2:529-531.

I



2 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

plorable situation under which we at present Labour on account of
the Savage War: amd which unless we are enabled by Governm*
to take some offensive measures against them early next Spring, or
have some reinforcements, will be the inevitable destruction of this
Country. On account of the unsettled and dispersed situation of
the Inhabitants it is out of my power to send you an exact Return
of the Number of Militia in this County, but by the last returns
made me by the Captains we had 327 including Officers, and I
believe at this time we have about 300, and near one third of these
are preparing to go into the Interior parts of the State and many
others would follow the Example but are unable to remove by Land
having lost most of their Horses already by the Savages; the Ohio
runs the wrong way.

The Frontier of this County along the Ohio River is 277 Miles
by computation, and the Inhabitants greatly dispersed cooped up
in small Forts without any Ammunition. Eighty four of the Inhabitants of this County have been killed Captured since last
spring many more wounded. We are now so weakened in the
most exposed parts of the County, by having so many Men killed
others removing to Lincoln for safety, that when any murder is
done we can not pursue the Enemy without leaving the little Garrisons quite defenceless. The most distressed Widows Orphans
perhaps in the world make up a great part of our Inhabitants.

I expect I need not mention to you that the Regular Troops
who have hitherto kept this Country from destruction must mostly
be discharged this Fall Winter, having served out the time for
which they were engaged.

A great deal more might be said concerning the dangerous situation of these Counties, but I have not been informed whether Government think it absolutely necessary for the advantage of the Community at large to defend this Country at so considerable an Expence
as must be incurred thereby: and I therefore beg leave to offer your
Excellency one or two reasons why it may be of advantage to defend
the Kentucky Country.

It is now beyond a doubt that the attention of at least 6000
Savage Warriors is fixed on this spot and who will not disturb any
other part of the Continent as long as we maintain our Ground.






i FLOYD TO NELSON, OCTOBER 6, 1781






But on the contrary as soon as this Country is laid waste they will
immediately fall on the Inhabitants of Washington, Montgomery,
and Greenbrier in short from South Carolina to Pennsylvania.
I believe all the Counties on the west side the blue Ridge were
kept for many years penned up in Forts by the Shawaneese, Mingoes,
Delawares, a few of their Adherents; if so what will be the consequence when at least fifteen powerful Nations are united and
combined with those above mentioned against about twelve hundred
Militia dispersed over three very extensive Counties. Those Nations have absolutely been hitherto kept off your back Settlements
by the Inhabitants of Kentucky.

Two or three thousand Men in this Country would be sufficient to defend it, and effectually secure the back settlements on New
River its Waters as well as those high up James River Roan
Oke; but if this Country must brake up perhaps twice that number will hardly be sufficient to secure so long Extensive a frontier
Other advantages migiit arise from carrying an Expedition over
the Ohio, besides securing the friendship of many Tribes of Indians
who are as yet kept in suspence, and even some of those who have
already taken up the Tomahawk against us, are still wavering; but
this will not be the case another season.

My own knowledge of the danger which this country is, will
next spring be exposed to, has induced me to take the liberty of addressing your Excellency on that subject, which I hope you will

excuse.

I liave the honour to be your Excellencys most obdt
and very hble Serv*
Jn Floyd

(To His Excellency Thomas Nelson^ Esq. Gov. of Va.)



4 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

George Rogers Clark to Thomas Nelson, October 6, 1781

[Illinois Regiment Commissioners Report, 1S34, p. 71. Va. State Archives.]

Fort Nelson S* October 1781.
Sir

On receiving information of a Bill by Capt. Robt. George of
Fort Jefferson' of M"' Philip Barbour of N. Orleans to an amazing
amount I examined Cap* George and others on the Subject and
find the Case to stand thus. M'' Barbour arrived at that post at a
time it was in distress, with a considerable Cargoe, offering it to
them, and to take a Bill on the State for payment, finding no other
means of certain relief Cap' George agreed to take it on three Persons fixing the rate of exchange, which as appears by the enclosed
they did at fifteen for one supposing the ace' to be paid in Virginia
paper Currency (and that to be about the rate of exchange) Mr
Barbour agreed to take it and those Gentlemen not being acquainted
with the Nature of Bills, M^ Barbour contrived to get one drawn
for Gold or silver for the whole amount, also a Letter of Advice to
the same purpose drawn on M'' Pollock^, consequently supposed He
secured to himself fifteen times the sum He asked for His Cargoe
it appears to me that it was a scheeme between Messf" Pollock Barbour before Barbour left Orleans, as p' the enclosed copy that accidentally fell into my hands, the original I have it being a cover to
one set of the Bills he left for fear of an accident happening to himself observe what he says to M' Pollock nlluding to wliat they
formerly spoke of I understand they have already demanded payment I think it wou d be well to pay the exact sum, in paper

Fort Jefferson was located five miles below the mouth of the Ohio
River at a spot called "The Iron Banks." For the establishment of this
post, see Clark Papers, cxxi-cxxiv. At the close of the year 1780 when the
soldiers and inhabitants of the post were in great distress, Captain Philip
Darbour sold a cargo of goods to Captain Robert George (see post, 77, note
1), then in command at Fort Jefferson. See Clark Papers, 496-497.

For the influence of Oliver Pollock see Clark Papers, xcvi-xcix. Oliver
Pollock wrote Captain George April 2, 1782: "I am very happy to find
that the Supplies furnished your Post by Mr. Philip Barbour has been of
so much Service particularly in turning your neighbouring Savages firm
Friends which formerly held out the Hatchet against us. Notwithstanding
this I think you paid too high for those Goods." Letters and Papers of
Oliver Pollock, No. 50, Folio 136, Library of Congress. Pollock paid Barbour $32 500 on this account. In the adjustment of the revolutionary
accounts this claim of Pollock s against the state of Virginia was held for
investigation. It was finally allowed. Draper MSS., 52J72.



TODD AND LOGAN TO CLARK. OCTOBER 31. 1781 5

dollars at they now rate it s what they deserve if those suppositions
should be true which there is the greatest probability of.

I make no doubt Pollock has Barbours receipt for the Payment
of that number of Hard Dollars, but their premeditated Fraud if
so (otherwise I ask their pardons) by no means excuses Capt George,
as soon as the Auditors arrive he must acct. for this Cargoe, if
they have demanded the whole sum in Gold or Silver the conjectures
in this Letter are certainly true.

I am with respect, Sir,
Y'' very ob' most humble Serv'
G R Clarke
His Excellency
The Governor of Virginia
A Copy from the original in the Council Chamber

VVm Totham Clerk Council

John Todd, Jr.,' and Benjamin Loganto Clark,

October 13, 1781

[Draper MSS., 51J93. A. L. S l

St. Asaph 13th Oct. 1781.
Sir We rec^ your Letters relative to the proposed Garrison at the
Mouth of Kentucky though we were at the Council' so much more
An xious than the Rest in erecting this Garrison yet the frequent
Changes in the Plan then proposed (every Alteration more more
oppressive upon the Militia of these two Counties) induce us to
alter our Sentiments send you our Reasons not doubting but when
you know them you ll be of same Sentiments.

'John Todd, Jr., as county lieutenant and colonel of militia for Fayette
County, was one of the most prominent leaders in the West at that time.
See Clark Papers, xcix ff. Alvord, Cahokia Records H. C, 2), liii ff.

'Benjamin Logan was at this time county lieutenant and colonel of
militia in Lincoln County. After serving as a lieutenant in Dunmore s
War, in 1775 he removed to Kentucky and was one of the founders of
Logan s Station. Upon the organization of Kentucky County (:777) he
was appointed one of the three justices of the peace and one of the four
captains, Clark serving as major. In Clark s expedition against the
Shawnee (1780), Colonel Logan was second in command. Shortly after
the battle of the Blue Licks (1782) he led a force of 470 mounted men on
a retaliatory expedition but the Indians had escaped. See index, Clark
Papers.

"This council was held at Louisville, September 7, 1781. For a discuslion of the problems, see Clark Papers, clxiii ff.



6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

We expected those Expectations were founded upon the Intentions of the Assembly that the new fortifications w* be built
garrisoned if not wholly at least principelly by the Regulars. The
Assistance you required we are quite ready to give but we have no
Intrenching Tools our Militia are still very thin what few
there are will be much Busied in securing their Crops till some time
in November Beside we have some disagreeable News relative
to the unfriendly disposition of the Cherokees expectation of Hostilities either against the Southern Settlements of this County or
Cumberland from the Chickamogies joined by 60 Creeks not to
mention the exposed parts of Fayette which may of Course expect
a visit this fall from the Shawanese

Upon the whole as Jefferson County must be excused from their
part of the Fatigue of building defending the new Garrison as
it is solely intended for our Defence on Calculating the Cost we
conclude that we are willing to foregoe the many advantages which
w** attend it for this Season and think it better to defend ourselves
near home We therefore upon full consultation mature deliberation recommend to you that the Design be dropped untill we can
learn the will of the Assembly now sitting. The Result of their
Determination shall be communicated to you as soon as known

We will use our Endeavours to forward the provisions in Fayette to you but expect it to be rec*" at Lees Town or somewhere on
Kentucky.

We have the Honor to be Sir

Your Obedient Hble Servants
J NO Todd jr
Benjamin Logan
Addressed: Public Service The Honble

Gen' Geo Rogers Clark

at Fort Nelson
p' Express
Endorsed. Co' Tod 13'" Oc' 1781 Rec« 30""



CRITTENDEN TO CLARK, OCTOBER 13, 1781 7

John Crhtenden' to Clark, October 13, 1781
[Draper MSS., 51J94.— A. L. S.]

Harrodsburg Octob"^ 13'" 1781.
Sir,

From my Indisposition, The Inclement weather, and other unfortunate Contingencies, have not been able to leave this place until!
To day. My horses have not been able to get shod as yet, but have
great Reason to Expect to accomplish it at Claries Station on this
days Journey when Shall be in Compleat fix to Expedite my Journey
I am sorry to Inform you that fear it will not be in my power
by Express to give you advices of my arrival to the settlement in
Eighteen days agreeable to Instructions Therefore should be Mappy
in order to save you trouble, and the publick Expence, in Dispatching a second. That you would augment the time to twenty four
days. As you will act on a Certainty in the Case Resting perfectly
assurd if in my power it will be accomplishd in first Limitation

My Health is much Repaird, No Company but Cap' Rogers
The Doctor myself. Great news from below if true (Cornwallace Totally defeated and found among the dead on the field

I am your Devoted
Humble Serv'
John Crittenden
Addressed: On publick service
The Honourable

Gcnl G. R. Clark
Louisville

'Major John Crittenden was a member of the Virginia Convention
(1776) from West Fincastle County. At the outbreak of the Revolution,
he was made a lieutenant in on'^ of the \'irginia regiments of the Continental
army and then major of the Virginia State Line. After the war he came
to Kentucky and in 1784 was elected to represent Fayette County in ihe
Virginia House of Ihirgesses.



8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

John Todd, Jr., to Thomas Nelson, October 21, 1781
[Claric MSS., Va. State Archives.]'

Lexington 21st October 1781

May it please your Excellency

I expect you will long before this reaches you have an Aceof
our proceedings in this Country by Letters from Gen' Clark sent
by Majr Crittenden. After so much assistance given to our Country by Government to enable us to act either offensively or defensively after so much money expended upon the Western Frontiers I
feel desirous anxious to remove any Censures that our little Country may possibly labour under in the opinion of your Excellency
the World. I do not pretend to know to whom the Failure in the
intended Expedition is owing but the Officers men of these Counties have persevered in rendering all possible assistance

By Letters from your Excellencys predecessor we were led to
expect an early Expedition 500 Men with Canoes &c were required
from these Counties to be at the Falls by March last The men
required were drafted set apart for the Expedition the Canoes
chiefly made during the Course of the Spring Summer the Drafts
necessarily decreased. At a Meeting of the Field Officers at Louisville summoned on General Clarks arrival the Beginning of September we found the Strength of the three Counties to amount to
only 760 Men We offered the General two thirds of them if he
chose to go on an Expedition but eather advised him to proceed in
garrisoning the Ohio upwards agreeably to a Recommendation of
the Assembly, or At least to attempt nothing more than a small
Expedition up the Mimami it was our Opinion that if hut one
Garrison sh'' be built it sh*" be at the Mouth of Kentucky as the
most valuable post if there sh^ afterwards be troops to spare another
should be at the Mouth of Licking, Opposite the big Mimami, at
Laurences Creek or Limestone Run: but we seemed unanimous that
the Mouth of Kentucky in a War with the Western Lake Indians
was a post of the utmost Consequence. The Sentiments of General
Clark were different from ours in this Respect He imagined the

'Printed with some variations in Calendar of Virginia State Papers,
2:562-564.



TODD TO NELSON, OCTOBER 21. 1781 9

Falls to be a post of the first Importance being, as he always expressed it, the Key of the Country.

As I wish to see military Service always properly husbanded I
beg leave to offer a few reasons to your Excellency to shew that
keeping our principal post at the Falls is injudiciously wasting of
our strength

1st the Situation of the Mouth of Kentucky is more in the
Road of the Enemy in their War Excursions to any part of this
Country than any part of the Ohio below that place, a few Settlements in Jefferson County only excepted,

2ndly-The River Kentucky w^ afford a cheap and ready transportation of provisions which so abound in the upper Settlr nents
where as if the main army staid at the Falls an Outpost at the mouth
of Kentucky w*" be always kept close in Garrison being in continual Terror could afferd no protection towards transporting the
provisions rather be a Trap for the exposed watermen.

3rdly. The Moutli of Kentucky must be much healthier than
the Falls, being free from the Stagnated pools which overspread the
flat Lands near the Falls which every year kill or incapacitate
for Service greet numbers of our Soldiers

To say that the Falls is the Key to this Country seems to me
unintelligible. It is a strong Rapid which may in an Age of Commerce be a considerable obstruction to the navigator but as we have
no Trade we neither need nor have any Keys to Trade. If it be
understood in a military sense I think it a mistaken appellation as
the enemy can do pass with as little molestation just above the
Falls' as they would on any other part of the River

On parting with General Clark we expected to furnish assistance in building the Garrison at the Mouth of Kentucky from the
Militia but expected to be built principally by the Regulars wholly
garrisoned by them since which a Requisition has come to Col. Logan
and myself to furnish Tools build the Garrison and after wards
defend by it Men drawn from the Body of our Militia untill he sh^
Have Leisure to relieve them which we are satisfied w^ not happen
in any short time

'The version printed in Calendar of I irginia State Papers has just
below the Falls," inserted at this point.



lo ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

On consulting with Col Logan we concluded to defer building
the Garrison because we had no intrenching Tools, no professed
Engineer, no money we conceived it to belong to men who draw
constant pay to garrison it. The Result of our Consultation we
sent to the General with a promise to lay the matter before your
Excellency or the Gen' Assembly. If the State had no Troops on
pay we should have no cause to remonstrate but when they have
Troops, those Troops kept in the more interior secure posts;
when so much has already been expended to augment the Expence
by putting the Militia on duty at a place distant from 6o to 120
Miles from home we concieve to be impolitick contrary to the
Opinion of your Excellency to whom we submit the Matter.

A Recommendation for Justices will be handed your Excellency
by our Delegates Also for several Militia Officers If it is not inconsistent with the practice I wuld wish for a few Blank Commissions to be sent to the Court. Owing to so great a distance from
the seat of Government our Officers loose generally half a year in
the date of their Commissions

I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect Your Excellencys Most Obed' very humble Serv'

Jn" Todd jr

John Crittenden to Clark, October 22, 1781
[Draper MSS., 51J95.— A. L. S.]

Fifteen Minutes after One Oclock 22" Octobf 1781.
five miles East of the Block House

D" Gen'I am arivd in perfect Safety to the Settlements. Have
met with a favourable Opportunity by M' Brackett Oings [Owens]
whom will be Considerd as an Express (and payd as such) to acquaint you therewith. I am bound To Col' Shelby s to night where
shall be Supply d I hope with fresh Horses and push for Richmond
Tomorrow. The news is That Lord Cornwallace occupies york
Town and Glouester and is Certainly Surrounded by Gen' Washingtons Superiour force, so that his fate is Inevitable

I am Sir with Respect

Your Obed' Serv*

John Crittenden



CRITTENDEN TO CLARK, OCTOBER 27, 1781 ii

John Crittenden to Clark, October 27, 1781
[Draper MSS., S1J96.— A. L. S.]

Col' Arthur Campbells 27*" Octobf 1781/
Sir I am this Ins' Informd by Col' Martain Superintcndant of
Indian affairs^ in this Quarter That some time in the first of September near Five Hundred Creek Indians in different parties did
set out for the falls of Ohio, Of which he advertisd the Inhabitants
of the Kantucky at large by a favourable Opportunity. Not knowing you were in that Quarter which he suspects has faild from my
not having heard of it.

Various are the Reports Relative to Cornwallace, However it
is Reducd to a Certainty that his fate is Inevitable his Excellency
Gen' Washington with 13 000 Regulars and upwards of Seven
Thousand Malitia having besiegd him for a Considerable time in
Conjunction with a fleet consisting of thirty Eight ships of the freacli
line and sixteen Frigates.

My knee is nearly as bad as Ever. The Governor is at Camp
Commands as Majf Gen' over the Malitia, you will therefore necessarily Expect to prolong the time

I am with perfect Esteem

Your Obed' Serv'
John Crittenden
Addressed: On publick Service
The Honourable Brig^"'

Gen' G. Rogers Clark
Falls of Ohio

'Arthur Campbell s was near the sllc of Marion, Virginia.

Colonel Arthur Campbell was one of the leaders of southwestern
Virginia. He served in the Virginia assembly for one year (1775). The
following year he was chosen county lieutenant for Washington County,
Virginia, and continued in this office for more than thirty ye irs. lie w ih
the leader of the force against the Cherokee in 1780, and the next year
joined Sevier in the erection of the proposed State of Franklin. Becau'^e
of this interest, he was removed from office by Governor Patrick Henry but
was reinstated by the legislature and received the endorsement of the people.
He later joined his sons in Kentucky. See Clark Papers, clxvii, note i, 214,
424-425. 595-596'Colonel Joseph Martin was appointed Indian agent in 1777 and for a
number of years performed the duties of that office while living at Long
Island on the Hudson River. Prior to this time, he had been well known as
a hunter and explorer and in 1769 he founded a station in Powell s Valley.
He served 00 numerous occasions as commissioner for making treaties with
the Indians and locating forts. Resigning his office in 1789, he returned to
Virginia where, as a member of the legislature, he assisted James Madison
in the preparation of the Resolutions of 1798. See Clark Papers, cxiii,
note I, 385.



12 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Jonathan Clark' to Clark, November 8, 1781
[Draper MSS., 51J98.— A. L. S.]

Caroline, Nov. 8, 1781.
D" Sir

Captain Rogers^ is now here, by whom I fiatter d my self with
hopes of the pleasure of having a letter from you, but am disappointed. However am happy in hearing of your being well, and
that Richard^ is in good health is a very agreeable circumstance.

This letter I expect will be deliverd you by Major Crittenden,
who I hear is at Richmond with letters from you to the Governor
I wish he may get your business done to your satisfaction.

The Assembly was to meet on monday last, much seems to be
expected from them, I wish they may have it in their power to do
any thing of consequence. The paper money is now at about one
thousand for one

That Lord Cornwallis and the army under his command are
capture d, is a pleasing fact, I have not yet had the particulars, or
would have sent them you, but expect you l receive them together
with the particulars of the action to the soutlnvard of the tentli
twelfth of September last, in which General Green prov d successful!, by Major Crittenden in that action our friend L' Colonel
Campbell fell, his loss is very much regreated I have heard of no
other of your acquaintance who fell

Your letter to the old Gentleman* gave him and the family much

'Jonathan Clark was the oldest brother of George Rogers Clark. He
served as captain in a Virginia regiment at Brandywine and Germantown
and ^vas later promoted first to the rank of major and then to that of
lieutenant colonel. In 1802 he settled near Louisville, Kentucky.

Captain John Rogers was the second son of George Rogers and was
a cousin of George Rogers Clark. He served as a lieutenant under Clark
in the Illinois campaign and accompanied him on the expedition against
Vincennes. Together with Captain Montgomery, he was given charge of
Governor Hamilton and the other prisoners who were sent to Virginia.
Governor Jefferson commissioned him captain of cavalry and he served
in that capacity in the West until the close of the war.

'Richard Clark was a younger brother of George Rogers Clark.
During the spring of 1779 he went to the Illinois country where he took
part in a number of expeditions against the Indians. He was with his
brother in a campaign against the Shawnee and he also took part in other
western expeditions. He lost his life in 1784 while traveling alone through
the Indian country.

'John Clark "the old Gentleman" was Clark s father.



CRAIG TO CLARK. NOVEMBER 14. 1781 13

pleasure, they all desire you l accept of their love affection well wishes
he says he has nothing material to inform you of, except that
he and the family arc all very well, and as he is no scribe he hopes
you will excuse his not writing to you, he wishes to know whether
Captain Bayley lias been paid for the land he had of him or not, Mf
Randolph received the money and made himself liable for the payment, and lie is sorry to hear the money is not paid but perhaps
it may be a mistake and the money may be paid.

Mf Gwathmey and family (his wife excepted) are very well,'
she has been very unwell for sometime, our relation M'' Achilles
Redd is lately dead, the rest of the neighbours are generally well,
please accept my sincere well wishes which I also desire to my brother
Richard from whom I should have been very happy in a letter

I am with every degree of respect and esteem

Yr Aff. Brother
Jona'' Clark
M" John Clark s Caroline Nov. 8. 1781

P. S. The old Gentleman does not wish any thing to be said
to M'' Randolph about the land provided Cap' Bailey looks to him
for the money, in that case it would not amiss if the note M'' Rogers
gave was taken in, however you are to act in the matter as you think
best.

J. C.
B. Gen'' Clark.

Endorsed Gen' Jon'* Clark.

John Craig to Clark, November 14, 1781
[Draper MSS., S1J99.— A. L. S.]

End of Long Reach 14"" Novm'' 1781
Dear General I am Happy in this Opportunity of informing
you I am thus far without being Molested by the Enemy, but my
men are almost Killed with Fatiguedand have been on Sliort allowencc of Flour 12 days and often Several days without Beef. 1 have
therefore (in Order to Enable Encourrage them to Persevere to
the End) Contracted with and Received 25 Galleons of Wiskey of

'Owen Gwathmey was the husband of Ann Clark, the eldest sister of
George Rogers Clark.



14 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

John Waller for which I have made Bold to Draw an Order on you
and your Honouring it will Infinitely Oblige me M[ay] I Congratulate you on the Surrender of Lord Cornwallis to his Excellency
the the Commander in Chief its said the British Army Consists of
8000 British 3000 New Levies and 2000 Armed Negroes and a
large Train of Artillery 100 sail of Transports the Bearer will
further inform you

I am Dear General with Much Esteem Your Obed' Hmb'
Serv'

J Craig
General Clarke

Excuse my cold fingers I have left the Price of the Wiskey to
be Determined by the Publick sale at the Falls

Robert Todd' to Thomas Nelson, December 11, 1781

[Executive Papers, 178 1, Va. State Archives.]

Richmond Dec' 11 1781
May it please your Excellency

As my being an Officer in Clarke Reg' paymaster of late it
becomes a part of my duty to represent the wretched situation of
the few troops remaining Westward Many of them have been in
the service for two years past and have never received a Shoe, Stockin?', or hat, none of them any pay, What other clothing not here
mentioned rec"* at fort Jefferson, are now worn out. Their being in
this condition may perhaps be in some measure owing to bad occonomy, in the application of the publick clothing, which I think would
not be improper to enquire into Whatever disposition your excellency shou d please to make; whether kept where they are or removed, clothing will be absolutely necessary, without it no great
service can be expected from them

As my Duty obliges me to be frequently at this place for some
time yet your Excellency may readily receive such intelligence from

'Robert Todd, who was a brother of John Todd, Jr., assisted in the
defense of McClelland s Fort against an Indian attack December 29, 1776.
He was wounded at that time. He was made a captain under Clark and
for a time served as acting paymaster. In the campaign of General Anthony
Wayne he was a brigadier general.

"This letter is printed in part in Calendar of Virginia Stale Papers,
2:651.



ii



CS'



PLAN FOR KEN T UCKY DEFENSE, 1781 15

me as I am able to give concerning the matter I am Sir
with much respect your excellencys most Ob' Humble Ser" t

RoBT Todd Capt

Clarke Reg'
(To THE Governor of Virginia)
In Council Dec 12, 1781
referred to Colo Davies

A Blair C C

Plan for Kentucky Defense, December 11, 1781
[Journal of Virginia House of Delegates, 178 1, p. 35.]

TUESDAY, December ii, 1781.

Mf Banister reported, from the committee appointed to examine
General Clarke s letters, and to confer with Major Crittendon,
that the committee had, according to order, examined the same and
conferred with sundry persons acquainted with the subject contained
in the said letters, and had agreed to a report and come to several
resolutions thereupon, which he read in his place, and afterwards
delivered in at the clerk s table, where the same were again twice
read and agreed to by the House, as followeth

That it is the opinion of several persons who have conferred with
your committee, that the country of Kentucky is in the greatest
danger of being annoyed if not totally subjugated by the British and
Indians from Detroit and the tribes between that post and the Oiu o,
if an expedition is not carried on against them early in the Spring:
That the force requisite for this purpose would be two thousand
men. That if this offensive operation could be carried into execution it would secure to us the amity and attachment of a great number of Indians, who would act in conjunction with us; but if neglected they will act against us in great force. That the consequence
would be fatal to our interest in that country, as the people must
either desert it or submit to British government; That an expedition against Detroit, would require nine hundred pack horses, at
ten pounds each, besides those already in the country, computed to
be one hundred twelve thousand weight of powder, and twentyfour thousand weight of lead. That besides the flour now on hand,
four thousand bushels of corn would be required, which might be



i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

obtained for four hundred pounds specie. That the distance from
the falls of the Ohio to the object in view is between three and four
hundred miles. That of the supplies necessary, should the expedition be judged practicable, there are on hand two hundred thousand pounds of flour at the falls of the Ohio, eight thousand weight
of powder, sixteen hundred weight of lead and from six to eight
hundred bushels of salt. This being a summary of inquiries respecting an offensive operation against Detroit, your committee proceeded to examine into the nature and extent of a defensive war for
the preservation of the country, which your committee beg leave
also to report specially, as follows:

That it appeared from concurrent opinions of other persons acquainted with the country, that it might be defended by keeping
up garrisons at the following posts: the falls of Ohio, the mouth
of Kentucky river, the mouth of Licking creek, and at the mouth
of Lime Stone creek. That the defence of these posts would require six or seven hundred men, and two gun boats at each of the
posts, which might be manned from the respective garrisons and
thus supported, the inhabitants would be enabled to defend themselves against the incursions of the enemy, as well as occasionally to
attack them. That the distance of the falls to the mouth of Kentucky river is seventy-five miles by water from thence to the mouth
of Licking creek, one hundred miles; and from thence to the mouth
of Lime Stone creek, one hundred and ten miles. That the gun
boats will be a great means of preventing the Indians from crossing the Ohio and attacking the posts or the inhabitants on the river.
It farther appears to your committee, that there is a great prospect
of increasing population in that country from the late emigrations
to it; and that this circumstance may lessen the necessity of so large
a force ns is above stated.

Whereupon, your committee came to the following resolutions:

Resolved, that it is the opinion of this committee, That the proposed expedition against Detroit, ought not for the present to be
attempted.

Resolved, that it is the opinion of this committee. That some plan
of difence ought to be adopted for the security of the inhabitants of
this State residing in Kentucky; and that the Executive do, from



STORES FOR FORT NELSON, 1781 17

time to time, take such measures, for that purpose, as circumstances
may admit.



Military Stores for Fort Nelson, December 12, 1781
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Fort Nelson 12"? Decern"' 1781
Received the Military and Ordinance Stores Spacified in the
Within Invoice by Order of General Clark from Martin Carney

late Quarter Master

Rec** by me

Zephaniah Black=ford

Conductor of Military Stores.
Invoice of Military Stores Received from M'^Gavock and Delivered to Mf Zephaniah Blackford
75 Muskits
26— Rifcls
85 Cartridge Boxes

5 Ditto Not fit for Service
59 Straps or Slings for Bayonets
75 Bayonets
9 Powder Horns
16 Shott Pouches
1 1 pair Wipers
4 pair of Bullet Moles
189 Gun Flints

Rec"" the Above Mentioned Stores from Martin Carney
Late Q Master by Order of Gener' Clark
Falls of Ohio 12''' December 1781
Rec"* by me

Zephaniah Blackford
Cond Mil' Stores
Invoice of Military Stores Deliver d to M' Blackford 12';'' December 1 78 1

3 Setts of Mens Harness
6 Lent. Stocks
3 port iire Stocks



i8



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



I Budge Barrel3 Sheep Skins

3 Setts of Harness for 4 Horses

I D° D° for 2 D"

228 6 pound Round Shott fired

1053 pound D" D" D"

40 Rounds of Royal Case

84 6 pound Case fixed

36 3 pound D" D"

140 Empty Shells

300 6 pound Round Shott

759 pounds of Rifel Powder

3401 pounds of Muskit D°

3003 pounds of Cannon D"

1 20 pounds of Slowmatch

6 1/8 Dozen port fire

400 6 Six pound Tubes

22 1/2 pounds of Meal Powder

6 Rheims of Cannon Cartridge Paper

3 Rheims of Muskit D". D".

4900 Gun Flints36 Melting Ladles

I pair of Bullet Nippers

8 lbs of Muskit Cartridge thread

I Ten Lanthren

50 Six pound Empty paper Cartridges

1453 lbs Lead

I pair of Large Bullet Moles






HARRISON TO CLARK. DECEMBER 20. 1781 19

Benjamin Harrison' to Clark, December 20, 1781
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1781, pp. 13-15, Va. State Archives.]

Council Chamber December 20''' 1781
Sir

The Delay of an Answer to your several Favors has been occasioned by a variety of Causes, which Major Crittendon will explain
to you.

Soon after the Arrival they were referred to the Consideration
of the Assembly. The deranged Situation of the Finances of the
State, and the reduced value of the paper Currency made this Step
necessary. Their Determination on the Subject you have inclosed,
by which you will find that an offensive war cannot at this Time
be carried on. we must therefore turn our Attention to defensive
measures and make use of every means in our power that this be
done in the most effectual Manner. On your exertions this must
rest. The Executive have the most entire Confidence in and Reliance on your Abilities and Integrity, and therefore will leave much
to your Discretion.

You l please immediately to call on the Counties of Jefferson,
Fayette and Lincoln in proportion to their number of Militia for
as many Men as will make up with the Regulars you have three
hundred and four rank file properly officered one hundred of
which are to be stationed at the Falls of Ohio, and sixty eight in
each of tiie posts of the mouth of Kentuckey River, the mouth of
Licking Creek and tlic Mouth of Lime Stone Creek whicli posts I
wish to have strengthened as much as possible. This number of
Men it is thought will be sufficient for the present, but very probably will not be so as the Spring idvanccs in which Case you l please
to increase the number as exigencies may require always taking Care
to have the Militia relieved as the Law directs.

'Benjamin Harrison, signer of the Declaration of Independence, was
born in Charles City County, Virginia, in 1726 and was educated at William
and Mary College. He was a member of the Virginia House of Burgesses,
a member of the Committee of Correspondence, 1773, and a delegate to the
Continental Congress, 1774-1778. He became speaker of the Virginia
House of Delegates on his return from Congress, holding this office until
1781, after which he was twice elected governor. As a delegate to the
Virginia convention of 1788 he opposed the ratification of the federal constitution. At the time of his death in 1791 he was a member of the Virginia legislature.



20



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



The plan of Gun boats I very much approve. They will certainly render essential service. I wish therefore to have three or
four of them built as soon as possible. If you are in Want of
C?innon to mount on them, they shall be sent early in the Spring
to Fort Pitt, or any other post most convenient that you shall direct.

Major Crittendon is referred to Col" Davies for the Cloathing
necessary for your Men and will settle with him the manner of
getting them to you.

You will very probably ask how the Business required to be done
can be carried on without Money. The answer indeed is difficult.
We have nothing to depend on for the present but the virtue of the
people; that has been tryed with Success on many former Occasions
and I hope may be so again when they are informed that the Assembly are now closely engaged on the Subject of Finance and that
they mean to do Justice to the public Creditors. The Executive
on their parts will most certainly use the first means in their power
to pay oE any Debts that may be contracted for the present purpose.
I well know how necessary it is to keep up the public Credit, and
shall on all occasions exert myself to support it.

There will be no great Difficulty I hope to supply provisions
as you have Flour in Abundance and Salt to cure Meat, a great
Quantity of which may be got at the outposts by hunting. Some
of the Salt may also be sold for Beef. If any of the Flour should
be in danger of spoiling, I would recommend it to you to dispose
of that also and to apply the Money to such necessary purposes as
you think will be most advantageous.

Major Crittendon delivered a verbal Message to the Board from
you respecting the Resolutions of the last Assembly. It was a matter
of great Surprise to us that we could not conceive how General
Clarke could take that resolution as aimed at him whose Character
l)a> ever stood unimpeached You must be sensible that great
Abuses have been committed and that it was necessary for the Assembly to correct them and to bring the Offenders to Justice. At
such only the Resolution points. I have my hopes that on cooler
Reflection you will think with me, and have no more unhappy Moments on that Subject. A Resignation at this Time would be exSee the joint resolution of June 21, 1781, Clark Papers, 569.



MUSTER ROLL OF ILLINOIS REGIMENT. 1781 21

tremely injurious to the State in as much as it would throw the
whole back Country into Confusion and perhaps occasion its I>oss
the thought of which I am confident induce you if you have not
done it already to lay aside your Resentment.

I have now Sir only to assure you that I have the highest Confidence in you and Expectations that you will enter on y^ Business
recommended to you, and that I am &c

Benjamin Harrison.

Muster Roll of the Illinois Regiment, December, 1781

[Draper MSS., 51J103.— A. D.]

Commanded by Col" John Montgomery' in the Virginia State
Service, for the month of December 1781.

'Captain John Montgomery with his company was ordered to join
Clark at the Falls of the Ohio in 1778. After the capture of Kaskaskia he
was sent by Clark with dispatches to Governor Henry. The next year
(1779) he was appointed, together with Lieutenant John Rogers, to accompany Governor Hamilton and other prisoners who were sent to Virginia. As colonel, he was in command of the one hundred and fifty men
sent by the Virginia authorities to assist Clark in the proposed campaign
against Detroit. Before setting out for the Falls of the Ohio, Clark appointed Montgomery to the command of the troops in the Illinois country.
He was succeeded in this position by Captain John Rogers (April, 1781).
See also index, Clark Papers.



22



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



E

u

f4



e

B
o
O



Pi



E



oo






u

C
01



w



cv o o

t^ oo CO



0000-i 000000
oooooooooooooooooocooooo






3



r^\Ot^00O^O^O•o■O tj-o



o

u



•D."D.*D.*D.*D.*D.'o.*C g 3 g g g g
w-H cd c< cd el m cj cd cr] z: 1^ X .!x

U CJ UUUUUU>-1-) hJ 1 hJJ



o
ta

c
o

krH

c

O



'5

a

n

E
o



o r p5 g Ph S



E S

H rt pq

y 2 c c

j: ^o



O



ca j3



^_^< 5 S



O 1-H





E;S




a g--^





[ont

Ch

Cla


U


y^


o.

O
1—1


James
Abrah
Richar



E

4_; CS



rt



PF!J



SJ3 11JIO psuoissimuio^



MUSTER ROLL OF ILLINOIS REGIMENT, 1781 23



Q



C
M


































a
































c
































V
































u


tfl






tfl
























c




^.i






t— t
































jr


r




J=






r




J^

















0^


3




3


c


c






fcJD

3






TJ


c3


■5




7)


c
























P









3


abse
rted


3




3


0^

u




3




3






be


B

r




U-,




r




C








c




c






u


c


c







i;5 Q







CO


C/2














Q





























ON









on








OooO00oot^


cr^


T3


0


13


'O


o


0


'O


o


0


0


■a


t^


0


13 r^






























































u








C

a







"n. "d. u



"3


1

D.



3


"a.



JulyMar.




6


c
n
1—1


J3
C

u



u-1




m




00


VO


r-^





t





m


vO
















N


M




rs


ro





ro














vO


4-1

c


1


4^ 1






I


1


1




1


1


1




u


1


1 1






a






1


1


















1 1




rl


5


01








r!


c


0'


0'


0'







r.'





l«


o


T3


0


0


0


0


0


0


0


T3


a


0




0


0 0



































en




Q.






















0.











t: c















Portwood
t Davis
Bailey
Howard




s IVPDer
as Ward
as Hoope
as Gaskil
rd Robert
Crais


u
cij




c
c

3

Q


c


3


2.

3


c




c


s Larose
es Wood




c


E E E j:
5 F, rt
2 c J= J= y


E
1—


c


1—1




b





PI


p! Di Q J


1—1


fa h h h Z


CU


h





fa U



»-i<^ro^»OvOr^00O\0»-'^'^'^"



in v£) r-» 00



o.

E
o
U



idUlO^ S JO[AEJ^ dB3



XuEdiuo3



24



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Pi



c

a

B
o
U

c

o



3

O o oE E S E

o. 3 O O O O

o o fe U U U U

c c c c c c c

o o o o o o o



o

CO oTD U'O TS'O'^'O'^






o a^


o




00 I^


00 oo


or^ l^


r^ r^


o











1 "dJ

a








o


It-H


u

o


3
J


<5


C
3



(7\


M


'ttn


O


O


>o


r^


vn


fO


O


o







CJ


<N


<N







M


<N







M



C



J J



n3 "O "O TS "TS ^3 "U "O TS "TS



E



*j «j
a



c



h 3










a a



CO






c c

3 3



^-g 5

O ;_.«J



2 5

;r 1P



o tj) re
•T3






E

2

c o

rt u 3 K^

eg o a; g



p C

c E t:

O O J3


►^1



.!i



E

ill



4J r

r; 1-. V-i

•^3 3

OQ CQ

IS E

kn



a c



c
o



CQ



S



o\ o

<S M






Tjin vo

<S M M



r^ 00

fS <N






Q.

E
o
U



^diiio3 s/ajiBg jdeQ



MUSTER ROLL OF ILLINOIS REGIMENT. 1781 25



o o o

c c c c

O O O "w* o



O Cv O

00 c-o-o-o-o-o-o-oooo* oooot^-. oOO c



t:


X. >v


N,.


t,


u


*ri 1 c n ca


"1 1 1 1 1 c c

<H ooc oC'


c:


c c c tj

c^ 01


C r, rt
3 J?


1^ rt 'rH


1—


5 0


0 a 0 0 0








ON


00 00





00 00 00





r^ ro


r^ M 11


<s


ro H (S


M r<i



OT3.>-aT3-o-a-o-a-o-a-o-o-o-o-o-o T3T3-a-a-a



D. 2 c c o a

o> o of: n r: i~ f'g f r^ l°^ ',0 r^ c






^diuo^) s^jEaqsBjg jde^



26



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



B




o



c

o



O



U o o



(3*

o



c c

o o



OO 00 o00
1^ t^ TS I^



0\0 ooooooot^OOor>.l^00t^00o. o-OO* oo1^ T3



a.





O D.





a. a. <ri 3



c
■-■(S-H«roi-i(N ts





o



J J J Q



C? 1"O 3



n3 T3'^'^'T3 T3'T3 T3'0 T3'T3T3 T3T3"^



i^ fri







o

c

p=^








H "S "2 S
Q



u



Pi K



O

bn C 5 u u

3 J= E rt

O rt v. w,

1 (73 Uh fc



S s
:5 E Hcj

2 fc



n



tS ^0'^"^vO r».oo o^O



r^ t^ 1^



E


o
o




F


u CJ 3 p


a O


J= C Cli


Q



C O u










lO S


t^


>C aj O


o c


O U O O


CQ


u-1 vO t-^ 00


a\ o


t^ t^ t~^ t^


r~ 00



XuBdulO^ SjpBJIQ jdE3



MUSTER ROLL OF ILLINOIS REGIMENT. 1781 27



00



Q



O



c
O



00 oo oo
1^ T3 'O n3 n3



O a O 'O



0-T3-T3-OT3 i O'a TS'^'O



c
o





E



5


f.


H


rt






OJ


r;i


H





rt



J o



J= E
t: o

E £f
CO c

o



E 5






pa



O



fe



O O rt





(S


m


t


"-1


vO


r^


CO


ON








00


00


00


00


00


00


00


00


00


ON


Ov



Auudiuo^



28 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

GoDEFROY Linctot' TO BENJAMIN Harrison, January i, 1782

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Sir.

Having been sloped for a long time in this village by a disorder
from which I have barely recovered arising from misfortune. Fatigue bad Provisions which I have been obliged to make use of
during in the Indian villages, on account of my business as Agent,
tlie impossibility of being able myself in person to render you an
ace' of my Conduct, as also an ace' of the expense attending upon a
Journey to Richmond I take the Liberty to send you by M
Gration [Gratiot]one of the citizens of this Country, an account
of the necessary charges which I have been obliged to be at for
presents made to the different nations to whom I have spoke according to the order which I received from his Excellency Governor
Jefferson I hope you will be pleased fully to pay tliem having
been obliged to borrow different sums of some of my Friends to
support among the different nations the Honour of the State to
which I am truly devoted I should have been happy to have had
it my power to have met with General Clark that he might have
approved of my Expences conduct which I flatter myself he would
have done with as much approbation as M Cuirzal [Cruzat]^ Spanish Colonel Commandant upon the River Illinois

If my Health at any time enables me to perform the Voyage I
will immediately set to receive whatever orders you may be pleased
to give but I hope if my Conduct is agreeable to you you will be

'Daniel Maurice Godefroy Linctot, a French trader of influence with
the Indians, was of great assistance to Clark. In 1779 lie was made
Indian agent at Cahokia by Major Joseph Bowman. During that summer he was sent up the Illinois River in command of a Cahokia company. This advance defeated the project of Lieutenant Bennett who had
priireeded as far as St. Joseph from Michillimackinac for the purpose of
driving the American traders out of the Illinois country. The Indians deserted and the British entrenched themselves at the mouth of the St.
Joseph River. Meantime, Linctot crossed to Ouiatenon and this movement
caused consternation among the enemy, for it was interpreted as an advance on Detroit. I-ater in the year, accompanied hy some Indians, he
made a visit to the CJovernor of Virginia by whom he was commissioned
major of Indian affairs, because of his "sincere attachment to the cause of I;

the United States." He was entrusted with keeping the friendship of the vj

W.-iIianh tribes, and was stationed at Vincennes. Sec also index, Clark

I aperi, where the name appears as Major Geoffrey Linctot. 'i

For Charles Gratiot and Francisco Cruzat consult index, Clark Papers. j.



CRITTENDEN TO CLARK, JANUARY 13. 17S: 29

pleased to pay my Wages, having received none of any person,
being reduced to the necessity of drawing for my Expences, or depending upon the generous Succours which I have received in many
places of my Friends I will receive whatever you will be pleased
to grant, be assured that according to my Station the duties of
my charge I shall have justly acquired it

I have the Honor to be with profound
Respect Sir
j o. mo obt Hble Sev*

GODEFROY LlNITOT

Kaskaskias,
Jan' if 1782

State of the Treasury, January 7, 1782
[Cal. oj Va. State Papers, 3:10.— Abstract.]

Richmond, January 7tli, 1782.
Jolin Conant, Surgeon to Gcnl Clark s Army, having obtained
from "the Assembly" an order for a Warrant for one thousand dolls:
specie, for tiie purchase of medicines to be delivered at the Falls of
the Ohio in March next, applied at the Treasury, but was informed
there was no money on hand He therefore now begs that instructions be given to the "Commissaries of Stores" to sell flour sufficient
to make up that Sum, otherwise the wishes of the Assembly cannot
be carried out

John Crittenden to Clark, January 13, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J1.— A. L. S.]

Lexington 13"' January 1782
D" Gen'I have Communicated the purchase of Flower made in Conjunction between us on behalf of the state to Col' William Fleming
whom was so kind as to take Charge of some papers of mine Relating my Claim for Services Renderd under your Command in this
Department, As Col' Fleming will probably wish for some Information from you Relative to my Claims, you will greatly Oblige me
in making me D'' for Such Quantity of the Land as you may think
necessary and furnishing the Vouchers Requird that the accounts



30 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

may be Liquidated it being out of my power to attend and this shall
Oblige me to Comply with the same agreeable to your Contract with
Cap' Tardiveau^ I have made little progress in Obtaining the warrents mentiond in your favour to me, I hope to have the pleasure
of your advocacy to the Settlement as it may probably be later than
you Expect I have nothing more worthy your notice
Believe me S'' to be with
the utmost Esteem

to be your Humb'' Serv'

John Crittenden
Addressed Gen' Geo. R. Clark, Falls of Ohio.

Order for Organizing Western Troops, January i8, 1782
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

In Council Jan'' 18. 1782.

The Board advise that the regular Troops of this State, now in
the Western Country under the Command of General Clarke be
reduced to one Corps of Infantry, to be commanded by a Major
and formed into companies not exceeding Sixty eight rank file to
each Company under the necessary Captains Subalterns: and that
Gen' Clarke be requested to organize the said Corps and if the officers cannot agree among themselves with respect to their respective
commands, that he appoint them according to their Seniority
Extract per ye Minutes
A Blair C. C.

John Todd, Jr., to Governor Jefferson, January 24, 1782
[Executive Papers, Va. State Archives.]

Lexington 24 Jans' 1782
May it please your Excellency,

I rec* the inclosed Letters a few days ago; as they contain some
matters of Consequence I transmit them just as I recieve them.
They are written with a freedom which spares no Character may
with additional Letters which I expect you have rec* throw light

'For Barthelemi Tardiveau, see Cahoiia Records, cxxxvi ff., clii; also i

Alvord, The lllinoii Country (Centennial History of Illinois, i), 369 ff. i







TODD TO JEFFERSON. JANUARY 24, 1782 31

up on our Situation in the Ilinois. Winston* is Command' at
Kaskaskia M° Carty' a Captain in the Ilinois Reg' who has long
since rendered himself disagreeable by endeavouring to enforce Military Law upon the civil Department at Kohos [Cahokia].

The peltry mentioned by Winston as purloined or embeazcUed
by Montgomery was committed to their joint Care by me in Nov
1779 from the Circumstance of ColMontgomery s taking up
with an infamous Girl leaving his Wife ic flying down the River
I am inclined to believe the worst that can be said of him being so
far out of the Road of Business I cannot do the State that Justice I
wish by sending down his case immediately to the Spanish Commcnd.'int on the Missisipppi.

A late Letter informed your Excellency of my Design of laying
some Beef Corn in Store for the Expedition planned last year I
expect to get 30 or 40 thousand Weight of Beef two or three
thousand Bushals of Corn or Better Terms then will be got any
wiicre in this Country. A Prisoner, Martin Wistill, taken spring
was a year at Wheeling by the Shawanese t^vo weeks ago left his
party being 7 Shawanese about half a Mile from Bryants Fort as
they were stealing Horses. He says the Shawanese have built 4
Block Houses at Logans Town 12 Miles beyond the Pickaway, that
they are much Distressed for want of provisions are keen for making an attack next Spring upon the Kentucky Settlements that Blackfish Logan are dead I am uneasy lest Crockett siiould not
arrive timeously at Licking many of our Settlers seem desirous to
fly immediately to the south side of Kentucky lest he should not.

Two Certificates to W" Grant Israel Grant dated the 1 6th
This Ins' one for 627 Bushels Corn the other for 80 were signed
by Jos. Lindsay Corns' Countersigned. I wish the payments to be
delayed till further Information to the Auditors.

I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect your Excellency s Most obedient humble Servant

J"" Todd, Jr.

His Excellency, Thomas Jefferson

'For a biographical sketch of Richard Winston see Alvord, Cahokia
Records, Ixxxv ff.

For Richard McCarty, see ibid., 2, note 3.



32 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Officer s Rank, Illikois Regiment, January 28, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J3.— A. D.]

Rank of the officers of the Illinois Regiment Louisville 28'*
Jan' 1782

John Montgomery L* Colonel 14 Decem' 1778
Tho" Quirk Majf 17'^' Aug' 1779
Robert Todd Cap*" 17 March 1780
Isaac Taylor Cap" 18'* March 1780
Abraham Kellar Cap" 19 March 1780
John Baley Do 29 March 1780
Rich"* Brashear D° so"* May 80
John Girault D° 3"" June 1781
Michael Perrault D° lo"" October 1781
Joseph Calvit Lieut i June 1780

James Montgomery D» 2 D° 80
Abraham Chaplin D" 3 D" 80
Richard Clark D" 4 June 1780

Jarret Williams D° 5 June 1780

William Clark 6 June 1780

Benjamin Harrison to William Fleming,' January 29, 1782
[Draper MSS., 46J69.— L. S.]

In Council January 29*'' 1782
The Executive are extremely pleased to find by your favor of
the 26"" ult" that you will assist in the settlement of the accounts in
tlie back Country. They approve of your plan in gener al and will

'Colonel William Fleming, after receivinR a classical education, was
graduated in medicine from the University of Edinburgh. On coming to
Virginia during the French and Indian War, he served as lieutenant and
surgeon in Washington s regiment and as captain under General Forbes.
He received a wound at the battle of Point Pleasant in Dunmore s War
which unfitted him for military service during the Revolution, but as a
county lieutenant he was an adviser on the defense of the frontier and he
served two years in the Virginia legislature. In 1779 he was appointed
one of the commissioners for granting settlement and preemption rights in
the county of Kentucky. In 1781 he was appointed one of the western commissioners for the consideration of claims against Virginia growing out of
the disbursements of public money by Clark and his officers (see post, 290).
For a number of years after the Revolution he sat in the Virginia legislature
and was a member of the state convention which adopted the federal constitution.



HJRRISON TO FLEMING, JANUARY 29. 1782 33

furnish you with such accounts and documents as they can priK irp,
tho' they apprehend it will be impossible for them to obtain all that
will be necessary. This deficiency we hope you will be able to make
up on the Spot. The opportunity you have had of being informed
of the intentions of the Assembly and Executive in appointing Commissioners to settle this business where it was transacted, will no
doubt suggest to you many Things that cannot be so fully explained
either by letters or instructions much therefore must be left to
the discretion of the Commissioners in whose abilities and judgment
we place intire confidence.

We know of no powers given to any person to draw bills on the
State but to Col° Clarke and yet we find them drawn to an immense
amount by Col" Montgomery a Capt° Rob' George and some others
we have but too much reason to suppose a Collusion and fraud
betwixt the drawers and those they are made payable to; most of
them are for specie when they well knew we had none amongst us,
and from the largeness of the Sums, proves the transactions must
have been in paper and the depreciation taken into account, when
the bargains were made; indeed George confesses this to have been
the Case when he gave Philip Barbour a bill for two hundred
thirty two thousand, three hundred and twenty Dollars and uses
the plea of ignorance.

I am unwilling to charge M' Oliver Pollock of New Orleans
with any sinister practices having in general heard well of him, yet
I confess I have my doubts of him and wish his whole transactions
from the first connection with Montgomery &c to be minutely
enquired into. In short great Care and exactness is to be observed,
thro' out your whole transactions, but this I need not mention as
we can safely trust to your prudence.

Col° Preston h is resigned his appointment and has recommended
AP Granville Smith who is named in his room. We have not yet
heard from that Gentleman, but suppose he will act. We agree to
lengthen the time of meeting to the first of May.

Each Commissioner is allowed three sumpter horses which they
are requested to procure on Credit, and their pay shall be fully
adequate to their Trouble and expences.



34 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

We know not what to say to you on the subject of money to
support you not having at present the Command of one shilling.
We hope however that you will be able either to furnish it, or borrow it, in either Case you may rest assured of its being replaced with
interest out of the first money that comes to the treasury.

So many of the Gentlemen that have been named for this business have refused to act that we are apprehensive it will not go
forward unless a power is lodged with you to name others in Case
these should do the same, we have for that reason left three blanks
to be filled up by you in case of need, not doubting your doing it
with proper persons who have no Connections in that Country.
Should you make any appointment you l please to inform us of it
immediately.

You have inclosed an order to the County Lieutenant of Washington to furnish you with a guard to the first post where you will
please to discharge them. We leave it in your power to fix the
number, confident of your doing it as low as possible, as you well
know how necessary Oeconomy is in the present State of our finances.
I am with respect
Your most obed' Hble Ser'

Benj Harrison
P S The Acc'» &c shall
be forwarded as soon
as possible

Benjamin Logan to Clark, February 12, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J5.— A. L. S.]

Fabruary 12"' 1782

Honoured Sir from the treatment I received last night from
Major Thomas Quirck' whom I beleave to be an Officer in Ileanoy
Reigment under your Command the Said treatment hapened in
your presence I do request demand the saticfaction for that treatThomas Quirk served as ensign and lieutenant in the Seventh and
Fifth Virginia Regiments. Resigning from the Eastern army in 1779, he
spent the summer recruiting for Clark and taking reinforcements to the
Illinois. Later in 1781 he went to Kentucky where he served as major of
the troops stationed at Louisville. See Kellogg, Frontier Retreat on the
Upper Ohio (If^is. Hist. Colls., 24), 195, note 2.



LEGRAS TO CLARK. FEBRUARY 15. 17S2 35

ment that the Law Martial derects that Law to be put in force
as soon as may be.

I have the Honour to be

Your Most Obedient Hum'« Ser'
Benjamin Logan
To Genaral Clarck

Endorsed: Logan s Complaint Against Quirk Febru^ 12^ 1782

J. M. P. Legras' to Clark, February 15, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J6.— A. L. S.]

Au Generale George Roge Clark Brigadier General
Monsieur

Sir, by an Outawa Indian arriv d here the 31" Dec"^ from the
Miamis, we learn that the Commandant of Detroit requir d all the
Savages of the Lakes and others ajacent thereto, to be ready, very
early in the Spring to march against the Falls, and that Capt" Chaine
was to go at their Head with Artillery, that in the mean time he
desired some of them wou d form small parties to see what was doing
at the Falls*

Par un sauvage de la 8oas arrive icy Le 31' dedexembre qui vient
de la Riviere des Mis; cet Rapporte que Lorsqu il Est partis du
detroit L automme derniere pour son hivernement que le Command'
du detroit a dit a tous les sauvages des Lacs Et des Environs de se
tenir prct de Bon printemps pour aller frapper a la Chutte, Et que
le Capitaine Chaine irait a Leur tete avec De L artillerie, et qu en
attendant qu il seroit Charmc que quelqu un deux formassent des
pctits partis pour voir ce qu il se passe; Voila Mon Sicur ce que

Colcincl J. M. r. Lepras wns one of the prominent Frenrhmcn at Vincennes when Clark captured that post, lie was captain of militia under the
British but he began at once to espouse the American cause by furnishin(»
powder and flour. He accompanied Captain Leonard Helm on the expedition up the Wabash which captured seven boats containing supplies for
Hamilton. During the year 1779 he was appointed president of the local
court at Vincennes by John Todd and continued to preside over this court
until 1786.

This translation was interpolated on the original manuscript between
the subscription and the body of the letter.



j6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

J ai L honneur de vous informer Et Soyes persuades qu il ne Viendra
Bien a ma Connoissance: Sans que Je vous En donne avis; J aurois
Bien Desire avant Le Depart Du Major Bosseron qu il fut Venu
quelques Nouvelles des Jlinois; Mais depuis deux mois nous avons
du monde de ce poste qui y Sont alles Et qui ne sont point Encore
Revenu Nous pensous que ce sont les Mauvais tems qui les En
Empcchent par les Eaux Et les pointes Basses qui Sont inondes,
plus que quand vous Est Venu prendre le poste Vincenne Je ne
vous Reccommande point le Major Bofseron Je sgay vos intentions
a son sujet Jai fait part des Bonnes Nouvelles que vous aves Marques
a M'' Dalton a tous les habitants Et Leurs Est dit que vous les
invitics tl aller chercher du sel. Comme M'' Dalton C est trouve
dans le Besoin de poudre Et de plomb pour les sauvages des ouyas
Nos allies qui sont Vend Le saluer; Et les sauvages du poste Leurs
ayant dit que J en avoit; J ai Ete oblige de L assister Sur celle que
vous m aves donne pour le service publique Les Sauvages Luy Disant
qu il ne pouvoit pas Vivre avec Des glands Comme les Cochons
J ai fait part d un peu D amonition de quelque Minots de sel a Ceux
qui sont au service Des Etats; si Q est un Effet de votrc Bontc de
M en Envoyer d autre Je vous Seres oblige; Ainsy qu un peu de sel
et de farinne; Car les Sauvages M on mange une partie de ce que
vous m avies donne avant de me Rendre chez Moy; Cependant J ai
Encore de la poudre En Reserve au Cas d attaque Je la Livreray
aux habitants Lorsqu il sera apropos II y a Eut une Maladie
Contagleuse a misere Et au Kas il Est mort 54 persone Dont
Madame Vale mere est du nombre Monsieur Charleville pere' Et
sa dame Je n ay Rien Re(;ue de la Nouvelle Orleans les marchandises fort Rare Et Bien Chere; Mr. Vaucheres Mon associe Est
passe a la havana avec Le Gouverneur d un Galvez Sous Sa protection. Je Laisse au Major Bosseron a vous dire Combien Cela
me fait detor J ai Vendu une Negresse Et Son Enfant plutot que de
me voir Executer pour Mes Debtes. Permettes Moy Monsieur de
vous Remercier de toutes Les Bontes que vous aves Eu pour moy
pendant Mon sejour a la Chutte; Et que tant que Je viveray J en

•Jean Baptiste Charleville was one of three sons (the others were
Charles and Francois) of Joseph Chauvin dil Charleville, each of whom
was elected to the position of justice of the peace for the district of Kaskaskia. See index, Clark Papers.



LEGRAS TO CLARK. FEBRUARY 15. 1782 37

aurai une Vive Reconnoissance En Vous assurant de ma fidelite Et
Du Respect avec Lequelle J ai L honncur d etre
Monsieur

Votrc trcs humble
Et tres obeissant
S* ViNCENNE Le 15' f"" 1782. Serviteur

J. M. P. Legras

Lieut Col'
Addressed: Au Generate George Roge Clark Brigadier Generale A La Cliiitte

Endorsed: Col' Legras Feb'' 1782

[^Translation'\
To General George Rogers Clark, Brigadier General.
Sir:

An Ottawa Indian, who arrived here the thirty first of December, from the Mississippi River, reports that, when he left Detroit
last autumn for his winter quarters, the Commandant of Detroit
had requested all the Indians of the Lakes and parts adjacent, to
hold themselves in readiness to march, early in the spring against
the falls, whither Captain Chaine with artillery, would lead them
and that in the meantime, he would be glad if some of them formed
small parties for reconnoitering. I have the honor to report tliis,
sir, to you; you may rest assured that nothing will come to my knowledge, without my informing you of it.

I should have been very glad if news had come from Illinois
before the departure of Major Bosseron. But two months ago,
however, several persons went there, from this post, but they have
not yet returned. We believe that the bad weather has delayed
them, by high water, as the bottoms are worse flooded than when
you came to take post Vincennes. I do not commend Major Bosseron
to you. I know your intentions on this subject.

I have communicated the good news you sent to Mr. Dalton, to
all the inhabitants and have told them that you invite them to go in
search of salt. As for Mr. Dalton, he has needed powder and bullets
for the Wca Indians, our allies who came to salute him, and the
Indians of the post. Having told what I had, I have been obliged



38 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

to assist him with what you have given me for public service, foi
the Indians told him that it was impossible for them to live upon
acorns like swine. I have divided a little ammunition and some
bushels of salt among those who are in the service of the States
if in your kindness you send me anything else, I shall be obliged
to you for a little salt and flour, for the Indians have eaten a part
of what you gave me before my return home.

Meanwhile, I still have powder in reserve, in case of an attack,
which I shall issue to the inhabitants wiien it becomes necessary.
There has been a contagious disease at Ste. Genevieve and at Kaska^kia; fifty-four persons have died, among them the elder Madame
Vale and the elder Mr. Charleville and his wife.

I have received nothing from New Orleans; goods are scarce
and very dear. Mr. Vaucheres, my associate, has gone to Havana
under the protection of the Governor, Galvez. I leave it to Major
ISosseron to tell you how this has injured me.

I have sold a negress and her child rather than see myself put
under execution for debt. Allow me, sir, to thank you for all your
kindness to me during my stay at the Falls. So long as I live, I
shall retain a vivid remembrance of it. Assuring you of my fidelity
and of the respect with which I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your very humble and obedient servant,

J. M. P. Legras, Lieut. Col.
St. Vincennes

February 15, 1782.
General George Rogers Clark,
Brigadier General at the Falls.
Endorsed Col. Legras, February 1782.

Clark to Jonathan Clark, February 16, 1782
[Draper MSS., 2L15.— A. L. S.]

Cove Spring Kentucky Feb^ 16*'' 1782
D? Sir

I Received your fav' of the S* Nov'' last I am happy to find
that all friends are well I was unhappy to hear the fate of Col. CampCLARK TO JONATHAN CLARK, FEBRUARY 16, 1782 39

belP you did not inform me any thing of Johny or Edmond* Dicky
left this last Fall I have not heard whether he got safe home I sent
his Commission to him by M.' Rice Bullock of« Hanover, inform him
of it Cap' Benjamin Fields of Culpepper Cty was to take two of
my Riding Horses from F' Pitt to Caroline if they have arive pray
send them to me by the first safe Hand that will undertake to bring
them for any price, being so Repeatedly disappointed by government
that I warmly solicited them for leave to quit this Department intending to Retire and Injoy myself in some polite part of the Continent but have met with a Refutial such as put it out of my power
to leave the Cuntrey with propriety they have been generous Enough
(as I suppose they term it) to own that the misfortunes tliat I have
met witli was owing to their own disability and neglect (in order
to ple ise me I suppose) they have given me the same powers hear
that y° Governor iiave with you in the Military Dep' finance >kc
but I doubt it will be out of my power to save tiiis infant Cuntrey
from tliose impending strokes that now Hover over it its Fate will
be determined by August if we are then fortunate all persons that
incline to Come to tiie Cuntrey my [may] Move amcdiately as it
will then be out of the power of the Enemy to distress us much
more and if the old Gentleman Determine to move to this Cuntrey
he might send out hands to Commence a Farm: I have Ingaged a
man to Survey his Land but I know nothing about the payment for
it M"" Randolf is gone to the west Indias but I make no Doubt but
the Land is paid for they tell me it is one of the finest Tracts in the
Cuntrey Lands Raise hear amazingly a few days past I was Refused
Six Hundred acres of Lands for five Hundred Guineas, to be paid
in three month I intended it for my Father in Case he moved amediately as it was in the Hart of the Settlement knowing that it would
Continue to Raise in Value I have some prospect of future happiness

For biographical sketch of Colonel John Campbell, see poit, 145, note
I for his relations with Clark, see Clark Papers, 225 ff.

'John Clark was a younger brother of George Rogers Clark. He
entered the army as lieutenant in a Virginia regiment. At the battle of
Germantown, he was captured by the British and was held as a prisoner
until his exchange in 17S2. As a result of his imprisonment he contracted
tuberculosis which caused his death in 1784.

Edmund was another younger brother of George Rogers Clark, who
served as lieutenant in a Virginia regiment during the Revolution. About
the year 1800 he removed to Kentucky.



40 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

in our living near Each other I can supply you with Lands if you
Settle on the Ohio as fortune seems to determine that I posses an
unpreceiicnted Quantity of the finest Lands in the Western World
I can prejudge that I have this Campaign to Incounter greater
dangers than I have heretofore their is no knowing the fate of war if
I Fall I hope you will not suffer any part of my property to fall
into the Hands of those that have no Right to it you will find it
very Considerable give half to my Father and keep the other your
self

I have now to add that I could wish to hold a Constant Correspondence with you its in your power to be of infinite Service to me
by informing of me of the policy of the State Continent Europe
Individuals &c as it may Occur to you

I am with Respect

yf Loving Brother &c
G R Clark

John Gibson' to Clark, March 5, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J8.— A. L. S.]

PiTCHBURG march the s"" 1782
Sr this is to Let you Know that your Bill that you Gave me on
the Govrner of Virgenia was protested which has Ruined me and
If you Do Not take Som Spedey methiod to make me hole I will
take Evrey opertunitey in my power to Do my Self Justies Sr I hope
you will Rite me an answer Emedentley your Compliens will
obledge your Verrey Umbl Sert

Jno Gibson
N B S" I Expected you would Rote me before this time as
Marger Critenten must have told you all my Disapointments

'For the contract between Gibson and Clark, see Clark Papers, 571-572.
This was not Colonel John Gibson but another of that name, an Indian
trader anti merchant at Pittsliiir^h. On a number of occasions he procuretl
powder and other supplies for Clark.



MONBREUN TO CLARK, MARCH 5, 1782 41

TiMOTHE DE Monbreun' TO Clark, March 5, i 7S2
[Draper MSS., 51J25.— A. L. S.]

MoN General

J ai eu L honneur de M addresser a Monsieur Le Major Julin
Williams votre representant pour lui demander soit ma retrait oil
qu il m accordat, En maqualite De Gentilhomme Et d officer au
service De la Rcpublique de la Virginie que J ai L honneur de s ivir,
ma paye de Lieutenant En bon argent ou Marchandises pour pouvoir
faire subsister ma famille Lequcl ne ma pu accorder que des Provisions pour ma Subsistance comme vous le verre par so reponse cy
jointe Que J ai L honneur de vous Envoyer cy Indus, En consequence Mon general Je me flatte que Lorsque vous aures vu le Certificat de Monsieur le Colonel Montgomery Et La reponse que M"'
Le Major Williams dc mes Services et leurs incompetence Malgrc
La bonne volonte Que ces Messieurs avoient de vouloir recompenser
mes services Et le zele que J ai Encore presentement desirent vous
suivrc dans L Expcdition que vous allcs faire, si toutes fois il vous
plait m accordcr La subsistance de ma famille pourque Je piiisse
m absenter et ne pas Laisser ma famille a la Mercy de mes amis qui
est une chose liontcuse a un veritable Gentilhomme cet que Je Suis.
J esperc Mon General que m appuyant sur le zclc avec lcc|ucl Je
desire servir La patrie trouver En vous toutes les reponces qui nie
seront necessaires pour Marcher avec Confiance sous vos drapeau\
a Labri desquels un veritable Militaire ne Desire rien autre chose.

Jai L honneur detre avec un profound respect

Votre tres humble et tres obeissant serviteur

timote de monbreux l''
Mon General
Kaskaskias le 5™^ Mars 1782

[Addressed:] Monsieur Monsieur George Rogers Clark Ecuyer
Marechal de Camps Commandant la patrie oriental de la Virginie
au fort Pite

Influenced by Father Gibault, Timothe Boucher Sicur de Monbreun,
who was living at Vincennes, took up the cause of the Americans. Reni'^
ing to Kaskaskia, he was appointed lieutenant in the Illinois battalion
was later granted a commission as deputy county lieutenant (1783). I)uiing the turbulent years which followed, he served as judge, usually the
only one, and also preserved a good understanding with the Indians. In
1786, he resigned and crossed to the Spanish side of the Mississippi. Fur
a more extended account of his services, consult Alvord, Ca/iokia Records,
xix, cxxiv ff.



42 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

[Translation l

March 5, 1782.
My General:

I have had the honor to address myself to Major John Williams,
your representative, to ask of him, either my discharge or that he accord me, as an officer and gentleman in the service of the Republic of
Virginia, which I have the honor to serve, my pay of Lieutenant in
good money or in merchandise, so that I may support my family.
This he has been unable to grant me as you will see by his reply
which I have the honor to send you here inclosed. Accordingly,
my General, I flatter myself that when you have seen the testimonial
of Colonel Montgomery and the reply of Major Williams concerning my services and their inability [to help me], in spite of the good
will these gentlemen bear me, that you will recompense my services.
Moreover I am still anxious to follow you in your approaching expedition, if you will please to give me enough to support my family,
so that in my absence I need not leave it at the mercy of my friends,
which is a disgrace to a true gentleman, such as I am. I hope, my
General, in my zeal for the country s service, that you will so answer
me that I may march with confidence under your banners beyond the
shelter of which a true soldier desires nothing more.

I have the honor to be with profound respect.

Your very humble and very obedient servant,

TiMOTHE DE MONBREUN, Lt.
Mv GnNI.-RAL,

Kaskaskia, March 5, 1782.

Addressed: Mr. George Rogers Clark, Esq. Field Marshal,
Commanding the eastern country of Virginia, at Tort Pitt.



CHAPTER II

CLARK S PLAN FOR THE DEFENSE OF KENTUCKY, MARCH 5,
1782 JULY 5, 1782

Gunboats to be Used on the Ohio Troubles Encountered in Equippino
These Boats Virginia Assembly Opposed to Offensive Operations
Disaffection Growing out of the Movement for an Independent
State in Kentucky Interest of James Monroe in the West.

Clark to Joseph Lindsay, March 5, 1782

[Draper MSB., 11J17. Transcript fro.-n Pogue Papers.]

Fort Nelson s**" March 1782.
Sir The certain inteh gence from Detroit of their intention of
Taking this place early in the Spring makes it necessary that we
alter our former resolutions^ you will please to make immediate
preparations for furnishing three hundred Rations of Beef pr day
at this post The militia of Lincoln is to March to this tiie i^^^
Ins' you may take the advantage of their route in getting your lirst
Supply I expect you ll make every necessary arrangement in your
Department you are to receive all Major Moore s purcliase of
Cattle and be accountable for them You will be too busy yourself
of course, Depute some person encourage the people in your
Quarter to act Spiritedly if we repell this invasion they may not
expect another we are going to Build armed Boats to Station at
the Mouth of Miami to dispute the navigation of the Ohio either
up or down. Take all the pains you Can to find out and encourage
Boat-builders and good workmen to repair to tliis place immediately,
they shall have good wages in hard Money; if you can find experienced Ship Carpenters that come immediately he shall liave almost
what wages he will ask

I am Sir your M' Obed' Serv'

G. R. Clark
Mr. Lindsay

'The plan of the British had been to attack Fort Pitt but this wa^
given up on account of the report that it was in a good state of defense
but that the Falls could easily be reduced. After Colonel Crawford s defeat, Wheeling became the objective for McKee and Caldwell with their
rangers and Indians. Reports of Clark s expedition caused them to return
to Sandusky. The march into Kentucky and the Battle of the Blue Licks
followed. See introduction, ante, xxxix-li.

43



44 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, March 5, 1782

[Clark MSS. Va. State Archives.]

Fort Nelson 5"" March 1782
Sir

I wrote to you on the subject of publick affairs in this department by Mf Carney the iS'*" of Feb'' which I liope you have received,
since which we Iiave received very allarming accounts from the
Enemy at Detroit. They, last fall collected Chiefs of the different
hostile Tribes of Indians and instructed them not to disturb tlie
Frontiers, and particularly Kentucky until towards Spring, then
to form small parties and take prisoners, to hear what was going on,
by ^vhich Conduct the Country wou d be off their Guard, that the
whole would imbody in the Spring, reduce this post and lay the
whole Country waste and make one stroke do for all. They arc
actually makeing every preparation at Detroit, and the Conduct of
the Indians have been agreeable to their direction This information through various channels from the Illinois cannot be doubted
and if the defeat of Cornwallis or something similar dont prevent
them, we shall certainly have them in great force sometime this
Spring Every preparation is making to counteract them, our
greatest dependance is in armed Boats, but cannot fit out a Sufficiency
of tiieni in time without the Supplies you promised, and those mentioned in my last arriving in time.

If it was possible for the Troops with those Articles to arrive
sometime in april, I should be under no kind of apprehension of their
doing much damage to the Country; but without, the consequences
are to be dreaded

Pray Sir, be as liberal as possible in your reinforcements and
furiu tures: If we can repel this invasion I have no apprehension
of their making a second attempt It would be advisable to alarm
Col'' Dabney* that he might use every precaution on his passage down
tillRiver

'Charles Dabney was commissioned major of the Third Virginia Regiment, February 13, 1776, lieutenant colonel of the Second Virginia Regiment,
February 16, 1778, retiring September 30, 1778. He served as colonel, Virginia State Regiment, 1778-1781, and in 1781-1782 he commanded the Virginia State Legion. In the fall of 1788 he served as a member of a board
appointed to superintend the locating and surveying of the lands set apart
for the Virginia troops.



FLOYD TO CLARK, MARCH 8, 1782 45

This inteligence hath occasioned us to alter our former plan of
operation, and strengtlien ourselves by water as much as possible,
as no Vessels they can bring across from the lakes will be able to face
such as we can navigate the Ohio with, could we Get furnitures for
them Our dependance is in the exertions of Government of which

we rest fully assured

I have the Honour to be
Sir

with the utmost respect
Your Obed' Servi

G. R. Clark.

Col' Davis I

(To Benj. Harrison, Governor of Virginia.)
From G. R. Clark)

John Floyd to Clark, March 8, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J9.— A. L. S l

Beargrass 8"' March 82
Dear Gen^

I have seen the Field Officers most of the Captains of Militia
of tin s County since I rec^' your Orders so that I expect the proportion you call for will Rendezvous at Fort Nelson by time you mentioned.

It is not in my power at this time to return you the Lists, but
wc have 370 privates exclusive of those at the Garrisons about the
Salt Works wlio are not Enrolled for want of an Officer tlicy iiaving all removed since our Last appointment.

What shall 1 do with such little remote settlem'' as Hardens?
I hear they have only fourteen men.

I have seen no person yet, qualified for the purpose of Boatbuilding," except old AP Asturgus who seems willing even desirous of Building one, but has no person about him to wait on his
Wounded Son, to do the drudgery about his plantation. I wish

'For the construction of the armed row galleys, see ante, xxxv-xixvi.



46 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

you cou d get him, as he appears to understand every part of the
Business.

It will I find be a great mortification to the Inhabitants in general, if no Post is erected on the Ohio above the Falls.

M' Pyatt I find has a great desire of having some command on
Board one of those Vessels, says he can engage some volunteers;
if so, you shou d think him a proper person, perhaps it might
answer to employ him in some Business of this kind, otherwise he
means to remove to S' Vincenne. I am not well acquainted with
Mf Pyatt but have been frequently applied to, to solicit you in his
favour therefore hope you ll excuse the liberty I have taken on that
head.

And am Dear General your most obed'
and very hble Serv'

Jn Flo yd

Addressed: The Honble Brigadier Gen' Clark Fort Nelson

Endorsed: Col Floyd 8"' March 82

John Evans to Benjamin Harrison, March 9, 1782
[Cal. of I a. State Papers, 3:89-90.]

John Evans, County Lieutenant to Gov: Harrison.

Monongalia County March 9th, 1782.
"Dr Sir,

"The murders commited on our Frontiers at such a time of the
year, and the repeated applications of our Suffering Inhabitants,
Occations me to trouble your Honour, praying that our Situation
may be taken, under Consideration as we are few in number and
much Exposed. Our fronteers are so Extensive that the few inhabitants there Settled are so scattering that the Enemy murder one
part before the others can be alarmed to come to their assistance.
Since the State of Pennsylvania have taken place the poor Residue
of Virginia are all fronteers.

The prayer of the people is that a company or two of Militia
may be Ordered to their Relief, otherwise they will be under the
necessity of vacating the Country Colo. Clarke s Expedition fallFLOYD TO CRITTENDEN. MARCH 22, 1782 47

ing through, and so many men falling into the Enemies hands have
encouraged them so that they are constant in our County the
Strength of our militia docs not Exceed three Hundred and fifty
nnd tiicm settled at least Eighty miles in length, x x x

X X X I have forbore running the State to the Expcncc of
paying an Express and troubling your Honour 'till I find it will do
no longer the murders committed were early in February when
the People were under no apprehension of the Enemy s being in our
County. The express I hope may be paid for this trouble and Expence, as I was much put to it to git one, times being so precarious.
I have the Honour to be with due Respect

&C.&C.

John Floyd to John Crittenden, March 22, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J10.— A. L. S.]

22'' March 1782
Dear Major.

My Brother who goes with the Draughts from Beargrass is a
young entirely inexperianced Officer now on his first tour.
Therefore any Instruction you ll please to give him so as not to
stagger out of the Line of his duty he will receive kind at your
Hands. I m informed by Chenowith that the Men ordered for duty
from his Comp'' refuse to march. I much wish a Guard of Regulars Commanded by a Determined reasolute Officer to command
the party to be ordered out to conduct them to head Quarters. I
refer the Gen' to young Crawford a Gen' Volunteer for further
information, whom I sent to caution those chaps against disobcdiance
of orders. I am with much esteem your

Perplexed Friend most ob' Serv'

Jn Floyd
Addressed: Major John Crittenden Fort Nelson
Endorsed: From Col» To Majr Crittenden Rec'' 22'* March 1782.



48 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Col. William Davies' to Benjamin Harrison, March 23, 1782
[Cal. of Va. State Papers, 3:108-109.]

War Office March 23d 1782.
"Sir

I received yesterday from Genl: Clarke, a letter of the 1 8th of
last month. He is very anxious to be joined by Colo: Dabney, and
represents that the infantry of the new legion altho' not very numerous, would be of infinite service to his operations, and if they should
reacli him by the first of June, he hopes they will be sufficient to
turn the scale. He writes in a very urgent manner for the Cannon
your Excellency promised him, but at all events, he says he must
have two brass four-pounders. The piece he has is a three-pounder,
and this he represents to be too heavy. I am therefore apprehensive
that the four pounder we have will be of no service to him, as they
are all of them old fashioned heavy French pieces, and weigh nearly
as much as the common six-pounders. H there are any here belonging to the Continent, it perhaps might be as well to take them, as
your Excellency has agreed to the exchange of our battering Cannon
for lighter. Genl Clarke writes also for rigging &c. for boats, and
adds that without them he cannot execute his designs; and that unless he receives considerable supplies by June, the consequences may
be fatal to the Country. How to transport these various articles,
together with the clothing appears to me a difficulty not easily overcome. Genl Clarke seems to think it best, if Col Dabney 's infantry is sent, that they should go down the Ohio with the whole
of the supplies of every kind, and there are boats belonging to the
State now lying in the Red Stone in Monongalia: if Col: Dabney
cannot reinforce him the General desires that every thing that can
be sent him, and particularly the two brass four pounders, may go by
Holston on cars made for the purpose, with a small escort through
the wilderness. Mr. Carny, however thinks it impossible. Genl:
Clarke recommends this gentleman as very serviceable to him. He
attends your Excellency with this Letter and perhaps may afford
some information. I shall be happy to receive your further orders,
and have the honor to be.

Your Excellency s

most humble Servant"

'William Davies, son of Samuel Davies, a cler(;yman, left Princeton In
T765 and entered the army, becoming inspector general under Steuben in
778. lie was aftervvardsi In the auditor'!* oIKce in Kichnioiid.



HARRISON TO CLARK, MARCH 24. 1782 49

Governor Harrison to Clark, March 24, 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, Va. State Archives.]

In Council March 24''' 1782
Sir

Your favor of the iS"" ult" was delivered yesterday. Our circumstances as to money matters are as wretched as they were when
I wrote to you by Major Crittendon, and will continue so 'til the
fall, when I hope our prospects will brighten greatly. I am nl;id
the people are pleased to hear, Government intend to be punctual
in their money engagements; if they give credit to it why are you
in want of necessaries? A moments reflection would shew them
that it was much more to their advantage to wait a few months for
payment and then receive hard money, which all the world allows
to be a proper medium of Trade, than to receive Trash immediately that will not be worth half tiie sum before they can lay it out

1 will use every means in my power to forward to Fort Pitt the
Artillery' and necessaries for the Gun boats. Brass Field pieces
such as you want I fear cannot be procured. We have only four
left and those are old fashioned long guns that weigh as much as
inodern iron sizes. Our only chance of getting them is from the
Continent, which I have directed Col" Davies to attempt. If wc
obtain them they shall be forwarded with the other things, it being
impossible to send them to you by Land of which Mr Carny wiil
satisfy you.

The Plan of obtaining hard money from Orleans might be a
good one if flour w ns plenty and could be got on easy terms, but
there are other difficulties and dangers, that I foresee you will have
to encoimter which will render the plan abortive.

Col" Davies was wrong in even hinting to you a probability of
Col° Dabney s Legion being sent to your assistance. His whole
Corps does not exceed two hundred and fifty men and these have
our extensive coasts to guard. We have at present a large Body of
French amongst us, but they must soon leave us on some offensive
operations, when we shall be left to defend ourselves. How incompetent we are to this in our present situation last years experience teaches us.

I shall say nothing on the subject of offensive operations in your



^jE^ealogical society

OF UTAH



n^^^,.



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



quarter. The Assembly have interdicted it, which is a sufficient injunction of silence to me. They meet early in May, when it is
probable they will again take up the subject.

I shall most readily communicate my Sentiments to you on any
matters that may occur, and shall be glad to hear from you by every
convenient opportunity.

I am

Benj Harrison.

William Davies to Governor Harrison, March 25, 1782
[Cal. of Fa. State Paperi, 3:110.]

Col: Davies to the Governor.

War Office March 25th 1782
"Sir

There are Six 6-pounders, and four 3s, all of brass, belonging to
the Continent, now at manchester. The three pounders will probably answer Genl Clarkes purpose fully, though I suppose he will
not require more than two of them, especially as by the order of
Council, all of his regular troops are to be consolidated into two
Companies of Infantry. I mention this the more particularly, as
I shall send out the order of Council by Mr. Carny, and unless the
Executive make some alterations in it, Genl Clarke will be obliged
to dismiss all his Officers of Artillery, and those of the infantry will
be incapable of managing the pieces properly, at least 'till this campaign is over, and probably they will not understand their business
until then. The other three-pounders at manchester, will answer
extremely well for Captain Roane s company in the regular legion,
and are much better adapted to the nature of a light Corps, than the
licavy pieces we have of our own. As no application of mine to
the Continental Commissaries of military Stores will be effectual to
procure them, I must beg the favour of your Excellency to give an
Order for them, should you approve of the measure.
I have the honor to be, &c"



0267693

DAVIES TO CLARK, APRIL 6. 1782 51

Benjamin Harrison to Col. Isaac Zane,' March 25, 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1781, p. 84.]

CoL° Isaac Zane.

In Council March 25"' 1782
Sir

Wc arc called on by Gen' Clark for an immediate Supply of
Artillery, and the necessary Stores for them to fit out four gun
boats, and have no resource or means of complying with the request,
but in your patriotism, which I hope and trust is top great to suffer
a disappointment, particularly as the Defence and safety of the
Country about the Ohio, in a great measure depend on it. The
expense will not be great as four Carronades, howitzers or four pound
cannon, and a few swivels and the different kinds of shot are all
that is wanted and your Assistance to have them transported to redstone Creek when ready The bearer will accompany them and stay
in your neighborhood for that purpose. I need not tell you that
the Treasury is at present without Cash. You know that too well,
but I will assure you of being paid as soon as we are able which will
be in the fall. I refer you to Col° Davies who will also write you
a more particular Account of what is wanted. I am &c

Benj Harrison

William Davies to Clark, April 6, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J12. L. S.]

War office, April 6"' 1782

Sir, I take this opportunity of acknowledging the receipt of your

letter by M'' Carney. I have been labouring to afford you every

assistance which an almost empty treasury could enable us to do.

To you who know the difficulties which attend the support of such

Colonel Isaac Zane, son of a man of the same name who had come lo
Frederick County, Virginia, from Pennsylvania, established a foundry at
Cedar Creek near the present village of Marlboro. He soon became an
important member of the community, residing at his works only part of the
time and living sometimes at Stephensburg, sometimes at Winchester. He
was an ardent patriot, and was a member of the Virginia conventions of
1775 and 1776, also of the first general assembly meeting at Williamsburg
under the new constitution of 1776. He was commissioned colonel of the
Virginia line but apparently did not serve in the field, his iron works being
of great importance to the army. He was a member of the assembly again
in 1785, and of the Virginia convention of 1788 which ratified the constitution. He died in 1795, leaving a large estate.

FAMILY HISTORY L!BR ARY
35 NORTH WEST TEMPLE
SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH 84150



52 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

distant operations, I need not recount the thousand obstructions
which unavoidably interfere, but when the consideration occurs of
the total want of money, you must form very moderate expectations
of the assistance we shall be able to afford. I have, however, had
the good fortune to procure for you two light brass three pounders
one hundred and fifty coats, a iiundred pair of overalls, two hundred shirts, about the same number of stockings, double the quantity
of shoes and a parcel of hats. I cannot ascertain any of the articles
with exactness, as many of them are to be collected on the rout
between Richmond and Red Stone, as it was impracticable to send
them to you by land, indeed, as it is, we shall leave the other
troops exceedingly distressed, as we shall be obliged to deprive them
of ilmost every waggon to get the stores to Red Stone.

I have wrote to Col' Zane and so has the Governor for some
light howitzer carronades for the gun boats, as they are certainly
the best for your purpose. As for rigging I am unable to give you
much hopes. We are at a loss to ascertain how much would answer
your purpose but the principal difficulty is how to procure it. We
must, however, send you some of the canvass we have, which I fear
is too thick, and we must add, if we can possibly get it at Winchester,
or Fort Pitt, some thinner or strong country linnen. I wish it had
been in our power to afford you more substantial support but by
some inattention in the Assembly, by one general inadvertent expression in a law passed at the close of the session, they destroyed
the whole fund of tobacco, upon which alone the Commercial Agent
founded his contracts; and as by their revenue act no money will
get into the treasury before November, you may judge of the extreme poverty of our situation. In my letter by Major Crittenden
I intimated that my good wishes should not be wanting to give you
at least a part of Colonel Dabney s Legion, as a reinforcement.
Government, however, think it an impracticable expedient, as tlie
state would be entirely defenceless upon the movement of tiie French
troops, which we may expect will shortly take place. It will be
unnecessary in me to request your particular attention to the preservation of the cloathing I shall send. I know from long experience
in service, that a rigid severity towards the officers for the neglects
of their men is the only mode to preserve the men in any tolerable



DAVIES TO CLARK. APRIL 6. 1782 53

order. I hope you will pardon the observation, as from every account, some of the inferior officers in their detached commands
through that extensive country, have, I fear, taken the advantage
of their remote situation from your immediate presence, and suffered the most ruinous waste and abuses to take place. I am the
more solicitous on this head, as I can assure you, the readiness with
which the future supplies for the western country will be furnished,
must unavoidably be governed by the prudence and oeconomy manifasted in their expenditure, and the care and punctuality in their
preservation and in the settlement of their accounts. Sliould you
be able to find a leisure moment occasionally, I must beg the favor
of you to exercise your authority in making every military department lay a full and distinct account of their whole conduct before
you, for it is a great deal better to prevent a mischief than to punish
it. Mr Carney tells me, that it is not usual for the Commissaries
to demand receipts for the articles they issue, but look upon the
orders as their vouchers. I told M'' Carney I should suggest this
matter to you, that a stop might be put to this practice, which opens
the door to every imposition. In the Continental army, indeed, we
carry our precautions so far as not to admit figures in receipts, but
the whole must be expressed in letters, and signed by some commissioned officer, whenever it can be done with propriety.

Inclosed arc several papers of consequence to the arrangements
of the different corps under your command. The Assembly have,
you will observe, ordered that some discrimination should be made
between such supernumerary officers as have misbehaved or been in
service for a short time, and those who have been meritorious. Many
have withheld themselves from duty and conducted themselves in
such a manner as to make it proper that a trial should pass upon
them before they are to be admitted to the emoluments of supernumerary officers. I must request you to take the most proper
mode for pointing out such, as also to have the design of the inclosed papers executed, as far as your circumstances will possibly
admit and make a report to me.

M'' Carney has been extremely diligent and faithful to you, and
seems most zealously disposed to promote your interest and that of
the troops under your command, and has been extremely servicable



54 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

in procuring the stores. I have directed Colonel Todd to apply all
the specifics, or the money arising from the sale of them, as you
shall think best for the interest of the service.
I am, Sir, with great respect

your most obed Serv'

William Davies.
Duplicate.
Addressed Gen. Clarke

Commanding on the Ohio
"Rec" July 20'" 82 (Pr) Maj. Walls."

John Floyd to John May, April 8, 1782

[Executive Papers, Va. State Archives.]

Jefferson the 8th of April 1782.
Dear Sir.

The Savages began their Hostilities early in February, and are
constantly ravaging the most Interior parts of the County, which
makes it impossible for any one Settlement to assist another. Even
the populous parts of Lincoln are infested, from the Number of
Horses already taken off by them, it is notorious to every capacity
that their design is, to disable the Inhabitants from removin);, untill
their present intended Campaign from Detroit against Fort Nelson
can be carried into effect. This design is communicated to us thro'
three different channels, so well authenticated tiiat it can not be
doubted and the Conduct of the Enemy ever since last Fall coincides exactly with the Information. One fourth of the Militia is
called for by Gen' Clark for the purpose of Fortifying the Fort
against a Seige; but from the immediate danger in which every one
conceives his own Family, the Authority of Militia Officers at such
a distance from Governm' growing every day weaker weaker, and
the new invented Ideas of a Separate State, calculated on purpose
for disaffection an Evasion of duty, are so many causes to retard
this necessary Business, and seems to threaten us on all sides with
Anarchy, Confusion, I may add Destruction. But even to supI secured this letter in Richmond but the original is not now in the
files. It is printed in CatenJar of I irginia Slate Papers, 3:121-122, but has
been over-edited.



FLOYD TO ALIY, APRIL S, 1782 55

pose that the Works can be completed before the Arrival of tlie
Enemy, it is tlicn impossible tiiat Gen' Clark with the inconsiderable number of Troops He now has can defend it: and a Dependance
on Militia scattered over three extensive Counties under the Circumstances before mentioned, is depending upon a very great uncertainty; especially when the Enemy have all the advantages of a
heavy Current from high up the Miamia to the very place of their
destination, they can float from the Mouth of that River to the
Falls in less than thirty Hours. And to suppose that our Spies
should discover their approach as high up as Miamia, it will then
take eight days at least before we can be collected if we were under
the Strictest Military Subordination. Should no reinforcements
arrive in May, if Gen' Clark be obliged to Evacuate his post
rather than suffer such a Quantity of Military Stores to fall into
the Hands of the Enemy, and the whole Indian Army let loose
among the scattered Inhabitants unprepared to receive them, what
must be the Consequence? Is it not evident that the whole must
fall a Sacrifice? As a Means of averting the Storm which is gathering against us, preventing those fatal Consequences, your immediate Interposition with the Legislative Body with the Governor
Council is now called for by every Inhabitant of Jefferson County.
This is our last Effort and your Exertions on this Occasion may
possibly save our Families from the Hands of merciless Savages.

You are sensible from your own knowledge of this AVestorn
Country that no place can be better calculated for the purpo.-.e of
carrying on the Indian War against (if I may use the Expression)
the Interior Frontiers of this State than the Falls of the
Ohio. Its Situation is exactly centrical to the Northern, Southern, Western Tribes. The distance to Holston, Clinch, New
River, Green lirier, &c very trifling. Their Supplies already here
provided, the Communication to the British Posts in Canady very
safe and easy. I would further observe that if this Country must
be laid waste, which nothing but an early reinforcement or an Accident can prevent those Settlements above mentioned must once more
experience the disadvantages of a Savage War, must contend with
more than ten times the Number which have heretofore visited their
Borders One who is unacquainted with the true Situation of this



56 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

County, also with me, might probably conclude that those reflections might proceed from Timidity. But you are acquainted with
both and can Judge whether it is so or not.

Our whole strength at this Time is three hundred seventy
Men, and who according to the best calculations I can make, have
about Eight Hundred fifty helpless Women Children to take
care of, very generally deprived of every possible means of removing back to the Settlement.

This is at present as just a State of this County as I am able to
give you, only I omitted to mention that this number of men were
exclusive of the small remains of the Illinoise Regement. Who am
Dear Sir with much respect your very hble Serv''

Jn Fi-OVD
To John May Esq

William Davies to Clark, April lo, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J17.— A. L. S l

War Office Apr. lo 82.
Sir I had the honor to write you a few days ago by M'' May a
duplicate of which I have sent by your brother. I now embrace
this opportunity to inform you that M'' Carney has completed, tho'
in a partial manner, the principal objects of his journey, and I have
been able to send you a little of almost every thing you wrote for,
except men. I must refer you to him for information on many
points which perhaps you may wish to enquire about, and shall confine myself at this time to suggest to you that from the impossibility
of transporting the travelling carriages of the three pounders we
have been obliged to forward to you no more than the trails and
hind wheels. This I came into the sooner, because by shortening
the trail and fastening the shafts to it, and by having tile ammunition boxes made longer and deeper but narrower, you will be able
to spare a great part of the axle tree, so as to have the wheels a
great deal closer together by which means you will make it very
easy for one horse to draw, as well as much more convenient for
the woods, than when there were four wheels and those much wider
apart, from the axle trees' being so much longer. The pieces which
General Morgan had with his light infantry were fitted in the manNEVILLE TO CLARK. APRIL 14, 1782 57

ner I propose, and, were infinitely more convenient than in any otlier
way.

As a preat part of the exorbitant expenditures in the western
country has arisen from the licentious practices and abuse of power
exercised by coniniandini; ofliccrs of separate posts, under the mistaken idea that their (luality of commandant entitled them to order
and dispose of the stores at their posts as they should think best, I
must beg leave to suggest that the low state of our finances at pre^ent will not admit of any such pretensions in the officers under you,
and I must request that you will issue the most pointed instructions
to restrain any such unwarrantable claims, and to put it out of the
power of the commanding officer to draw from the magazines a
single article, but what by a previous estimate of your own, you
may think necessary for the maintenance of the post; and even of
those stores, which you may think proper to subject to this order,
it will be highly necessary to make frequent scrutiny as to the application and propriety of distribution.

These steps are taken in all armies in a greater or lesser degree,
and in no part of the world can it be more necessary than in your
remote situation I wish you every success in the midst of your
difficulties. I beg you to be assured of my desire to co-operate with
you as far as inmy power.

I have the honor to be witii respectful esteem
your very obed Serv'
William Davies

John Neville' to Clark, April 14, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J18.— A. L. S.]

WOODVILLE 14''' April 1782

Dear General

I arrived at Woodville The day you Lift Whclan [Wheeling]
I was very sorry I had not the Pleasure of seeing you before set
out upon your Expedition, and am also sorry you had to Deal with
such a Set of Rascals as was is in this Part of the Country I mean
the leading men of Washington a[nd] Westmoreland Counties,

'Colonel John Neville accompanied Washington on the expedition witli
Drnddock and afterward>i settled in the West near Pittsburch. During the
Revolution he served as colonel of the Fourth Virginia Regiment.



58 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Who I am informed did every thing in their power to prevent your
Campaign, I have had at least forty Quarrels on the subject sometimes they made you a Flour Marchant at Other times a Land
Jober and Trader for the State of Virginia &c &c and the I am
unfortunate enough to fall in to Pensylvania I shall Live and Die
in the Interest of Virginia, They have brought a number of Suits
in Washington Court ag' ColCox for his assistance to you and it
was once expected he would be ruined, but two or three suits are
determined in his favor, wiiicli periiaps will he :i precedent for the
rest Those very people who refused to go with you turned out in
lar^e bodies this winter and kill d ninty odd of the poor Moravian
Indians," the Greatest part women and Cliildren, and anotiicr party
fell on the Indians at Fort pitt and put (ivc to ncath and wounded
the sixth who is since Dead and now threatens Col" Gibson bis
Squaw and Children I am now the very Frontier and expect a
very Troublesome Summer

M" Nevill rec^ your kind Letter from Whelan and is Greatly
Obliged to you for the friendly Advice you Gave her, and found
the Times Turned out Just as you Mentioned your IJrotlicr and
my pcrticular Friend Jon" is Married to Miss Hite I hope he may
be as happy as any man in the world he justly Merits it Should
you ever Come into this Quarter again I hope wtthout ceremony
you will make my Cottage your home for be assured my Dear General no man Regards the name of Clarke more than my self M™
Nevill and the Girls present their Compliments to you and Except
the Same

your Hum Ser' John Nevill
Addressed: The Honb'* Brig^'' Gen' George Clark
Favored by Capt Oldham.

John Floyd to Clark, April 15, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J19.— A. L. S l

15th April 1782
Dear General

Agreeable to your wish I ve sent for M"" M'^Gee who will be
conveyed to you to day by Cap' Whittaker. I wish to know your

For the attack on the Moravian Indians, see ante xxxvli-xxxix.



TODD TO HARRISON. APRIL 15, 1782 59

determination with regard to his Tryal whether by Regular or
Militia Officers I think the Act you have mentions that Militia
are to be tried by Militia Officers tho' I wish you to act in the
Matter as you think best. I ve sent you all the Letters or Ans''
I can get from Col' Cox. but I have reason to believe this Affair
will have a very good effect on the Minds of People in that Quarter.

I am D Gen' yours affectionately

JN Floyu

Addressed: Honblc Gen' Clark I"" Nelson Cap' Whittakcr

Endorsed: Col. Floyd ig'" Ap»

John Touu, Jr. to Hkn jamin Harrison, April 15, 1782

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]'

Lexington 15th April 1782
May it please your Excellency

The Inhabitants of Fayette County have been so harrassed this
Spring by the Indians that I was for some time apprehensive that
the whole County w'' be evacuated as panicks of that Kind have
proved very catching and the fate of the Neighbouring Garrisons
at Licking last year was fresh in their Minds. The only plan I
could devise to prevent it sufficiently secure the provisions laid up
at Bryants this place was to build a new Fort upon a very advantageous Situation at this jilacc make it proof against Swivels
small Artilery which so terrify our people. I laid off the Fort upon
the simplest plan of a Quadrangle divided the work equally among
four of the most pushing men with a Bastion to each autliori/.ing
them to employ Workers from this the neighbouring Stations S:
assuring them of their pay myself. On the Faith of such assurances
considerable Sums of Money have been lent advanced to the \Vorkmeti so that the Work in about 20 Days has been nearly completed
in a Workman like manner The Gate is nearly finished the
Magazine contracted for. The whole Expence amounts to
£11 341.10 as will appear by the Account herewith sent. It is in
vain for me to assure your Excellency that Diligence Oeconomy
has been be [sir] used in this Business as the Work so abuntlay

'This letter Is printed in Calendar of f irt/inia Slate Papers, 3:1 30131,
with punctuation edited.



6o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

proves it I believe four times the Expence never before made for
the publick a Work equal to this. An Emulation among the Overseers Rewards in Liquors to the Men proved powerful Incentives
to Industry. Being a Charge of an uncommon Nature I thought
proper to present it to your Excellency the Council being better
Judges of the Necessity Expediency of the Work than the Auditors, who are probably unacquainted with the Circumstances of this
Country.

By either of our Delegates your Excellency May have an Opportunity of transmitting the Money

I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect your Excellency s

Mo. obedient humble Servant
Jn" Todd jr

John Floyd to Clark, April 17, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J20.— A. L. S.]

17th April 1782
Dear General.

I shall in consequence of your Letter Order a Court Martial
to sit at Fort Nelson on Saturday next, for the Tryal of M^'Gee
others; I have found Law enough I believe to inflict all the punishment he deserves.

I shall send for Mundal to day. I shall also send another party
over Salt River on Monday next, as there are yet two Gent some
where about the Rolling Fork who must take shelter (if you please)
in your Guard House for a few days. I am glad you mentioned the
Spies as I am anxious to have them sent out, will try before I
come down on Saturday, who will undertake the Business that may
be depended on; your Bond will not be refused. I think Cap'
Owens at the Falls would answer the purpose of one exactly if will
go. I am Dear Gen' with the utmost

regard your most Ob^' very
hble Serv'

Jn Floyd

Addressed: General Clark at Fort Nelson By Serjeant Ross

Endorsed: Co' Floyd 17"" Ap' 1782.



MONTGOMERY TO IF EBB, APRIL 23, 1782 6i
Virginia Treasury, April 22, 1782

[Cal. of I a. Slate Papers, 3:133.]

War Office, April 22d, 1782.

Col: Davies informs the Executive that Major Harding is williiif; to supply boats 011 the Oiiio for Gcnl Clarke, if the nidiicy
can be furnished to pay for them. The Governor replies from the
Council Chamber, "I am sorry to inform you that we have but 4 S.
in the Treasury, and no means of getting any more."

John Montgomery to George Webb, April 23, 1782
[Va. State Library.— A. L. S.]'

Richmond, April 23, 1782
Sir,

Agreeable to your Request I have over looket my rccets and find
onlay two Rcccpts for Uills of Exchange drawn on Mr. OUivcr
polick tlic one in favour of Mr. Lx;fat)g the first to the amount of
three tiiousand five hundred dollars and there Apcars to be yet two
otiicr Bills drawn on the treasury of Virginia for This the one in
favour of Mr. pcrault in behalf of Oliver polick for which I Refer
you to Capt John Dodges Bookes where you will see tiie amount
of the Articles the Use the were applied to the amount of Betwixt
Eight and nine thousand Dollars at which time the trupcs must
Either Avacuated the Cuntrey and run the Risk of Starving on
their gunney if I had not a maid that purchas. The other in favour
of Mr. Molvost to the amount of upward of three thousand Dollars the Exct Sum I Cant Certify By the Reason I had the Alisfortune to Loose the Acount By Being oversit in the Masecipi. the
Reason of my giving the Bill in favour of Molvost I was ordered
to go in an expedition to Opee one hundred and forty Leagues By
orders from General Clark where I was obliged to purchase Botes
provision for three hundred and fifty men could not Git them
on Eny other tarms, you may think hard of the Bill Being so high
But notwithstanding the Sum we were Constrained to eate our
Horses on our Return after fasting five days.

Wiiicli I did Chcrfuley in behalf of my Cuntrey Had I made

'Printed in Alvord, Kaskaskia Records (I. tl. C, 5), 197-198.



62 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

a forton in the time people mout had Reason to Suspected me But
to the Contreary I have spent one or at least my all But am in
hopes to Be Eable to Live a poor and privet Life after wards, it
is now almost fore years That I have not Receive one shilling from
Coverment Not Withstanding I advanced Every Shilling I had
strancd my Credit till it Became Shred Bear Ralhcr than draw
Bills on the State Still in hopes of som fund Being sent to seport
the trupes But at Last was Compeld to it. I now ow two hundred pounds in the Illinois Which they have my obligation for for
the seport of the trups that was Left under my Command, there
will apear a Large number of Bills drawn Which Mentions so
much money advanced me for the Recruiting Sarvis the Bounty
for one hundred men at Seven hundred and fiftey dollors Each
Agrcable to an act of Asembley for which I hope will Be Honoured
as the Men are now for during the War and Bills drawn for provisions I have sent you an abstract By Major Crittinpton This I
Certify to be a trew State of the mater And if aneything Else a pears
it must Be a counterfit and I have the honour sir to Be your humble
sarvt

John MoNTCOMhRY.
[,Itl/iressefi Honb. George Webb

Arthur Campbell to William Davies, April 25, 1782

[Cal. of Va. State Papers, 3:138.]

Washington Co., April 25th, 1782.
"Sir

Your letter of the 4th Instant, with one of prior date from his
Excellency the governor, came to hand, both of which discourage
us in our operations against our Savage enemies. The want of
money is a bad thing: but good advice from wise heads was at least
expected. It is not the fault of the people, our being at war with
the neighbouring Savages. They have struck the first blow, and
are not going to desist until the terms of war are carried to their
own Country. It is then only that they will be induced to sign
a truce.

The South Carolina men, with a determination that reflects
honour on them, has lately penetrated the Indian Country on the



CLARK TO HARRISON, MAY 2. 178Z 6j

sources of the Mobile. The last account received by a friendly
Cherokee from the Tenassee, a large Detachment was in a critical
situation: we were to have cooperated with them, which would
have made the work easy: but for want of the energy of Government, we failed in our eflort. The Northward Indians has form d
an intercourse with the unfriendly Cherokees and continues their
depredations, both on the frontiers of this and Montgomery County,
leaving traces of real distress wherever their parties penetrates. In
the Kentuckey County the scene is likely to be more bloody

Genl Clarke writes me that we will have a least one thousand
more Indians added to our Enemies, this year than last, if measures
are not taken early this spring to divert or crush their confederacys.
Pardon this intrussion I am insensibly led into discussions to men
living in security, which may let affecting scenes pass with indifference. I have a predilection for my native Country. It hurts me
sorely to licar her Government despised, and her citizens destroyed
by the Enemy.

I am Sir, with Esteem, your very h ble Serv nt."

William Davies to Benjamin Harrison, April 27, 1782

[Cat. of I a. Slate Papers, 3:141.]

Col: Davies to the Executive.

War Office April 27tli 1782.
Enclosing a letter from Genl: Clarke just to hand, directed
"by Express" but "was picked up in tlic road," urging immediate
attention to the "article of Boats" &c referring also to a communication from Col: Dabney, in regard to Capt: Armistead, who
will be very serviceable to him, "and is contented to wait till the
County can pay him" for his services

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, May 2, 1782

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Fort Nelson 2^ May 1782-SlR

Inclosed is a copy of my last to Col° Davis, The apprehension
of the designs of the Detroit Gentry on this Country is reduced

'This letter is printed with some variations in Calendar of Virginia
State Papers, 3:15064 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

to a certainty. They have their eye on this and the Spanish Illinois,
if they carry their point its consequence is obvious. We are taking
every measure our policy dictate to us, to put the depar' in as good
a position of defence as our circumstances will permit A late confusion among the Inhabitants, occasioned, I believe by some Emissaries from the Northward hath retarded our progress in business
considerably: but by the extertions of many of the principal Officers
of the Country that deserve credit, we are like to reduce the people
to subordination, in short they begin to suspect those that first confused them was their greatest Enemies: I believe in a short time
it will be dangerous for a man to speak of New Government in
this Quarter, except among a small party of blackguards, The body
of the people now seem to be allarmed for fear Virginia will give
up their interest There is a formidable fortress that will soon
be compleated at this post, but my greatest dependence is in blocking up the Ohio at the mouth of Miami with Gallies: we have
two Gondolas ready to mount, and a Gaily on the Stocks that will
be furnislied in about twenty days, that I think will do the business'.
She is seventy three feet Keel, calculated for the Navigation of the
Ohio, to have forty oars, one hundred and ten Men; one six, six
fours and a two pounder is her proposed metal We liave great
dependence on the Cannon you promised us arriving in time, have
lately received some encouraging reports respecting them We
arranged our business on as small a Scale as possible to promise
success You may judge from your own circumstances the Cituation of our Credit If the Country can be saved from the impending blow, a rememberance of our past anxiety and trouble will give
plcsure Let our fate be what it will, I flatter myself that your
Excellency will find that your business has been well attended to
in this Quarter If we should be so fortunate as to repel this invasion without too great a loss to ourselves the Indians will all
scatter to their different Countries and give a fair oppertunity for
a valuable stroke to be made among them if you was to think
it advisable to order about five hundred Militia from Washington
and Montgomery Counties to rendezvous at Kentucky the first of
July, it might probably be attended with valuable consequences
Their fate depends on that of this Country, and I should suppose



HARRISON TO HOUSE OF BURGESSES, 1782 65

good policy wou d require a body of them should immediately march
to the support of this My last letter will give you a full Idea
of the Indian department, the body of Indians on the Ouabache
have not yet declared War, I expect it to take place at the Grand
Council this month at the Ouian [Ouiatenon]

I am

Sir. with the utmost respect
Your Obed' Serv'

G R Clark
His Excellency ihe Governour
OF Virginia

Benjamin Harrison to the House of Burgesses, May 6, 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, Va. State Archives.]

In Council May 6, 1782
General Clarke by his last Letters expects a powerful attack
this Spring on Kentucky from Detroit; iiis information comes from
Ilinois, and lie thinks it may be depended on. We have sent him
Artillery stores down the Ohio; I hope they will get to him in
time, but in this as in everything else we have been greatly obstructed
by our poverty. Tlie iniiabitants of Monongaiiela, Montgomery
and Green Briar are in great distress; many families have been eitlicr
killed or carried off, the earliness of the attack gives them reason
to apprehend it is only a prelude to what they have to expect,
that tho' mischief has been done, it was rather by reconnoitring
parties coming before a much more powerful invasion, than intended
as anything serious, a sufficient number of men have been ordered
out to protect the Country for the present, more will be sent if
there should be occasion. The expence attending these various
parties will when brought into an aggregate sum amount to something considerable when the losses of our people are taken into
the account probably to more than would have been sufficient, to
have set on Foot, two or three expeditions against these restless
savages have answered the purpose of protecting the Country
much more effectually. I do not think a just idea of the expence
of carrying on such a war, can be formed from what has hitherto
been done, where parade ostentatious shew, seems to have pre66 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

vailed, all which should be discountenanced, provision might be
laid up in different parts of the Frontiers in the fall which could
be procur d in commutation for money taxes, when this was done
a sufficient number of Militia could be marched to either or all of
these posts in a very short time, to make a sudden attack on such
nations of Indians as were the most troublesome, which repeated
two or three times would bring them to reason or force them to
quit their Country altogether and settle at so great a distance from
us as to put it out of their power to annoy us much. I give this
Opinion with diffidence, yet think it worthy of consideration.
Your most obedient most
humble Servant

Benj Harrison.

John Floyd to Clark, May 12, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J21.— A. L. S.]

May 1 2th 1782.
Dear General.

The Inhabitants of the Spring Station [are] so much alarmed
by the late damage they have sustained by the Enemy that they
think they cannot [plant] their Corn without a small Guard of
about [AtS. torn] for one Week they promise if you can [send]
them so far that the Time shall be made [up] Working at the Fort
after they finish planting

I shall this Week have all the Houses in the Ncighbourliood
searched for Hemp [71/5. loni] of some but the Quantity very
inconsiderable; [hope to] receive a few lb from one of the Men who
was [MS. torn] you for the Guard. I ve employed some Hands
to make Ropes of poppaw Bark which they assure me if properly
managed is as good as Hemp at any rate I will have it tried
wish to know the [amount of] the Cordage Wanted. The Bark
I am [told] must be ten days in Water before it is fit for use.

I wrote to Col' Cox yesterday to hasten the militia over, I
can t conceive what detains them so long. I have indulg d those
in this Quarter who is indigent untill [M5. torn] finishes planting
but the next Tour I shall send a considerable reinforcem'



IFLOYD rO CLARK. JUNE 16, 1782 67

I am desirous of seeing you will try to come down towards
the last of the Week, after a tryal is made to procure what Hemp
is in the Neiglibourhood.

I am Dear Gen' with perfect Esteem

Your most Ob^' Serv'
Jn Floyd

John Floyd to Clark, June 16, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J2.— A. L. S.]

i6th June, 1782
De.^r General.

Yours of to day I have received shall in consequence of the
Contents thereof, order one half of the Militia on Beargrass at
the Falls to your assistance to morrow, to be relieved by the other
half next Thursday Morning. I am under some embarrassment
on this occasion having before hinted to some of the people that they
would not be again ordered out untill each Division had served a
Tour but as you observe the Necessity of finishing your Fortification is too obvious to admit of any Delay

I am happy to hear that the Gaily is likely to ans'' your expectation. It will be no small addition to the safety of this Country.
My Rope makers are slow, but the last they have made answers
my expectation fully: about thirty Fathom P' day of good Cordage
I think will be made untill we have enough. No discoveries of
the Approach of the Enemy can be discovered about the Kentuckey
or Drennens Lick or on the Ohio below.

1 am Dear Gen' witii the lughcst
esteem your most Ob'"
and very hble Serv'

Jn Floyd
Addressed: Brigadier Gen' Geo. R. Clark Fort Nelson P'
Express

Endorsed: Col' Floyd dated 16'" June 1782



68 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

James Monroe to Clark, June 26, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J23.— A. L. S.]

Richmond June 26 1782
Sir, I take y' liberty tho' a stranger to address a few lines to you
to make an offer of a correspondence. The rank you hold in y'
western country the reputation you have deservedly acquir d for
ability propriety of conduct in y° general manag ment direction
of alTairs in that quarter, I candidly own are my motives to this
proposal. I wish to correspond with you upon the gen' affairs of
that country as well the means of supporting y« operations there,
a detail of y' operations themselves with the principles motives
w^ severally lead to each, as the progress of society, y^ increase of
settlements, y' ability of y« people to protect themselves, y« resources
of y' country in every degree of produce or trade the prospect
they have of attaining y' rank at a future day of independence to
w^ all generous enterprising people aspire. As I have a particular respect for y^ exertions of these people admire esteem
them for that spirit of enterprise w'' lias so eminemtly distin(;uish d
them during y* progress operations of tilings under you in that
quarter sho'' be happy to render them any service w^ my situation in y' councils of y' state may put in my power, when well inform d of y» temper tendency of things there, so as to iiave some
fix d principle to act on I have taken y' liberty to propose these subjects as the ground work of a correspondence. As I am altogether
a stranger to you it may be necessary to inform you I am at present
a member of y' Council shall most probably continue in that office
for three years. I have been educated to y' law my interest
connections are at present in this part of y' country but have some
thoughts of turning my attention toward y'' quarter perhaps sometime hence removing thither myself. I wish our correspondence
to be private as it shall be on my part conducted with intire confidence in you, so I wish you to do it in confidence that I shall be
happy from y' opinion I have of y'' merit to pay y' greatest attention to whatever you may propose which may tend to promote 5''
publick interest be honorable advantageous to you. I shall
not inform W May of my correspondence with you but believe
he will be able to give you any information on my subject you wo''



CARNEY TO DEFIES, JULY 5. 1782 69

wish to obtain. As I said above I wisli our correspondence to be
private for y« particular regulation of w^ however I sliall expect
some instructions from you with w^ I shall be happy to comply.
I am with great respect esteem yf
very humble servant
Ja' Monroe
Addressed: Brig^ Geni Ge' Rogers Clarke
commanding y' troops
on y' western frontier

Martin Carney to William Davies, July 5, 1782
[_Cal. of Va. State Papers, 3 :2o6.]

"Redstone Old Fort" July 5th 1782.
About the i6th of June he rec d his of the 2d May giving account of the "dangerous situation that the Kentucky Country was
in," by the incursions of the Enemy, but he could not have made
more haste than he did, Iiad his own life been at stake. The Guard
promised him by Col: Joseph Nevill of Hampshire Co. to go down
the river, never came nor has he heard one word from him Since.
Since his arrival at Redstone Fort he has been employed in drying
and repacking tlic Stores damaged by the bad conduct of the
Waggoners, in his absence. Major John Harden has built a flat
bottomed Boat in which to proceed down the river, but neither
Major Walls or Lieut. Clarke or himself have a penny of money,
a pound of provisions, or a man to "pull an oar;" and it will be impossible to move until the water rises. He will leave for the Falls
of Olu o at the earliest opportunity, but cannot risk the stores without further orders, having now to keep constant guard over them in
person. Hopes assistance will soon be sent him. The Credit of
the State worth nothing in that County, and but for Col: Hardiiis'
furnishing him with provisions, he could not have subsisted. lie
had sent to Pittsburg to Gcnl Irwin for assistance, but Col: Wall
just from that place failed to get the aid needed to forward the
articles down the River.



70 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Clark to Captain Robert Patterson, July 5, 1782
[Draper MSS., 32J1.— Copy.]

Fort Nelson, s**" July, 1782.
Sir:

Yours came to hand yesterday pf the Express. I approve of
your staying at the Lick on ace' of getting prov' The want of
workmen has occasioned the delay of the Galley so long; however,
she is nearly finish* at present, and will set off tomorrow evening
for the m' of Kentucky. You will, therefore, repair to the Ohio,
and move slowly down till you fall in with her. I shall send other
instructions with the Galley, which renders any thing more at present
unnecessary.

I am. Sir, with respect.

Your m» h* s\
(Signed) G. R. Clark
Capt. Robert Patterson, on the Kentucky, p'' Express.

'This document was contributed by Dr. Louise Phelps Kellogg of the
Wisconsin Historical Society.



CHAPTER III

EXPEDITION OF COLONEL WILLIAM CRAWFORD AGAINST THE

INDIAN TOWNS ON THE UITER SANDUSKY, JULY 6,

1782 AUGUST 6, 1782

Organization for Crawford s Expedition at Fort Pitt Defeat of Colonel Crawford Retaliatory Expedition Demanded by the Inhabitant of the Upper Ohio.

William Croghan* to William Da vies, July 6, 1782

[Draper MSS., 11S61-65.]

Fort Pitt, June [July] 6"', 1782.
Dear Colonel:

[Speaks of having been captured May 12"* 1780, at Charleston,
greatly wishes to be exchanged.]''

Gen. Irvine commands at this post, where he has so few Continental troops (about 200 for duty) that 'tis not in his power to go
from the garrison against the Indians, who are daily committing
murders through tin s country. The Pennsylvania militia formed
an expedition against the Indians about three months ago; but instead of going against the enemies of the country, they turned their
tlioughts on a robbing, plundering, murdering scheme, on our wellknown friends, the Moravian Indians, all of wliom they met they
in the most cool and deliberate manner (after living with tliem apparently in a friendly manner for three days) men, women ciiildren, in all ninety three, tomahawked, scalped burned, except one
boy, who after being scalped made his escape to the Delaware Indians
(relations of the Moravians) who have ever since been exceeding
cruel to all prisoners they have taken.

About six weeks ago, 500 volunteers of this country, commanded

'Major William Cioclian was n nephew of Colonel George CroRlmn
who served as Indian agent under Sir William Johnson. At the outbreak
of the Revolution, he was appointed captain of infantry in the Virginia
Line. During 1778 he was promoted to the rank of major. lie was
captured by the British at Charleston in 1780 but was paroled. In 1784 he
went to Kentucky and shortly afterwards married Lucy, the sister of George
Rogers Clark.

'This summary appears in the copy of the document in the Draper MSS.
The transcript is in Draper s handwriting.

71



72 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

by (our old) Colonel William Crawford, went on an expedition
against the Indian towns' the men behaved amiss (were cowardly) no more than about lOO having fought the Indians, who came

out from their towns to meet them the firing continued at long

shot with rifles for near two days the second evening our party

broke off retreated in the most disorderly manner Colonel

Crawford and a few others, finding the men would pay no attention to orders, were going on coolly in the rear, leaving the road
in case the Indians should pursue, until the second day when they
tliought they might venture on the road, but before they had marched
two miles, a body of Indians fell in between them and the rear of
the party, took them prisoners. We had no certainty of this
unhappy affair until yesterday, when Doctor Kniglit, who was taken
with Crawford, came into the garrison in the most deplorable condition man could be in and be alive. He says that the second day
after they were taken, they were carried to an Indian town, stripped
and tlicn blacked, and made to march through the Indians, wlien
men, women, children beat them with clubs, sticks, fists, &c., in
the most cruel manner. Col' Crawford and the Doctor were confined together all night; the next day they were taken out, blacked
again, and their hands tied behind their backs, when Col. Crawford
was led by a long lope to a high stake, to the top of which tiie rope
about the Colonel was tied all around the stake a great quantity
of red hot coals were laid, on which the poor Colonel was obliged
to walk barefoot, and at the same time the Indians firing squibs of
powder at him, while others poked burning sticks on every part of
his body; thus they continued torturing him for about two hours,
when he begged of Simon Girty, a white renegade who was standing
by, to shoot him, when the fellow said "Don t you see I have no

gun." Some little time after they scalped him, struck him on

the bare scull several times with sticks. Being now nearly exhausted,
he lay down on the burning embers, when the squaws put shovels
full of coals on his body, which, dying as he was, made him move
and creep a little. The Doctor was obliged to stand by and see
tlic cruelty performed. Wiien the Colonel was scalped, they slapped
the scalp over the Doctor s face, saying "This is your great Captain s

For Colonel Crawford s expedition, see ante, xxxix ff.



MESSAGE FROM THE CIIICKASAIF. 1782 7 5

scalp; to-morrow wc will serve you so." The Doctor was to be
served in the same manner in another town some distance off and
on his way to his place of torment he passed by where Col. Crawford s dead body had been dragged to burned, saw his bones.
Tlic Doctor was guarded by but one Indian, who seemed pretty
kind to him; on the way the Indiati wanted a fire made, and untied
the Doctor, ordering him to make it. The Doctor appeared willing
to obey, and was collecting wood till he got a good chunk in his
hand, with which he gave the Indian so severe blow as levelled
him; the Indian sprang up, but seeing the Doctor seize his gun, he
ran away the Doctor could not get the gun ofl, otherwise would
have shot the Indian. He steered through the woods, and arrived
here the twenty first day after he left the Indian, having no clothes,
the gun being wood bound, he left it after carrying it a few days.

For the twenty one days, and two or three more while he had
been under sentence of death, he never ate anything but such vegetables as the woods afforded. None of the prisoners were put to
death but those that fell into the hands of the Delawares, who say
they will shew no mercy to any white man, as they would shew
none to their friends and relations, the religious Moravians. I
believe I have not told 5 ou, that the whole of the five hundred who
went out with Crawford returned, except about fifty. Colonel
Harrison Mr William Crawford, relatives of Col. Crawford,
were likewise taken prisoners, but fortunately fell into the hands
of the Shavvanees, who did not kill their prisoners.

The people of this country will not suffer Pennsylvania to run
the line as Virginia agreed to, but insist on Pennsylvania running its
bounds agreeable to Charter, which will leave Virginia a very valuable country, which Pennsylvania otherwise would have.

I am with every sentiment of esteem,
W. Croghan.

Message from the Chickasaw, July 9, 1782
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

A Talk from Us to be Delivered by M" Simon Burnev
To the Commanders Of Every different Station lietween This
Nation and the Falls On the Ohio River, My( Friends AVe



74 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Mean to Conclude A Peace With you. As Brothers Never falls
Out With Other, but they make Friends Again If it is Agreable
to you it is Our desire To be at Peace with you that Our Corn
May grow And Our Stores Increased for the Bennifitt of our
Child [ren]. Thereafter, Youl Observe at the Same time Our
making A Peace with you doth Not Intitle Us to Fall out With
Our Fathers the Inglish for we Love them as They were the First
People that Ever Supported Us to Defend Our Selves Against Our
former Enimys The French Spaniards All their Indians. We
are a People that Never Forgets Any Kindness done Us by Any
Nation. We Sends this by M'' Burney Who Says He Lately Come
from Among you you may Rely on Anything he Tells you On
the Subject Of Peace Poymautauliaus Talks, We Was Formerly
Very good Friends And I Thought We Should be Always So but
we have had Some Small Diferences but now We Are good friends
again Some Time Ago We had Nothing but good talks all Round
Us from all Quarters but now I can hear Nothing Hut what is
bad I therefore this day Send you a Token Of Peace. I Remember
the day that I was Not Afraid to Travel to Cha Town Virginia
Or Any Other Place Where I was Allways Well Used but Now
it Surprise Me More than Anything to See hear how Brothers
fall Out, For my Part I could Wish To See it as it Used to be
Formerly I have been No Where But here At this Place At This
Place I set down hear All your disturbances. I heard by a
Chickesaw fellow that has been Some time Among you tha' That
you have Sent Many Letters to this Nation you may think That
We Received them and despised your Talks but be Assured that
None Ever got here. We Are Not Like White people for when they
fight they Sends A flagg to Each Other then Renews The fight
But I this day Send you a Flagg for a Peace not To Renew Any
more Battles As there never was much fight Between you us.
As to Our parts We Never Have done you muc*^ Harm its True
Some Of Our young fellows has Stole Some of your Horses but
Still they Never Went Of themselves their was Other Nations
Creeks Cherokees Waupunockys &c Who Led Them Out And what
damage Was done was by Reason you Settled A Fort in Our Hunting ground without Our Leave And at that place you Suffered Most



MESSAGE FROM THE CHICKASAiy, 1782 75

from Us.' We Recev^ a Talk From the Illinois Wlierein they
let us know that the Virginian French Spaniards Are all As One
desires Us to be friends with Them. I dont doubt but they
have Let you know by this time what They wrote here in Regard
to a peace. When you See this it will Satisfy you On Our parts,
Red Kin^s Talk you must Rcmmcmbcr That Our fore fathers On
both Sides were allways friends, but as for Our parts we have had
a Small diflireiice but 1 dont know who was in the ron^ it is my
desire that we Should Still be at Friendship With Each Other this
Comes from my Mouth Who is King of this Nation and it is my
desire tiiat after you See this talk tiiat wherever You Meet with
Chickesaws that you may Eat Drink Smoke Together As Friends
Brothers. I hope youl Send An Agreable Ans'' To this tliat you
us may Set down in Safety plant, youl Receve this as A Talk
from your friend Broth'' Poymengers Talk. Now to Convince
you Of our Sincerity in Mak? Peace I have Sen' Four young watiers One white man that was with you before to Convin''* You
Of A Peace With Us I am desireous that they may Be Well
Used an Answer to this Talk by the Bearers that We may think
Of Nothing here after but Our Planting Hunting &C.&C.

his

POVMAU O TAUHAW

mark
his
Mingo (j Homau
mark
Chickesaw Nation g"' July. his

1782 TuRKAU X POTAPO

mark
his

POYMINGO DC

mark
Fort Jefferson. See Clark Paperi, cxli-cxlii.



76 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

William Irvine' to George Washington, July ii, 1782
[Draper MSS., 1AA257-2S9.]

Fort Pitt, July 11'* 1782.
Sir,

Doctor Knif^ht (a Surgeon I sent with Col. Crawford) returned
the 4''' instant to tiiis place. He brings an account of the melancholy fate of poor Crawford. Tiie day after the main body retreated, the Colonel, Doctor, nine others were overtaken about
thirty miles from the field of action by a body of Indians to whom
they surrendered, were taken back to Sandusky, where they all, except the Doctor, were put to death; the unfortunate Colonel in particular was burned and tortured in every manner they could invent.

The Doctor, after being a spectator of this distressing scene, was
sent to the Shawanese Town under guard of one Indian, where he
was told he would share the same fate next day; but fortunately
found an opportunity of demolishing the fellow making his escape.
The Doctor adds, that a certain Simon Girty, who was formerly
in our service, deserted with M?Kee, is now said to have a commission in the British service, was present at torturing Col. Crawford; that he, the Doctor, was informed by an Indian that a
British Captain commands at Sandusky, that he believes he was
present also, but is not certain but says he saw a person there who
was dressed and appeared like a British officer. He also says the
Colonel begged of Girty to shoot him, but he paid no regard to the
request.

A certain Shlover has also come in yesterday who was under
sentence at the Shawanese Town. He says a M'' W™ Harrison,

'William Irvine was born in Ireland of Scotch parents. He was a
student of medicine and surgery at Trinity College, Dublin, and served as
a surgeon on a British warship. At the close of the Seven Years' War he
came to America and settled at Carlisle, Pennsylvania. During January,
1776, he was appointed to raise and command the Sixth Pennsylvania Regiment. In an engagement against the British at Three Rivers, Canada, he
was taken prisoner and was not exchanged until 1778. The following
year he was promoted to the rank of brigadier general commanding the
Second Pennsylvania Brigade, and won honors at the Battle of Monmouth.
In September, 1781, he was appointed recruiting officer, and on the
recoiiiinendation of Washington he was given command at Pittsburgh.
From 1786 to 1788, he was a member of Congress and again from 1793 to
1795. He commanded the Pennsylvania troops in the Whiskey Rebellion.

'This letter is not published in C. W. Butterfield, IVashinglon-Irvine
Correspondence. Consult this volume, 247-250, for letter of July 5, 1782.



GEORGE TO TODD. JULY 14. 1782 77

son-in-law to Col. Crawford, was quartered and burned. Both he
and the Doctor say they were assured by sundry Indians whom they
formerly knew, that not a single soul should in future escape torture, and gave as a reason for this conduct the Moravian affair.

A number of people inform mc, that Col. Crawford ought to
be considered as a Continental officer, and are of opinion retaliation
should take place these, however, are such facts as I can get Doctor
Knight is a man of undoubted veracity.

This account has struck the people of this country with a strange
mixture of fear and resentment; tiieir solicitations for making another excursion are increasing daily, and they are actually beginning
to prepare for it.

1 have tlic honor to be, Sic. Sic,
W" Irvine
His ExcELLiiNcv

GiiN^ Washington

Robert George' to John Topd, Jr., July 14, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J25. Contemporary copy.]

July 14"" Capt "Patterson came into the Cabbin and said, that
unless his men were furnished with two pound of flour each man
p"' day, and was allowed what Beef they could kill he would be dam d
if any of his men sho* stay on Board. he also insisted to draw
Back Rations at the same Rate from the time his men came to the
mouth of Kentucke.

July is'*" This morning Cap' Patterson M' MGuire his
Lieut, came into the Cabbin, and said the Militia to a man refused
to come on board; alledging that Militia could not be made Salors
of, with other like Excuses and these ofhcers declared that in their
opinion that the Men would sooner fight that come on board.

CapLiin Roliert GeorRc was one of the men who accompanied Captain
James Willing in the attack on the Mississippi posts in 1778. See (.'Inrk
Papers, 311, note i. Early in 1779 Captain George and Lieutenant Richard Harrison were pivcn the command of the company of inen who had
heen with Willing and took them up the river to Kaskaskia to join Clark.
During 1780-1781 he was in command at Fort Jefferson. He served in the
West during the remainder of the war and afterwards settled on Clark s
Grant in Indiana.



78 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

July 19"' Cap* Patterson came on board this morning and said,
liis Men had gone off before day; but at 8 "Clock we discovered
not less than 10 of them in the skirts of the woods on the River
bank, altho' Capt Patterson said there were none left but himself
his two officers and one Spy

rou^ guorgk

Clark s Plan to Capture Detroit and Crawford s Defeat,

July 17, 1782
[Draper MSS., 11J7-8.]

Extract of a letter from a Gentleman at Quebec, to his friend at
Edinburgh, dated July 17th 1782:^

"The resolutions of Parliament to put an end to tiie American
war, are, I am afraid, not transmitted to Canada, for the bloody
work of butchery is still carrying on in the upper parts of this Province.

"A Colonel Clark, commanding a large party of Americans in
the Illinois country, has been for some years meditating an attempt
upon Detroit, but hitherto has always been defeated by the vigilance
and activity of the Indians. This year Clark has assembled about
4 000 men, and by late letters we have heard that he was on his
march to Detroit. He had ordered a Major Crawford to advance
before his main body, with about 500 men, and they had actually
reached San Douskie, in the neighborhood of Detroit, when intelligence was brought to Major Depyster, the commanding officer at
the fort: He instantly collected all the Indians he could, and sent
a M'' Caldwell, a young American, with them, and a party of regulars, to surprise Major Crawford, before he was joined by Clark;
he did so effectually, for he completely routed the party, and took
about two hundred prisoners.

"The Indians, who were the chief actors in this scene, pave over
the prisoners to the women, who instantly tomahawked every man
of them with the most horrid circumstances of barbarity.

"It is not unusual for the Indians to put their prisoners to death,
but the Americans had this spring destroyed an Indian village, and

'This letter is printed in Almon s Remembrancer, 14:255-256.



HARDIN TO DAVIES, JULY 28, 1782 79

put their women and children to the sword, for which inhuman act
the Indian nations are resolved to take full revenge, as Crawford
and his party woefully experienced."

Robert George to John Todd, Jr., July 19, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J25. Contemporary copy.]

BiGBONE Lick Creek July 19"" 1782
Sir.

I wrote you the 13'* Inst that Cap' Patterson had joined me

with 38 Men (Officers included) It is now with the greatest

pain I inform you, that since this party has had any Connection
with us, there has been nothing but murmouring and grumbling on
their part: first they insisted on being allowed double Rations of
Flour. tliis was granted llicni tlicn tlicy must be allowed to
march on tiic shore and not work at the boat tiiat w is grantc<l

them; and indeed every Indulgence the could desire; at last this

Morning they have determined to go off at all Events (aitho their

Tour is not out this seven days) I shall inform Gen' Clark of

the particulars, and obtain his directions, in the mean time I beg
you will take the most Effectual Methods of bringing these people
to Justice for their mutinous and disobedient Conduct.

I am Sir Your most ob' Serv'

RoB^ George
CoL° John Todd C' Lieut of Fayette (Copy)

John Hardin to William Davies, July 28, 1782
[Draper MSS., 11S58-60.]

"Major Hardin" to Col. W^ Davies, of V» B*" of War

MoNONGAHALiA, July 28"" 1782.
Sir:

Perhaps you have not had the account of our worthy friends
Col. Crawford, Col. W p Harrison, W^ Crawford nephew to
Col. Crawford, many others who fell into the hands of the Indians
on the late expedition against the St. Dusky Towns, so full as I am
able to inform you. The s'*" inst. I was at Fort Pitt, when John
Knight, Surgeon s Mate to 7'" Virginia Reg', came in, said he



8o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Col. Crawford were taken together by the Delawares to a camp
where tliere were nine more prisoners on Friday, the Tuesday
following they were all put to death but himself. He said they were
all marched into the Town, nine were tomahawked, himself
Col. Crawford were to be burnt at the stake. He saw Col. Crawford
tied burning nearly two hours, behaved like a hero. The traitor, Simon Girty, was standing by the Colonel cried out to him
"No mercy only shoot me," to which his reply was, "Crawford,
I have no gun," with a laugh "how can you expect any other
[treatment] this in retaliation for the Moravians that were murdered last spring." The Colonel made no reply, nor was heard to
make any noise the whole time of his torture. After about two
hours he fell on his face; one of the warriors jumpt in scalped
him, threw up hot coals ashes on him, then the Colonel got
up walked, then the Doctor said he was taken away, told
he was not to be burnt there, but was to be taken to the Shawanee
Towns where there were about thirty Delawares lived, to give
them some satisfaction for the murder of the Moravians; on his
way he made his escape. He was 21 days coming in to Fort Pitt,
his subsistence the whole time was green goosberries, nettle tops
green May apples.

One Slover has made his escape about twelve days since the
Doctor, and gives an account of all the prisoners who were taken
being put to death; that Col' Harrison was burnt, afterwards
quartered, and stuck up on poles. W''' Crawford was also burnt

himself was the last that was brought to the stake to be burnt

here came an exceeding heavy rain, which prevented their burning
him that day, that night he made his escape got into Wheeling
in seven days. I have not seen Slover myself, but I saw his aci()\int in writing from good authority.This is convincing that inexperienced men ought not to have
their own way in war; that good men must suffer on their account.
The murder committed on the Moravians is every day retaliated.
Sixteen days ago, Hannah s Town was burnt by the Indians,
Miller s Fort also, twenty five persons killed taken by the whole
party of Indians, who consisted of about two hundred; they took
destroyed a great many horses, cattle house-goods. There seems



LEGRAS TO CLARK, AUGUST 1, 1782 8i

to be a great spirit in general amongst the people for another campaign, which I am in hopes will have the desired effect.

I am, Sir &c.

John Hardin

J. M. P. Legras to Clark, August i, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J27.— A. L. S.]

S^ ViNCENNE Le 1» auot 1782.
Monsieur
Jai appris avec Etonnement Et peine le Depart prccipite Des
Dcrniers Couriers, me proposant Profiter de Cette occasion pour
vous Donner avis dc cc qui pout Etre a ma Connoissance; Je croyc
qu nc terreur Panique a Decide leur Depart Cache II m est parvenu
une Lettre Ecrite Dela Chutte par s'' Black fort a Dresse au s'
Cardin dont Je vous Envoye une Vraye Copie; Dont nous a vou<
Eprove avec Surprise la Verite; La Nuit du Vingt au Vingt Dcii.\
II a Ete Emmene Nombre de Dix a Douze Chevaux presque urns
appartenant aux Sauvages; apres quelques Recherche lis ont Decouvert la Route que tenoit Ces gens la, et au Nombre de Vingt lis
les ont pour suivie sur leurs piste et Rejoing La troisieme Journe
sur le soir; tenant tout Jours leur Chemins sur la Chiltte; 11 les
ont attaquc Et tuc un Rcpris Et Rcmenc Leurs Chevaux Sont plusieurs tue Et Blesse; lis les onts Reconnus pour Blanc quoicjue Deguise Et peint Comme font les Barbares; Celuy qu ils ont tue Etois
Blanc pour Certain Et peint II les Croyent aunombre de six hommes
qu ils ont Vu; le Chaouennon Binne Etois du parti Et deux onta^es;
ce qui fait un fort Mauvais Effets parmy les Barbares; Et les Mets
Dans Lintrique; Comme allies sincere; tant qu a Moy Je suis
Etonne de Cette Entrcprise Et n en peut Deviner le sujet; tous se
Repose Sur Vous pour Dccouvrir Et arretter a la Venir pareil incurssion.

Dernierement quelques Sauvages aunombre de six a sept Et
Nombre de femme Revenant De Chasse, Se Sont Rencontre Sur
La pointe de ouabache avec une pirogue appartenant au s'' I aite
Marchand Et un Engage Charge D environ trente a quarante gallon
ouicheguy aussitot L Engage apris La f uite Et abandonne le s'
taite les sauvages loing de L insulter luy ont fait des signes Dami82 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

ties; Et Marque par quelque Morceau de Viande Dont il L ont
Regale a leur fagon; Le sieur Taite Voulant faire pour Le Mieux
Ignorant Leurs Avidites pour les liqeures forte les apaye de Recconnoissance par un Coup de ouicheguy qu il leur a Donne a Boire;
avec une Canne a meme un Baril Chacun a Leur toure ce feut
Coup qu ils ont Bu aleur soif Et avidite les a Enhivre, Et Determine a En demander Davantage; cequ il ne pouvoit plus leur Refuser
Et sefont foule a Un point qu ils sefont tue undeux, Et un de Noye
Ce Coup Cause par la liqeuer les a decider a En demander Et prendre
pour Continuer asefouler Et Nont Cesse Jusqu a Leurs arrive; Le
s'' taite Et son Engage se sont Rendii icy sain Et sauf; les Chefs
Maragouin, Montoure Et Antaya se sont Joing a Nous pour Recouvrir Et Retirer des Mains des Sauvages ce qu ils ont pii Rendre
icy II nous a Ete Remis un Baril d Eauverre de Dis gallons ouicheguy, quelques Mains de papier, Et livre de Compte Et habillement
de L engage, que nous avons aussitot Remis au proprieteure Vous
ne deves point ignores que Les Outaouas qui ont fait Village En
Cette Endroit ont Vole plusieurs Chevaux Cette hiver, Jene sgaye
ou Commen Et que le Chaouennon Binne qui demeure avec Les
outaouas avoit une Chevelure; ceque Jen ay Sgu qu apres Leurs
Depart; lis ont ammene un Negre appartenant au Colonel paop
qu il ne m a point Ete possible de Retirer Vu qu ils demandoient
dela liqeur que Jen avon point; Et que Je N aime point a leur
Donner; II Est Rapporte qu ils ont tue une Negresse; parce qu elle
nc Vouloit point les suivrc de Bonne grace; II y a lieu de pcnser
que les Memes outaouas Loing de s en aller aux Ilinois Comme il
me L avoit dit ont Monte La Belle Rivierre; Et a L aide du
Chaouennon Binne ont DeBauche nombre Dameriquain qui se
seront joint a Eux par Lespoir du Butin, Et De Compagnie Voler
des Chevaux Eloignant deux touts Sentiments d honneur En Voulant Recconnoitre Ny allies, Ny amy Et authorite Les Chefs Maringouin Montoure Et antaya sont Venu prier les Marchands ainsy
que M'' Vaudy interprette de vous Ecrire En Leur faveur, et devous
assurer de leurs Sincere attache aux Etats; Mais que Malgre toutes
les pelncs qu ils Sedonne pour maintenir leurs Jeunes gens dans le
Bon chemin qu il sen Ecarte quelquefois Mais hors deleurs Connoissance; Et que pour une Mauvaise herbe II ne faut point



LEGRAS TO CLARK. AUGUST 1. 1782 83

abandonner tout un Champ lis Sont Bien persuade que de votre
part vous aves Ignores qu il Se formoit un partie pour Venir Voler
Leur Chcvaux que Vous L auries arrette.

Le Maringoiii arrivant du detroit Rapporte que les ameriquains
au Nombre de Cinqs Cens Venant du Cotte du fort Pitte, se sont
Combattu sur le lac Eries avec nombre de sept Cens hommes Venant
du Detroit Le space de deux Jours Et une Nuit. qu ils ont tue
quaiitites de sauvages de Divers Nations Et Beaucoup DeBlesses
Deux officiers anglois Blesse, Dont Est le Commandant En Chef
du partie.

Fatigue Et Epuise les Ameriquains sesont Retire avec une Lcger
perte; il n est fait mention que de Cinqs que ont Ete tue Et sept
prisoniers qui ont Ete pris dans La Retraite et Conduit au detroit.
Jen ay Rien plus avous Marquer Et Veut finir En vous priant
dene me point Refuser Une prompte Rcponse afin de tranquiliser
les peuples Et nous faire part Des Nouvelles qui vous Seront parvenu Vous assurant de Mon sincere attachement et Celle des Cytoyans de Cette Endroit pour La Cause Commune Et du Respects
de Celluy qui Se fait L honneur dctre avec Respect
Monsieur

Votre tres humble Et
tres obeissant Serviteur
J. 1\L P. Legras Lieut Col*
Jene vous marque Rien au sujet
de Mr. Dal ton il vous Ecrites

[Contemporary Translation]
[Draper MSS., 52J28.]

ViNCENNES, 1" Aug. 1782.

Sir

I have Learn d with Surprise and sorrow the departure of the
last couriers, as I proposed improving that opportunity to acquaint
you witii whatever comes to my Knowledge. I fancy a sudden
terror has occasioned their going away incog, a letter written from
the falls by Blackfort, and addressed to M'' Cardin, has fallen in
my hands, of which I inclose a true copy, of which we have to our
astonishment experienced the truth, in the night time from the



84 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

20"" to the 22* ten or twelve horses have been taken away, almost
all of them belonging to the Indians. After some inquiries they
tliscover d the road that the thieves had taken and twenty of the
savages pursued their tracks, and overtook them the third day towards night, as they always directed their course towards the falls,
they attacked them and killed one, retook and brought back again
their horses, of which several kill d and wounded, they knew them
to be white people, though disguis d, and painted as the barbarians,
he that was kill d, was undoubtedly a white man and painted, the

Indians allow they were six in number, whom they have seen

Hinne the chaouanon [sic'\ and two ottawas were of the party, which
has a very bad effect among the Savages, and makes them uneasy,
as faithful allies; for my part, I am Surpris d at that undertaking,
and can t guess at the object of it. every one depends upon you for
discovering and preventing in the future Such incursions.

Lately Some Indians Six or Seven in number, and a parcel of
women returning from hunting came up at the point of the Ouabache
with a Perioger [pirogue] Belonging to Taite a merchant and a
hireling, loaded with 30 or 40 Gallons of whiskey, the hireling
fled immediately and left Taite. the Indians, far from attacking
him, beckon d to him in Sign of friendship and testified it by some
pieces of meat with which they regaled him in their own way. Taite
intending for the best, and ignorant of their avidity for Strong
liquors, made them an acknowledgment with a plentiful dram of
whiskey, which they drank 'till they were all drunk then they
ask d for more, which it was not in his power to refuse, and they
got intoxicated to that degree that one of them died, and another
got drowned that accident occasioned by liquor induced them to
ask for more in order to continue drunk, and there has been no end
of it 'till their arrival. Taite and his hireling are arriv d here
Safe, the chiefs Maragouin, Montour, Antaya Join d with us
in recovering from the hands of the Indians what has been fetch d
here, we have receiv d a ten gallon Keg of whiskey, some quires of
paper, books of accoumpts and the cloathing of the hireling, which
we have immediately deliver d to the owners, you are not ignorant
that the Outawas, who have built a village here, have stolen many
horses last winter, I don t know where or how and that the ChaouLEGRAS TO CLARK, AUGUST 1. 1782 85

anon Binne who lives with the Ottawas had a Sculp, which I was
not inform d of untill they were gone.

they have brought in a negro man belonging to Co' Pope, whom
it has not been in my power to get from them, because they wanted
liquor which I had not and which I don t like to give them, it is
reported that they killed a negro Wench, because she did not follow
them willingly, we have room to think that the Same Ottawas,
instead of going to the Illinois as they told me, have gone up the
Ohio, and, with the assistance of Binne the Chaouanon, have Seduced a number of Americans, who w/ll yoin them in hopes of
plunder, and in order to go and Steal horses together, throwing
aside all Sentiments of honour, and disregarding allies, friends, and
all sorts of authority, the chiefs Maringouin, Montour, and Antaya
came here to intreat the merchants, as well as M'' Vaudy interpreter
to write to you in their behalf, and assure you of their Sincere attachment to the States. But that in spite of all their endeavours
to maintain their young men in the right path, they Sometimes deviate from it, but unknown to them; and that a whole field should
not be abandonncd for a few pernicious weeds, they arc entirely
convinced that, on your part, you was quite ignorant of a party bceing form d to come and Steal their horses, or else you wou d have
prevented it.

The Maringoin brings news from Detroit that the Americans,
five hundred in number, from fort Pitt have fought upon lake Erie
against Seven hundred men from Detroit, for two days and one
night, that they have kill d a great number of Indians of divers
nations, and wounded a vast many; two English officers wounded,
one of them the cominandcr in chief of the party.

fatigued and breathless the Americans retreated with an inconsiderable loss, mention is only made of five killed, and seven prisoners, who were taken in the retreat, and carried to Detroit;

I have notliing more to acquaint you with, and in finishing desire
you not to refuse me an immediate answer, in order to quiet the
minds of the people, and partake us the news that you may have
received assuring you of my Sincere attachment, and that of the
citizens here, to the common cause and of the respect with which
I have the honour to be

[J. M. P. Legras]
I say nothing of M'' Dalton who writes you.



86 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Jacob Pyatt to Clark, August 4, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J29.— A. D. S.]

To THE HoN^''" Brig' General G R Clark

Sir. Permit the Officers of the Marines raised, and now raising
for the Public service, in behalf of themselves and the said Marines,
to lay before you the following Circumstances, and in the most respectful manner to solicit you in their present Situation.

The Terms of which the Marines were inlisted, were Ten Dollars P'' Month and a suit of Cloaths: many of whom being either
discharged Men from Crocketts Regiment, or other wise necessitated, entered this temporal service merely on Account of the Cloathing offered and it is well known that many of them are in great
distress for every Article of that Nature.

It cannot be expected (nor would it indeed be just) that the
Marines should receive the same Cloatbing as those who have spent
Years in the service or have engaged for a considerable term. We
only request that the General will be pleased on the present Occasion,
to allow the Men such absolute necessaries, that health and common
decency may plead for.

We at tiie same time beg leave to solicit the General for some
Necessaries for ourselves; the absolute impossibility of obtaining any
Articles (if to be sold) without money, in this part of the world is
too obvious to mention.

We therefore beg the General will be pleased to take this Address
into Consideration, and afford us such relief as our present Circumstances stand in need of, or that he in his goodness shall seem expedient to grant.

We are Sir with the utmost dutiful respect
Your most obedient Servants

Jacob Pyeatt Cap'
in behalf of himself
the off. Marines before
mentioned,
Miami Galley August 4'^ 1782



CLARK TO IRVINE, AUGUST 10. 1782 87

Clark to Joseph Lindsay, August 6, 1782

[Draper MSS., 29J60.

Fort Nelson 6'" Aug'' 1782.
Sir,

This Express is to know from you what probability there is of
your getting a drove of your Bullocks to this place in a short time
When you left this last you said that you were determined to have
them down shortly. The Garrison is much in want, and your
immediate presence here very necessary, as there is great quantity
of Flour laying here, and I think a good supply may be purchased
for the publick, especially for salt. how we are circumstanced in
that article you only know: but I think if you was here you might
make a good stroke dont loose the oppertunity for the first rise
of water the Traders set out for Orleans, if they dont dispose of
their cargoes

Capt. Froman is with me, seems desirous tliat the greatest justice
shall be done tiie State respecting the salt pans, consequently, it would
be well to settle that afifair with him to let him go on as usual

I am.

Sir, Your obed. sert.
M* Joseph Lindsay G. R. Clark

Addressed: Mr. Joseph Lindsay at Harrodsburg
Endorsed: A true copy from the original in possession of VV. Lindsay Poguc, Es<l'' of Greenup Co. Ky.

Clark to William Irvine, August 10, 1782

[Draper MSS., 32J2. Transcript.]'

Fort Nelson io^ August 1782
Sir By Major Walls I learn that you intend to make a grand
push against the Enemy on the Lakes this fall, which information
occasion me to send this Express to know of you the time you march
and what is your object: If you will be so good as to favour me
with such intelligence it may be much to the publick interest as
it will be in our power to make a diversion much in favour of yours,

'This document was contributed by Dr. Louise Phelps Kellogg.
'Printed in H^ashington-lrvine Correspondence, 392-393.



88 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

if nothing intervenes to prevent us.
I am

Your mo. Obed' Serv'

(signed) G. R. Clark
Gen"Ervin

John Flovd to Clark, August 12, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J32.— A. L. S.]

1 2th August 1782

Dear General.

I ve just understood that Cap' Chenoweth his Warriors sent
yesterday on an Excurtion to the 18 Mile Creek, have bent their
course towards the Falls: if it is so, I hope you ve taken care to order
them on Board the Galley. Those were men that to my knowledge
have not been a Night from home on duty except at the Falls, for
12 M' by their maneuvering before they set out, I expected nothing done but I hope they are on Board, if you took the Hint.
I am Dear Gen' Yours Affectionately,

Jn° Floyd
Addressed: Brig'' Gen' Clark Fort Nelson By M'' Stcplicnson
Endorsed: Jn' Floid 12th Aug' 82



CHAPTER IV

THE BATTLE OF TJ^E BLUE LICKS, AUGUST 19, 1782
SEl TEMUER 3, 1782

Attack on Bryan s Station Plan of the Battle of the Blue Licks
Loss OF Kentucky Leaders Capture of Kincheloe s Station.

The Battle of the Blue Licks, August 19, 1782'
[Draper MSS., S2J35-37.— A. D.]

The night before the action of Bryans Col Todd being at Col'
Trigs' in all probability had the perusal of my Letters to Col'
Logan as the Col had sent them by Isack McCracken to Co' Trigs
for his perusal See my Letter to Col Logan

Aug""' lb"" Col' Trig Received y" following Letter from Col'
Levi Todd of Lexington

D'' Col I Set down in a very disagreeable posture Just now
defeated by a body of Indians who are now Round Bryans I am
necessitated to apply to you for assistance expecting you you will
deem it your duty before you can have an opportunity to Receive
orders from your County Lt. I last night Received an Ac', from
Col Boon of Cap*" Holders defeat at the Blue Licks and agreable
to his desire ordered twenty men to Join others and go to the Blue
Licks. They started this morning about an Hour after an Express arrived from Bryants That some Indians had shown themselves and they believed a body was Round the [fort] I set [off]
after the men met them by 12 'o' the [clock] at Bryants
we were att icked

the Horse broke Some perhaps have got in though I cant say, but
a few have Returned our loss I cant Judge of let your men assemiile
by parties as quick as possible at Lexington Let my Brother and
Co' Logan have the Earliest notice our situation Requires the greates
hast I am

Levi Todd

Fur the Bailie of llic Blue Licks and it» significance, see iiilroiluctlon,
ante, xlili (T., anil Roosevelt, H inninti of the IVest, 2:197 f'Note by Lyman C. Draper on the manuscript: "These copies are
in Gen: G. R. Clark s chirography probably borrowed the originals from
Col. Logan for copying."

For Stephen Trigg, see Kaikaskia Records, 76, note 3.

89



90 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Col John Todd being in the neighborhood of Col Trigs y^ Col
wrote the Following on the back of the Letter and sent it to Col
[Trigg] which Came back

Col*' Logan is Expected to be at Harrodsburg tonight if so
have sent this Letter for his perusal and in mean time have ordered
Cap*™ M^'Bride, Madison, Gordon Overton Ensign Adams to
appear at Cap" Gordons tomorrow Morning Ready to march to
Lexington I Shall wait there untill the Express Returns with orders
from Col' Logan if they should see him S. T.

Col I^^gan having Returned home 17"' 11 oclock Col Trigg
wrote the following to Col Logan which he Received at twelve of
the Clock the Insuing night

D" Coi, about Ten oClock last night I Rccciv^' the Inclosed
by Express I thinking you was then at Harrodsburg sent amediatcly their but found you was gone home I called upon six Companies to wit Gordon McHridc Madisons Kincaids Overton allisons for one half of their Companies it is now about a 1 1 oclock
and not more than 60 Men Met we shall wait a few minutes and
go on. Maj'' McGary and myself boath go over. I should not
iiave taken this step without your orders but the case seemed urgent
and had no doubt but you would approve of wliat I did I hope
you will and take any other step you Choose

Col" Trig Set out an[d] Incamped at Todds Cabbins Six Miles
from Lexington by which time he increased to about a Hundred and
thirty men arriving at Brians the 18 Joined by forty or fifty men
of the Fayet Militia pursued the Enemy as far as Riddles that
Evening 19'*" continuing y' pursuit descryd the of the heights of
Licking on the oposite side som distance backe of the blue licks Crossing y^ River and action amediately commenced and in five minutes
a Tot il Rout on our side Fifty of the Lincoln and 16 of the Fayet
Troops fell including Col' Todd Trigg Cap" &c &c on Col.
Logans Receiving Col Trigs Letter he dispatched of Express to
different parts of the County before day assembled 154 Men and
Reached the Mouth of Hickman that night arrive Lexington about
12 oCIock the 19"*, finding the people their quite unconserned and
at their common diversions spent some time in Shewing them their



BATTLE OF THE BLUE LICKS. 1782 9«

Errour to little purpose pursuing his Rout passing Briants met the
front of the Flying party within five miles of that place himself
being weakened by the Conversation of the Lexington and Briant
Inhabitants Ridiculing the pursuit saying their was a sufTicieiicy
of men gone with Col Tod caused of many of the Volunteers to
delay and the great Reason he had to suppose the body of the Enemy
Considerable Returned to Lexington that Night forming the best
position possible to Receive the fugitives in the night following
dispatched of Expresses to different parts of Lincoln County ordering every man that could bear arms to be amediately Marched to
Bryants whare he made his head Quarters taking the most advisable
Steps to Support that Frontier untill he should be sufficiently Reinforced as to take the Field on the 22 about Sun Rise Col John
Logan arrive at Lexington with 134 Men (not an officer except two
Ensigns) in the Evening of the 23 Col. McGary (who had been
sent back to Lincoln arrive at head Quarters witlie between 130
and 140 men the wliole forces being Imbodied the number of 470
men Col. Logan set out about seven marching untill near day
Reposing about two Hours continued his route came in sight of the
scene of action at the Blue licks about 10 Oclock in the Morning
of the 24 after sending proper Reconitering parties Marched to the
field it appearing that the body of Enemy had Retired for some
daj s buried the dead and Retreated Ten Miles but Recollecting
tliat the Enemy might have by a Circuitous March returned ti) the
Inhabitants thot it advisable to make dispatch that possibly could
to get back to the Inhabitants Lexington the 25'*" the Trops Marcliiiig to their different homes the 26"" 27"" a man was killed al
Harrodstown and Several otiiers in a few days following

a few days after Col Logans Return home he Received tiie following Letter from Maj'' McGary
28"" Aug''' 1782

D'-Sir

There has been some person a Spying about the Magazine at
Harrodstown some nights past and as all the principal men of tliat
place is lost I think it would be good to move the powder to Col.
Bowmans though such orders you send shall be put in force



92 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Sir I understand I am much sensured for incouraging the men
to fight the Indians when we came up with them I should have informed you of a grand scheam that was planed when I saw you only
I thought perhaps it would cause a Riot and you may Judge the
Matter yourself only it is hard to Judge dead men you saw Trigg
did not wright to you untill he was shure you could not come up
with us, and Todd took Cap'™ Craigs word for the Number of
Indians so we Marched in order to gain great applause with our
men as it was well known that you would have had the Command
as almost all the men was of our County and their scheam met with
a sad misfortune which I am sorry for So I suppose you have heard
of my bad conduct perhaps by some person that was conserned in
the scheam and if you think I am faulty I should be fond to have
a hearing in the Matter sir if any thing should happen we have
not one lb of Lead Cap'" Dentons Station Breaks up this day or
tomorrow I have had no chance to send your Letter to Gen' Clark
I hope you will instruct me on any thing you want done in this
End of the County and you may depend on me as far as in me lies

I am

Majr Madisons Ac'
18"' Aug*' Col' Todd and Trigg Arrive at Bryants Station about
ten oclock whare they ware informed by Cap'" Craig' that the
Enemy had Retreated about Ten in the morning that their number was inconsiderabl and that he was sure they might be overtaken and defeated by the party present to wit 182 men the pursuit amediately took place following the Indian trail to Riddles
near [blank in M5.] miles whare it was discovered that that the
Enemy was far superiour to the number Supposed and by information of Cap'" Hoy to Co' Boon a large party of the Enimy
was also discovered at the upper Blue Licks 8 Miles from the
Lower the principal officers appeared to be confused in their
council Each aflfraid to speak Candidly for fear of being Suspected
for Timerity; but the whole Moved forward apparently without
order orders then Issued for the whole when a attack should Commence to wride [ride] in among the Enemy before a gun was fired

Note by Lyman C. Draper on original manuscript: "of Bryan s Stn.
L. C. D."



BATTLE OF THE BLUE LICKS. 1782 93

Continuinp: the Route untill near day then Halted untill sun up
on the ig"" witliin four miles of the Lick, then Marching in three
parellel lines to the heights opposite the Blue Lick whare on discovering a party of the Enemy the whole appeared to be in the
utmost confusion each Viewing the other with that consternation
forboding destruction no gen' order given after this period the spies
ventering across the River Reconnitering the Lick found the Enemy
that was discovered had gone on Maj'' Mcgary crosed with his
division after which Col' Trig with his and Co' Boon following
Raising the heights on the opposite shore the Spies still advancing
returned in full spead informed the party that the Enemy was but
a small distance the Cry for action was the[n] given the whole
Move on in the order they then ware without ever forming the
front geting Repulsed before the Rear got near the Enemy a gen'
Rout took place having an unguarded ford to Retreat through the
Victory became compleat on the Side of the Enemy pursuing the
flying party untill they met Col' Logan then Six miles of Brians
having the advantage of the Horses of those they had killed Total
Loss 66 Including officers




94



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Property Lost at the Battle of the Blue Licks,
August 19, 1782
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]
Rec'' of Col' Benjamin Logan a List of Appraisments of Horses
Guns &c lost at the Battle of the Blue Licks Aug' 19"' 1782, Containing the following Accounts with Appraisment Bills

i I I s I D



No I
2
3
4
5

6

7
it

9

10

12
■3
•4
IS
16

•7



19

20

21

32

23
24
25

27



28

29
30

31



Edward Corn for one gun shot pouch horn k

Blanket

The Estate of John M''Murtry for a Mare gun

Sc shot pouch

George Smith for one horse Sadie Bridle fi

gun

The Estate of Thomas Farrier for Horse Sadie

Bridle gun

James Allen for one Horse Sadie bridle gun

blanket

Robert Poague for a gun

James Hays for a Horse

J nines Kay for a Horse

The Estate of John Garden on horse sadle

Hridle gun

Samuel Woods for a gun

William Aldridge for a horse sadle and Bridle

Josiah Wilson for a Sadie Bridle

John Hart for a horse

John Summers one mare

James Herrod for a Horse Sadie Bridle gun
Anthony Sowdusky one Mare sadle Bridle

Sadie Bags

Joseph Collens for a horse

Daniel Griggs one gun ap^ to L i2 o-o to be

paid vvith

Jarvis Green one gun ap<l to L 12 to be paid with

Jacob Coffman for a Mare Sadie Bridle

Elisha Buett for 3 Mare Sadie Bridle stroud
Elijah Allen for a horse Sadie Bridle gun..
The Estate of Arch' Woods for a Mare Sadie

Bridle gun

The Estate of William Robinson for one Mare

Sadie Bridle gun

Robert Scott for mare

John Hinch a Mare Sadie Bridle Sadie baggs
John Peak for a gun L 5 Sadie L 6 to be paid

with L 4

Gabrial Madison for a Sadie Bridle

William Lam for a mare

The Estate of Joseph Lindsey for a horse

mare

A Stray Mare the mony to be kept in the

Treasury till the owner appears and Proves

his Property



6
41

24

25

•7

5

25

20

32

7

15

2
30
10
38

25

•5

6
6

24
26
8



45



575



10

10

o

o

5
o
o



o

'5

o



9


10


10





29


10


9





3


10


»5






HARRISON TO COUNTY LIEUTENANTS, 1782 95



Benjamin Harrison to the County Lieutenants,
August 21, 1782

[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1781, p. 309.]

Letter to sundry County Lieutenants.

Council Chamber Augi' 21'* 1782

V ou will receive directions from the Commissioner of War to
hold men of your militia in constant readiness to march at the shortest warning, this order takes its rise from information just rec* from
the continental Secretary at War that an Attack is expected on
fort Pitt; the loss of which post will so materially affect our fellow
Citizens in the back Country that no Arguments can be necessary
to stimulate you or your Militia to exertion if the fort should be
invested. Gen Edward Stevens is appointed to the command of
the Troops order d out, will give you directions where to rendezvous
your men if they should be wanted and will forward the necessary
marching orders. I refer you for more particular Instructions to
the Commissioner of War and am &c.

B. H.



The same to the different County
Lieut or Com^ Officers in the list given
To be in readiness

Hampshire 150

Frederick 150

Berkley 175



Slianandoah 150



Rockingham 1 00

Augusta 200

Loudon 300

Fauquier 225

Culpeper 250



1700



Rank
File
proper=ly
Office r=ed.



Benjamin Harrison to County Lieutenant of Frederick
County, August 21, 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1781, p. 310.]
The commanding officer of Frederick County

Council Chamber Aug"^ 21''' 1782.
Sir

You will receive herewith an Order from the commissioner of
War to send immediately 75 Men to assist the garrison of fort I itt



96 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

in defending that post against an attack that is expected will very
shortly be made on it, the Consequences that will flow from the reduction of it will be so distressing to the Inhabitants of our back
Country, that your Humanity will suggest to you the Necessity of
an immediate compliance with the Order. If provisions to last
you to the fort can not be obtained from the Commissioners nor on
the credit of the State you must have recourse to the Invasion Law.
You may assure those who shall furnish provisions that they shall
receive Warrants for payment out of the present Taxes, which I
hope will save you from the disagreeable Business of impressment.
It will he necessary that the Officer commanding the Troops should
take particular care to settle his pay roles properly, and that he take
a rec* from the Continental Commissary or proper Officer for the
provisions used on his March in order to the Accompts being settled
with the continent.

I am Sir &c.

B. H.



The same to the commanding
officer of Berkley County.

Andrew Steele to Benjamin Harrison, August 26, 1782
[Cat. of Fa. State Papers, 3:269-270.]

Lexington, Ky., August 26th, 1782
"Sir

Through the Continued series of a Seven Years vicessitude, nothing has happened so alarming, fatal Injurious to the Interest of
the Kanetuckians of Particular all its votaries in General, as the
present Concatination of Hostilities, wherewith I am now to acquaint
your Excellency.

The Fifteenth of this Inst: Bryan s Station was Beseiged by a
number of Indians, whereof I am not able to form a Just Estimate:
the Attack continued warm for about Thirty Hours, During which
Period, the Enemy burned several exterior Houses, Killed three of
our men made large Depredations on the neat stock Crop
they then Retired leaving three of their Savage party dead on the
ground, besides a number of circumstantially so



STEELE TO HARRISON, AUGUST 26, 1782 97

The Seventeenth, we were Reinforced from Lincoln, with one
hundred fifty Horse men, Commanded by Lieut: Col: Sicplicii
Trigg Joined by a few of the Fayette Commanded by Colo. J no.
Todd, who compos d an Army of one Hundred Eighty Two. We
followed them to the Lower Blue Licks, where Ended the Direfull
Catastrophy in short we were defeated with the loss of seventyfive men among wliom fell our two Commanders with many
other officers soldiers of Distinguished Bravery. To express the
feelings of the Inhabitants of both the Counties at this Rueful}
scene of hitherto unparalelled Barbarities Barre all words cuts
Description short.

The Twenty fifth, five Hundred of the Lincoln militia minmanded by Colo. Benjamin Logan (who hitherto had neither been
consulted, nor solicited to our assistance) marched to the Battle
ground in Expectation of a second Engagement, but the Enemy had
march d several Days before, from the order of their march, with
many other accruing circumstances, their number was supposed to
be nearly six Hundred.

Forty seven of our Brave Kanetuckians were found in the field,
the matchless massacraed victims of their unprecedented Cruelty
We arc led to conceive that none were captivated, from a number
found at the crossing of the Creek tied Butchered with knives
spears.

Labouring under these Distressing Circumstances we Rely on
your goodness (actuated from a principle of Universal Benevolence
which is the Distinguishing Characteristic of the truly great noble
soul) that we will not only become the subjects of your Commiseration, but of your Patronage Protection also, the Ballance stands
upon an Equilibrium one stroke more will cause it to Preponderate
to our Irretrievable Wo, terminate in the Intire Breach of our
Country, if your Excellency is not concerned In our Immediate
safety

The Author of this narrative is a Person in a private sphere
of life hopes that your forgiving Candour, will induce you, to
not only pardon the Intrusion, but the many Inaccuracies that may
appear through the whole of this Illiterate undigested Detail
as it comes from a wcl-wisher to American Liberty your
Excellency s most obed t H ble Servt."



98 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Daniel Boone to Benjamin Harrison, August 30, 1782
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.— A L.S.]

Boones Station, Feyatte County August 30^^ 1782
Sir

A present Circumstance of Affairs Causes me to write to your
Excellency as follows, on the 16"' of this Instant a Large Numhcr
of Indians with Some white men Attacted one of our fronteer Stations Known by the name of Bryans Station, the Seige Continued
from about Sunrise till about ten oclock the next Day, then they
Marched off. Notice being Given to the Different Station adjacent,
we Imediately Collected 181 Horsemen Command^ by Col" Jn'
Todd, Including some of Lincoln County Militia, Commanded by
Col. Trigg, and having pursued About 40 Miles, on the 19"" Instant, we Discover d the Enemy Lying in wait for us, on Discovery
of which we formed our Columns into one Single Line, and March"*
up in their front, within About forty yards before there was a gun
fired; Col. Trigg on the right, my Self on the Left. Maj r M'^Gary
in the Center. Majo'' Harlen with the advance party in the front
and from the manner wee had form"*, it fell to my Lot to bring on
the attack, which was Done with a very heavy fire on both Sides;
and Extended back the Lines to Col. Trigg, where the Enemy was
So Strong that the Rushed up and Broke the right wing at the first
fire, So the Enemy was Immediately on our Back So we were
obliged to Retreat with the loss of 77 of our Men and 12 wounded,
afterward we were Reinforced by Col. Logan which with our own
men amounted to 460 Light Horse with which we March d to the
Battle Ground again But found the Enemy were gone off So we
proceeded to Bury the Dead which were 43 found on the ground,
and Many more we Expect Lay about that we did not See as we
could not tarry to Search very Close, being Both Hungry and weary,
and Some what Dubous that the Enemy might not be gone quite off,
and by what Discovery we Could make we Conclude the Number
of Indians to Exceed 400 Now the whole of our Militia of this
County Does not Exceed 130. By this Yr Excellency may Draw
an Idea of our Circumstance, I know Sir, that your Situation at

'This letter with some variations is printed in Cattndar of Virginia
State Papers, 3:275-276.



BOWMAN TO HARRISON, AUGUST 30, 1782 99

present is Something Critical But are we to be totally forgotten.
I hope not. I trust about 500 men Sent to our Assistance Immediately and them to be Stationed as our County Lieutenants Shall
See most Necessary may be the Saving of this our part of the Country, but if you put them under the Direction of Gen' Clarke they
will be Little or no Service to our Settlement as he Lies 100 miles
west of us, and the Indians Northeast, and our Men are often CalW
to the falls to Guard them. I have Encouraged the people here
in this County all that I could, but I can no longer Encourage my
Neighbours nor my Self to Risque our Lives here <it such Extraordinary hazzards, the Inhabitants of these Counties are very much
alarm'' at the thoughts of the Indians bringing another Campaign
into our Country this fall, which if it should Be the Case will Break
these Settlements, so I hope your Excellency will take it into Consideration and Send us Some Relief as quick as possible this Sir
is my Sentiments without Consulting any person I Expect Col.
Logan will Imediately Send to you by Express, By whome I most
humbly Request your Excellencies answer meanwhile I Remain Sir
Your Excellencys Most obedient Hum* Serv'

Daniel Boone

John Bowman' to Benjamin Harrison, August 30, 1782
[Executive Papers, Va. State Archives. A L.S.]'

Lincoln County August 30''' 1782
Sir I take the liberty to Ad^' your Excellency on a Subject which
I make No Doubt May be agreable to you on the 20"" of this Ins'
arived hear M'" Siman Burney with two chickasaws warriers With
a written talk from the cheiffs of that Nation Seting forth their
Willingness to treat with the State of Virginia on a peace, a Coppy
of which you will Receive by the convayance, and Being Impressed
with a sence of the Destressed cituation of this frontear Settlements
I could not Restrain my self but Rather thought it my Duty to

Major John Bowman was a brother of Colonel Joseph Bowman who
was the trusted lieutenant of Clark. It was John Bowman who led an
expedition consisting of three hundred Kentuckians against the Shawnee
in 1779. This was the principal cause for the failure of Clark s march on
Detroit that year. Colonel John Bowman was the first county lieutenant
of Lincoln County, Kentucky. See Clark Papers, cviii-cix.

This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3 •.2^^-2^%.



lOO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Recomend it to you in whoes hands the Reigns of Government are
put, and not Doubting of your Willingness to facilitate the Hapiness
of the People under your care and Protection, therefore it is the
wish of all I believe that your Excelancy might Appoint Commissionors to Meat the Cheiffs of that Nation at the french Lick on
Cumberland River it being the Place they Seame to wish to meat at,
in order to Establish a peace with them, Should your Excelancy with
the Honorable Councel think Proper that Sume Step Should be
taken with those People and would wish to Appoint Commissioners
in this Quarter for that Purpose, I will mention the following Gen'
who in my Opinion are the Most fit men amongst us for that Purpose Col John Donelson,' Col Benjamin Logen and Cap John
Huching the also Inform us that the Creek Nation will take the
Same Mesa( with them, which would be a fortunate Circumstance to this as well as our Neighbouring or Sistren States to the
Southward and the joint Intrust of All

The Chickasaws Cheiffs urging in their own justification that
When Gen' Clark came in to their Country and Built a fort and
Settled many famileys in their Countrey the thought themselves
obliged to Defend their Native Country by arms and that the should
not have taken up against us on any other grounds which as far
as I can judge of facts I Raley Beleve it to be the case

If a peace Could be Conncluded with those two Nations the
Chicasaws and Creeks it would Effectuly put a stop to the Cherokees and Cheeckamogga Indians Committing Depridations on any
of our frontears and Compleat the Happiness of the inhabitants
who have long suffer'' by them and we Conceive tht Such an Aliance
Might Greately Discurrage the Shawney and other westren Tribes,
Should this not be an Obstacle in the way I am Told that Gen'
Clark Sent an Express to Post S' Vancent to M'' Dolten their, the
Purport thereof is injoined on M'' Dolten to Keep it Secret the
Same Evening Sume Disefected Men that harbours amongst us
Stole about fifteen Horses from the french at that Place, on their

'Colonel John Donelson served at a Virginia commissioner (1771),
appointed to run the Cherokee boundary line. Early in March, 1778 he
was in command of a company of men at Boonesborough. He was in
charge of the expedition which went by water from the Holston settlements
to join James Robertson at Nashville in 1779-17S0.



LOGAN TO HARRISON. AUGUST 31, 1782 loi

Missing their Horses next Morning they Emediately Demanded a
Sight of the Express which was Denied them they then Desired
M' Dalten Not to send the Messenjer away until he new his Arrent
Notwitlistanding the caution the Express was Dispached that Evening and came safe to the falls this Raised a Jellosey among the
french that it was with Concent of Gen' Clark the men went their
and if this Breach is not Spedely Made up the consequences their
of is to be Dreaded, the french say that if this be the Treatment
from us they will be obliged to Defend their Property by Engaging
the Deflrent Tribes of Indians to the westward of them that are
Now at Peace to Come to war against us

Our Scater^ Inhabitants ar Daly Deminishing Having Lost 65
of our militia in a Late unfortunate Action with them the Particulars
whereof you will have from Col" Logan the Commanding oliiccr
of this County

I would Beg leave to Assure your Excelancy that my hartey
wish and Earnes Desire for the Public weal was the onley Ocation
of My Troubling you with the above Observation

I take the Honour to be your Excellancy s Most Ob' Hb" Ser»
John Bowman
Favored by
Mr. Patterson

Benjamin Logan to Benjamin Harrison, August 31, 1782
[Executive Papers, Va. State Archives.]

Lincoln 31"" Aug' 1782.
Sir

I beg leave to present your Excellency Council with one of
the most melancholy events that has happened in all this western
Country On the 14"" ins' Cap* Holder from Fayette pursued a
party of Indians who had made prisoners of a couple of boys in his
neighborhood he overtook them and was repulsed with the loas of
four men On the 16"' a considerable army appeared before
Bryants station under the command of the noted Simon Girty and

'This letter, with slight variations, is printed in Calendar of Virginia
State Papers, 3:280-283.



I02 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

many other white men they attacked the station closely and defeated different parties endeavoring to throw in assistance, but without much loss on our side An Express was immediately dispatched
to Col' Jn' Todd who at that time was in this County in the neipliborhood of Col" Trigg On the 1 7''' at night I received a letter
from Col" Trigg wherein he informed me of what had passed
orders were immediately given for every man to turn out on
Sunday the 18''' I crossed the Kentuckey with a considerable detachment the day after arrived at Bryants where I understood
the Indians had raised the seige were followed by Col' John Todd
with 135 of the Lincoln Militia under Col' Trigg and 45 of the
Fayette under Col' Boone dreading the consequences that might
ensue from this precipitate affair I immediately pushed within a
few miles from Bryants we were met by abo' 25 men who informed
of a total defeat at the Big Blue licks on Licking I covered their
retreat and marched back to Bryants where I collected 470 men
the 24"" went to the battle ground buried 43 Our loss in
this action is 50 missing from Lincoln 15 from Fayette: among
whom are Col' Todd Trigg (Trigg was quartered) Major Harlin, Cap'* M'^Bride, Gordon, Kinkaid Overton Lieut' Givings,
Kennedy M'^Murtry, Rogers M^'Guire, and M'' Joseph Lindsey
our Commissary. From the situation of the ground on which our
men were drawn upon (the plan whereof I have taken the liberty to
enclose) I hardly know how it was possible for any to escape.

I am inclined to believe that whe." vour Excellency and Council
become acquainted with the military 'operations in this country that
you will not think them so properly conducted as to answer the
general interest of Kentuckey From the accounts we had received
by prisoners who had escaped this spring we were confident of an
invasion from the De Troit Indians: Common safety then
made some scheme of defence necessary for which purpose I was
called upon by General Clarke to attend a Council and after consulting matters it was determined to Build a fort at the mouth of
Licking sliortly I received his orders for No men to attend this
business with a certain number from Fayette Before the day of
ri.-ndezvous I was instructed to send the men to the falls of Ohio
in order to build a strong Garrison and a new Galley thus by weakLOGAN TO HARRISOX. AUGUST 31, 1782 loj

ening One end to strengthen another the upper part of the country
was left entirely exposed the enemy intercepting our designs
brought their intended expedition ag" the Frontiers of Fayette
The immense expences incurred by the State in this western country
we know is enough to prevent the Government from giving us any
farther aid, but when your Excellency Council are informed that
the people have never been benefited by those expenditures we shall
hope your compassion will be extended to a detached, distressed part
of your country. As it is not in the power of the people to answer
the misapplica[tion] of anything done by a proper Officer

General Irvin commanding at Fort Pitt as a Continental officer
might probably be more issistance to this country could he receive
proper supplies from the state of Virginia than any other measure
that could be adopted as he has the same enemies to encounter that
trouble us And Stores of every kind seem to be of little account
to us (ammunition excepted)

Col" Trigg being killed there is a field officer wanting in this
county, however I am at a loss how to proceed on the occasion for
all our Magistrates have been killed except three and tliere can be
no Court to send a recommendation Col' Harrod wlio formerly
acted as a Col' and who agreeable to sincerity ought to have received a commission is now in being I tliink a very proper person
for that purpose.

Before I conclude I must beg leave to suggest to your Excellency Council that a defensive war can not be carried on with
Indians and the Inhabitants remain in any kind of safety For
unless you can go to their Towns and scourge them they will never
make a peace, but on the contrary keep parties constantly in your
country to kill and the plunder they get answers them instead of
Trade

Some days past a white man one AP Simon Burney with his
Indians arrived at this place in company with two warriors with
talks from the Chickcsaw nation wherein they inform us of their
desire to conclude a peace and the reason that urged them to war
which was General Clarke s sctling Fort Jefferson in their hunting ground without consulting them first and are now enquiring
for him. They own they have done mischief in this as well as



I04 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

the infant Settlement on Cumberland. Should your Excellency
Council think proper to hold a treaty with these people Col' John
Doneldson who has before served as an Agent for the State is willing
to transact any business of that kind.

Since writing the foregoing lines I have received certain information that Kinchelan s [Kincheloe s] fort in Jefferson was burned
37 Souls made prisoners

Your Excellency Council will please to indulge me a few
moments longer when 1 take the liberty to add the situation of 470
persons who surrendered themselves prisoners of war to a British
officer then on command from De Troit with a great number of
Indians As well as I recollect these unhappy people were captured in June 1780 And from authentick intelligence that we have
received they were actually divided in the most distressing manner
that could be invented Many of the men were taken to De Troit
their wives retained among the indians as slaves Some of the
men are now at Montreal and others in dilTerent parts towards the
lakes.

As the British were the perpetrators of this crual piece of mischief 1 think by the Articles of the Cartel for the exchange relief of prisoners taken in the S: Department Subsequent measures
taken by the different commissaries for that purpose: it is their
business immediately to deliver up in this Country or at some American post All the prisoners there taken Or retaliation be had on
our parts. Unless they are guarded back they will never get thro'
the indian country.

I have the honor to be,

With the highest respect esteem
Your Excellency s most ob*
Most Humble Servant
Benjamin Logan C L.



BATTLE OF THE BLUE LICKS, 1782



105




3 Sw*zir



The Indians kept the path from Bryants to the licks and when
CoI° Todd arrived at the Top of the Hill on this side of the river
the enemy made a shew of ab' 30 in the bent. Our men marched
over upon the Hill. The Indians had a very strong line in front
which extended from one point of the river to the other They had
flankers and also a party in the rear in order to prevent a retreat
As the river was very deep only at the licks and the cliffs so steep
that a passage was impracticable only wliere they first niarclicd
in thus circumstanced the savages sure of victory rushed immediately up and threw our men into confusion What escaped returned mostly by the way of the Lick Many were killed after
they were made prisoners as they were seen tied

From Bryants Station to the Blue licks ab' 40 miles i.*^' from
tiiere to the Olu o ah' 20 or 25. The Bent of the river was generally
ah' J/2 mile over from the top of the ridge each way inside down
small dreans in these places lay many Indians undiscovered until
the attack began.

It appears near all the warriors are this side of De Troit even
on this expedition Some allies 600 or more

Major Bulger was mortally wounded and is since dead.



io6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

John Floyd to Clark, August 31, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J38.— A L.S.]

31 August. 1782
Dear General.

The Spies have returned without making the least discovery of
the Enemy altho they went three miles above Boons old Station;
neither has Col' Cox any intelligence of them. I rcc*" Ace'' from
him Yesterday. I am really weary of Conjecture with regard to
Bushes Indians; if you ll please to send him out this evening on
Horse back I will send others with him to the Spot. I had other
Spies out yesterday almost to Bullskin along the Old trace below
it, they made no discovery. I ve been since endeavouring to engage some to go across to Kentuckey as they must in that rout cross
the Indian Trace; but I like your plan best will drop the other
if youll please to send Bush out.

Just as the Express left Col' Coxes, And'' Vaughn arrived from
Lincoln who says Col' Logan with his party marched no farther
than the field of Battle Buried the dead returned. I hear no alteration in the ace* only that Col' Boon is not killed, Col' Trigg
Todd both found at the Battle Ground. I am apprehensive it
is Levy Todd. It is to be doubted that more have fallen than we
have heard of. I thank you for the news from the Westward, I
am much astonished to hear of Daltons Conduct but what is it now
adays that men will not be guilty of?

I am greatly embarrassed grieved for the loss of our Friends
so many brave Men as fell in Fayette. Dear Gen' when shall
we liavc it in our power to retaliate? Shall we ever?

I am D'' Gen' with the utmost Esteem your

Ob<" Serv'
Gen'Clark Jn» Floyd

John Floyd to Clark, September i, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J39.— A L.S.]

i'» Sep« 1782
Sir.

I have embodied the whole strength of Beargrass which is fit
for action, find that the number does not exceed 65 men The



FLOYD TO CLARK. SEPTEMBER 1, 1782 107

Field Officers being here also, I have laid your Letter before them
who are of Opinion that if the Enemy are determined to march off,
it will be too late to pursue them tomorrow morning, if waiting
for an attack, that the party will be too weak to risk an Engagem'
as a defeat would perhaps be fatal to this County. I shall use all
my endeavours to send Spies to Kentuckey, Drinnens Lick I now
wait to hear from Col' Cox. perhaps his Intelligence may make
it necessary to apply again for your reinforcem' Your Hint of the
Enemy being yet about the little Posts at Salt River brings to my
mind a Circumstance which I forgot to mention this morn? Tlie
Express from the Salt Works informed me that the man who came
there last night with the Intelligence discovered a party of the
Enemy at the Mud Garrison had like to have been taken by
them, but I did not enquire in what manner. If you think it prudent to endeavour with all the Force I can raise to endeavour to
join Col' Cox without waiting to hear from him, please to let me
know it this Evening as it will be useless unless we can march early
in the Morning. I am informed that it was last Night that Col'
Cox his party were at Whittakers Station not the night before
as I informed you in my last.

I am Sir your most Ob'" Hble Serv'

Jn' Flovt)

Since writing the above your Troops have arrived upon deliberation it is thought by the whole of the OiBcers that an Excurtion
before we are certified the Enemy are on their retreat would be
imprudent, for which purpose I have sent out Scouts detained
Mf Williamses party till morning expecting in the mean time to hear
from Salt river. I am much perplexed entirely at a loss how
to act for the best. J. F.

2* Sept 82

The Spies I sent out yesterday have not yet returned which
prevents my being able to send you any Intelligence to-day, neither
have I heard from Col' Cox so that it appears that Mr Williams
the party from the Falls may return. I expect the Spies in to
night shall send to you immediately after.

Your most Ob^'

Jn' Floyd

Addressed: General Clark Fort Nelson P^ Express

Endorsed Col' Floyd Sep' 2 82.



io8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

John Gibson to William Davies, September 2, 1782
[Cal. of Va. Stale Papers, 3:286.]

Fort Pitt Septem. 2d 1782
"Dear Colonel

This moment I was honoured with yours of the 22d of August
per Express. Inclosed is a return of the officers of my Reg t now
here and of those three who went last from this place to join the
troops with you. Inclosed is a narrative* of Doctor Knipht, by
which 5 ou will be made ac(|uainted with the inhuman sufferings of
our late worthy friend Colo. Crawford, and of the Fortitude with
which lie bore them to the last. I am sorry to hear that the Assembly of the Ancient Dominion has done nothing for us, however
still hope they will consider our services. An Expedition is in
agitation here against Sanduskey, Genl Irwin to command, the
proposal from the people. they are to furnish one thousand men
from the militia, and also horses, flour and cattle at their own Expence unless the states will in future pay them. The Genl takes
one hundred of the regulars from this post which is nearly half the
number here. I am much afraid it will not be carried info execution as the people are much divided. Should the Expedition take
place I am to goe with the Genl: and hope in a few days after our
return to pay you a visit at Richmond The General is hurrying
the Express &c

Just as I was closing my letter I rec d a letter from Clarke at
the Falls of Ohio dated the loth of August, he writes me every
thing was then quiet, that he had sent the Express as he had learned
by Major Wailes, Genl Irwin intended carrying our Expedition
into the Indian Country, in order to fix the time when the Genl:
would move, that he might make an Excursion at the same time."

I am &c. &c.



Not found



John Floyd to Clark, September 3, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J40.— A L.S.]

3^ Sep' 10 OClock 82.
Sir My Spies have this moment returned brought Intelligence
of the Savages who took Kinchelows Station. Yesterday about 2



FLOYD TO CLARK, SEPTEMBER 3. 1782 109

OClock P M the Savages crossed Harrods Old Trace on the Ridge
beyond Brashears Creek. I directed the spies to go as far as tlie
trace the Enemy marched along to attack the Station they did
so, found they had marched in two Columns about 200 yards on
this side their first Trace it appeared that about 30 had niarclicd
oi? Supposed to have gone on Sunday with the prisoner*. And
on their return Saw the sign of the main body about half a mile
on tiiis side; so that they had only gone a few minutes before. M'
Pomcry one of the Spies thinks their whole number does not exceed
150 perhaps not so many. If you tiiink we can defeat them let
no time be lost in letting me know it, tiiat I may collect all the
men who are able to march. I am now convinced they are on their
retreat so that it will not be any great risque in drawing the men
from the Stations. I am also convinced that the Enemy have delayed some to give us an Oppor l' to attack them, it is truly mortifying to think they should miss of it, yet I am sensible of the Evill
consequences that might attend our engaging them to a disadvantage.
I have not heard a word of Col' Cox which really Sui ii>tb me.
The last time I wrote him I directed if he went in pursuit of the
Enemy to send an Express with an appointm' where we miijht meet.

I still think he will send to day.

I now wait for your advice Instructions how to act please
to hurry the Express back. I am Dear Gen' your most Ob^'

Hble Serv«
Gen"Clark Jn° Floyd



CHAPTER V

CO()l ERATIVE EXPEDITIONS PLANNED BY GENERAL WILLIAM

IRVINE FROM FORT PITT AND GENERAL CLARK FROM

FORT NELSON, SEI l'EMUER 3, 1782

OCTOBER 19, 1782

Effects of Crawford s Defeat and the Battle of the Blue Licks Cam.
FOR N oi.unteers Criticism of Ci ark Additionai. Forts to iit; liuii/r
ON THE Ohio Origin of Criticisms on Clark and His Associates.

William Irvine to Benjamin Harrison, September 3, 1782
[Draper MSS., 11S144-14S. Transcript.]

Fort Pitt, September 3'' 1782.
Sir:

From about the middle to the last of July, the Indians were very

troublesome, threatened an investiture of this post Hanna s

Town was attacked burned, ab' 20 \\'ere killed taken there
in the vicinity; Wheeling was at the same time in some degree
blockaded, a large party of Indians kept skulking about it five or
six days; in short, they appeared in all quarters; the alarm consternation of the inhabitants for two weeks was such that a total
evacuation of the country was to be dreaded. Since the i'' of
August everything has been perfectly quiet, the people have in a
great degree got over their panic.

I am now preparing for an excursion into the Indian country.
My troops are chiefly to be volunteer militia, who propose not only to
equip feed themselves, but also such Continental troops as I can take
with me. If we succeed in burning the Shawanee, Delaware
Wyandott towns, it will put an end to the Indian war in this quarter. I am made more sanguine in this business by an express from
Gen' Clark last night, in order to concert measures for a descent
from his quarter at the same time; if we can regulate our movements
so as to strike different towns at the same time, the probability of
success will be greater, the business more effectual. Yet I am

'This letter, very much edited, is printed in tVashinglon-lrvine Correipondence, 270-271.



TODD TO HARRISON, SEPTEMBER 11, 1782 1 1 1

not without my fears. You know that the militia are as brave as
regulars, yet it is impossible to bring them to act with necessary
promptitude or exactness indispensable in war.

Gen' Clark s express informs me of Maj'' 'Wales having arrived
safe at the Falls with his stores.

W" Irvine

William Irvine to Clark, September 9, 1782
[Draper MSS., S2J44.— A L.S.]

Fort Pitt September 9"' 1782
Sir

I received your favor of the lo"* August, eight days ago, my
reason for detaining your Express so long, was if possible to inform
you positively what you might depend on from us. As the passage may be precarious I must refer you for full information to Mess"
Sullivan Floyd

Being informed by Major Craig that you are not well supplied
with three pound Shot have sent 50U 50

I also send the last news papers for your amusement

I am with regard
Dear Sir

Your Obedient
Humble Servant

W" Irvine
The Hon".-^ Brig? GenV Clark Fort Nelson

Levi Todd^ to Benjamin Harrison, September 11, 1782
[Draper MSS., 11S203-205. Transcript.]Sir:

Enclosed is a copy of the recommendations made at our last
court. So great a change proceeds from a cause truly lamentable;
the loss of our County Lieutenant, and a number of subalterns at
the late attacks, but particularly at our defeat at the Blue Licks,

This letter, considerably edited, is printed in IVashington-Irvine Correst ondence, 396.

'For Colonel Levi Todd, see Clark Papers, 374, note i.

'This letter, with some variations, is printed in Calendar of Virginia
Stale Papers, 3:300-301.



112 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

where the enemy p ut us wliolly to the route. The circumstances
particulars are these:

On the i6"^ of August, a party of Indians appeared at Bryant s,
by their behavior a large party was supposed to lie around tlie
Fort. An express was sent here my brother being absent, I went
with about 30 men to make discovery, force my way into tlie
Fort; near Bryant s I was joined with about ten more. Finding

tlie enemy lay around, we forcing our way 17 men on horseback

rushed in; the greater part of the rest being on foot, were prevented
overpowered, obliged to seek safety by flight, with the loss of one
killed three wounded, one of whom died the next morning. I
immediately dispatched an express to Col. Trigg, the nighest oflScer
in Lincoln, demanding assistance, and also notice to Col. Jn' Todd,
then in Lincoln.

The enemy commanded by Simon Girty made an attempt to fire
the Fort, but were prevented with much loss they, however, kept
up a smart fire till the morning of the 17th, when they went off.
The same evening Col. Jn' Todd Col. Trigg arrived with a party
of men, who with what we could raise, soon made 170. On the
morning of the 18"" we pursued their trail; on the morning of the
igth ^yg came within sight of the enemy, about three fourths of a
mile north of the Lower Blue Licks. We dismounted began
the attack with vigour from our left, the enemy retreated we gained
ground our right within a minute or two gave way, suffered
themselves to be flanked by the enemy. Our line then gradually
gave way from our right to our left, till the whole broke in confusion.
The action lasted about five minutes. Our loss, as near as we can
ascertain, is sixty six, among whom were commanding officer, Col'
John Todd, Col. Trigg, Capt' Gordon, M'^Bride, Kinkaid, Overton, Major Harlan, Major Bulger (wlio since died of his wounds,)
Mr. Jos. Lindsay, several gentlemen of note. The enemy, we
suppose, consisted of three or four hundred. They took some prisoners, we suppose, tho' very few; upwards of 40 were found, but wc
think a number more lay near the battle-ground. The enemy must
have suffered considerably. A great part of our men fought with
much resolution activity.



BOONE ET AL. TO HARRISON, 1782 113

The conduct of the officers is by some censured charged with
want of prudence in attacking at any rate but as we had no chance
to know their number, we thought ours was not much inferior, and
suppose we should by a fierce attack throw them in confusion
beat their lines.

We arc much alarmed in this county, and fear the consequence
will be very detrimental, if Government cannot give assistance,
tho' our great dependance is that if the County Surveyor would
attend, we should be strengthened with additional settlers not a few.

I am. Sir, your Excellency s most obed' very humb'* serv',

Levi Todd
Lexington, Fayette County, Sept. 11, 1782.

Daniel Boone et al. to Benjamin Harrison,

September 11, 1782

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Lexington Fayette County Sep' ii'" 82
Sir

The Officers Civil as well as Military of this County beg the Attention of your excellency the Hble Councel. The Number of
the Enemy that lately penetrated into our County, their Behavour,
adding to this our late unhappy Defeat at the Blue Licks, fill us
with the deepest concern Anxiety, the Loss of our worthy Officers
Soulders who fell there the ig'"" of Aug'' we Sensibly feel deem
our Situation truly Alarming, We can scarcely Behold a spot of
Earth but what reminds us of the fall of some fellow adventurer,
Massacred by Savage hands. Our Number of Militia decreases.
Our Widows Orphants are numerous Our Officers worthiest
Men fall a Sacrifise. In short Sir, our Settlement hitherto form d
at the Expence of Treasure much Blood seems to decline if
something is not speedily done we doubt will wholly be depopulated
the Executive we Believe think often of us wish to protect us,
but, Sir, we believe any Military Operations that for 18 Montlis
past have been carried on in Consequence of Orders from the Executive, have rather been detrimental than Beneficial, Our Militia are
called on to do Duty in a manner that has a tendency to protect

'This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Paper], 3:301-302.



114 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Jefferson County, or Ratlier Louisville, a Town without Inhabitants
a Fort situated in such a Manner that the Enemy coming with a
design to Lay waste our Countrey would scarcely come within one
Hundred miles of it, our own Frontiers, open unguarded. Our
Inhabitants are discouraged tis now near two Years since the division of the County, no Surveyor has ever appeared among us,
but has by Appointment from time to time deceived us, our principal expectation of Strength are from him, during his absence from
the County Claimants of Land disappear when if Otherwise they
would be an additional Strength, we entreat the Executive to
examine into the Cause and remove it spedily If it is thought
impracticable to carry the war into the Enemys Country we beg
the plan of building a Garrison at the Mouth of Lime stone
another at the mouth of Licking formerly prescribed by your Excellency might be again adopted performed, A Garrison at the
mouth of Limestone would be a Landing place for adventures from
the Back parts of Pensylv* Virg*, adjacent to a Large a Body of
Good Land which would be Speedily Settled would be exactly
in the Enemys princiapal crossing place, not more than fifty Miles
from Lexington, our Largest settlement, might readily be furnished
with provitions from above, till they would be supplied from our
settlements here Major Netherland we expect will deliver this
he will attend to give any perticular information that may be deem d
necessary

Humanity towards Inhabitants destitute of Hopes of any other
aid; will surely induce your Excellency to spair from the Interior
parts of the State 200 Men and a few pieces of Artillery for these
purposes above mentioned We are Sir y'' Excellencys
Mo' Ob< Hbie Serv'

Danirl Boone

Levi Todd

P Patterson

R Netherland

Eli Cleveland

W" Henderson

W" M'=Connalle

John Craig

W*" M Connell



STEELE TO HARRISON, SEPTEMBER 12. 1782 115

Andrew Steele to Benjamin Harrison, September 12, 1782
\_Cal. of Va. State Papers, 3:303-304.]

Fayette Co. Ky. Lexington Septem. 12th 1782
"Sir,

The present Important allarming Crisis claim the serious
Attention mature Deliberation of Your Excellency the Honourable House. The frequent Incursions Hostile Depredations of
a Savage Enemy upon our Exterior Posts, our Despersed Legions,
our veteran army defeated, our Widows Tears orphans cries
grate strongly on the Ear, nay Thunder at the Door of your Council, not only for acts of consideration, but Protection redress.

To express the feelings of the Inhabitants at the Ruefull scenes
of Barbarities daily perpetrated amongst us, barrs all words cut
Description short. So fatal is the stroke that a second similar to
tliat we have already Rcc d will close the Catastrophy Terminate
the Intire Devastation of our County. I would beg leave to inform you that annually since the seventeen Hund d seventy eight,
an army of not less than three Hund d Savcges Infested our Territories since seventy six, Eight Hundred sixty Effective men fell,
the matchless massacread victims of their unprecedented Cruelty.
A few of tlic primitive adventurers yet survive, who supplicate your
Excellencies Immediate Interposition in their beh nlf, in granting
them such strength, as may enable them to carry on an offensive
war, or at least Act in the Defensive with safety, for if some mode
of preservation is not speedily adopted the wealthy will fortliwitli
Emigrate to the Interior parts of the Settlement the Poor to the
Spaniards. Dreadfull alternative!! Nature recoils at the thouglit!
further, from the Jealous apprehension of the Inhabitants I am
under the Disagreeable necessity of Informing your Excellency tiiat
from the Detainour of our County Surveyor (from whom their
greatest Expectations of strength was derived) they are Induced
to believe you have either withdrawn that Paternal care which they
have long Rely d on or rather the Executive Body are Dubious of
the authenticity of their Claim to those Western Territories I
would also observe that the many Military Operations hitherto
Effected, or rather Intended for our safety (the Seventeen Hundred
Eighty Indian Expedition excluded, the Honour whereof is Justly



ii6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

due to the militia) have centred at Louisville, a Town distant one
Hund d miles from the Center of our County, to which together
with Fort Jefferson, Elinois St. Vincennes, may the Innormous
Expence of the Western fronteers be Attributed not to the Counties of Kanetucky, which in competition would be less than a Mathematical Point. To Conclude, Permit us, once more the Indigent
Offspring of an oppulent father, if not Equally to share, yet to partake of your Kind patronage Protection beg you would adopt
such measures as your Superior Wisdom may suggest to Promote
the Peace, wellfare Tranquility of your Suppliants in particular
the Interest of the Commonwealth in Genl. Then shall we Congratulate ourselves in having you the Illustrious Patron Protector
of our Lives, Laws Religious Liberties, when the annals of History will rank your name among the Bravest Patriots Wisest
Politicians Gratitude like a Torrent will flow from the Heart
of every Kanetuckian, whilst we Experience with what firmness
you have supported our Interest. Our universal Joy fervent Expressions of Allegiance Gratitude.

Those public Testimonies of our Felicities will be Too convincing Proofs to Require any argument to support them.

The Author begs leave to subscribe himself, a Friend

to the Commonwealth your Excellency s

most obed t humbl. Servant"

William Irvine to Clark, September i6, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J45.— A L.S.]

Fort Pitt Sepf i6"' 1782
Dear Sir If the bearer M"" Floyd arrives safe he will inform you
of the disaster which befel Sullivan himself, and also of my
views, and the time I propose marching. By what M^ Floyd informs me, you can reach your object in five days less than I can mine,
if so we shall be still able to form a Junction in case you should not
march till he arrives if he has a speedy passage which will doubtless be necessary to insure success to either. If any possible mode
can be adopted for keeping up a correspondence, after we reach some
distance into the Enemys Country it will be highly expedient I



FLEMING TO HARRISON. SEPTEMBER 26, 1782 1 17

will attempt it on my part, and am persuaded you will do so too.
I am Dear Sir

Your Obedient

Humble Servant

Wf Irvine
General Clark

[Notes on slip attached to the above letter as follows:]
March from Ohio 21" Sepf towards upper Sandusky, Troops composed Regulars Militia 50 days provisions M 850 R

100

750 Regulars 1200 Militia --two 12 pounders, two Sixes, i Howitzer to March from Wheeling, against Detroit about the 21°' Sepf
Addressed: The Hon""'" Brigadier General Clark

By Express Falls of Ohio Public Service

William Fleming to Benjamin Harrison, September 26, 1782
[Cal. of I a. Slate Paprrs, 3 :327-328.]

Botetourt Septem. 26th, 1782
'.'Sir

I wrote your Excellency by Express of the 4th Inst: to which
I have had no return, but received the papers instructions of the
Qtli by a rider dispatched by Mr. Hay C. A. who delivered the
travelling stores &c., and $150 specie. I am sorry to observe the
money is by no means adequate to the purposes: however that difficulty may perhaps be got over, tliis morning Mr. Peterson liandcd
me an open letter from Col: Logan for the Executive, informing
your Excellency of the melancholy catastrophy of many valuable
pcoi)!c in tliat Country. Your Excellency will perceive that Country is in a great confusion and disorder, and be convinced the powers
desired by the Commiss r, in the letter I had the honour of writing
your Excellency by Armstrong are not altogetlier unnecessary
permit me to transcribe part of a letter I received from Col Bowman, of the 30th of August last dated "Lincoln" "some of our men
have been stealing horses from the French at Oport [O Post],'
which has occasioned great disturbance among them. The Frem li

O Post was the name commonly used for Vincennes by the traders.



ii8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

sent 50 of the Oport Indians after their horses, retook all their
horses, one of our men is missing, we suppose he is killed.

What has raised the Jealousy of the French, is that Genl: Clark s
Express arrived but a few days before the horses were taken, to Mr.
Dalton to contrive the cannon privately from Oport to the falls.
The French demanding a sight of the express, it was refused, which
has confirmed their opinion that Genl Clark is concerned in sending
the men there for that purpose, and if this breach is not made up
shortly we may expect all the Western Indians on our backs." I
must suppose Genl Clark has sent for the heavy cannon agreeable
to instructions, to be removed with as little noise as possible, however the taking the horses in a clandestine way, as it is represented
in the above extract, may make it more difficult for the Commiss r
of Acc ts to settle examine into the business of that part of the
country. I design, with the other Comssrs. to set out the first of
Oct r. we may be detained a few days in Washington county, to
make up a sufficient party to pass with security to Kentucky. Mr.
Granville Smitli is come up, but is wavering in his resolution to
go out, as he tiiinks it will be exceeding difficult to provide horses
other iiccessarys witiiout money, meeting witli Col: Logan s
Express, I thought it migiit not be amiss to write by him.

I have the honour to be, with great respect Your Excellency s

most obt. Humble Servant."

William Christian' to Benjamik Harrison,

September 28, 1782

[Ca/. of fa. Stale Papers, 3:331-333.]

MoNTCOMiiRY Co. Scptem. 28th, 178^.
"Sir.

I take the Liberty of addressing a few Lines to your Excellency,
upon the Subject of the Kentucky Country, and flatter myself it
requires no apology, as you are acquainted with my being a RepreColonel William Christian represented Fincastle County in the VirRinia legislature (1774) and commanded a regiment from that county iji
Dunmore s War. During 1776, in charge of a force of seventeen hundred
men, he marched against the Cherokee and burned their towns. He was
one of the commissioners to treat with this tribe (1781). After the Revolution he removed to the neighborhood of Louisville where he was killed
by a party of Indians (1786).



CHRISTIAN TO HARRISON. SEPTEMBER. 1782 ii<j

scntative for tlut Country. A few days ago, the Report of an
Expedition made by the Savages into Fayette reached this far, and
pcrliaps may be at Richmond before this Letter; but as I have seen
a Letter from Colo. Levi Todd, I will enclose an extract from it,
for j-our Satisfaction, as you may not yet liave had any well authenticated account from thence.

Tlic number of men killed is a lamentable thing for that Coup
try, and the loss of some of their principal and best officers adds
greatly to their sorrow. Besides this disastrous Event, a few Days
after, 37 people were taken in a station upon Salt river, about 40
miles from the Falls. These successes will surely encourage the
Shawanese to new Enterprizes. Kentuckey it is supposed does not
contain above lOOO men at present, the general Part of the young
men having come off this summer, as is commonly the case when
Danger appears there. The Settlements are so much scattered,
that it is difficult, and takes some Days to collect a Force together,
particularly to go to any Distance from their own Families, when
no other man knows what number of the Enemy have entered the
Country, nor where the first Stroke will be made. The last Blow
has cast a Gloom over the whole Country, and indeed Sir, their
Distress is so great, that I need not attempt to describe it. And
moreover, all accounts agree that there is Danger from the Wabash
Indians, who are disgusted with our Procedings in their Country.

It is true numbers of People are now on the Road, moving out,
but from the encumbrance of women, children and stock, the men
will be of little service in fighting for the Country this year. And
I am doubtful many of them will turn into Carolina towards the
Cherokees where they may live in safet)'. If no succour is sent to
Kentuckey, and the war with the British continues another Year,
it is more than Probable the whole of the Inhabitants will be killed,
taken to Detroit or driven away: And when that is no longer a
Barrier, Washington, Montgomery and Greenbrier must suffer.
These Counties have suffered this year from small Parties, but Kentucky employs the attention of the Bulk of the Sliawncy Nation,
^'our Excellency will please to reflect that any Force which may be
marciied from I ort Pitt against their immediate enemies, will be of
no service to Kentuckey, or the Rest of our Frontiers Southwest of



I20 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Augusta, which seems to be the distance allotted to the Shawnese
and Mingos. I believe Colo. Crawford s Expedition was against
Sanduskey, and if General Irvine carries on another, it will probably be the same Course, and do as but little good

From your Excellencies known humanity and willingness to
releive every Part of the Country under your Care, I can have no
doubt, but you will readily fall upon any measures which may
appear to you eligible for the Support of Kentuckey. I would
therefore propose to your consideration the Expediency of having
Garrisons erected upon the Oliio, and defended by regular Troops,
as 1 hope you could spare a Regiment from the lower Country.
l?csides the Falls, the mouth of Kentucky and mouth of Licking
would be proper Places. Perhaps Spotswood s Legion could be sent
out: Such of them as are equipt as Dragoons would be of essential service against Indians. Even musket men with bayonets would
be of more use than it is generally thought: as the Indians of late
depend more upon the use of their Tomhaks and Spears, than their
Fire

In the mean time Sir, until something more permanent can be
done for the country, I am induced to offer myself to your Excellency and the Council, to aim at raising five hundred Volunteers
in the Counties of Augusta, Rockbridge, Greenbrier, Botetourt,
Montgomery Washington to hasten out on Horseback. And
when arrived there I would expect to be joined by what Force that
country could spare, and would suppose the whole might form a
Brigade of looo men: and with them I would hope to be able to
make an excursion throughout the Shawnee country. Considering
the Finances of our country, I should expect every man to find himself a Horse, arms and accoutrements, and also Provisions Forage
to carry him as far as Washington Court House, where some supply
might be procured out of the Taxes of that County, to last from
thence to Kentucky. I would wish to avoid all unnecessary Parade
Expence, and also the being encumbered with Beeves or Packhorses. I suppose the men would expect to have their Horses and
accountrements valued, if lost, paid for at some future Day; and
no doubt they would think of being entitled to the same Pay as
others in like service, for the Provisions found themselves. The



CAMPBELL TO DAVIES. OCTOBER 3, 1782 121

men who would go from here would not be too many for actitig
as mounted Infantry Dragoons. Perhaps I could procure a few
proper Horsemen from Henry, Bedford Amherst. And I have
a chance for some in Sullivan County upon Holston. Col Preston
of this County and Col Campbell of Washington, have both offered
me their assistance, and I expect I should have the assistance of the
Officers in the" other Counties. Tiie season of the year may be
thought unfavourable for sucli a scheme: but I conceive it would
be no great obstacle to such men as would be excited to go from
motives of Generosity zeal for the People of Kentuckey. Horses
can live well all the winter at Kentuckey, and in the Siiawney
Country, and a successful attack upon Indians in the winter, would
Distress them vastly more than at any other Season. If the whole
number of volunteers I mentioned cannot be got no doubt a considerable part can, and ever so few going out would Inspirit the
People of Kentuckey, and give new life to their operations.

Should your Excellency the Council think well of my proposals, I hope you will hold out such encouragements for the Volunteers as you think Right and give me such instructions and Powers
as you may judge proper. The Bearer Capt: MacCorkle will be
able to give any further Information you may want, and can convey
your Orders to the several Counties to me.

I beg your Excellency to believe I have not the most distant
wish to acquire any lasting Command in the Western Country
a few months will afford Time for all I expect to execute so that
any Appointment you may vest me with, cannot interfere with any

other Person there. If the Plan is approved it

endeavour to go through with it. And if not, I will not Doubt but
your Excellency will do the best for that Country that you find can
be done with a good Prospect.

I am Sir, your most obedient humble Servant."

Arthur Campbell to William Davies, October 3, 1782

ICal. of I a. State Papers, 3:337-338.]

Washington Co. October 3d, 1782.
"Sir

From Col Cliristian and the accounts sent by Major Netherland, the Executive may be fully informed of the State of tiie War



122 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

in the Kentucky Country. What if it should be the policy of the
British Ministry to drive in from the other side the Apalachiaii
mountain before the signing the preliminaries of peace.

At any rate they are uniting the Savage Tribes, and endeavoring
to sow the seeds of deep laid animosity, which will lengthen the
Indian war to a longer period than most imagine. Nothing now
will put an end to it, but a decided blow in the enemies country,
and a peace given them in the hour of their panic and misfortune,
afterwards conducted by a proper Supcrintendency, or that Canada
becomes ours, or our Allies.

The method of arming and arraying our militia ought to be
varied. The Bayonet and Scymeter must be introduced to enable
us now to face the Indians. And Evolutions suited to the woods
should be learned both by Foot and Horse. All our late defeats
have been occasioned thro' neglect of these, and a want of a proper
authority and capacity in the Commanding Officers. Never was
the lives of so many valuable men lost more shamefully than in
the late action of the iQth of August, and that not a little thro'
the vain and seditious expressions of a Major McGeary. How
much more harm than good can one fool do. Todd Trigg had
capacity but wanted experience. Boone, Harlin and Lindsay had
experience, but were defective in capacity. Good however would
it have been, had their advice been followed. Logan is a dull,
narrow body from whom nothing clever need be expected. What
a figure he exhibited at the head of near 500 men to reach the field
of action six days afterwards, and hardly wait to bury the dead,
and when it was plain, part of the Indians were still in the Country. Genl. Clarke is in that country, but he has lost the confidence
of the people, and it is said become a Sot perhaps something worse.

The chance is now against General Irvine s succeeding: disappointed in Clarkes co-operation, which he was promised, and it is
said set out with only 1200 men. Simon Girty can out number
him; and flushed with so many victories, to his natural boldness,
he will be confident.

This state of our Western Aflairs calls for the united wisdom
and most serious attention of the Executive.



IRVINE TO CLARK, OCTOBER 3. 1782 i2j

The Carolinians are gone on with their Expedition against those
Clierokees, they say that gives an asylum to Tories.

I wish they may succeed, but still dread the consequence of multiplying our Enemies. Two Chickasaw Chiefs have been at the
Carolina Settlement on the Shawanee or Cumberland River, from
thence they came to our Settlement on Kentucky. Peace are their
profession, but complain of our making settlement at the Iron Bank,
on the Alississippi.

I esteem your person, and like your politicks, therefore sciul you
this communication, merely for your private information.

I am sir with usual respect your
very humble servant"
&c. &c.

Benjamin Harrison to County Lieutenants, October lo. 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 6-7, Va. State Archives.]

County Lieutenants of Washington Montgomery.
In Council Octo'' 10th, 1782.
Sir

Some very alarming accounts from Kentuckey may render it
necessary to send an aid of Militia into that Country, if it should
so turn out, you will receive the information from General Clarke
to whom I have given Orders to call on you for any number of men
not exceeding should the General be so circumstanced

as to be obliged to demand Assistance, I doubt not but your Humanity and Duty will be sufficient Incitements to an immediate
compliance with his request.

I am &c. B. H.

William Irvine to Clark, October 3, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J46.— A L.S.]

Fort Pitt October 3^ 1782

Since 1 dispatched Mr Floyd, sundry obsticles have intervened

to prevent my moving at the time propos d, I have therefore thought

proper to send this Express, as well to inform you of the causes of

'This letter, considerably edited, is published in IVaslnngton-Irvine
Corrtspondence, 398-399.



124 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

my detention, (that you may know what to depend on), as of my
present expectations and Views If he can not arrive at the falls
in time I flatter myself he will meet you, perhaps at such a place
as it may be no great inconvenience for you to halt a few days, in
case that step should appear expedient, on his Account of my intentions.

I can not be more explicit for reasons I mention d in my former
letter but I presume much depends on keeping good time, I mean
that the one should not be long before the other.

I am Dear Sir

Your Obedient

Humble Servant

WV Irvini;

P: S: you will give credit to what the bearer Mr Tate informs
you from me, or to his companion James Amberson, I have promised you will alow them provision, while they remain with you, and
assist them to return if necessary.

To General Clark

Addressed: Hon*^ Brigadier General Clark Falls of Ohio By
Express

Endorsed by Clark: Received from Gen' Erwin at the Mouth
of Licking Nov' 2^ 1782

Daniel Boone to Thomas Marshall,' October 8, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J48.— L S.]

StR The Officers Civil Military of this County Assembled do
in Answer to your Request recommend that Every preperation
Necessary be made towards opening the Surveyors Office Proceeding to Business but tliat no Entries be received or otlicr

Colonel Thomas Marshall was a friend and neighbor of Washington.
He served in the Virginia House of Burgesses for a numlier of years and
dtiriti^ the Kevolution was commanding ollicer of the Tliird Virginia Kcgimeiit, heing promoted to lieutenant colonel on August 13, 1776, and colonel
on February 21, 1777. In 1783, together with Judge Samuel McDowell, he
was appointed surveyor of the public lands in Fayette County, Kentucky,
lie was also named surveyor general of public lands in Kentucky which
had bien appropriated by Virginia to the officers and soldiers of the Virginia Line. In 1783 he moved to Kentucky and settled in Fayette County.
He was father of John Marshall, chief justice of the United States Supreme
Court.



HARRISON TO LOGAN. OCTOBER 14. 1782 125

Business actually done before Monday the 14"' Inst, at which
Time we wish you to proceed unless Orders from Gen' Clark
be issued in the County for drafting Men making other preperations for carrying on an Expedition into the Enemys Country

Daniel Boone
Fayette Octob'' 8'" 1782

Addressed Col. Tho* Marsh?l

William Davies to Clark, October 12, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J49.— A L.S.]

War office Ocf 12, '82.
Sir The Executive, having taken into consideration the state of
our western frontier, have directed me to inform you that if there
should be any further occasion during tha fall of ordering out militia
for the purpose of protecting tiie inhabitants in that quarter, you
are licreby autiiorizcd to call for two hundred men properly officered
from Washington Botetourt and Montgomery, in the following proportions, to wit, Washington 76. men, with a field officer to command
the whole, Montgomery 64. and Botetourt 60; or any less number
you may think necessary. I am extremely concerned at the disaster
your militia has lately met with, but hope the large number of people on their way out will prove a considerable accession of strength.
I have not received a letter from you these several months, but have
heard by the way of Fort Pitt of the arrival of the Stores at the falls.

I am, very respectfully.

Your very obed' Ser"'

William Davies.
Addressed: Brig Gen Clark,
Falls of Ohio

Benjamin Harrison to Benjamin Logan, October 14, 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 19-25, \'a. State Archives]

Cols Benjamin Logan.

In Council October 14''' 1782.
Sir

I receiv d your favor of the Ji'*" of August three days ago. I
feel most sensibly for the loss you have sustaln d in so many brave,



126 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

and worthy Men but great as it is I see no reason for dispondency
as you have still a great nuinbcr of good and brave Men left, who
have hearts and hands ready to revenge their beloved Country Men s
death s when a proper Oppertunity shall ofTer, and that I hope is
not at a great distance. Experience has ever shewn us that our
people wlien commanded prudently are equal to any Men on Earth,
let not therefore a Misfortune which may perhaps in some Measure
be attributed to ourselves, sink your Spirits but rather let it stimulate you to return the blow, and convince the merciless Savages that
they shall not injure us with Impunity. Gen: Clark s conduct in
not erecting strong forts at the mouth of Kentuckey river and at the
mouth of licking and limestone creeks and garrisoning them with
sixty eight men each as he was order d to do in December last surprises me much. The Executive saw the importance of these posts
for the protection of the Country and gave Orders accordingly, and
I had not the least suspition that they were not obey d till the receipt
of your Letter. I have now repeated them in such terms that I
expect they will be obey d, and I have empower d him to call on the
Counties of Washington, Montgomery and Botetourt for Assistance
if he thinks it necessary for your protection this Fall or Winter,
tho' I would not have this last step taken but in case of the greatest
necessity, as the expence attending it may put it out of our power
to do something more decisive in the Spring. True it is that the
back Country has cost the State immense Sums of Money and that
we at present feel the weight of the burden but I beg you to be
assured that no pecuniary Consideration shall ever have weight
enough with me to refuse you any assistance in my power in Times
of distress, let your people be united and remember that they are
part of Virginia and they will in a few years be with us a great and
happy people overcome all their difficulties.

The distance betwixt this place and you is so great that it is not
to be wonder d at, that the Orders of Government are not always
obey d or their designs carried into Execution by those they entrust,
but it appears strange that Gentlemen who are in power and on the
Spot should neglect to inform Government, of those breaches of duty
when their own Welfare and that of their Country is so immediately
concern d, abuses can not be corrected until they are know, and I



HARRISON TO TODD. OCTOBER 14. 1782 127

have no means of coming at the Knowledge of them in your Countiy
but from Gentlemen in high Stations, and it is from them I expect
it, and when I have it not it is natural for me to conclude all goes
well.

Gen: Irvins force at fort Pitt is very little more than Gen.
Clarke s, so that you can expect but little Assistance from him, he
intended an Expedition against the Indians this fall, and went to
the place of rendezvous but was disappointed of half the Men he
expected and forced to lay it aside till the Spring. I shall improve
the Oppertunity offer d of settleing a peace with the Chickcsaw
Indians and either employ Mr. Donelson or Col' Martin or perhaps
both in the Business. I will immediately write to Gen: Washington and Gen Greene on the Subject of the prisoners carried to
detroit, I tiiink with you that tliey ought to be set at Liberty and
sent back, and shall use my best endeavors to bring it about. You
have enclosed the Commission of the peace you desire which I wish
safe to you and I beg tiie favor of you to let me know frequently
the State of your Country.

I am &c.
B. H.

Benjamin Harrison to Levi Todd, October 14, 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 7-10, Va. State Arcliives.]

Col' Llvi Todd,

In Council October i4tli, 1782.

Sir

Your letter of the nth Ult' came safe to hand the unfortunate Victory of the Indians at the blue Licks gives me great Concern as well for the loss of the many truely valuable and brave officers and men that fell tliere as for the dispondency into which it has
thrown the people and for which I can see no great Occasion: Your
Country is still populous and will be much more so shortly, great
numbers of people being on their way to join )'ou, and you may rest
assured of support if it should be found necessary, of this General
Clarke will be the Judge, and is empower d to call on the Counties
of Botetourt, Washington Montgomery for any number of Men



128 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

not exceeding 200. In December last Forts were order d to be built
at the mounth of Kentucky River and at the mouth of licking and
limestone Creeks and garrison d with sixty eight Men each, why
iliis has not been done Gen: Clarke will account, I am apt to think
if he had obey d his orders this disaster would not have happen d
as the approach of the enemy would have been known in Time for
the people to have collected in sufficient Numbers to have driven
them back, these orders are repeated and I trust will be executed,
if they are not I shall look on it as the Duty of the higher officers
in Kentuckey to inform me of it, without whose assistance I can
not at this distance know the conduct of those entrusted with Command.

Your surveyor ought most certainly to have been out long ago,
indeed I was inform d he would set off in June last or I should have
wrote to him on the Subject, he is now on his Way and will be
with you before this gets to hand, and I hope will make up for the
loss of Time by his Diligence. The Commissioner of War will
forward the commissions you desire, except the majority for Benjamin Netherland, you certainly do not know the Man or your Court
would never have recommended him, you will have a blank Commission which you l please to fill up to any other person that the
Court shall recommend, but you have my positive orders that it be
not to Netherland.

I am &c.

B. H.

Benjamin Harrison to Danihl Boone, October 14, 1782

[Renjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 10-13, Va. State Archives.]

Colonel Daniel Boone, Levi Todd &c.

In Council October 14th 1782.
Gentlemen

I have rec* your joint Letter of the nth Ult" and very sincerely sympathize with you for the loss you have sustained in the
defeat at the blue licks, many of those who fell I know were truely
valuable Men, and all useful in an infant Country, in War such
misfortunes are common and must be submitted to, but never should
occasion dispondency, which is the bane of every Thing great and



HARRISON TO BOONE. OCTOBER 14, 1782 129

noble we should look forward to the Day of retaliation, and ardently wish for its Arrival tliat we miglit shew or Enemies we would
not tamely submit to such Injuries, this Day I hope will conic in
the Spring, if it does not it shall not be my fault. Why forts were
not built at the mouths of licking and limestone Creeks and garrison d according to Orders sent to Gen: Clarke in December last
remains for him to say, he is call d on to do it immediately and in
the mean Time has these orders repeated, and has also the Liberty
of calling for 200 Men if they should be wanted this fall and Winter
to assist in the defence of the Country, but I trust this call will not
be made if it can be avoided as the Expence will lessen the means
of doing something more effectual in the Spring. I beg you to
be satisfied that I am from Duty as well as Inclination determined
to use such means as the Assembly shall please to entrust me with,
equally for the Benefit protection of the whole State. Kentuckey
is as much the object of my care as Richmond, and I shall shew it

on all occasions. 1 expected your Surveyor would have been

with you in June last, and am concern d to find his not going out has
been attended with such disagreeable Circumstances. Your express
tells me we was arriv d before he came away. He is a very worthy
man and I hope in some Measure compensate for the delay by his
future assiduity. Some artilery were sent down to Col' Clarke
last Summer and several pieces more wuld have been sent if we had
not been disappointed in our expectation of getting them f nm Mr.
Zanes works, the Order shall be renewed and the Cannon Stores
forwarded in the Spring. I have nothing more to add but to beg
of you most earnestly to use every Method to inspirit your people
and to drive the few Indians that remain in your Country out of it,
if you continue inactive you will encourage them to return.

I am &c.

B. H.



130 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Benjamin Harrison to Governor Mathews, October 15, 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 30-36, Va. State Archives.]

His Excellency

Governor Mathews. S. Carolina.

Virginia In Council. Oct. 15'* 82.
Sir

I have the Honor of yours of the loth of June proposing the
cooporation of some Troops from this State in an Expedition you
intended against the Cherokees to commence the first Week in August
your Letter was so long delaid on the road that it did not come to
hand till several Days after your Troops were to march, this you
may readily suppose put it entirely out of my power to give you any
Assistance, even if the State had been in a Situation to bear the expcnce of such an undertaking, which at that Time it really was not,
nor had we any just cause of quarrel with that part of the nation
that was the object of your resentment, tliey having long before
satisfied us that the dammage we sustain d was altogctlicr done by
the Chickamauger Indians over whom tliey had no command bur
that they would use tiieir endeavors to bring about a peace with
them, they have done so, and have succeeded and our agent is gone
forward to settle the Terms, wliich are to be general, lie having
positive Orders to inform the Indians, that all the American States
are one people and that an Injury done to one would be resented
by the whole of them It is much to be wish d that some general
plan was fix d by this State and all those South of us for regulating
Indian Affairs and that Treaties with them should be jointly made,
and some bounds fix d beyond wliich our people should not be allow d to settle, if this is not done there is but too mucli reason to
apprehend that continual Encroachments will be made on their
Lands, and of course the Frontiers of each State laid waste in its
Turn in revenge for the Injury. The Honor as well as the Interest seem to call on us for such a regulation, these poor Wretches
have their rights, and if we co""ilt our Justice and Humanity, they
will be powerful Advocates for their being supported in them. When
Bounds are fix d and assurances given that we would not go beyond
them, they should be inform d that the least infringment on their
side would be resented by all the States, such a Threat would probfURRISON TO FLEMING. OCTOBER 16. 1182 131

ably keep tlicm quiet, if it did not we should proceed to chastise
them from every quarter at the same Time, which being repeated
twice or thrice would I am confident keep them still ever after and
give Safety to our frontier Inhabitants, and be a very great saving
to us all, by enabling us to withdraw the Troops we are not obliged
to station in the back County for their protection. At present we
know nothing of each others Intentions, and at the same Time that
one State is earring on War with them another is making peace and
perhaps furnishing them with Ammunition, which was actually the
Case with me at the Time your Letter arrived, there being a considerable quantity of powder and Lead on the Way to the Cherokees that would have reach d the big Island in a few Days where
they were to have receiv d it if an Express had not overtaken it with
a countermanding Order. If my Sentiments on this Subject should
coincide with 5 ours I shall be extremely happy to concert Measures
with you to carry them into immediate Execution the present Moment appearing to me a favorable one, the Cherokees, Chickamauger,
Chickasews and Creeks having lately made overtures of peace.

Commissioners are appointed to meet the two last, tho' the Time
and place are not yet fix d when they are I shall do myself the Honor
of informing you of it that you may send Commissioners if you should
think it advisable to do so.

I am &c.
B. H.

Benjamin Harrison to William Fleming, October 16, 1782

[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 37-39, Va. State Archives.]

CoL^ William Fleming and the other Com missioners in
Kentuckey.
In Council October 16'*" 1782.
Gentlemen

If it had been in my power to have sent you more money I should
most certainly have done it but it really was not, I was in hopes
the sum sent witii the stores would h ave been sufficient as there can
be but little occasion for Money in the Wilderness.

I have but too much reason to complain of Gen: Clarke on other
accounts besides what Col' Bowman says of the French Horses,
which story can hardly be true, if you should find that it is, I beg



132 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

you will use your endeavors to moderate the resentment of the
French. I gave the General Orders in December last to build
forts at the mouths of the Kentucky, licking, and limestone and
to garrison each of them with sixty eight men, if he had obey d the
Orders it is probable the late Misfortune would not have happen d,
as the Country would certainly have been alarm d if not protected,
and have had it in their power to have met the Enemy with more
equal force, the orders are again repeated, and I desire you will use
your Endeavours with him to fix his Attention on those objects, I
expect implicit Obedience on the Occasion and will not again overlook a breach of Duty, if you find it necessary you l please to insinuate this to him.

A report much to his prejudice prevails here of his being so addicted to liquor as to be incapable of Attending to his Duty, by which
tlie public Interest suffers much. I must beg the favor of you
Gentlemen to inquire into this in a private Way and let mc know
your Sentiments, his being a Military Man makes it improper to
have a public inquiry by those who are not so. The General
will lay his Accounts before you in Order to their being adjusted and
reported on, and he is directed to repair to this place in the Spring
in order to a final Settlement, I need say nothing to you on this
Subject it being altogether in the line of your Commission, I only
mention it that the Business may be expedited, that I may the sooner
have an oppertunity of coming to an Explanation with the General.

I am Gentlemen, &c. B. H.

Benjamin Harrison to Joseph Crockett,' October i6, 1782

[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 40-41, Va. State Archives.]

Col" Joseph Crockett. Albemarle.

In Council Octo: iS'^" 1782.

Sir

I have lately had some reason to complain of Gen: Clarke, and

know not to what cause to attribute his seeming Neglect of Duty,

'Colonel Joseph Crockett commanded a regiment of Virginia state
troops which was designated as a part of the force to be used by Clark for
an attack on Detroit (1781). He served as president of the council of war
summoned by Clark to consider the advisability of a march against Detroit.
While he was opposed to the expedition because of the inadequate force
at their disposal, he was among those who recommended that an attempt
should be made to capture Detroit, 1782.



i?



HARRISON TO CLARK. OCTOBER 17, 1782 133

perhaps it may be in your power to explain this as you are lately
from Kcntuckcy where his Command is. You will extremely oblige
me if you will give mc any Information on this Subject tliat has
come witiiin your own Knowledge it is disaf^reeable to me to make
inquirery in this Way, and I dare say will be so to you to give Information, but when it is considered tiiat the public good is tlie
actual Motive in both we shall meet with applause rather tlien
Censure. The great distance there is between the General and
myself, leaves me no other Way of coming at a Knowledge of his
Conduct but from the Information of those that have been with
him and I am happy on th present Occasion that I have a Gentleman of your Candour to inquire off, and I doubt not but what you
will favour me with an Answer as soon as Oppertunity offers.

I am &c.
B. H.

Governor Harrison to Clark, October 17, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J50.— L S.]

In Council Octof 17. 1782.
Sir

No official account from you of the situation of the part of the
Country committed to your care have readied me for several months,
for which I am at a loss to assign a reason. Government can never
be administer d properly unless the Officers of it are regular in their
correspondence, punctual in the execution of orders, and particular
in their discriptions of the Wants and distresses of their departments.
If the disappointments 5 ou have met with in your proposed plans
have occasion d this inattention and neglect the reason is by no means
a good one, because circumstances may alter and changes happen
that you could know nothing off, and which miglit at one time enable Government to do what they could not at another.

I have received Letters from Col' Levi Todd and otlier reputable
characters in Kentucky giving an account of a powerful invasion of
that country by the Indians, and of an unfortunate battle fought

'This document was contributed by Dr. KelloEg. The letter is entered
in Benjamin Harrison Letter Book 1782, Virginia State Archives, pp. 13-19,
under date of October 14, 1782.



134 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

with them by Col' John Todd on the 19* August in which that
worthy Gentleman and many other of the most valuable Inhabitants
have fallen these are circumstances so much within your line of
Duty, that I can not help expressing my very great surprise at your
Silence. In my Letter of the ao'"" December last you were directed
to erect forts at the Mouth of Kentuckey river, the mouth of licking
creek and at the mouth of limestone creek, and to garrison each of
these posts with sixty eight men to cover and protect the Country,
Whether you have comply d with these orders or not you have not
thought fit to advise me, but I have every reason to suppose from
otiier information that they have altogether been neglected, to which
much of the present misfortune is to be attributed, as such establishments would have been a great curb on the Indians, the country
might from tliese posts have been alaim d at the approach of an
Enemy, and with the assistance of the garrisons better enabled to
repel their attacks, these reasons governed the Executive when tiiey
gave the orders, and induced them to fix on you to execute them,
and it gives me great pain to find that you have disappointed us in
our expectations.

The same reasons that dictated the former orders still govern
us and I insist that they be carried into immediate execution if the
Indians have not left the country or you have good reason to apprehend their return this fall or Winter you l apply to the commanding officers of Washington, Mountgomery and Botetourt Counties
for assistance who have Orders to send you any number of men you
may call for not exceeding two Hundred. As the marching Militia
such a Distance, will not only be attended with very great inconvenience to the Individuals but with great expence to the State I
trust you will not call for them but in case of urgent necessity, oeconomy now may put it in our power in the spring to take more decisive
measures, however I would by no means have any consideration of
this sort interfere with the safety of the people, and only mention
it to you as a secondary consideration. The Commissioners that
are sent into the part of the country where you are, are men of
Prudence and Judgement and it may not be amiss to consult with
them on the occasion: Before these Gentlemen all the Accounts
of your military expenditures in every department are to be laid in



CLARK TO HARRISON, OCTOBER 18, 1782 135

order to their being adjusted and reported on, and when this is done
I shall expect your attendance here for a final settlement of them.
You will excuse my for agaon repeating my request to be informed
by every oppertunity of the material circumstances that may happen
on Kentuckey, and what progress you make in the discharge of the
several Matters entrusted to you

I am Sir

Your mo^ Obe' lium. Scr'
General George Rogers Clarke Benj Harrison

Clark to Henjamin Harrison, October 18, 1782

[Executive Papers, Va. Stale Archives.]'

Cave Spring Lincoln County 18"' Octob'' 1782
Sir

Yours by Maj"" Walls came safe to hand the 30"" July, nothing
could be more timely than the cloathing for desertion was so common
that I believe in a month more there would not have been a Soldier
left, The works at the falls was forwarded by Every means in our
power until they were suppos d sufficiently strong to withstand any
attack from their Enemy but not yet Compleat, Those preparations
that were made and the measure taken to let the Enemy know that
we were fully acquainted with their design (which in part we were)
I believe has sav d the western country, by their losing all hopes of
Reducing the falls, divided their force sent some to weeling and
the main body to make a division on Fayette county, And had it
not have been for that Imprudent affair at the blue licks the country
would have sustained very little damage, I learn Col' Logan has
sent you a full ace' of the whole transaction The conduct of those
unfortunate Gen' was Extreamly Reprihensible, Tiie Enemy Continue to Sculk in small party s in different parts of the country but
do little damage at present, The movements of the Enemy last
Spring and summer put it Entirely out of our power to Establish
the posts at the mouth of Kantucky licking they may be began
this fall

Printed in Cahndar of Virginia State Papers, 3 :345-347, with some
editing.



136 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

By some Overtures from Kaskaskas the Chicasaw Nation is like
to be on good terms with us, I Enclose your Excellency their message
and my answer with other papers which I hope you will approve of,
They Clame Fort JeflFerson for being the Cause of the war between
us but its notorious they had done a great deal of mischief for two
years before, and the building that post Actually Stopt a formidable
Expedition Intended against the frontiers by them and their allies,
My principal reason for sending Cap' George to the nation wiis to
give the negotiation a greater apearance of solemnity, And probably
Induce the Chicasaws to Oblige the Cherokees to cease hostilities, as the Chicasaws is the most potent nation in that Quarter

You will observe S'' my Instruction to Cap' George Respecting
the purchase of land in the bounds of Virginia below the Tenesee
River, From some hints I had from M'' Burny one of the messengers
from the nation I Conceiv d this to be a most favorable Opertunity
to procure that tract of Country if the Indians would part with it,
which there was some probability of, as they dreaded us much, having
continual Reports among them of a large army which Intended
to Visit their town and would wish to be on good terms with us
as soon as possible, Tho the State with propriety might claim the
lands without their consent it, must cost an Expensive treaty hereafter to get peacible possession of it when the officers should want it,
Thise were my Enducements if your Excellency approve of the plan
it would be necessary to send an Express Immediately to me with
Instructions to Ratify the proceedings of Cap' George in Case he
should make the purchase. Or make Void all he may do, I expect
his Return about the last of november with some chiefs with him
that may wish to get their business Immediately done in order to
Return home I sometimes doubt that the Sum I have Instructed Cap'
George to offer will be too low a price to Engage it. But if their
Zeal for a piece should continue perhaps it will do, The northwestward Indians have wholly Engaged in the war against us Except
the peancashacos and those near the settlements on the Mississippi

We have lately thought of making a sudden attack on some
of the Sliawonees Town this fall as Gen' Irwins Enterprise gives a
favourable Opportimity but cannot assure you that it will take place,
but a great probability



i*



FLOYD TO CLARK. OCTOBER 18. 1782 137

A Late stroke of your Excellency hath added greatly to the
strength of this Country, That of odering the delinquents of the
counties to do duty witii the Regular troops in this Quarter, it will
have most salutary Eflects altho few Examples may be made, I
was thinking since that if the whole of the specific tax due by this
Departm' was order d to be levied and delivered it would be of considerable service in support of the troops ^nd defraying the Expences
of Government, It will never be got any other way, business have
been so arrang d that expences have been Very low for twelve months
past, The works at the falls was at the Expence of a Considerable
quantity of flour as we were Obliged to make a fund of it. The
Gallee that I had built answered the design Exceedingly and hatli
been of Infinite service Our Circumstances would not admit of
her being as Compleat as I could have wished but I hope to have
her so this fall I have discoverd that open small boats will by no
means answer tiie purpose of Cruising on the River as they are often
liable to be ambuscaded when they come near the shore, or in narrow
parts of the River, But those on the Construction of the Gallee
whose Gunnils are four feet bullit proof with false Gunnils that
play strong hinges that Raise her sides so high that she can Lay
within a Pistol shot of the shore without the least danger

I have the Honour to be D'' Sir

Your Excellency s Devoted and Very

Humble Serv'

G Clarke

John Floyd to Clark, October 18, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J52.— A L.]

Beargrass 18 th October 1782
Dear General.

On our way down at Col' Coxes we prevailed on Cap* Polk to
engage 40 Gallons of Tar to be delivered at the Falls the 21" Ins'
This is all I coul[d] depend on with certainty. Agreeable to our
expectation we found not a Drop made that you ordered. I ve dispersed orders to the Different Officers I think every thing seems
to wear a pretty favourable aspect. Some Invalids Men over
fifty years of Age I have now at the Falls about Caulking repair138 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

inp; the Boats. I was down yesterday they informed me they
would have 20 ready to receive the Pitch by the time it came. We
liope we sliall be able to pay the Boats the 22* Load clear the
mouth of Beargrass the 23*, in Order to take an Early start the 24th.
The Good Old Major' with his usual steadiness will have the artillery, ammunition, provision all ready to put on Board as soon
as the Vessels are fit to receive them, but as he writes you also I need
add no more on the Subject, only that Col' Cox his warriors are
also to Rendezvous at Fort Nelson the 21*' I wish you much happiness on your march, and am

Dear Gen' your very Ob'" Serv'
[Jn" Floyd]
P. S My Compl'» to the Major Gabe [Madison]

Addressd: Brig' General Clark at Capt Madison s
in Lincoln P' Express

Endorsed: Col» Floyd 21 Oc^ 21 1782

Clark to William Davies, October 19, 1782
[Cat. of Va. State Papers, 3:347-348]

Genl: Geo: Rogers Clarke to Col: Wm. Davies.
Lincoln County Cave-Spring October 19th 1782
"Sir

I had the pleasure of Receiving your Letters by Maj r Walls and
Mr. Karney the 30th of July past, at which time the gents arrived
with the stores all safe, surmounting uncommon difficulties. They
just arriv d in time to save what few troops was remaining, for desertion was so common and Impossible to prevent that I believe in
a few weeks more scarcely any would have been left. I have endeavour d as far as in my power to comply with the orders of Government that you Enclos d to me (see the Enclos d) I could have
wished to be present at the meeting of the officers you mcntion d.
I have received but a faint information of their Report. As for

dissipation and prevailing in Col Slaughter s Core, However

agreeable such conduct might have been to their sentiments I believe
they seldom had the means in their power, for they were generally

'Identified by Lyman C. Draper as George Walls. Id a note on the
original manuscript.



CLARK TO DAVIES. OCTOBER 19. 1782 139

in a starving situation. Colo. Slaughter suffering his garrison to be
Ridicul d by the Inhabitants of the town Occasion d disorder among
the whole. Nothing would Excuse him on this point but his dcpendance on such a set of people for Every thing he could get to subsist
on. As for the propriety of their receiving half pay, 1 could wish
not to be the Judge. Your Recommendations Sir, Respecting tlie
great care of Stores of all kind are Exceeding good. I flatter myself
there will be no want of Care. In a department where business
hath been as Various and Extensive as this hath, there can be no
Doubt of many Errors being committed, many hath been detected.
But by Report I believe there is more noise made about it than is
necessary, principally originating from the little men that is sometimes sent to government from this quarter. Jealous of their importance, Embrace that declamatory principal so very agreeable to
such bodies, suposing by striking at the principal characters of their
Country, that Strangers will View them as men of consequence.
The Credit that is given to such characters near the helm of allairs,
I can assure you S r hurts the Interest of the State greatly. The
expences in this department hath been considerable, but had it not
been for them and the consequential service, wc should have been
obliged before this to have spent five times as much in defence of uur
frontiers, and Except some Expences that have proved unnecessary,
as a citizen, I am satisfied with the propriety of the whole.

Accounts have been long prepared for settlement, but I doubt the
arrival of auditors. I have examin d nearly the whole, and Expect
to finish the Remainder on my Return to Fort Nelson. I make
no doubt but you have Receiv d a full account of the unfortunate
defeat of Colo s Todd and Trigg. The Country has suffer d considerably, but there is a probability of Recovering their lost spirits.
It was exceedingly fortunate that such preparation was made, as
mention d to you in my last. Otherways the Country would have
unavoidably been lost. The plan of an Expedition against the
Shawanees is now on foot, and I believe will take place. If it should
fall through the Country will be in a very critical situation. Except
Genl: Irwin should prove successful, as the Enemy are so Elated
they will use violent Exertions.

I have the Honour to be, with greatest Esteem,
Sir, your devoted Humble Servt."



CHAPTER VI

EXPEDITION AGAINST THE SHAWNEE OCTOBER 22, 1782JANUARY 13, 1783

Preparation for tue Campaign Criticism of Clark not Justified
Creditors Importune Clark for Relief British Plans for the
Campaign Expedition from Fort Pitt Given Up Clark s Plan of
Campaign Clark s Account of the Expedition Friendly Relationship Existing between Thomas Jefferson and Clark Peace
WITH THE Chickasaw and Creek Lack of Supplies in the Western
Department Clark Ordered to Report in Richmond.

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, October 22, 1782

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Cave Spring Lincoln County Octobf 22'' 1782
Sir

Since writing the letters that accompany this I find the Inhabit
ants Extreamly anxious for an Expedition, it is pland and the Rendezvouse apointed at the mouth of Licking the first day of november,
I Expect about one thousand men, If it is attended with success
I make no doubt that it will save the Effusion of much blood the
Ensuing year, If Gen' Irwin should carry his point at sandusky
and the shawonees get defeated it will have a valuable Impression
on the more westwardly Indians I shall Embrace the first opportunity
on my Return of transmiting an Account of our Enterprise to you
The following is a Request I make to your Excellency which
is to be Relievd from this department my Reasons for such Requesition must be Obvious to you and so Reasonable tliat I hope it will
meet with your aprobation, I shall be Carefull to arangc business
so as to promise advantage in full Confidence of your permit

I have the Honour to be
with Esteem y'' Excellencys

Devoted and Humb' Serv*
G R Clark

'This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3:351.

140



^1

m

i



i



m



PLANS FOR 1782 141

Preparation for the Campaign of 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J53.— A D.]

Know all men that I George Walls Majf Commandant at I'"ort
Nelson Jeflerson County in Virginia, in the Name and in behalf
of Hricadier General George Rogers Clark Commander in Chief of
the Western Department, as by him impowercd by his letter of attorney of the eleventh of tin s present Moiitli of October for and
in consideration of Seventy thousand weight of flower to said Brigadier Gen' Clark sold and delivered at and before the sealing and delivering of these presents by Bartholomew Tardivou merchant, the
Receipt whereof I do hereby Acknowledge, have bargained and sold
and by these presents do bargain and sell unto the said Bartholomew
Tardivou at track of land situated on the north fork of licking creek
within eight miles of the Ohio containing two Thousand Acres Another track containing one thousand Acres Situate at the Clay lick a
few miles above Drinn[o]ns Lick on Kentuckey River another track
of land containing five Hundred Acres, Situated on Richland Creek
about ten miles from Bryan s Station; to have and to hold all and
Singular the said track s and every of them by these Presents Bargained and Sold Unto the Said Bartholomew Tardiveau his Executor Administrator And Assign for ever and I the Said George Walls
in the name and in behalf of Said George Rogers Clark for himself,
his executor administrator and assigns all and singular the said
track s of land unto Said Bartholomew Tardiveau his Executor Administrator or Assigns against Said George Rogers Clark his executor
and assign and against all and every other person and persons whatsoever shall and will Warrent and for ever Defend by these presents; engaging and promising in the name Afforsaid that the said
George Rogers Clark shall as soon as possible have the said track s
surveyed by the County surveyer or his Deputy, and a Deed out of
the land office put and Dilivered into the hands of the Said Bartliolomew Tardivou his Executor Administrator and Assigns at the
cost and Expences of Said George Rogers Clark as witness my hand
and Seal at Fort Nelson Jefferson County in the State of Virginia
this 23"* Day of October in the Year of our lord 1782

Endorsed: A Copy of agrem' With Tardivou for flower purchased



142 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Joseph Crockett to Governor Harrison, October 24, 1782
[Cal. of Va. Slate Papers. 3:358-360.]
"Sir

I received your Excellency s letter of the i6th Instant, the purport of which I am at a loss to answer so clearly as I could wisli.
as for Gcnl Clark s conduct, last campaign whilst I had the honor
to serve under his com d (as touching his military character) I cannot tlu nk he is deserving censure, his greatest misfortune loss of
usefull operations of the campaign, was the want of men, altho' tlie
Genl strain d every nerve in his power, to raise a sufficient number to
penetrate into the heart of the Enemy s Country, and was assisted
by a small number of good men, to complete his Laudable design, it
appeared to me to be out of the power of any human Existance to
cause a sufficient number to Enter the field, or subject those few that
were already there to good order, the Genl: often told them of the
evils that has already befell them, if that campaign miscarried. One
place of General Rendezvous was Wheeling, where the gen: expected to be joined with a thousand militia from the Counties over
the mountains: out of which two hundred fifty only joined, and
the half of them deserted after drawing a quantity of arms, Blankets,
Leggins, shirts &c. &c. the greatest part of those that did not
desert, threatened mutiny for Several days, nor was this all the
Genl s disappointment, there was a certain Quota of men to be
sent him from the Counties of Berkeley, Frederick Hampshire,
of which he never received one.

I know the Genl is much censured in the neighbourhood of Fort
Pitt, Fort Pitt, for the Loss of Colo. Laugherry s party, for whom
he waited five days at Wheeling: disappointments being so frequent,
he lost all hopes of his coming, and moved down the River, the
Colo, coming to Wheeling the next day, sent a boat after, with a
Letter to the Genl: that he would be glad H he would wait for
him, as he had One hundred thirty men without provisions, the
Genl sent a small boat with ten Keggs of Flour, and wrote the
Colo, he would leave Boats enough at a certain Island under a small
guard, for the reception of his men, with a quantity of Flour, Ammunition &c. to prevent desertion, he would move slowly down the
river, the unhappy Colo, without proper caution. Landed his men



CROCKETT TO HARRISON. OCTOBER 24, 1782 143

at the mouth of the Maamma, at which place was a large number
of Indians, who destroyed the whole of O)lo s party. Tlie (Jcnl:
purchased of Mr. Gibson, at Fort Pitt, a considerable Quantity of
goods, Liquorers, Sugar, Coffee, Tea &c., which the officers in general accuse him of making a very unequal distribution.

It was thought there was one more instance in which General
Clark derogated much from the Importance of his trust, there was
a Mr. Ellett who traded to New Orleans with 5000 wtFlour, he
stored his flour at a Mr. Newel s, who lived at a place cal d tiie new
Store on the Monongalia. Said Newel took the Flour in his care,
who was also employed by the purchasing Commissary to receive
public Flour: Mr. Ellette took the opportunity of going down the
river with the Genl when we came to the Falls of Ohio, thi:
river being very low, Ellett was under the necessity of unloading his
boat to descend the Falls, and carry his flour over the falls in small
Crafts: he unloaded near the place where the public flower was
landed (of which we had a large Quantity, near 4 000 Keggs). I
saw Mr. Ellet taking flower from the Bulk of the public. I asked
him how he came so to do. his answer was "don t you think that
damn d old Newell at the new store, has misplaced sixty Keggs of
my superfine Flower, and I must take sixty of your Corse." I inunediately informed the Commissary, his answer was "the, Gen'/ knows
it." I ;isked Mr. Ellett what mark his keggs iiad. he told me all
his was manufactured at William Henshaws mill, and the Barrels
was Branded with the two first Letters of his name. Some few days
after this Mr. Ellett sail d down the River, there was a Mr. Randolph who came down the River with us who had formerly transacted business for Gcnl Clark to the westward. I never heard
him mention going with Ellett untill the morning he set sail and
tlien went on Bord EUett s Boat this affair gave every man reason

to suspect The Genl some few days afterwards Issued

an order for the whole of the flower to be sifted and Repacked (as
it had received damage coming down the River). I told the Sergeant scvcr 1l of the soldiers who were appointed for tiiat duty,
that I would give them a treat, if they would let me know where

they found a kegg Branded W. H. contained finer flower

than the rest, I wanted to draw for my own use. I en144 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

quired frequently of them. But they told me they could find none
Such. I was present when Mr. Ellett Loaded his Boat at the new
Store. I heard of no flower being missing or misplaced nor never
heard it mentioned going down the river.

I have the Honor to be your

Excellency s most obt. Servt.

Clark to Oliver Pollock, October 25, 1782
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Kantucky as*** October 1782
SrR

I Receiyed your letter of the 24"" July a few days past, I am
heartily sorry that you should meet with such disappointments in
the settlement of your accounts, I am sensible that you have no
drafts on the State from me but what ought to be paid, As Vouchers for Every Article Even to the smalest amount those bills were
drawn for is now in my possession and will shew the propriety of
them time and at the time of their being given I knew of

no such thing as depreceiation of Currency, what Reasons Government have for not paying those Just debts I cant account for Except
it is Inabillity, but more than probable you are a better Judge than
I am being at the Seat of government, I have already taken Every
step in my power to get the Creditors of the State paid to no Effect
(What method can you point out to me, If I was worth the money
I would most chearfully pay it myself and trust the state, But can
assure you with truth I am Enterely Reducd myself by advancing
Everything I could Raise, And Except what the state owes me am
not worth a Spanish dollar, I wish it was in my power to follow
your proposition to step forth save my country from the disgrace
that is like to fall on her, If we could point out the means nothing
would give me such pleasure. And fully Recompence all the uneasiness I have suffer d on account of those persons, Many whom I
know have advancd all they had on the faith of government. It was
my duty to prosecute the war as cheap as possible, and theirs to pay
the Expense, The factories and little bodies may say what they
please but my greatest glory is in the prospects of my procuring, If
the Commissioners that is appointed would settle the western AcBRITISH PLANS FOR 1782 145

counts there would then be no Excuse left Except one which I doubt
is too true, That of the want of funds, If you can point out anything farther that is in my power shall most ChearfuUy Embrace it

I am S"" Your
Obed* Servt

G R Clark
Oliver Pollock Esqf

British Plans for Campaign of 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J54. Contemporary copy.]

Quebec Oct' 29* 1782

Sir

The first of August last I was surprised in my bed by a party
of Wabash Indians in company with Israel Ruland and others from
Detroit I have reason to blame the Inhabitants of S' Vincennes for
my Captivity meeting Mons^ Marin near Ouya with a quantity of
Merchandise from Detroit and bound to Ouia O Post he assured me
the Indians had made several Attempts to take me before the time
they had me and that the orders of the Comd'' of Detroit to the
savages and others was to take me alive which I found after I heard
the Speeches delivered the first day and night I was close confined
in the Fort after I got my parole in Comp? with some of the
British Officers they made me a proposal adequate to the commission
I wear in the American service with many other promises if I would
join them. I assured them I was not a second Arnold and that my
sentim'^ were the same as the brave Col. Crawford who suffered by
them two days at a slow fire till expired this and many other crueltys
I reminded tliem of being so displeased with me I was ordered next
morning to embarque on board an armed Vessel bound for Fort
Erie from thence marched a prisoner to this City I expect to be sent
to Boston with many other prisoners in company with Col. Campbe[ll]' I have heard nothing from my family since taken and shall

'Colonel John Campbell was an Indian trader who in 1764 laid out a
town on the site of Pittsburgh; ten years later he located at the Falls of
the Ohio where he purchased a larRe tract of land. During the early years
of the Revolution he served as commissary at Fort Pitt. He was a member
of the expedition of Colonel D nvid Rocers which was attacked by the Indians as they were ascending the Ohio from St. Louis to Pittsburgh. Colonel
Campbell was captured and taken to Detroit and because of his defiant
attitude, he was held as a prisoner there and at Quebec until 1782. After
his return to Louisville, he represented Kentucky in the legislature of Virginia and was a member of the Kentucky Constitutional Committee (1792).
In 1798 he was elected speaker of the Kentucky State Senate.



146 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Sir make all possible dispatch to join my Regiment when exchanged,
the particulars of the Rout the Indians took with me was to Ouia
where Jo' Baptise keeps the English Magazine for the Indian Murderers to the Miami Town a Number of Shawneys live here
Monsf Bawbee with goods &.C. for the Crown a compact Picket
Fort on the Bank of the River where the crossing place is two days
journey down the River I met Mons'' Truchey from O Post formerly clerk for Col. Legra he lives at the Forks a large river runing
from the Shawney Towns he keeps store for Mons^ Bawbee Agent
for the Crown lower down at Rose de Bough M'' Cochran keeps a
large Magazine here a Block House and the provision store guarded
by a British Serjeant and twelve privates provisions are transported
from Fort Erie across the Lake to this place thence taken by Land
into the Shawana Country a Brigade of Horses kept at the Mouth
of the River for this purpose where two Armed Vessels are stationed
and one at the carrying place to Fort LaBeauf Capt" Caldwell with
One Hundred Rangers is stationed at the Shawney Towns with
Capt' Elliott and his Company of Shawana Warriors Deserters &.C.
M'' M Kee there in a strong block House Girty kept on the wing
Bawby and One hundred Savages guards Mawmy [Miami] a grand
Scheme is now preparing Sir John Johnston* is lately returned here
after making a visit through through the Indian Nations inviting
them to be in readyness again next Spring when a Campaign will
be opened Butler with One Thousand Rangers and all the Indian
force are to go on a private expedition their rout Sir I can not learn
a large Quantity of Indian presents are arrived in this City under
the immediate direction of Sir John or Col. Johnston, Agent General for the Indians in North America I believe he is to be at the
head of this intended Expedition I am told three years provisions
are ordered to be stored in every Garrison in this Country the
Strength of Detroit I cannot be certain of the New Fort is strong
I believe a covert way is making under Ground to be under cover
of the Shiping if an Attack was to be made when the river was
open otherwise intended to deposite a quantity of Ammunition therein
in case of a storm that might be blown up and a retreat made into a

Sir John Johnson was the eldest son of Sir William Johnson and
succeeded to the family estate (1774)During the Revolution, he was the
leader of a number of attacks upon the settlements in the Mohawk valley.



BRITISH PLANS FOR 1782 147

Batterey that is immcdiatly to be built for that purpose, this information I got from Persons living there some good Americans
might be found amongst the Merchants there they are under great
restraints M^ Gravrod Forsyth appeared as such to me supplyed
mc with Necessaries I was in much need of there are people wiio
frequent Kentuckey, Fort Pitt &.C. in the charecter of spies by
which means the Enemy know every movement we make I believe
several of the prisoners taken on the Frontiers have taken the Oath
of Alegience to the Crown of England and are now on their Way
to be exchanged on their Arrival in the Colonies its expected tiieir
Assistance will not be wanting in favour of the British if they make
incursions into our Country where they are, to a Man Sir at S'
Vincennes they are so attached Mons'' Rosebloche [Rocheblave]
formerly Governor of Illinois' broke his parole in Williamsburg
has been here a few days ago on his way to the Illinois [Niagara]
does not appear so strong as Detroit at present [Col. Butler^] is stationed [there] and about 150 Regulars Indians [and many Savages,
who] draw dayly provisions clothing &.C &.C.&.C.

I ask your Excellencys pardon with my long [MS. torn] hope
to have the honour of serving under you the [MS. torn]

my reasons Sir of commiting these particulars to paper were in
case I could not be exchanged so soon [MS. torn] Col. Campbell.

I am Sir

with all due respect
Your Excellency s
Most Obed'
Hum' Serv*
(Signed) Valentine Tho? Dalton
Brigadier General Clark

Addressed: Brigadier General George Rogers Clerk Commanding at the Falls of Ohio Favoured by Capt" [name missing
James Brasliears?]

Philippe de Rastel de Rocheblave.

'Colonel John Butler served as Indian interpreter for Sir William
Johnson by whom he was entrusted with the affairs of the Six Nations.
During the year 1777 he enlisted a company of rangers which raided the
New York frontier.



148 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Benjamin Harrison to the Virginia Delegates in Congress,

November 2, 1782

[Benjamin Harrison Letter Boole, 1782, pp. 91-9+, Va. State Archives.]

The Virginia Delegates in Congress.
In Council 2" Novem: 1782.

Gentlemen:

I received your favor of the 22'' Ulto. with its enclosures, if Mr.
Nathan had not formerly put a stop to a similar proposition of his
for a reference his balance would have been long since paid. Mr.
Madison I suppose can remember his Conduct on that Occasion,
however, to refresh his Memory the whole prececdings of our Delegates in this Business which I find are in the Council Office sliall
be sent by the next Post. True it is that Nathan has Goverf Jeffersons acceptance of the Bills in his possession, and that from the
Tenor of them it appears they were to be discharged in hard Money
but we have every reason to think it never was intended by Gen
Clarke that they should be paid in it as he expressly tells us that
all his Bills drawn [on] the Treasurer or Governor of the State
were for paper Money, and to be accounted for and paid in it according to a Scale of depreciation which he sent us; Mr. Nathan s
transactions may be very fair for what I know but so many frauds
have been practis d in that quarter that I am led to doubt every
Thing, tis for this reason that Commissioners are gone into that
country to investigate the Truth and make a report on every Transaction, amongst them Nathan will be taken up. Gen: Clarke is also
order 'd here in the Spring to settle and clear up his conduct at which
Time this troublesome Business will be finally settled, and paid as
soon after as the Assembly shall please to provide funds, for which
purpose I shall lay these demands before them. By a flag Ship just
arrived with Prisoners from Charles Town, I learn that two fleets of
transports were arrived there to take of the Garrison, and that it
was expected the Town would be evacuated by the 15th of this
Month.

We have not yet a sufficient number of Members in the Assembly to proceed to Business.

I am &c.

B. H.



IRVINE TO CLARK. NOVEMBER 7. 1782 149

William Irvine to Clark, November 7, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J5S.— L S.]

Fort Pitt Nov^ 7"^ 1782.
Sir. On the 16'^ of October last, I expected to have been joined
by some continental Troops Rangers from the Lower Counties.
I appointed that Day for the General Rendez-Vous of the militia
at Fort M'^Intosh, and should have been able to take up my Line
of march on the 20*^ following, the Day previous to this, a report
of a cessation of Arms spread seemingly deserving credit, as I received intelligence that the march of the Continental Troops was
countermanded. Tiiis news gained universal Belief with the Country: and I fear, would have mutilated my plan, if the report had
proved premature. But, about the time I expected to march, I received Letters from ihc Continental Secretary at War, countermanding the Expedition, as General Washington had been assured hy
the Brittish General, that all the Savages were called in from the
frontiers, and were not to commit any farther depredations upon
the inhabitants.

I was exceedingly uneasy, %vhen I considered, it was then impossible to communicate to you the intelligence, before your march.
A report of the defeat of a large number of inhabitants at Kentucky
was circulating at the same time, and persuaded me allmost that
it would oblige you to drop your design. Yet, in case this should
not incapacitate you, from marching against the Shawanese I determined to draw the attention of the Wyandots by sending them information, that I was prepared to proceed against Sandusky with
a numerous force. The only stratagem left me to make use off in
your favour.

I have the Honour to be
Sir
Your most Obedient Humble Servant
W" Irvine
General Clarke
Addressed: Public Service The Hon'*'*' Brigadier

General Clark Falls of Ohio By M^ Sullivan.

'This letter is printed in fV as king ton-Irvine Correspondence, 400-401.



I50 ILLINOIS HISTORIC/! L COLLECTIONS

Clark s Plan of Campaign for 1782 [November 9]
[Draper MSS., 63ji2i-i28.]

Order of March
d the advananced Guard of fifty men one hundred yards in front
of c on the Trail of Guides C four advanced parties of twenty
five Men Each two hundred yards in front of A:B to marcli parrellel one hundred yards from Each other on Each Side of the
road Those Troops to be furnished from the Battallions the [to]
March in front of twenty five Pioneers A the Jefferson and fyatte
Batallions B the Two Batallions of Lincoln Troops d four parties
of twenty five men Each two Hundred yards in the rear of the Body
of the Army to be furnished by A:C the rear Guard, F lines of
Flankers one fron Each Company one hundred yards to the right and
left of the Army G Artiliry Baggage in its rear Col Floyd Commands the right Col Logan the left wing of army, the Advanced
Guards to be finished by the right Devision the rere by the Left
the pioneers by y* Different Batallions, the Greatest Order to be
Observe d on the march, no fireing on any Account Except on an
Enimy If the Army Should be attacked in front, the four advanced
parties imediately from [form] and Sustain the attack the advanced
Guard falling in to the said line, if the Enimy Should prove to
numerous for them but not otherwise, the Action Just Commenced
the right and left Colums A:B wheel to the right and left and out
flank the Enimy if possible the two Center lines to Stand fast and
wait for orders, if the Ground permits the artiliry will play on the
Enimy, the whole of the Baggage to be moved within one hundred
and fifty yards of the lines the men attending on it to form and wait
for Orders the Rear Division d to incorperate Joined by the Rere
Guard and as Soon as the find the two Center lines disposed of to
move up to the Baggage and wait for Orders The Flankers F falling into their respective Copanies as Soon as the action Commences
Sh(.iild the attack be in the rere of the army the whole face about
and the Disposition then be? the Same as if the attack had Commenced in front the roard being Cleared of the Baggage for the
artiliry To pass following it attack on the right flank the Colum A
Sustain the fire the advanc party C Joined by the Guard D form
to the left and advance on the Enimy



CLARK S PLAN FOR 1782 151

The party A Joined by the Gurad C from to the right and advance also the Middle Colum A Devide from the Center and Close
the intervals between C A and d a the artiliry act Occasionally the
Baggage Stand fast, the Hole lines to form and Wait for Orders
the Colum B face to the right and advance within fifty yards of
the baggage Observeing their proper Distance and there wait for
orders Attack on the left face to the left and the Disposition Similar—

the Light Dragoons to br Disposed of in the following manner
Viz one Subaltren one Serjeant and Six Dragoon, to attend the
Commanding Officer of Each Devision of the Army one Serjeant
and three Dragoons to attend the officer Commanding the rere Guard
the Remainder of Dragoons to attend on the Gen! Majf Walls will
act as Adgutant Gen' and Cap' Morisson will be pleased to assist
the management of the Artiliry

Sign d G R Clark
Chelacothe November 9"' 1782

Gen' Orders

as an action witli the Enemy may be liourly Expected the Officers are Requested to pay the Strictest attention To their duty as
Suffering no man to Quit his Rank Without leave as Nothing is
Dangerous than Disorder If fortuneately any prisoner Should fall
in to our hands they are by no means to be put to Death without
leave as it will be attended with the Immediate Masseerce of all
our Citizens that are in the hands of the Enimy and Also deprive
us of the advantage of Exchanging for our own people, no person to
attempt to take any Plunder untill Orders Should Issue for that
purpose under the penalty of Being punished for Disobediance of
orders and to have no Share of Such plunder himself The Officers
in perticular are requested to Observe that the Strictest Notice be
paid to this Order, as much Depends on it all plunder taken to be
Delivered to the Quarter Master, to be Devided among the Different
Batallions in proportion to their Numbers any person Concealmg
Plunder of any kind Shall be Considered as Subject to the penalty
of the Above Order

Signed G R Clark



152



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Camp Opposite the Mouth of Licking i8"'
November 1782
G: O

the Troops will Cross the River imediately after the Delivery
of all public arms Accoutrements Horses &ce &ce to Maj^ Walls
Who will attend at the Blockhouse for the purpose of receiving them

Signed G R Clark
[Diagram accompanying the preceding]



r



t+r










Clark to William Irvike, November 13, 1782

[Draper MSS., 11J24. Transcript.)'

Miami is"* Nov. 1782.
Sir: I fell in with your late Expresses on the a'"' Ins' at the mouth
of Licking Creek Was happy to find that our designs was likely
to be well timed We march d on the third, the lo"" surprised
the principal Shawnee Town Chillecauthy, but not so compleatly
as wished for, as most of the Inhabitants had time to make their
escape. We got a few Scalps and Prisoners I immediately de'Th!s letter is printed in If^ashington-lrvine Correspondence, 401-402.



GIBSON TO CLARK, NOVEMBER 17. 1782 153

tached strong parties to the neighbouring Towns and in a short
time laid five of them in ashes, with all their Riches The British
trad g post at the carrying place shared the same fate I can t learn
by the Prisoners that they had any Idea of your second design
hope you will compleatly surprise the Sanduskians I beg leave to
Refer you to IVP Tate his Companion for particulars for reasons
well known to you.

I am Sir with respect

Your Obdt Servt

G. R. Clark

John Gibson to Clark, November 17, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J56.— A L.S.]

PiTCHBURGG [i/c] November the 17"" 1782

D" S* Now in my Great Distress I Send you these Lines Everey
thing that I have is Going to be Sold for Some Debt that I Contracked for part of the Goods that you Got from me and aCording to
your Letter to me I have Not Distressed Mr penteycost If you
Do Not Relive me Now I am a Ruined man but I hope you
have Gratetude and onnor to make me hole D' S' I hope you will
Rite Imedentlcy to Get Relief as I am in Distress your Compie n
will for Ever oblcdgc your Umble Ser'

Jn" Gibson

Dr Sr Af William Stewart that Lives Near where you Do Reed
a Quantcty of Goods from me Last Spring and Gave mc a Hill
on his Brother in Law one mr hunter in philedelphia for the monncy
and he protested his Bill this alonght with your monney has Ruined
me I hope you will Rite to liim and inclose this part of this Letter
and I hope he will Send me the monney before it Goes to aney
farther trouble yur Complies will Ever obledge your most obeidient
and Umble Ser'

Jn» Gibson
Addressed: To Genr' George Rogers Clark



154 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Benjamin Harrison to the Speaker of the House of

Delegates, November 25, 1782

[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 179-182, Va. State Archives.]

The Honble.

Speaker of the House of Delegates.
In Council 25'^" Novem: 1782.
Sir

I have the Honor of enclosing you a Letter just receiv d
from the Honble. James Madison one of our worthy Delegates in
Congress, the Information it contains is so extremely interesting tiiat
I beg the favor of you to lay it before the Gen: Assembly as soon
as an Oppertuiiity offers. I am concern d to say that I have some
reason to think Gen: Irvine is not mistaken in the Information he
gives Congress, having receiv d frequent Inteligence that the Inhabitants of the Country given up to Pennsylvania by this State were
determined not to submit to that Government, they were good Citizens to us and well affected to Liberty, and I have no doubt would
have stood forth in its defence, if they had been quieted in their
possessions and remain under the Government to which they say
undoubtedly belong, this is a point not now to be determined on,
the only question is how to quiet them bring them into temper,
they think they are much injured by the Government of Pennsylvania and that they are in the greatest danger of loosing their Lands,
if some Method can not be fallen on to remove their fears, they may
tho' resentment take steps foreign to their real Intentions, and become as much Enemies to us, all America as they are to their
own Government. The Inconveniences that will arise to this Com*monwealth, from a British Colony being established in that quarter
are too apparent to need any Observations of mine, I shall therefore submit the Subject entirely to the Assembly who are alone
competent to the cure.

You will receive a general return of the Militia of the State
and an abstract of Men raised under former Laws for raising Soldiers for the Continental Service as far as they can be made out by
the Commissioner of War from the returns made to his Office. I
have the honor to be. B. H.



JEFFERSON TO CLARK, NOVEMBER 26, 1782 155

Thomas Jefferson to Clark, November 26, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J58.— A L.S.]

Nov. 26. 1782.
Dear Sir I received in August your favour wherein you give me
hopes of your being able to procure for me some of the big bones.
I should be unfaithful to my own feelings were I not to express to
you how much I am obliged by your attention to the request I made
you on that subject, a specimen of each of the several species of
bones now to be found is to me the most desirable object in Natural
history, and there is no expence of package or of safe transportation
which I will not gladly reimburse to procure them safely. Elkhorns of very extraordinary size, petrifications, or any thing else uncommon would be very acceptable. New London in Bedford, Staunton in Augusta, or Fredericksburg are places from whence I can
surely get them, mr Steptoe in the first place, Colo Matthews in
the second, mr Dick in the third will take care of them for me. you
will perhaps hear of my being gone to Europe, but my trip there will
be short. I mention this lest you should hesitate in forwarding
any curiosities for me. any observations of your own on the subject
of the big bones, or their history, or on any thing else in the Western
country, will come acceptably to me, because I know you see the
works of nature in the great, not merely in detail, descriptions
of animals, vegetables, minerals, or other curious things, notes as
to the Indians, information of the country between the Mississipi
waters of the South sea &c &c will strike your mind as worthy
being communicated. I wish you had more time to pay attention
to them.

I perceive by your letter you are not unapprised that your services
to your country have not made due impression on every mind, that
you have enemies you must not doubt, when you reflect that you
have made yourself eminent, if you meant to escape malice you
should have confined yourself within the sleepy line of regular duty,
when you trangresscd this and entcrprizcd deeds which will hand
down your name with honour to future times, you made yourself
a mark for malice envy to shoot at. of these there is enough both
in and out of office. I was not a little surprized however to find
one person hostile to you as far as he has personal courage to shew



156 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

hostility to any man. who he is you will probably have heard, or
may know him by this description as being all tongue without either
head or heart, in the variety of his crooked schemes however, his
interests may probably veer about so as to put it in your power to be
useful to him; in which case he certainly will be your friend again
if you want him. that you may long continue a fit object for his
enmity for that of every person of his complexion in the state,
which I know can only be by your continuing to do good to your
cmmtry honour to yourself is the earnest prayer of one who subscribes himself with great truth sincerity D'' Sir

Your friend serv'

Th Jefferson

John Floyd to Clark, November 26, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J59.— A L.S.]

26'*' November, 82.
Dear Gen^

I should not have a word of news if Dan' Sullivan had not
come down yesterday from Pitt. He came in a Canoe alone informs us that Gen' Irvine has not been in the Enemys Country, his
orders were countermanded after having raised Sixteen hundred
Men. Gen' Potter had marched three days and was also recalled in
consequence of Gen' Carletons engagem** to cause all Prisoners taken
by the Savages to be given up, a confirmation of M"" Tates account
of all Partizans being ordered not to molest the Frontier Inhabitants.
I have not seen M' Sullivan so that my information is rather imperfect. If I hear any thing more I will write you. The People are
actually about Settling Muskingum other Watercourses higher

up on the West side the Ohio. I wish we may carry on the Scheme 4of Garrisoning the Miamia. What do you think of it? Write ime if you see an Opporf k

I am D Gen' your very Ob'"' Serv'

Jn» Floyd i;

Addressed: Brigadier Gen' Geo R Clark in Fayette P'' Cap'



Todd



Endorsed: Nov^ 30'" 1782 Col. Floyd



CLARK TO HARRISON, NOVEMBER 27. 1782 157

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, November 27, 1782
[Executive Papers, Va. State Archives. Copy.]'

Lincoln Nov'' 27"" 1782
Sir

I imbrace the opertunity by Cap'" Madison to inform you of our
safe return from the Indian Cuntrey I left the Ohio the fourth with
one Tliousand and fifty men and supprised the principal Siiawonec
Town on the Eavening of the Tenth Inst amediately Detackiiif; od
Strong parties to difierent Quarters in a few Hours two thirds of
their Towns was laid in ashes and everything they ware posscss d of
destroy d except such articles most usefull to the Troops the Enemy
not having time to Secret any part of their Riches that was in ye
Villages tiie British Trading post at the Portage on tlic Head of
the Miami shared the same fate by Col" Benj. Logan and a party
one Hundred and fifty Horse whare property to a great amount was
burnt the Quantity of provisions destroyed far surpassed any Idea
we had of their Stores of that kind the loss of the Enemy was 'i en
scalps Seven prisoners and two whites Retaken ours one kiled one
wounded After laying part of four Days in their Towns finding
all attempts to bring them to a gen' Action Fruitless we retired 'hp
season being far adanced and the weather threatening I could not
by the prisoners that they had the least Idea of Gen' Erwins [Irvine]
Intention of penetrating into the Cuntrey should he have given them
another stroke at Sandusky it will more than double the advantage
Already gained

We might probably have got many more scalps and prisoners
could we have timely known whether or not we ware discovered
which we took for granted untill geting within three miles Some
circumstances happened caused us to think otherways though uncertain Col" Floyd was ordered to advance with tiirce Hundred men
and bring on an action or attack the Town Maj' Walls with a party
of Horse being previously sent on a different Rout as a party of
observation although Col Floyds motion was so quick that he got to
the Town but a few minutes later than those whome discovered his
approach the Inhabitants had Suffitient notice to effect their escape
by the allarm cry that was given on the first discovery and to be

'This letter is printed in Calendar of I irg'tnia State Papers, 3:381.



158 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

heard at a great distance and repeated by all that hear it so that
he only fell in with the Rear of them I must beg leave to Recomment to your Excellency the Militia of Kentuck who did tliemselves
Honour on this occasion espetially their desire of saving prisoners

I am y' Obt Servt

G R Clark
Governor Harrison)

John Crittenden to William Davies, November 29, 1782
ICal. of Va. Slate Papers, 3:383-384.]
Maj r John Crittenden to Col r Wm. Davies.
Fayette County Ky. Novem. 29th 1782
D r Colo:

I thank you for your favour of the sixth of April last, which
this moment came to hand, accompanied by a letter from B. Genl:
Irvin to Genl: Clarke, Dated Fort Pitt, seventh Inst: announcing
that the Intended Expedition against Sandusky under his Command
in Oct: last, was Countermanded by the Secretary of the Continental
board of war, in consequence of the Savages being silenced on our
frontiers. The most pleasing and Interesting intelligence Ever yet
Experienced by the Citizens of this Department. As the most accurate accounts will be given you of our late Expedition against the
Shawana Indians, I shall be silent on that head (with this observation
only) that we Recrost the Ohio River on the i8th Inst: having
kill d ten Savages, taken 10 prisoners, Depopulated seven Towns, and
burnt ten thousand bushels of corn.

I have no Reason to doubt but the conduct of those, by whom
the State have suffered abuses, will be held out to the most conspicuous View, and treated as attrocious criminals.

I iiave this day made out tiie locations for your warrants committed to my charge by Capt: Holt, and shall enter them with Colo.
Marsiiall, whose office is now open in two or tiiree days. After
which siiall proceed witii utmost dispatch to have them survey d
therefore would wish you, if convenient, to write liim on the subject
of the Expences arising, as I am without the means, or otherways
would willingly defray them, pray excuse haste and believe me,
with most sincere regard,

Your most obe t and very h ble Servt."



CRITTENDEN TO CLARK, NOVEMBER 29, 1782 159

Benjamin Harrison to Clark, November 29, 1782
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1782, pp. 189-190.]

Gen. G. R. Clarke.

In Council 29'* Novem: 1782
Sir

I have lately received an order from a Major Lintott [Linctot]
on this State for the payment of a Sum of Money which he says
is due to him as Indian Agent in the Illinois, with a charge of rations
as a Major and a long Account of Expenditures in his Office, I find
he was employ d some years ago by Governor Jeflerson in this Business but he has never done me the favor of writing to me since I
had the Honor of being in the Government nor did I know there
was such an officer till the presentment of the Order. I request
you to give me full Information respecting this Gentleman, what
services he has render d, when you think his Appointment ended,
what occasion he had to expend the public Money, whether you gave
him any power to do it in future. There is one remarkable Circumstance attending his account which is that Col' Mongomery
and Col' Todd both drew for large sums of Money about the Time
Lintott dates his, and they both say part of the Supplies they obtain d
were for the Indians, these difficulties can not be got over till I receive your answer, nor perhaps even then without a great deduction
as the charges for the Necessaries furnished the Indians exceed even
the Conception of any Man on Earth.

I am &c.

B. H.

John Crittenden to Clark, November 29, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J61.— A L.S.]

Lexington 29"" Novemb'' 1782
D" General

I sincerely thank you for your favour of the 25"" Inst, by AF
Buckner which was handed me yesterday at this place. In the Contents of which I discover no difficulty but what I can with Ease surmount (that only Excepted) of procuring the Fifty thousand Acres



i6o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

of warrints for the Gentlemen you mention, as being totally without
the means necessary to accomplish the purchase

Your brothers warrints I have already made out Locations for,
on the land Recommended by you begining within the Square of
Col' Logans second Encampment below the forks of licking, which
I discover to be the Object of several, should they take place of me
by Sen'' warrints (Or) you not be well pleasd with the situation,
you will Exceedingly oblige me to signify your pleasure Respecting
it as Quick as possible, as I am at a loss to Locate it on the other
places you mention with that speciallity the law Requires, I shall
use Every Exertion within my power to purchase the warrints alluded to, but do Candedly acknowledge that I despair in succeeding, for which give me leave to Express my sorrow, as your Injunctions will Ever be deemd an honour done me, I Congratulate you
on the Receipt of the letters accompanying this being fully perswaded
that the Indians being silencd will produce the most salutary Consequences on the whole of our frontiers. The first Respite we have
Experienced for several years past I Receivd a letter from Col' W'^
Davis C. of the war office this day, dated the 6**' of april last, wherein he Expresses his satisfaction, as Commissioners were apointed for
Liquidating the accounts of this department. That no misconduct
of any kind would pass unnoticed by you

I am owing M^ Tardivou £13 which M^ Chapline was to settle
with him, I am Informd this day he has not done so, as a Line from
you will be satisfactory to him as there is apparent dealings between
you, shall Esteem it as a singular favour as there is no possibillity
of my going down, to answer his demand, I am sorry to trouble you
on this Occasion but hope you will Excuse it as being warrinted by
necessity

I am D'' General
With perfect Esteem
Your Devoted and Very
Humb* Serv'

Jn' Crittenden

P. S my Coming over shortly is uncertain as business goes on
slow and my Constant attendance must be given Pray write rae



CLARK TO HARRISON. NOVEMBER 30. 1782 i6i

Often Majf Pellam a gen' of my acquaintance gives his Compliments
to you J C

Addressed: Brigadier General George R Clark Honourd by
Cap* Chapline

Endorsed: 30"' Novr 1782 John Critingdon Letter

Clark to Benjamin Harrison November 30, 1782

[Eieciitive Cominiinicntiuns, 1782, Va. State Arcliives l

Lincoln Nov' 30"' 1782
Sir

I had this Day the pleasure of receiving your Lef dated 17"" of
Octob"" which for a few moments I was at a loss to Comprehend
but on Recollecting some Circumstances find that on the supposition
of your taking many Reports and party Memorials, I learn have
been handed to your Excellency for granted that your then duty
Required such a Letter to me I unfortunately have not the Copys
of my former Let" to Government with me and to send in pursuit
of the person I expect to be the bearer of this 'vvha has already set
out so that it is not in my power to be as minute as I could wish I
have always made a point to inform Government of every Circumstance I thought nessessary for them to know except the importance of
it was too trifling a Consequence to be at the expence of an Express
and no oppertunity offering in short almost impossible at this distance to acquant you of the Various Circumstances attending so
Critical and extensive a dep* as this is for many months past it was
impossible to have got a Lef to you without a Strong Guard except
by Chance

I have in a former Lef I think given you Satisfactory Reasons
why the posts alluded to was not Built preparations ware made
early in the Spring for the execution of your orders but a full ac' of
the designs of the Enimy caused us to alter our plans prudence
directed that we should not enter on too large a scale the Fortifications at the Falls was first to be Repaired proceed to Kentucky from
thence to Licking compleating our Works in Rotation but in the
execution of this business I had not only to counteract the design of

'This letter is abstracted and printed in part in Calendar of Virginia
State Papers, 3 :384-38s.



1 62 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

the Enemy but a powerfull party endeavoring to subvert the government of which I have reason to believe that great part of those whom
give your Exceyll so much Inteligence belong those and many other
Resent circumstances caused us to meet with difficulties in drawing out
the Militia hardly to be surmounted with the assistance of many
worthy Gentlemen in office, I found that it was impossible to Build
those posts without the greatest probability of sacrificing a party as not
less than Six or Seven Hundred Men could have keep possession of
the Mouth of Licking after Six Days being within Eighty Six Miles
of the Body of the Enimy and the Clamour of Eaven those people
whome I Suspect to have made their Complaint to you was that
such post could not be supported and of no Consequence though I
believe it not to be the Real Sentiments of the whole but rather to
desopoint the design to save themselves from the Duty; Receiving
repeated Inteligence from the Enimy we endeavored to Fix on the
most likely plan to save the Cuntrey Col" Todds Militia was excused from all other duty but that of keeping out proper Scouts and
spies on the Ohio and Else whare to discover the aproach of the
Enemy to give time to Imbody a Sufficient force to Repell them
as it could not be previously done not certainly knowing in what
quarter they would make their stroke instead of those necessary
duties being done on which their salvation apparently depended the
Enimy was Suffered to penetrate deliberately into the bowels of
their County and make the attack before they were discovered This
I believe is what is wished to be blended and the neglect to be one
of the principal Springs to that Mad pursuit and Carriage of the
Blue Licks as the Reverse of fortune would have obliviated the former neglect I must confess that I have been defitient in my duty
in not given you an Ac' of Every Circumstance attending this unhappy aflair but hope to be excused as it was only owing to my
Delicacy in affecting the Memmory of the Gentlemen who Fell not
conceiving it to be of Singular advantage to government and knowing it would fix a Eternal Stigmy on their Characters but as the
scale has turned to the amazement on many I shall amediately Collect every Circumstance Relative to the whole affair for your perutial
You will pardon me S' for informing your Excellency that you
will hereafter find that you are greatly imposed on by party I am



CLARK TO HARRISON, NOVEMBER 30. 1782 163

persuaded that if you were acquainted with the true Characters of
many of these Gentlemen that you speak of that you would have
no farther allution to them you have complained that Gentlemen do
not give information of Shamefull neglect committed I suppose by
me, their is no Gentleman of his own knowledge know of any Excciil
those Little Gent^ I have before hinted if nothing but the Zeal I
have for the publick interest and the Idea I have of your goodness
would induce me to venture to tell your Excellency that as long as
you Countenace those those kind of people you encourage Enimies
to the state and keep part of your government in Confution but I
know your cituation and how difficult it must be for you to di'^criminate, Instance what was the design of the memorial I learned you
Received from Fyatt County, to cover their own conduct and a
prelude to a Maj''" Commission for a Triffler amd a Col' for a
person something more deserving to the prejudice of a Valuable man
M' Swcuringen ther former Majf who had been absent for some time
and was Dayly expected which would have prevented their Design
to my Certain knowledge they now dread the Execution of what
a few of them ware deluded to pray for again Col" Donaldson last
Spring Chairman of the Committee that endeavoured to subvert
the government and cost us soo much trouble to overset since bearing
an important Commission, as for Expences disappointment the want
of publick Credit neglect Mai Conduct in persons imployed I
have perhaps experienced greater anxiety for the welfare of the State
than most men in it as the changes in government have been so frequent that it would of course put it out of their power so fully to
feel all those misfortunes attending its interest as one continually
ingaged in its service to enumerate all the Various Circumstances
attending mine what man in the State that would not have cast of
their allegiance to it overset its Government in this Quarter

Endorsed, G. R. Clark letter, Nov. so""1782.

Addressed to His Excellency, Benjamin Harrison, Richmond.



i64 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS
Clark to Benjamin Harrison, November 30, 1782

J[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Lincoln Nov' so"" 1782

G Clark
30 Novf 1782
Sir,

Since the return of the Expedition nothing of moment hath transpired except that of an ofHtial account of Gen' Erwin s disappointment the Cuntrey seem to enjoy perfect tranquility at present how
long it will remain so time only will show but I have reason to expect that the Enemy will be silant for some time I had a great prospect of geting the post at the mouth of Licking built and garrisoned
by the army on our Return but found it would be exceedingly disagreable to them to be detained if in my power your orders shall be
executed but how those posts are to be supplyed I can not as yet
conceive nothing can be got on the credit of the State the expenditures of Gov'' for a considerable time being on private funds I have
by disposing of some Lands that I was possessed of Laid in a tolerable
store at the Falls but if divided between three or four posts will be
but trifling I some time past wrote to you on the subject of the
Specific Tax and have Received Col. Davis s Lef ordering that of
Fyat to be delivered which will add much to Our store I can Ac'
for the reason why the other two countries should be excluded I
have heard of commissioners being appointed for the collecting the
Tax in districts and have thought Col Todd to have been appointed
to this, as the Letters from the War office mentioned his delivering
of the whole of the Tax, but uncertain the Cuntrey is so circumstanced at present that no draught from the Interiour frontier will
be necessary for some time, (as the late Enterprise will put the
Enemy in great confution) Except you should think of an excurtion
against the Ouabash Nations in the spring which would finally prevent their making any powerfull attempt for sometime and perhaps
Silance near the whole in that Quarter as proper Speaches well
timed divide their councils and keep them in confution if you should
think of puting any such thing in execution I shall yet Receive pleasure in makeing every preparatory stroke in my power before I leave

'This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3:386-387.



McDowell to clark. December 4. ini 165

the Cuntrey which period I hope will be by the last of March as the
Commissioners have at last arrive and expect to do business with
them as soon as I fix on some probable plan for Building garisoning
and Victualing the posts on the Ohio

I am D' S'
Your Hbl Servt

G R Clark
His Excellency Benj" Harrison.

John Crittenden to Clark, December 4, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J62.— A L.S.]

Lexington 4 Decemb'' 1782
D» Gen^

Since my last to you have some small prospect of Obtaining a
few warrents towards a Compliance with your Requisition, But by
no means a sufficient Quantity, therefore if any can be procurd on
the South Side of Kantucky and forwarded to me shall Joyfully
Receive them and proceed with the utmost dispatch to the Execution
of the business

Wee are Informd some Indians have done damage in Jefferson
County, There has also been fresh sign discovered on the south waters
of Licking pray write me and believe me

with Sincere Regard
Your Obed' and
Humble Serv*

John Crittenden
Addressed: Brigadier Gen' George R Clark Honourd by W:
Daniel Esq'

Endorsed: Maj Critenden

John McDowell to Clark, December 4, 1782'
[Draper MSS., S2j6j.— A L.S.]

Col. Bowman s Decern'' 4''' 1782.

Sir,

The Commissioners have finished their Letters for the Court of
Kaskaskias and S* Vincents inclosing Advertisements of their MeetFor the report of the Western Commissioners, see post, 293 ff.



1 66 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

ing at the Falls the 15'" January 1783, and not having an Opportunity of sending them by any particular Messenger, recommend
them to your immediate Care requesting to have them forwarded
w^ith Dispatch this they Expect will not be inconvenient as j ou
may have Occasion to write to the Gentlemen employed in the different Departments under you, to appear with their Accounts &c
agreeable to their Letter of Novemf the 14''' Ult' addressed to your
honour from Lexington. By Order of the Board,

I am. Sir,
your most ob' Servant

John M Dowell Sec^
The Hon"'-"' Brig"" Gen*Clark.

Addressed: On Public Service The Honourable Brigadier
Gen' George R. Clark Cove Spring

Endorsed: Decemb'' s'"" 1782 Board of Commissioners

Benjamin Harrison to the Speaker of the Virginia House of
Delegates, December 7, 1782

[Draper MSS., 10S91-93.]

Speaker of the House of Delegates.

In Council, 7"" Dec'', 1782.
Sir:

I beg the favor of you to lay before the General Assembly a
letter from Gen. Clark, together with two letters from him to the
Chickasaw Nation, and his instructions to Capt. George, who he
has sent into that country to signify his acceptance of peace, to
propose a cession of some of their lands for a consideration to be
paid by this country. The General has been led to this last step
from the favorable disposition of the Indians at this time, and
an opinion taken upon pretty sure grounds that the Indians will not
easily submit to those lands being settled without their leave. I
cannot help thinking the measure a good one, tho' the General had
never the least authority for taking the step. It now rests with
the Assembly whether the hint shall be improved, and the purchase
made or not. Prudence seems to advise the measure, as the lands
will thereby be secured to the State and its officers even beyond the
reach of those who wish to deprive us of our other Western Terrii



CLARK TO f WESTERN COMMISSIONERS, 1782 167

tory under a pretext of their being bought from the Indians by individuals and the State of New York. I hope for the determination
of the Assembly as soon as convenient, that the express which is
now waiting in town on expenses may be dispatched.

[Then requests the return of the papers as soon as the Assembly
sh'^ be done with them.]

John Crittenden to Clark, December 14, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J64. A. L. S.]

14"" Decemb'' 1782 Le xington
D? Gen*In my last to you I signified my wishes to Comply with your
Requisition Relative to securing the land you spoke of for those
Gent below, in which I then discoverd no other Obstacle but the
want of warrants, I sollicited your aid, I have not yet made a
single Location Business going on so slow, and all my warrants being
of young date. The Consequence is the land spoken of in your Letter
to me is taken by Col' Levi Todd others. However may yet
be able to oblige you or if not with the whole in part. I have not
Rec^ a single line from you on the subject

I have the Honour to be
Your Devoted Hurab Serv'

John Crittenden
Addressed: Brigadier Gen' George R. Clark Favoured by M'
Scott

Endorsed: Majf Crittenden

Clark to the Western Commissioners, December 15, 1782
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Lincoln Deer is"" 1782.
D" Gent--"

I have received your several Lef' of y' 14'" Novf 4'" Ins' the
settlement of the Ac'' of this Dcp' is what I have long most ardcurly
wished for and nothing in my power shall be wanting to faciliate the
business but have to inform you that several persons Imployed as
alluded to in yours of the 14 Nov"" do not come under my notice in

This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia Stale Papers, 3 :396-397i68 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

the settlement of their Ac" the Comertial ageants and part of the
purchasers for the Campain Eighty one to wit M"" John Dodge of
Ilinois Col" William Harrison of y» Monongehaly Cap'' R Madison of Bottetourt and Deputies as they ware appointed by government and ordered to settle their Ac'' with the auditors notwithstanding I shall take pleasure in promoting the settlement of those or
any other ac'' that may concern the Publick flattering myself that
when the whole should be adjusted that you will find that great
attention have be paid to acc^ at least as great as circumstances would
admit of in all ac** I could possibly pay attention to

His Excellency the Governour hath Recommended it to me to
Select you as councellor in any Military Case that may be of a
Dubious nature and if your times would permit I should thank you
for your advice in the follow Case of Importance to this Cuntrey
In Jan^ last I received orders from the Executive to have the following post erected (and garrisoned by Draughts from the Militia)
the mouth of Kentucky the Mouth of Licking Limestone Various
Circumstances put it out of our power to have this business Executed
without the greatest probability of loosing the party that should be
sent for the purpose untill the present Fall when it would have be
attended with the loss of the late Expedition Since my return I have
Received farther instructions to have those orders Amediately Executed I donot think they would have been so positive if his Excellency had not been imposed on by some designing fellows that did
not care for the Interest of the Cuntrey or knew very very little about
it of which your presence will better inable you to Judge it is now
not by business to inquire into the propriety of Establishing those
posts, under our present circumstances but to Execute the orders
if in my power at same time could wish to know your opinions of
tliem and particularly in what manner they are to be supported with
provitions &c there may be about Sixty thousand lbs of Flower in
Store at Fort Nelson and not a Ration to be bought on the Credit
of the State Small quantities of Meat is to be got by huntiiig at the
Risque of the lives of the Hunters and Expense of almost its worth
of Ammunition the grain &c of Fyatt is ordered to be delivered for
the support of the Troops and expect to be impowered to receive
that of the other counties y' whole that will be collected I doubt



NATHAN TO HARRISON, DECEMBER 19. 1782 169

will be but a small Amount this is all the dependance we have for
the Support of those posts without government would furnish Cish
or send Flower by the way of Pittsburg I belive there will be a
sufficient number of delinquents to garison one of them the Militia
will murmur but I believe may be got to duty if their should be any
other Circumstance that you wish to know of me before you favour
me with the Result of your Consultation I shall transmit them with
dispatch to you

I am D' Gent"
Your obed' Serv*

G R Clark

Simon Nathan to Benjamin Harrison, December 19, 1782
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

His Excellency Benjamin Harrison Esq'
Richmond 19* December 1782
Sir

Absolute and extreme necessity has oblidged me to leave my distressed Family in Philadelphia, and come to this place in Order to
pray your Excellency that my Claims on this State as set forth in
the Inclosed Memorial may be taken under your serious consideration, nothing can be more painfull to me than my sundry applications, and the reflection of there being any dispute on the subject
of those Bills: but avoid all future Altercation and bring the matter
to a Decisive point, I am still willing to submit the issue of this
Claim to the determination of such disinterested Gentlemen as your
Excellency and Honb' Board witii myself may agree upon, and for
this purpose I will attend your Excellency at the Council Chamber
when I am notified of the proposition meeting your Approbation,
tiiere are a variety of strong and most urgent reasons for my wishing
this reference, but none more powerful than my sincere wish and
desire that impartial justice should take place, for I declare to your
Excellency most solemnly, I never did directly or indirectly wish
to gain One Iota of advantage of this Commonwealth, and I hope
my future Conduct will evince the sincerety of this declaration all
I can venture to say more at present is that I am only allowed by
my Clamorous Creditors a short time to endeavour to procure them



I70 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

payment should I fail in this State of obtaining the means, my situation must unavoidably be a hard and cruel confinement in a loathsome
jail.

I am much oblidged by the payment you have made M"' Thomas
Smith, for M'' Armistead promisary Note and the partial payment on
]VP Ross s Certificates, should your Excellency be pleased to incline
to make me a further payment on the said Certificates as p Acount
under cover, I will take Tobacco, Hemp, Flour at any place
within this Commonwealth and at the highest prices as yet given
by any person in this State, my Necessities are such that should make
any discount whatsoever for immediate payment

I have the Honor to be with very great Respect
Your Excell)'^ Obed' Servant
Simon Nathan.

Benjamin Harrison to Clark, December 19, 1782

[Draper MSS., 10S93-97. Transcript.]

In Council, ig"" Decem: 1782
Sir

Your letter of the iS"" October by express came safe to hand
with its enclosures. As the Assembly was sitting, I immediately laid
them before them, and enclose you their resolution on the subject,
together with the advice of Council given me on the resulution, to
which you are strictly to conform. I agree perfectly with you that
obtaining the lands from the Indians by purchase, if it can be done
at a moderate price, will be prudent yet it behooves us to be extremely cautious how the Deed is worded, as we say that this State
has an exclusive right to all the lands within its chartered boundary,
and if that circumstance is not particularly attended to, it may give
some right to the extraordinary pretentions set up by some of the
United States, under color of Indian purchases. You ll, therefore,
be very attentive to the subject, and sufTer no words to be introduced
into the Deed that may in any manner countenance such a claim.
You ll please also to be careful not to include any of the lands within the bounds of North Carolina, which D'' Walker informs me
are pretty well ascertained in that quarter.

This letter was contributed by Dr. Kellogg.






H^IRRISON TO CLARK, DECEMBER 19. 1782 171

You know that Commissioners are appointed to meet the Chickasaw and Creek Indians in the spring, to settle a peace with them; at
which time I think it will be most convenient to fix the terms of
the purchase yet if you have good reasons for thinking it can be
done more advantageously elsewhere, I would have you consult your
own judgment, and act accordingly; but if not, I could wish you to
attend at the treaty as well for making the purchase, as to assist
the Commissioners in the business of peace. You ll please to advise
immediately after the return of Capt. George of his success, and
what more will be necessary to bring the business to a conclusion,
whether the Indians will expect cash or goods; if the latter, of
what kind they are to be. If you can so order it, cash will be most
agreeable to us, as goods cannot be procured nearer than Philadelphia.

I have explained myself so fully to you on the subject of your
command, in my letters that had not got to hand when the express
left you, that nothing remains to be said on that subject, except to
remind you of the necessity there is for establishing the posts at
Wheeling and Licking as soon as possible, and I request that you
let no considerations withdraw your attention from those objects.

I agree with you that the command you have is not a proper one
for a gentleman of your rank, and therefore accept your proposal of
returning; before you leave it, I wish you to regulate the regular
corps, and reduce the number of officers to the number of privates;
if the officers cannot agree amongst themselves who shall retire,
you must call on the youngest to do it.

If a talk to the Indians can be prepared in time for the expr>;ss,
you will have it enclosed; if not it shall be sent to Col' Martin
in a short time who will forward it to you.

The desire the people have of revenging themselves on the savages
for the loss of so many valuable friends, I suppose was the cause
of your undertaking an expedition, otherwise it was certainly wrong
to do it without consulting me. I have some reason to apprehend
it will rather prolong than shorten the Indian war, as my advices
from tiie Northward tell me that the English have called in all their
parties, and mean no more to act on the offensive. How long they
may continue in this disposition is uncertain, but if they are quiet



172 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

for the next year I am in hopes the settlement will be too strong
to be under any great apprehensions from their attacks.
A stop has been put, I hope, long since, to the destructive
practice of drawing bills on New Orleans; if it has not, I must
insist that nothing of the sort in future take place, for no such will
ever be paid. Of this, you ll give notice to the several officers under
your command.

I am. Sir, &c.

B. H.

Evidences of Corruption, December 24, 1782
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Lincoln County Decem'' 24th 1782.
This Day came before the Board of Commissioners, Cap. George
Davidson, who commanded a Company of the Green Brier Militia
belonging to Maj' Thomas Quirks Detachment which were ordered
to join Gen' Clark in the Spring 1 78 1, And made Oath that while
said Troops were at Fort Chiswell, som of them behaved in a very
disorderly Manner, frequently taking and riding the public Horses
when they thought proper without Leave, much to the prejudice of
the said Horses; And that it was reported, and he the Deponent
believes, they repeatedly broke into the Quartermaster s Store and
took a Quantity of Led and Whiskey, that Cap. Joseph Gray and
himself in one Instance, saw the said Store breaking open by some
of the said Militia, who effected their Escape before they could
be taken, and that he afterwards heard a certain Arnold Custard
confess, that he in company with another of said Militia, broke open
the aforesaid Store and took out a Piggon full of Whiskey, And
that they continued to behave in that disorderly Manner wliile on
their March to the Kentucky Country, that less or more of the public Horses were lost almost every Night which he believes was chiefly
owing to the Want of necessary Guards, And that after the Arival
of said Troops in Kentucky, At Col. Logan s they and Some Negroes
took several of the Pads out of the Pack Saddles, and that the Linnen
of which the Pads were made was afterwards found upon them
And that near forty of the said Men deserted the third Day after
their Arival at Col Logan s, and it was said that Number of Bells



GIBSON TO CLARK. DECEMBER 24, 1782 173

were lost off the public Horses about that Time; And that Majf
Quirk at Col. Logans took the Ammunition from the Quartermaster into his Own Care (all except a Bar of Lead of about seventy
weight) which the Deponent understood were stored at Harrods
Station And that the greater part of the said Bar of Lead he
believes was soon after stolen by the said Militia, and that he afterwards heard John Arbuckle Samuel Moore and Ananias Irvin three
of these Men confess they took a part of this Led and the Deponent
further says at all Times while at Fort Chiswell and on the said
March, Mr. Rowland Madison appeared to him to use every precaution in his Power, to preserve the aforesaid Stores and Horses,
and that the Losses both of the Horses and Stores was not owing
to any Neglect of said Madison, it being impossible for him to preserve them for the want of a sufficient Number of Men to Guard
the Horses when in Pastures, and to hunt them in the Mornings
when they were coming through the Wilderness, and also to guard
the Stores in the Daytime. And that he heard the said Madison
complain that he had applied for more sufficient Guards, but he
could not obtain them. And further the Deponent sayeth not.

Sworn to before me

Caleb Wallace

John Gibson to Clark, December 24, 1782
[Draper MSS., 52J66.— A L.S.]

December the 24''' 1782
Dr Sr this is to Inform you that I have Rote to you three limes
within this three months Informing you of my Setuation D'' S'' ray
propertey in this town is to be Sold against the first Day of march
Next for a Debt that I Contracted upon the Strenth of your order
on the Gouvner of Virnegina which was Regeted D'' S'' Now I am
Ruined if you Do Not Relive me before that time I Expect to be
obledged to Leve tiiis place in two months after this Date if you Do
not Relive me and to you I must flye to for Suker this is from your
Distresed friend Jn° Gibson

To Generall George Rodgers Clark.

Addressed To Genr' Clark favred by Cap' Barber



174 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

J. M. P. Legras to Clark, December 31, 1782

[Draper MSS., 52J67.— A L.S.]

Au Generale George Roge Clark Brigadier Generale

Monsieur

L incertitude de votre Retoure me prive Du plaisir D aller
pour le present a la Chute: Je me flatte Sous peu apprendre de
votre Main L execution heureuse de la noble Entreprise que vous
aves formes pour L honneur Et Surete des Etats et peuples attaches
a la Cause Commune, Je Souhaite que Dieu favorise La Noblesse
de vos Sentiments; Me proposant aussitot la Nouvel Certaine de
votre heureux Retoure aller En personne vous feliciter. Et partager
vos plaisirs; Ne pouvent plus Vivre tranquille En Cette Endroit;
Manquant de tout Et meme du necessaire L inconstance des temps
nous Causant une grande disette de grain Sans Ressource d argent
pour me precautionner de vivres; meme Expose a Vendre mes
Esclaves et au moment d etre Execute pour Les dettes que J ay
Contracte pour faire des avances aux Etats Et les obliger; Je
mettois flatte qu en Recconnoissance Et Vu Ma situation que vous
Connoisses fort Bien; vous m auries Envoye par M^ William quelques EfFets soye farinne, sel et autre En votre pouvoir; Mais par
une Lettre qu il m at Ecris des Ilinois, il me marque que vous ne
L aves Charge de Rien pour moy ce qui ma Beaucoup aiflige Et
decide a aller sous peu meme vous prier de mettre fin a mes peines;
Empressant les Etats Et Decider le Gouvernement de Virginie a
me payer, Je ne peut plus Soutenir La durete avec Laquel Je Suis
traite ne meritant point pareille traitement; Votre generosite Ne
souffrira point que Je Soufire plus Longtemps; Je ne doute point
Voyant ma triste Situation que vous ne Daignies m envoyer par
L occasion Des frangois porteur de la presente quelque Ressource
pour faire Vivre ma famille; par des farinnes, sel poudre plomb
qui seront En votre pouvoir vous pouvcs tout Et me repose sur vous
pour Jouir d un temps plus Serein

Jay appris que quelque Sauvage au nombre de huit ont insulte
Mf William sur la Belle Rivierre Et luy ont otte partie de ses Effets;
et les meme quelques Jours apres ont pillie deux frangois Chassant
Sur La ditte Rivierre; Je me Restere a leur Retoure D hyvernement
pour m' informer Comment Et pour quel Sujet ils Commettent



4. LEGRAS TO CLARK. DECEMBER 31. 1782 175

I pareille Desordre; Et vous En donneres aVis il y a apparence que

les Chefs En Sont Bien peine, et que Ses Coquins S etoit Delaches
de la Bande pour agir Librement Suivant vos ordres J ay fait Vendre les Cazarnes; que les Ameriquins, frangois Et Sauvages avoient
Mis En Ruine; J ai L lionncur de vous Reccommander M' Carbonau
amy des Etats Anisy que M"^' Barois La VioUette Et Gardin Et Lour
procurer tout secour Et assistance qu il pouroit avoir Besoin: En
Consideration des services qu ils ont Rendue aux Etats Unis de 1' a
Merique Daignies ne me point oublies pour ce que Je vous demande
Et de me croire avec un profond Respect Et Sincere attachement
Votre tres humble

Et Tres obeissant
Serviteur
J. M. P. Legras Lieu' Col«

A Command
Monsieur
S'^ ViNCENNE Le 3i« X^ 1782.

Addressed A Monsieur Monsieur Clark Ecuyer brigadier Generale a La Chutte Et En son absence a M"^ L Officier Command'

[Translation^

To General George Rogers Clark, Brigadier General.
Sir:

The uncertainty as to your return deprives me for the present
of the pleasure of going to the Falls. I flatter myself that I shall
shortly learn from you of the happy execution of the noble enterprise
which you have undertaken, for the honor and security of the States
and the people attached to the common cause. May Ged favor
your noble aspirations; I intend as soon as I hear definitely of your
happy return to go in person to congratulate you and to share your
pleasures. I cannot live peaceably in this place, as I am in want of
everything, even of necessaries. The variable weather makes grain
scarce with us and I have no money to lay in provisions. I may
have to sell my slaves and am at the point of being put in execution
for the debts which I have contracted to make advances to the States.
I had flattered myself that in gratitude, and in view of my situation
which you know very well, that you would have sent me some sup176 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

plies by Mr. William, flour, salt, and anything else that you could.
But by a letter which he has written to me from the Illinois, he
informs me that you have sent me nothing by him which has distressed me very much, and decided me to go to see you shortly, to
beg you to put an end to my troubles. In pressing the States and
the Government of Virginia to decide to pay me, I cannot bear any
longer the harshness with which I am treated, and which I do not
deserve. Your generosity will never permit me to suffer any longer.
I do not doubt, that in view of my sad condition, you will send me
by the Frenchman who carries this letter, something for the support
of my family flour, salt, powder, lead etc. whatever you can you
can do anything and I hope through you to enjoy serenity.

I have learned that a band of eight Indians have insulted Mr.
William while on the Belle River, and have taken from him a part
of his effects; and that the same Indians, some days after, have plundered two Frenchmen who were hunting on the same river. At
their return from winter quarters I will find out how and for what
reason they are guilty of such disorders; and I will advise you. It
appears that the chiefs are chagrined at it and that these rascals have
broken away from the tribe in order to act freely.

Following your orders, I have sold the barracks, which the
Americans, French and Indians have reduced to ruins.

I have the honor to recommend to you Mr. Carbonneau, a friend
of the States, as well as Messrs. Barois, La VioUette, and Gardin,
and to ask you to procure for them all the aid and assistance which
they may need in consideration of services which they have rendered
to the United States of America.

Please do not forget what I ask of you and believe me to be
with profound respect and sincere attachment.

Your very humble and very obedient servant,
J M.P Legras, Lieut. Col. in command.

St. Vincennes, December 31, 1782.

Mr. Clark, Esq., Brigadier General at the Falls,

and in his absence to the Officer Commanding.



i
f

i

i. CLARK TO DAVIES, JANUARY 1, 1783



177



Clark to William Davies, January i 1 783
[Executive Documents, Va. State Archives.]

Lincoln January i»' 1783
Sir.

You receive from Maj-Walls, Returns of the stores, of this
Department, I hope you will consider the officers, they are in a deplorable situation, in short, cannot remain in service without assistance, if the soldiers, could receive but part of their pay, it wou d
encouraRc them greatly, you will find by the returns that there is
not a sufficiency of Cannon, for a Block hous, instead of Mounting
four or five Forts, I expected cannon stores to have been sent last
spring, for the different Posts to be built on the Ohio, but received
but two pieces, the number of Troops continue to decreas, I was
thinking that if Government, were to order the Militia of Kaintucky,
to be Classed, and each fifteen furnish a man for the war, as other
parts of the state, it would reais the Regulars to about two hundred
with a small reinforcement of the Millitia, And perhaps would answer the purpose of Garrisoning the Posts, Government, would wish
to suport in this Quarter, I only hint this, as some such plan might
perhaps be Resolved on, to the advantage of the Frontier, After
informing of you that not a Ration, is to be got on the Credit of the
state, it will be unneessary to point out the necessity of Governments, falling on some plan for the suport of the Troops, in this
Quarter, the stores of Provision Purchased in eighty one, are exhausted, We are preparing to go about the works at the mouth of
Kaintucky &c, but it is with reluctance, as we expect nothing els
but to have the pleasure of Destroying it again, not as yet knowing
in what maner they are to be suported with provisions &c, wishing to
receive further Instructions from Government on the subject, but in
the mean time shall take the most prudent Measures that our Reason
may Dictate, I expected to be able to leave the Frontier, some time
in March, or the first of April, and could wish to find that it was
likely to be in a Tolerable Situation of Defence, you will as fully
know its wants as I do, perhaps much better as I am a stranger
to the Proposals of a General peace, supposing us to Remain in a
state of a War, to save blood Treasure, this Department ought



178 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

to be well supported, excuse me for mentioning anything like Dictating to you, and permit me, to subscribe myself.

Your very Obt Serv*

G R Clark
Col: W. Davis

James Monroe to Clark, January 5, 1783
[Draper MSS., 52J69-70.— A L.S.]

Richmond Jany 5 1783
Sir I did propose writing you sooner in answer to y' fav"" I have
sometime since rec* from you, but not having till y' present an opportunity w* I CO* with propriety avail myself of defer d it hitherto.
Mr Gratiot who appears from y' circumstances before us to be yf
intimate friend will present this to you. When I first came into
office I inform d you that as well from y' desire I had of rendering
service to y' community at large as of paying attention to y' particular interests of that part w^ you are appointed to defend, it was
my desire to correspond confidentially with a gent' of character there,
that in consequence of y' very favorable impressions y"" conduct as
generally rec'' as particularly stated to me by my friend M'' Jefferson had made on me, induced a desire of corresponding with you.
The same motives w'' induced this proposition to you y' same
spirit of candour w^ inclin d me to wave y' difficulty of y'' being a
stranger will I doubt not apologize for y« contents of y' present letter.
Since I have been at y* Board a variety of business respecting ye
western country hath been before it. a variety of communications
respecting y'' particular conduct have been made to us. Y' draughts
to an immense am'on Oliver Pollock at N. Orleans others in y'
western country who have taken up bills on y' treasury, have been
presented for paym'M"" Pollocks claim if I recollect aright amounts
to 275 000 dollars or more specie, other claims under y''" y'' officers draughts w'' have already been presented make y' sum am' to
above 100 000 specie. I speak within bounds when I confine it
to this sum. a Capt. George drew at one time for 230 000 specie
dollars on Oliv^ Pollock his letter of advice specifically mentions
specie Mr Pollock says he advanc d 32 000 dolK" having either
delay 'd payment or protested ye bill for y' remd'



MONROE TO CLARK. JANUARY 5, 1783 179



Capt. George in a subsequent letter to y' Gov'' contradicts this

i; fact says he drew for paper dol''' I will not be positive whether

I' y* letter is address d to y' Gov'' or some other person but his letter

we have contradicting it. These draughts are immense calculated
to exhaust impoverish y' state ultimately we fear to turn to
no publick benefit, we are with respect to them much surpris d you
wo^ upon any occasion permit y'' inferior officers to draw bills,
cannot conceive wiiy y^ arrangments have not been such tiiat in yf
gen' superintendence of y« military afl''" westw** you have not kept
them simply to y' duty of getting provision eating it, cloaths
wearing them receiving them from those who, under you, procure
them for them. The country in w^ you carry on y' operations we
know is extensive in y' distance of y' posts from each other y'
several officers commanding them must have a kind of discretionary
power in y'' absence, but the discretion we conceive they sho^ exercise
ougiit to be simply confin d to their operations ag""* y* enemy, for
instance while you are at one post, if assail d at another y' officer
commanding must use such means for his defense as he thinks will
prove most cfficatious. but tiiis discretion sho^ never be extended
to their making contracts for cloaths without yi" knowledge or [irocuring provision but in y' manner you have prescribed provided
for. If each officer hath this power you open a door to his corruption, you open a door to excessive fraud and peculation on publick
property by making him a merchant you iiliberalize his heart
detach him from y' publick interest. I make this observation gen*'^
wish not to apply it to any particular sett of men or even country.
If howe er y'' officers have acted without yr. orders, or even consent,
in y' many instances wherein exceptions have arose to their conduct,
we cannot conceive why you have not arrested, broke dismiss d
them from y' service, for certainly you must be aware that by not
subjecting them to censure you give them yr. countenance. Tlicse
several circumstances together with y« little appearance of order
or oeconomy w^ we can discover have I must inform you, made
more probable with y' Board y' several reports we have heard to yr.
prejudice, viz. that you are personally engag d in private speculations w^ at least do not promote y' publick interest further that
vou drink to an excess.



i8o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

we know that Congress wish to wrest that country from us
we further know that if they can do it they will that without
making us a reycompensation for y' immense expense we have been
at. we mean howeer not to let them have it, but if in y* chance
fortune of things they sho^ get it from us turn it to gen' interest
of y' United States in prejudice of this, we mean not in y' meantime
to desert it in y* infancy but to give it what support we can, as well
in y' pleasure we have in ministring aid to y' offspring of y' state
as in marring and dashing y' views of y' enemy. The interest of y'
State requires a full settlem' of all these western afif''' as the State
thereby will be appris d with certainty what she does what she
does not owe, that she may preserve her honor interest do justice
to her creditors, as well as introduce order oeconomy in y« several
particularly in that department, and after y' communications I
have very candidly made you I think you will readily concur with
me that this investigation is very necessary to y'' character interest.
You have been appris d that after settling with y' com^' y'' presence
is requir d here to attend y' orders of y' Executive, this it was suppos d you might effect by April. Mr Gratiot will inform you what
has been done with respect to Mr Pollocks acc'° &c as well as his
own. to him I beg leave to refer you upon every other subject on
w^ you wish information shall only add that I shall be glad to
hear from you am with my best wishes for yf health welfare y''
mo: ob' servant

Jas. Monroe

Renjamin Harrison to Benjamin Logan, January 13, 1783

[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, Va. State Archives.]

Col: Benjamin Logan.

Council Chamber Janu: 13*^ 1783.
Sir

Gen Clark has given me Information of his success in a late
expedition against the Shawnees Indians and of the spirited and
active part you and the Militia of Kentuckey took in it and the
Obligations he and your Country in general are under both to you
and them in thus manfully stepping forth and correcting a Tribe of



I



i'



HARRISON TO CLARK, JANUARY 13, 1783 i8i

Indians who have manifested such an inveterate hatred to us, and
who have hitherto been too successful in their expeditions against our
frountier Inhabitants. Be assured Sir that the Executive entertain
the highest sense of your conduct and services and I beg you to
accept of our warmest Acknowledgements for them, and that you
will communicate both to the Officers and Men under your command
our thanks, and assure them we shall ever entertain a proper sense
of the important services they have rendered their Country in thus
manfully stepping forth to revenge the Blood of their Countrymen,
and correcting the Insolence of a bloodthirsty and vindictive Enemy,
who have so long triumphed over us, and desolated our frontiers.
The Blow was so well timed and so happily executed that I hope
it will put such an effectual stop to their hostile Intentions against
your Infant Settlement, as will give you time so to strengthen yourselves, as to render fruitless any of their future attempts to disturb
you.

I am Sir

&c.

B. H,

Benjamin Harrison to Clark, January 13, 1783
[Draper MSS., 52J73.— A L.S.]

Council Chamber Januy: 13'' 1783.
Sir I received your favor of tlic 27"" November and very sincerely
congratulate you on the Success of your expedition against the Indians, the Officers and men under your command deserve the highest
praise from their Country, for their spirited conduct in the affair.
Thro' you Sir the Executive desire their thanks may be given them,
and that you assure them, they will ever remember with gratitude
the Services they have rendered the blow was well timed, and if it
had been seconded by Gen: Irvine would perhaps have quieted tlie
Indians for some Time; I have not heard from that Quarter lately,
tho' I am inclined to think the General has been kept still on receiving Information, that the British had call d in all their scalping
parties, and intended no more to carry on that kind of War against
our back Settlements, whether they really mean as they say. Time
will discover, but be it as it may, your Expedition will be attended



i82 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

with good Consequences; it will teach the Indians to dread us, and
convince them that we will not tamely submit to their depredations.
It has ever been my Opinion the attacking them in their own
Country, was the only way to keep them quiet, and save expence,
but I have unfortunately differ d in Sentiments from those to whom
I am amenable and have been under a Necessity of obeying their
Injunctions, had this not been the Case, it is more than probable,
we should not have depended on the Continente altogether on our
Northwestern frontier.

The Commissioners appointed to settle the Terms of peace with
the Chickasaws will be with you soon after this gets to hand, if you
have not finished the intended purchase of Lands, they have orders
to assist you in it if you think it necessary, and I shall be obliged to
you to do the same friendly Office by them. It has been suggested
to me that it is probable the Shawnees and Hurons are so humble
by your Success, that they may wish for peace, the Commissioners
are therefore empower d to make one if you shall advise it, which I
expect will not be the Case, unless you can first draw the proposal
from them, for tho' such an event is desirable yet great circumspection must be used, or the Indians will construe our solicitations as
proceeding from fear, and become less tractable than heretofore; but
as you are much better acquainted with the Temper and dispositions
of these people than I am, I shall leave you to Judge for yourself,
without paying very strict attention to what I have said on the Subject. I have now Sir to return you my particular thanks and those
of my Council for your spirited and judicious Conduct thro the
whole course of your Expedition, and to assure you that we shall
ever entertain the highest Sense of the Important Service you have
rendered your Country, in subduing an Enemy who have so long
enfested our frountiers with Inpunity, and destroyed such Numbers
of our valuable Inhabitants.

I am with respect Sir
Your mo: Obed' most Hum: Servant.
Benj Harrison
Gen: G: R. Clarke.

Falls of Ohio



CHAPTER VII

WESTERN TROBLEMS DURING THE WINTER AND SPRING
JANUARY i6, 1783 APRIL 29, 1783

Protection of Immigrants Abuses in the Public Service Conditions
IN Kentucky Fort Nelson, the Key to the West Terms of Peace.

James Wood to Benjamin Harrison, January 16, 1783
[Executive Papers, Va. State Archives.]

Sir,

TIlis will be Delivered your Excellency by M'' Machan, One of
the Captives lately returned from Canada; there is about thirty five
of those unhappy People at this Place, who have been Plundered
of their all by a merciless enemy, and Suffered along and Painful
Captivity. Col' Holmes very readily furnished them with Provisions, as far as he Conceived himself Authorized by the Executive;
which he informed me was not to Exceed Twenty Shillings each.
As their Numbers are much less than was expected, they hope the
Executive will Direct them a support 'till the Season will admit of
their return to Kentucki. I have the Honor to be with the gre itest respect and Esteem.

Sir
Yr Excellency s

Very Ob' Serv'

James Wood.
Winchester Jan>' 16 1783.
Gov? Harrison

Thomas Marshall to Clark, January 27, 1783
[Draper MSS., 52)74.— A L.S.]

Jan. 27"" 1783
Sir

Forts are of Little use in covering and defending a country situated as this is against an Enemy who carry on a War in the manner
the Indians do, therefore I shall say nothing of them considered in

183



i84 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

that point of view.' I shall confine myself to population, the only
object worth the expence of building and Garrisoning them which
1 think attainable. To inable me to give a decisive opinion on the
place most proper to ans^ this purpose I shall consider as far as I
am able to judge, the advantages disadvantages attending each
of the places which I have heard propos d as proper for erecting
garrisons at. The mouths of Kentuckey, Licking Limestone, are
the places as I understand propos d, the other Commissioners have
recommended the Mouth of Kentuckey. The reasons given by
them as well as I recollect, in support of their opinion are, that it
will favor tiie settling the Lands in its vicinity and on Rrashiers s
Creek Floyds fork &c. cover the salt works intended to be erected
at Drinnings Lick, and afiord an easey convenient passage up the
Kentuckey by Water to such as are removing down the Ohio and
wish to Settle in Fayette. Some part of this reasoning for ought
I know may be just, but of that I have my doubts. I think the Fort
at the falls sufficient to answer the purpose of affording a safe landing, favoring the population of Jefferson; as to Lincoln, the
only avenue leading into this country by land is in that County and
has already fill d it with inhabitants. It cannot be doubted but
Jefferson Lincoln owe their present population to these two causes
The inlets, the only ones, into this country at present being
the falls, and that through Cumberland Gap. The people of Fayette
arc little proffitted by either of these two passages into the Country
as both are inconvenient to the people wishing to settle in that
County. But it is time to give some reasons why a Garrison at
the Mouth of Kentuckey will not answer the purpose suppos d to be
intended so far as concerns Fayette. These are two, first, a navigation up the Kentuckey witli those kinds of Boats generally made
use of for removing families down the Ohio is impracticable at any
time but more especially so in time of War when the Enemy will
I)ri)l):il)ly way lay tiiat river may fire on them from citiicr side
inevitably destroy them without a possibility of their escaping, and j

secondly a road from the mouth of Kentuckey into that part of Fayette where people most wish to settle must pass through a moun•For the question of establishing forts in Kentucky, see ante, 5-6, 161j

163. The report of the commissioners to settle the western accounts, one

of whom was Col. Thomas Marshall, is printed post, 293 ff.

1



k



MARSHALL TO CLARK. JANUARY 27. 1783 185

tainous country which tho' not absolutely unfit for cultivation is
not likely to be settled in any small time throught which it is
not possible to get a road fit for a waggon to pass without much
more labor than the people in their present situation and numbers
iiave it in tiieir power to bestow. The same objections equally may
be urged against the M' of Licking Limestone or somewhere in
its Neighborhod I think most proper for the following reasons. Because that body of fine Lands so much tiie object of desire and on
which people removing to Fayette wish to settle on, juts up to the
river at that place, is sever d from the Mouths of Licking Kentuckey by the range of high iiills afforesaid. Because it would be
most convenient for all such as were moving into tiiis country from
the northern parts of Virginia and from the States of Maryland
Pensylvania the other Eastern States to come down the Ohio,
in that case Limestone would be the place undoubtedly where such
of them as would wish to to settle in Fayette would find it most
convenient to Land. Because it must appear very absurd to persons
moving into Fayette, to pass the very Lands they wish to settle on,
go down the river 230 Miles to the M' of Kentuckcy before they
Land, then to have upwards of lOO or 150 miles to return by
Land through an uninhabited mountainous Wilderness where they
are every moment expos d to the attacks of the Enemy. 15ccause
a Garrison at limestone would in al probability induce a settlement
in its neighborhod or vicinage, and in a short time fill the intermediate space between that the present settlements in Fayette with
smaller stations inhabited by people ready as soon as a peace takes
place to remove out, settle cultivate their own Lands, in the
mean time by adding to our numbers enable us occasionally to carry
the war into the Enemys country thereby render it more terrable
to them. Because there is a road already made from witliin 5 or
6 miles of that place upwards of 50 Miles into the Country througli
the heart of the good lands, which with a very little labor might
be made passable for waggons or other carriages. And because it
seems to be a piece of justice due to the people of Fayette, who seem
at present the piquet Guard of Lincoln, to allow them the same
means of strengthening themselves which Jefferson and Lincoln have
so successfully availd themselves of. You also desire my opinion



i86 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

on the manner by which this Garrison at the mouth of Limestone
is to be supported with provisions. I answer. The state must for
the first year send them flour from the neighborhod of Fort Pitt
send it down the ohio Beef may at the same time be supplied
them by hunting, and if I am not missinform d this is the way the
Garrisond at the Falls is supplied. Upon the whole It is my
opinion that a stockade fort such a one as that at Wheeling should
be immediately built at or near the mouth of Limestone and garrisond with one company of state troops, occasionally reinforc d by
small draughts from the militia, that it should be supplied with
provisions military stores sufficient for one month siege at least.
And that Forts at the mouths of Licking Kentuckey considering
our present resourses will be burthensome and unnecessary. I have
only to add my thanks for the politeness with which you did me
the honor to ask my opinion on the above subject and to assure you
that I give it with pleasure sincerity and am

Dear Gen' Your most obed' Serv'
T. Marshall
Endorsed: Col. T. Marshal Jan" 27"" 83 oppinion on the defence of the country

Jonathan Clark to Clark, January 29, 1783
[Draper MSS., 52J7S.— A L.S.]
D" Brother,

You must not impute my long silence to neglect or the lack of
inclination, the recluse manner in which I have spent the last year
has kept all opportunities from hence, an entire secret as to me,
the business that you probably have on hand may serve as an apology
for you. I have not had a line from you since last February.

The favourable conveyances by M'' Grassett [Gratiot] I with
pleasure embrace of saying something news I have none, politicks
I must not touch on, the acts of our late assembly I have not
seen, except one relative to the army, which allows their certificates
for pay to go in payment of their own Taxes, and the interest of
those certificates is to be paid if anything is done respecting the
back country, I do not know it. I would have made myself acquainted with whatever was done, and have let you known it, had I



CHRISTIAN TO HARRISON, JANUARY 29. 1783 187

known of this opportunity in time. I am this moment infoini d
that Mr Grassctt is on his way out, and it is now nine OClock at
night.

Bro. Jolin went off with M'' Hart last fall for some of the W.
India Islands, and has not return d, he was in a very decliniiif^ state,
and took this voyage for the benefit of his Health, the rest of the
family are very well Edmund is exchanged and intends Joining
his Regiment in a week or two. 1 shall be very glad to hear from
Richard. I have not heard certainly whether [he] got to you or
not, if he has remember me to him, he should have heard from me
by letter if I knew he was with you. Miss Nancy Tompkins is mard
to Mf J Dickinson Cap' Stevens to Miss Carter and so on I
have flattcr d myself with the pleasure of seeing you here this winter but fear I shall be disappointed my wife joins me in conpratulatinf; you on your recent success against the Indians witli
our sincere wishes for your future prosperity 1 am

Yr Aff Brother

JoNA^ Clark
Spotsylvania Jan. 29, 1783
Addressed: Brigadier General George Rogers Clark

Falls Ohio Favd by Mr. Grassett

William Christian to Benjamin Harrison, January 29, 1783

[C<j/. of I a. State Papers, 3-424-425.]

Mahanaine
Jan y 29th
"Sir,

About a month ago, I wrote to Col Mathews, one of your honourable Board, recommending and advising the removal of Col
Martin, your Indian Agent, from the Great Island on Holston river,
to Cumberland Gap. I gave some reasons in that letter vvliy I
recommended liic Alteration, which I hope Col: Mathews stated to
the Board."

"However Sir, the chief Design of my troubling you at this
Time, is to remin d you, that it has been long talked of, and 1 dare
say often recommended, that a Post ought to be erected on the Ohio



1 88 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

at the Mouth of Licking or Lime stone River, for the benefit of
the middle and upper Parts of the Kentucky Country.

The Falls is beyond a doubt a proper station for a garrison, but
it is of no more use to the upper and middle Country than a Post
on James River would be to the People on Potomack.

I rather judge Limestone to be the most suitable Place, and that
a hundred men would be a sufficient number for a Garrison there.
It would be a proper Place for the Rendezvous of Troops going
into the Shawney Country, and for the Debarkation of Families
moving down the Ohio. The other advantages arising from a Post
there, 1 need not explain, as they will in a moment occur to your
Excellency. There is one however I have just thought of that I
will mention. At Limestone or Licking would be a proper station
for an armed vessel to cruize from, up and down the River. But
it ought to be light and manageable for twenty or thirty men, which
number in a proper constructed vessel would be strong enough to
attack any number of Indians in Canoes. There is one thing I
will mention, and although it may appear Selfish, yet you ought to
be acquainted with it. Fayette County is the most exposed to the
Enemy, of any County in the State, or perhaps in America, and if
neglected, the Inhabitants will I dare say from Report, move away
in great numbers to Cumberland in North Carolina: and if the
present Inhabitants makes a Break I don t know where any others
would be found to take their Places. I am informed by Letters
from Kentucky that the People seem pretty easy just now, being
amused with an account of a Cessation of Arms betwixt us and our
Enemies: and some other accounts of General Carlton s having
proposed to stop hostilities, from the Indians. The latter we hear
often by travellers from Pennsylvania. Be those matters as they
may, I have very slender Hopes that the Shawnees will regard either
Carlton or Haldimand s Talks, in any short Time; besides the Doubt
I have of Carlton s sincerity. And therefore I guess the People
exposed ought to make Preparations for an early and vigorous attack. Small Parties have already been on our Frontiers: and near
the Falls of Ohio. Their success will send out others, in spite of
any vague and doubtful orders from their generals at ten or twelve
hundred miles distance.

I am j our Excellencies obedient servant.



MARTIN TO HARRISON. FEBRUARY 2, 1783 189

Joseph Martin to Benjamin Harrison, February 2, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Long Island Feb!' the 2^ 1783
Sir

I Returned from the Cherokee Nation on Monday last, The
news from that Quarter is, that there is Warriors sent from four
diffcrant Tribes of Indians from the Neighborhood of Detroit to
hold Talks with the Cherokees, Cheekacaws, Creeks, Chocktaws,
from thence to proceed to Sant Auguststine; The Old Tassall informs me they are to collect as many Warriors from the Southern
Tribs, as in tiieir power lyes, to assist them the Insuing Campain.
That all y° otiier Nations are this Spring to Imbody in the Neighborhood of Detroit, march from there with a party of Brittish forces
Against Fort Pitt, from thence to the Falls of Ohio, Kantuckey,
from thence to the Illenois, in order to Take the above places.
And destroy the Kaskaskian Indians, as they are sure of Success;
This Appears to be their design and plan for this year

They inform the Cherokees, that if they will but Join them, they
will be well Supplied with everything they want for nothing; the
above Indians were scon at the Creek Nation on their way to o'
Augustine Acompanied with 575 Chocktaws, near 500 Cherokees
I expect they will be back some time in March, at their Arrival
ill the Cherokee country, I am to iiave Immediate notice, Therefore
if your Excellancy should think proper, to order about 100 Horsemen to hold themselves in readiness, they might be easily cut off before they could cross the Ohio I am told they have dispatches from
the Commander at Detroit, to the Commander at Sant Augustine,
in all probability if they could be defeated on their way home, which
I think is Easily Effected, we then should be made Acquainted with
all their Secret plans of War.

Your Exccllencys instructions respecting the Treaty with the
Southern Tribes, has not come to hand. Col. Donaldson have been
Weating since the 2^ of last month on that business. And Weats
your Excellencys Instructions. Majf Reid who I have Imploi d
to carry those Dispatches, has also engag d to go to the Chekacaws
Nation, to fix the Time of meeting at the Cumberland River, he is

'This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia Stale Papers, 3426-427.



I90 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Apcrson vvlioes Deligance Fidilety may be depended on. And I
presume tliat it would be highly necessary, he Should be Enabled
to make a good Apperance, to Stricke the attention of the Indians
where he is to go. as it may Answer A good purpose witli Tliose
people, I have the Honour to be

Your Excellencys

Most Ob' Hble Ser«

Jos. Martin Ind* Ag'
Ills Excellency
Benjamin Harrison.

Abuses in the Public Service
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Monday Feb'' 3'' 1783 Holland Station

M^ John May being summoned before the Board of Commissioners, appeared, and being sworn Deposeth as follows

Question Do you know anything from your own knowledge concernin the misapplication of Public property? Answer I once saw
some few Goods going from the Public Store for Colo. Todd, and
I think M Lindsay inform d me he had charged himself with them,
as he conceived he had a right to take such articles out of the Store,
And I think he asked my opinion whether Colo Todd had a right
as an Officer to draw such things, and I gave it he had not. In the
Summer 1780, I was at Colo Slaughters at the Falls and saw a
good deal of Whiskey made use of in his house but whether Public
or private I am not certain but believes great part of it was public
and supposes Colo Slaughter stands charged in his Account with
what he expended, I know a part of it was his private property. I
recollect, when M' Angus Cameron spoke to me about the Fur that
Gen' Clark purchased in the Illinois, he said, he knew of his own
knowledge that the horses that carried the Fur of?, were public property, or made use of words that conveyed that Idea to me. I am
certain he told me the Fur was paid for in Bills drawn on Orleans
or the State Agent there, I recollect Mr Cameron informed me
that Gen' Clark after he had been sometime in the Illinois Country
desired him to draw up a list of the expenditures in the Department
which he did it amounted to 2 or 3000 dollars, shewed it to



ABUSES IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE 191

the General, who seemed surprised at the sums being so small a>k'i
him if he was certain he was right and being inform^ he was, 'Hie
Gen' put up the Account observing he had no further occation for
him at that time and after that never called on him to state another
Account. That sometime after the General shewed him a rough
Draft of a Bill on the Agent and desired him to correct it, that the
sum drawn far greatly exceeded the expenditures though he did not
certainly know what they were from the calculation to the time of
the Draft which was no great while, I think he told me the Draft
was for more than 20 000 Dollars, that from the time of settling
the Accounts he (Cameron) had designedly kept himself out of
the way of information and had determined to be privy to nothing
more than he was obliged to attend to, and could not tell how the
additional cxpcnces were incurred, That he believed there were
unfair practices going on which was the reason he had kept out of the
way and which determined him to withdraw himself from tiic service whenever be could conveniently disengage himself, to prevent bis
being called on at a future day to declare Facts which might involve him in trouble He informed me, the Gen' told him, he had a
power of Agency in behalf of the State as well as a military Command that upon his making it known to the General that he intended
to quit the Service, the General express*" his unwillingness to part
with him and held out many inducements to him to continue with
him but upon his refusing nothing farther at that time passed, that
before his coming away the Gen' he got into conversation respecting Trade whereupon the Gen' mentioned a very profitable one tliat
might be carried on, and in such a manner as induced Cameron
to believe that he wished him (Cameron) to make some proposition
to engage in it but being determined to quit the Service the Country and no such proposal being made he took no notice of it. And no
proposition relative thereto made on either side. I think Cameron
further informed me that it was usual for the Officers in that department whose Credit was good at first, to write Notes in tin s
manner This is good for so much, and when many of these were
in circulation they were call d in and paid for in public Bills Cameron further informed me that after he had left the service the Gen'
Meeting with him and entering on a conversation, the Gen' asked



192 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

how he could report things prejuditial to his Character, That lie
evaded giving direct answers by enquiring why he should suspect
him, that others were as likely as himself to make such reports
Cameron said further he did not come to a direct answer and believed the Gen' asked him the question not because he had heard
that he had spread any report but from a consciosness that he had
the power and wished by Its means to discover whether he had
or not, that after some farther conversation the Gen' put his hand
on his sword and observed his reputation was sacred he would put
any man to Death who would attempt to injure it in that way, That
Cameron answered he supposed that any man thus attacked would
put the person to Death who should attempt to take his life. He
told me farther that he considered his life unsafe whilst the Gen'
Commanded in this quarter that he imagined the Gen' thought his
reputation was so much in his power that he would expose him to
danger on all occations till he got lu m killed, that he observed he
made perticular enquiry after him when men were called out on
Militia duty, that for these reasons he was determined never to serve
under him, Upon his telling me these circumstances with a number
of others injurious to the Generals Reputation he asked me if I
meant lodging an Information, I answered that I did not. Then
says he you are not at liberty to make mention of what I have told
you. Though I think your duty requires you to inform
John May s
Deposition
Feb 3-1783Walker Daniel' to the Western Commissioners,

February 3, 1783

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

New Holland Feb^ 3^ 1783.
Gentlemen,

Agreeable to the request of Mons'' Carbonneaux (the Prothonotary and Notary Public for the Ilinois Settlement) I have had

'Walker Daniel, a lawyer who came to Lincoln County, Kentucky,
during 1781, was one of the original proprietors of the town of Danville.
He was appointed member of the Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Regiment (see pojl, 413 ff.) and was made its agent by the board February
I, 1783. He was killed by the Indians in August, 1784.

This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3 :430-432.



DANIEL TO JFESTERN COMMISSIONERS 19?

a Conference with him, thro' the assistance of Capt. Tardiveux; he
appears to Iiave been instructed, as to the Ground of his Message
by the better dispos d part of the Inhabitants of the Country whose
complaint he represents.

The principal Topics of Conversation that pass de between us
I will endeavor to pive you as far as my recollection will enable me.

He complains that they are wholly without Law or Government
that their Magistrates, from indolence or sinister views, having for
some Time been relax in the execution of their Office,' are now
altogether without authority; that crimes of the greatest enormity
may be committed with Impunity, and a man may be murder d in
his own house, and no person regard it that they have no Sheriff or
Prison; and to crown the general Confusion that many people have
made large purchases of three or four hundred Leagues, and are
endeavouring to have themselves establish d Lords of the Soil, as
some have done in Canada, and have Settlements made on these
purchases compos d of a set of men wholly subservient to their Views.

As a Remedy for these Grievances he would recommend that
a President of Judicature be sent them with executive powers to a
certain extent, and that subordinate civil officers be appointed to
reside in each Village or Station, who should have power to hear
and decide all Causes upon Obogations not exceeding three hundred Dollars, but that those which were given for more, the adjusting settling all Accompts whatever, and determining finally
upon all intricate and important Questions should be reserv d for
the Court, which miglit be held at Kaskaskias, and consist of the
president and a Majority of the Magistrates. He wisiics the Grant
in which the Kaskaskias Settlements lie could be consider d as making one District; it contains five Villages, of which Kaskaskias and
Kahokia arc tiie principal the Grant reaches from Piasa to Amarie,
about ninety Miles along the Missisippi, and back from the River,
as far as the Ilinois extends, that is, to the Lakes. (I doubt the
extent of the Grant to the N. E.) The Tract comprehended witliin these Limits, he informs mc, was by solemn Treaties granted to
the Settlers by the Indians, and has never been disputed by them.

For the conditions prevalent in the Illinois country at the time, see
Ca/iokia Records, cxxv ff.



194 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

He further observes, that there is no man in that Country, whose
abih ties and influence by any means capacitate him for the Office
of President and he believes it would be absolutely necessary for a
Year or two to have a Company of Regulars station d in the Country, who should be under the direction of the President, otherwise
he conceives their Decrees would not be carried into Execution, as
the licentiousness of the people has risen to such a height. He seems
anxious to encourage population among them, and as an encouragement to Advanturers to migrate thither he wishes the President vv ere
vested with the power of granting Lands in moderate Quantities,
(for he appears afraid of Monopolies,) to such as should chuse to
become Inhabitants of their Country. He says the Spaniards have
the liberty of trading up any of their Rivers on the East side of
the Missisippi, while they are prohibited by the Governor of Pancore* to enter any one River on the Spanish side, and that they
ardently wish proper representations were made of the matter that
they might enjoy reciprocal advantages with their Neighbours, and
especially that they could be allow 'd the Liberty of trading up the
Missouri.

He complains. That the Board of Commissioners have not settled
the Obligations which were given payable in peltry agreeable to the
known Rule and constant practice of the Ilinois Country, which
is, when a Note is given for 50 lb in peltry, for instance, and the
Obliger fails to pay in Peltry, that then he is considered as bound
to pay 100 Livres in Money.

I believe I have enumerated the several causes of grievance which
he complains of in that Country and the Mode he proposes to have
them repress d.

My own Observations to him, I presume, are unnecessary to
communicate to you, though if you desire it, I shall upon being notified thereof, at any time be ready to do it. As by Your Commission You might be empower d to enquire into the situation of the
Country of Ilinois and state their Grievances to Government, I
thought the above narrative might not be without use. I have the
honor to be, Gent, with great personal esteem. Your mo.
obdt most humble Servt.

Walker Daniel.

Pancore or Paincourt was the name by which St. Louis was commonly
known. See Clark Papers, cxxix, note 4.



BILLS OF EXCHANGE 195

P. S. I have omitted, I observe, in the Body of my Letter, to make
mention of Maj"" Carbonneaux s having press d with much earnestness, That the Inhabitants of Ilinois might be permitted the Enjoyment of tlieir own Laws Customs.

W. D. C

Clark to William Fleming, February 6, 1783

\_Cal. of Va. State Papers, 3433.]

Geo: Rogers Clarke to Colo. William Fleming.

Feb y 6th, 1783
"Sir,

At St. Vincent on the 5th of Aug: 1779, the western Troops
were disposed of agreable to the inclosed order. Lt: Colo. Montgomery received his Instructions accordingly, he was authorized
by me to draw Bills of Exchange on myself, on the Treasurer of the
state of Virginia for the Defraying the necessary Expences of the
Troops &c. in the department, but not on any other person, at a
Court of Inquiry held on Colo. Montgomery at Fort Nelson, in the
year 1 781, one of the charges against him was that of his drawing
Bills on Mr. Pollock contrary to the orders of his superior officer,
lie then proved to the court the necessity lie was under of drawing
Bills on New Orleans, which was satisfactory to said court, the
proceedings of which have been since Transmitted to the Governor.

I am Sir, your Hubl. Servant."

Depositions Relating to Bills of Exchange, February 17, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

New Holland Febf 17th. 1783
The Deposition of Colo. Jolm Montgomery taken by the Board
of Commissioners relative to Bills of Exchange drawn by Colo W"'
Lynn Dec* in presence of Colo W™ Pope administrator.

W^ Lynn went a volunteer with the Deponent to Kaskaskias in
July 1778, That he saw W" Lynn receive quantities of Goods from
Gab' Cere' k Ciiarlcs Charteville' Mcrch'' at Kaskaskias when he

For a biographical sketch of Gabriel Cerre see Cahokia Records, xx,
note 2.

'Charles Charleville was captain of a Kaskaskia company which went
with Clark oil the cxpc<liti<iii to Viiiceniies. In 1779 he was made a justice
of the peace by John Todd, county lieutenant of Illinois. See also index,
Clark Papers.



196 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

was there and saw him drawing Bills in favour of Charloville but
can not remember the Sums, that the Deponent was in Company
with W" Lynn at Masier' where the said W" Lynn purcliased a
Rood smart quantity of Good from a Spanish Merch' but does not
know eitiier the particulars or amount; That W"' Lynn had a I3oat
of his own and imployed hands at his own expence, tliat the Deponent
came in company with W™ Lynn to the Falls of the Ohio where W™
Lynn disposed of near half of his Goods as his own property, whilst
the Deponent was there; The Deponent further says that he asked
Lynn at the Kaskaskias when he was purchasing the Goods how
he designed to pay for them, the Deponent knowing he had no money
Lynn answered he would draw Bills on Ol^' Pollock as the Country
was indebted to him, and that he would go to the Government and
settle these Bills when he settled his Accounts, and that he remembers Lynn had some difference with Gen' Clark on the Generals
refusing to Countersign his Bills and further says not

Also the Deposition of John Sanders relative to Bills drawn by
W" Lynn &c

He inform d the Board that he was Pilot for the Troops from
the Falls of Ohio to Kaskaskias in 1778, tliat when he was there W"
Lynn desired him to speak to Charloville and know whether he W"'
Lynn could purchase any Goods from him on Credit to be paid in
Pork or Flour at the Falls, and if that would not do, he would
draw Bills on M": Pollock at New Orleans, That Mr Charloville
choosing the Bills, Colo Lynn purchased the Goods, he thinks to
the amount of five or six and twenty hundred Dollars as well as
he remembers. And the Deponent helped Lynn to pack up the
goods he got from M^ Charloville, he likewise says that \P Lynn
had Goods from M^ Cere how many he does not know And likewise that the Deponent was present Mesier,' when M^ Lynn purchased some Goods from Mr Luberdor a Merchant there, and likewise the Deponent heard that he purchased goods from M'' Dalshicet
Merchant in the same place but as to the last he does not know it
from his own knowledge That the Deponent came to the Falls
with M'' Lynn, and that the fine Goods were contained in two

'Maiscr, Mesier, for Miaire, the cant name for Ste. Genevieve.



I






IFESTERN COMMISSIONERS TO HARRISON 197

Trunks, that there was two Barrels of Tassia and some Blankets,
that when they came up to the Falls W" Lynn Sold a quantity
of Goods there and understood he took up the remainder of the
Goods to Wheeling and further says not

General Clark informs the Board that in August 1778 William
Lynn brought some Bills of Exchange to him to countersign, tliat
the General severely reprimanded him and asked him how he could
draw Bills, that he replied the Country was indebted to him; that
the General did not look at the Bills, and knows not on whom orin
whose favour they were drawn

Colo. W"^ Pope Administrator to W"" Lynn was present wlien
the above depositions were taken

I certify this to be a true Copy

Jn° APDowell Secy

Depositions concerning
Lynn s Bills,
Feb. 17, 1783
Duplicate

Western Commissioners to Benjamin Harrison,
February 17, 1783

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.— Copy.]

New Holland, Jefferson County, Feby 17th 1783.
Sir,

The Board of Commissioners wrote the 23d of December in
return to your E xcellency's favours of Ocf 1 6th and Novem'' 4th.
In compliance with your Orders we have diligently searched all
the Papers in our possession that could throw light on the Nature
of the Bills in Mr. Nathan s Hands, yet remain much in the Dark,
as Col. Todd s Books Accounts are supposed by the Executor to
be some where in the interior parts of Virginia, and he can only
lay before us some detached papers, amongst which we find a Letter
from the Executive dated Wms burg in Council August 20th 1779
in which the Hon""' Lieut. Governor acknowledges the Reciept of



198 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

several Letters from Col. Todd by Col. Slaughter' of the ist ad.
July 1779 which were laid before the Council who were pleased
with the Contents and approved of Col. Todd s Conduct and plan
for supporting the Credit of the paper Money but that it must be
submitted to the Assembly who alone can give it efficacy, that the
eight Draughts Col. Todd mentions have not been presented but
shall be duly attended to, as the Gentlemen to whom they are payable are higlily deserving of the grateful attention of Government.
The Board also found a Peltry Account amongst Col. Todd s
papers, by which it appears he purchased a quantity of Peltry from
Mr. Beauregard some Time in the Fall of the Year 1779 amounting to 21 000 for which it is probable he drew Bills to the Amount.
The Peltry by this Account seems to be paid to sundry persons.
Col. Montgomery s Certificate, and Information to the Board likewise accompanies this. On the whole, as no Bills of Col. Todd s
drawing have appeared before us, nor are any mentioned in the
Lists transmitted to us. We imagine the Bills in Mr. Nathan s
possession may probably be for the above purchase, but as we are
not furnished either with the Amount or Dates of these Bills, and
no direct light can be got here, we can not be positive. On the
Supposition that the Bills were given at that time and on that
Account, the Commissioners have to observe that 210 Packs of
Peltry cost the State 20 s. pr Lb, and that at the Time the purchase
was made Peltry and Silver were nearly on a par As it appears
Col. Todd is said to have given a high price for the Peltry allowing
three Livres p. Lb which is 50 PrC higher than it generally is;
shews the purchase was made with depreciated paper Money at a

George Slaughter, son of Robert Slaughter, was born in Culpeper
County, Virginia, 1739. He served in Lord Dunmore s War, taking part in
the battle of Point Pleasant. He entered the continental service as a captain, and was commissioned major in the Twelfth Virginia Regiment October 4, 1777, resigning after two months because of ill health. In 1779, returning to Virginia after a visit to Kentucky, he raised troops for Clark s
army which took part in the Shawnee expedition of 1780. When soon after
this Clark returned to Virginia, Major Slaughter was left in command of
the Kentucky regulars and built Fort Nelson. Shortly after he was made
lieutenant colonel of all the Virginia forces in Kentucky. Four nephews,
Lawrence, Joseph, James and John Slaughter, were all in Clark s Illinois
battalion. In 1784 he returned to Virginia as member of the legislature of
the state. He died June 17, 1818 in Charlestown, Indiana. Kellogg, Frontier Retreat, 179-180, note 2.






WESTERN COMMISSIONERS TO HARRISON 199

little more than five and a half for one. If the Bills in Question
were drawn for the above Account, the Commissioners think they
ought to be taken up at the above Discount, but the Board wish
to refer your Excellency to Col. Todds Letters of the ist 2d
July 1779 which we suppose are lodged in the Council Chamber
to elucidate the affair, as we can not meet with Copies of them.
The Board have finished Capt. George s Draughts on Mr. Pollock
in favour of Capt. Barbour, but not thinking it prudent to trust
the papers relative thereto by the Conveyance, they hope your Excellency will dispence with the principles they went on till tiiey
have an Opportunity of laying the papers before the Executive, As
no Invoices were produced either by Capt. George or Capt. Barbour the Board affixed the prices to the Cargo delivered at Fort
Jefferson from the best lights they could get at Seven tiiousand
five hundred and eighty ciglit Dollars one Livre and a third as the
prime Cost at New Orleans, on which the Board allowed two hundred
and twenty five per Cent advance for the Cargo delivered at Fort
Jefferson, amounting in the whole to twenty four thousand six
hundred and sixty one Dollars four Livres six Sous eight Deniers
including all Expences. We have not yet closed Gen' Clarks Accounts as we find them so connected with the other Accounts both
the Quarter Masters and Commissaries as well as the Officers that
we could not finish them before we had a General View of the
whole, we will be able to settle his in ten Days; to examine all tlie
Accounts minutely will take up a great deal of Time, perhaps more
than the Executive can imagine, as double Receipts have always
been taken for sums paid, the Vouchers should be listed Alphabetically to prevent double entries. None of Mr. Pollock s Bills
he presented for payment have appeared before this Board, but one
of the 1st of January 1781 for 5000 Dollars which appears to be
for part of the same Cargo Capt. George purchased from Capt.
Barbour, and was a second Bill and considered as part of the 24661
Dollars 5 1/3 Livres allowed as above for that Cargo. By Depositions it appears that tliose Bills drawn by Wm. Lynn in 1778 were
for Goods purchased by Lynn on his own Ace' at Kaskaskias and
Mesiere' and ought not to be charged to the State. It likewise apMesiere still another form of Misire, or Ste. Genevieve.



200 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

pears that Capt. Elliots Draughts and the Invoices of Goods shipped
on Account and at the risque of the United States, but charged to
tiie State of Virginia by Mr. Pollock was in consequence of the
Cargo s being lost in the Missisippi and some of the Articles that
were saved from the Wreck being made use of by the Troops in the
lilcnois, Inventories of the whole Cargo and what was saved and
applied to the Use of the Troops are copying, but as we have not
fully examined the Affair we defer iving our Opinion on it. The
Board inform^ your Excellency in theirs of December 23d. that an
Express was sent off to Kaskaskias to which they had a Return last
Evening informing us that we might expect some of their principal
Inhabitants would wait on us with their unsettled Accounts &c in
a short time. Mr. Carbonneaux who will present this is an Inhabitant of Kaskaskias and comes to get some private Affairs settled.
But we suppose principally as a Deputy to represent the Confusion
the Country is in, which if not settled by this State, we apprehend
he will proceed to Congress None of the Posts which your Excellency mentioned in your favour of the i6th of October last are
yet erected. We expect Genl. Clark will pay before you the Reasons
for defering this Business. We have lately received an Adress from
the Civil and Military Officers of Fayette which accompanies this
and praying us to report our Opinion to Government. We think,
could a Fort be erected at or near the Mouth of Limestone it would
tend greatly to encourage Settlements in that Country and that it
should be garrisoned by a Company of Regulars aided by the Militia
and furnished with Flour from the Neighbourhood of Fort Pitt

When we get a little more through the Business we will inform
your Excellency by an Express of our proceedings with such Remarks
on those Bills which have been presented for payment and are not
laid before us as may be necessary for the Executive to have before
we can return our whole proceedings. We are, with great Respect

Your Excellency s
Most obedient humble Servants
Will m Fleming
Sam l McDowell
Caleb Wallace
(A Copy)



CONDITIONS IN KENTUCKY, 1783 201

Conditions in Kentucky, February 18, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]'

At a meeting of the Officers of the Illinoise Regiment at Fort
Nelson on Tuesday the iS"" of February 1783 at the request of
Majf George Walls in order to confer on the present deplorable

situation of the Garrison

Present
Majr George Walls
Cap* George Lieu' Rich^ Clark

Cap' Bailey Lieu' Williams

Cap' Chaplain Lieu' W. Clark

The Officers after consultation mature deliberation find that
the Garrison in its present situation, is by no means equal to the importance of the place. That there is not above one third of the men
necessary for its defence and in a short time the unavoidable casualties will reduce the number to not more than twenty or thirty
Men That there is not more than three months Flower in Store,
not one pound of meat, and no possibility of procuring a sufficiency by the usual method of hunting That there is not a Sufficiency of lead to defend the Garrison twenty four hours in case of
an Assault, Some parts of the Fortification going to Wreck and
not men to make the necessary repairs. Also that the Men appear
to be on the Verge of Mutiny in consequence of having served so
long without receiving pay other necessaries, and no prospect of
an alteration for the better These Considerations and the daily
expectation of the Enemy now in the opening of the Spring induce
the Officers to conceive, that without some speedy remedy is taken
they may be reduced to the shocking alternative of evacuating the
Post And should either its fall or the Evacuation happen for want
of the necessary supplies, they can not think themselves answerable
for the consequence being conscious of having done their duty as
Officers. But as it is the determination of Officers men to defend the Post to the last extremety (being sensible of its importance)
with only for the Means And hoping that something may be speedily done for the better support of the Department Ma f Walls is

The account of this meeting is printed in Calendar of Virginia State
Papers, 3437.



202 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

hereby desired to lay this with the State of the Garrison before the
General, requesting him to make the necessary alterations or Amendments, and lay the same before the Commiss''' or take such other
measures as he may think most proper

By order in behalf of the Whole

Signed

G R Clark

George Walls to Clark, February 21, 1783
iCal. of Va. State Papers, 3:4+0.]

Major George Walls to Brig. Genl: Geo: Rogers Clarke.

Fort Nelson, Feb y 21st, 1783.
"Sir,

My duty requires me to lay before you, a State of this Garrison.
The better to enable me to do so, I have taken the opinions of all
the officers present at this post and the stores it contains is of too
Great Importance to the State to be neglected, and without some
speedy measures is taken for its Relief I dread the fatal consequences
that may follow, but for your further Information I lay before you
exact Returns of all the Publick Stores at this Post, likewise the
oppinion of a Board of Officers, beging you to lay the same Before
the Commissioners, for their consideration, or taken such other measures as you may think Proper.

The Contract I made with Majr. Williams in October last, for
a quantity of lead, I have no hopes of him being able to comply with,
as I have been informed that Gentleman was plundered by the
Indians on his way down the River meat we have none, and the
Season of the year and weakness of the Garrison Renders it out of
my Power to procure a sufficiency by the usual method of Hunting.

Should you think proper to lay the State of the Garrison before
the Commissioners, I should be glad to have the Honour of being
myself at the Conference.

I have the Honour to be
Sir, your obedient Humble Servant."



CLARK TO WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 203

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, February 23, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

New Holland 23 Feby 1783
Sir

A State of the Garrison of Fort Nelson accompany this by which
you will be made fully acquainted with the Situation of the Department, the returns include the whole of the Stores that we have
to depend on for the defence of the Country. will point out to
you the necessity of some immediate step being taken to enable us
to put it in a better state of Defence The importence of this Frontier to the State at large I should suppose was of such consequence
as to be a sufficient inducement to measures being taken more decisive than what has heretofore been attempted

I am Sir with respect

Your Obed« Serv'

G R Clark

Clark to the Western Commissioners, February 25, 17S3
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

New Holland 25"' Feb^ 1783
Gentlemen.

In consequence of the Conversation that passed between us on
your receiving a State of the Garrison of Fort Nelson, I have been
led into the train of thoughts I now transmit to you, on a Subject
that concerns not only the Iniiabitants of this infant Country, but
the tranquility of all our more interior Frontiers, Prejudice Party
disputes. And the want of Aids from Government, hath in a great
measure been the occasion of reducing this Department to a defenceless State, at a time we might suppose they were rising superior to
the Enemy they have to contend with; How it hath been supported
under these difficulties would require a Pamphlet to convey to you
the Idea of the Measures that have been taken rather than a letter.
Its present defence is what we ought to be solicitous for, for reasons
obvious to every thinking man that is zealous for the wellfare of
this Country, and will devest himself of prejudice must know that
great part of the State owe their protection to this Settlement being

'This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3:448-450.



204 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

far advanced towards the Enemys Country, engaging the attention
of those Savages that would (had they no such object) make frequent depredations on the Frontiers, and would have long since
caused the richest part of our Country to have been abandoned, and
instead of that assistance to the General defence, that have been
given by the Frontier Counties of the State, they would have required support from the most interior parts. What might not have
been the consequence in such a situation, And what is that of this
Country at present, detached from immediate resource, surrounded
by numerous Savage Tribes, inflamed from Education, and the prospect of British reward. Our interest among them nearly lost, for
the want of support. The Troops formerly a Barrier reduced to
a handfull. The Credit of the State sunk, not a Shilling of money,
not a ration to be procured any other way than by voluntary advances from a few individuals. The Ilinoise Settlements like to be
lost to the State through inattention that will nearly double the
Enemy. And the whole of the Savage Tribes let loose on a Country
void of the necessary Military Stores to enable them to defend themselves, had they other supplies, Emisaries among them, dividing
their councils, and destroying their interest at the Seat of Government, ready to take the advantage of the first opportunity to separate them from the State they live in, for the advantage of a few
Individuals who at present rejoice at every misfortune they meet
with. Too few in number to harrass the Enimy in the manner it
ought to be done, and too great a number of Women Children
to make their escapes from the Country We may expect nothing
more certain than an invasion the ensuing fall, if no measure should
be taken to prevent it, Indian Tribes joining the bloody league will
counterballance what they sufifered last year and finding us too
weak to keep up these Garrisons we have occupied &c! those Circumstances with a little British flattery will induce them to make
a violent attempt, and perhaps agreeable to the General Conduct
of the Councel of the Nations last fall will embody as they express
it from the rising to the Setting of the Sun, and finally drive the
Kentuckians across the Mountains and then the other Inhabitants
into the Sea In short I think the Settlement in extreme dainger
and that the interest of the Continent require that it should be imCLARK TO WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 205

mediately put in a State of defence, which is by no means in our
power without Assistance from the Executive. I have repeatedly
wrote to them on the disagreeable Subject without as yet receiving
an Answer, And therefor think it highly necessary that an Express
should be sent immediately to Government, laying a State of the
Department before them in which I hope for your Assistance, 1
making no doubt of it from the Idea I have of your dispositions, as
it will convince them of the propriety of their taking some immediate Steps for its support by advancing Money, Troops Stores,
at least such part as can not be procured in this Country. Fort
Nelson ought by all means to be supported, as in the Eyes of tlie
Enemy it is a key to the Country, immediately between the body
of the Enimy the Settlement. A Garrison or two higher up the
river might be necessary as a Barrier to the Eastern parts of the
Settlement, One hundred regulars in each reinforced occasionally
by Militia, which would be much cheaper than Garrisons of Militia
relieved every two months and exceedingly burthensome to the Inhabitants, this is the smalest Scale that I could possibly suppose would
answer the purpose, not then, except an Army should penetrate
to the head of the Ouaback sometime the ensuing summer, as the
greatest body of the Enemy live there, (those on the Miami retiring
since the last Expedition) by defeating them it is more than probable
tiiey would come to any terms with you before they would suffer
their Crops to be destroyed which always involves the Nation in the
greatest distress and prevents their going to war, neither can they
recover their loss in a short time The greatest part of the Hostile
Tribes at present are of those people, that have been in alliance with
us till lately. An Expedition into their Country would be Apropo
to what they ought to expect from us, from the nature of the different treaties held between us. Such an Armiment to set out in
July would prevent any Capital design they may have on this Settlement, as that is about the time they generally take the Field, when
they move in large bodies, their whole attention would be taken
up by the Idea of defeating said Army, as the preservation of their
families would depend on it. If they were disapointcd you might
be sure of any reasonable terms I could not suppose that such
an undertaking would be difficult or Expensive 170 000 lb of Flower



2o6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

to be immediately purchased at Pittsburg sent to Fort Nelson
and some other necessary Stores, Kentucky might furnish 1 000
Troops 500 to be drawn from other quarters which would compose
sufficient Army, and probably in two months do the Business proposed, at least they would Convince the Indians that they were inferior to us, that the British assertions of our weakness was false,
and that we could at all times penetrate into their Country at Pleasure, and destroy that Idea they have of their ability of rouling the
Kentucky Country, or prevent its population, and might induce them,
to supose that their own existance depended on their amity with
us take a slight View of the undeniable Advantages the Settlement is of to the States at large we then might with propriety suppose that there ought to be at least 350 regular Troops kept up in
this Department, One third at S*Vincent well supplied with necessary Supplies and a sufficiency to furnish any little Army that might
be drawn into the Field which under those circumstances might be
raised at any time penetrate into any Quarter of the Enemys
Country at pleasure

I am

Gentlemen with respect
Your Mo. Obedt Serv*

Signed

G R Clark
The Honble

The Board of Commissioners J

Benjamin Harrison to Clark, February 27, 1783

[Renjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1783-1786, pp. 56-57, Va. State Archives.]

Gen: George R. Clarke.

In Council February 27'* 1783.
Sir

By a Letter from the Commissioners appointed to settle the Account on the Western waters of Decem: 23^ I have received Information of your having consulted witii tliem the most proper place
for erecting a fort for the protection of the Kentuckey, and that
the Mouth of the Kentuckey river is the Situation fixt on as the
most likely to answer this desirable End for the reasons assigned



i;'i



HJRRISON TO fVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 207

I entirely accord with you and desire you will proceed with all possible Deligence in erecting a fort at that place and that you send
half the regular Troops now at the falls to Garrison it, and as they
will be short of the Number requisite to support the post that you
call in the County Lieutenant most convenient for so many Men
as will make them up sixty Eight Men rank and file which you are
to take Care to have relieved from time to time as the Law requires
unless Volunteers can be obtained without a bounty to engage for
Eight Months, in which Case I should prefer them. You will
look on the former order for taking posts at Limestone and Licking
as superceedcd, unless you discover that the Indians are still detcrnuncd on War, in which Case you will as soon as possible take Post
at Limestone to cover the County of Fayette and promote its Settlement, which Post you must garrison altogether with Militia. I
have every reason to hope that both these forts will soon be useless
as a general peace seems to be near at hand but if I
should be mistaken I would have no Considerations of expence deter
you from the execution of your orders as that must never stand in
Competition with the Safety of the People. I am disappointed in
not hearing from you oftcner than I do and wish you to attend a
little more to this in future.

I am Sir

&c.

B. H.

Uhnjamin Harrison to the Commissioners for settling
Western Accounis, February 27, 1783

[Draper MSS., 46J76.— L S.]

In Council February 27"' 1783.
Gentlemen

Your favor of the 23^' of December came to hand but a few days
ago, the steps you have taken to procure a settlement of the public
accounts shew you have not been idle, and I have no doubt but )ou
will continue your industry till the Business is finally closed. The
Bills in the possession of Nathan have been presented but no account
was taken of tliem as we supposed the Officers and others who under2o8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

took to draw Bills would be able to furnish a list of them and to
explain to you their Motives for drawing and what they were to be
paid in whether paper or Gold and silver, if they cannot give you
satisfaction in these particulars the Bills must either be forged or
tlie drawers very bad or very ignorant Men.

The Books of the Council and some of the Offices being lost, it
will I fear be impossible to furnish an account of the Advances made
the several stafi Officers, if they can be obtained they will accompany this, if not you must use your endeavours to obtain from them
a statement of their accounts which will probably so open the subject, when they come here that the truth may be come at. A list
of all Pollock s Bills have been forwarded to you, as but few of them
are drawn by General Clarke, and advice given to the Executive of
none of them that I know of, except CapGeorges, you will please
to call on the several drawers for their Authority for drawing, and
to produce to you an account of the Expenditure, and proof as to
the currency they were to be paid in. Col Montgomerys account
will be your particular Care, his Bills are numerous their amount
so inormous that it appears to me impossible that he could expend
such sums in the public Service if they are to be paid off in hard
Money. I approve of your Plan concerted with Gen: Clark for
erecting a fort at the Mouth of Kentuckey River, and hope there
will be no Occasion for any other, as our prospects for a general
peace are very bright, and I have good reason to suppose that one
has either taken place or will do it soon, yet If I should be mistaken
and the Indians should still be determined on war, I would have
another erected at limestone which I am informed is well situated
to cover the rich County of Fayette: true it is that our finances
are deranged and our Treasury low, but the safety of the people
supercecds all considerations of this sort and must be attended to,
on this Subject I shall write fully to Gen: Clark whose immediate
province it is to attend to Matters of this Nature.
I am with respect
Gentlemen
Your mo: Obe: Hum: Set*

Benj Harrison
The Commissioners for settling the Accounts on the WestiiRN Waters






GIBAULT TO IVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 209

Benjamin Harrison to Clark, March 3, 1783
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1783-1786, p. 60, Va. State Archives.]

General George R. Clarke.

In Council March 3^ 1783.
Sir

Your several favors of the 30"' November this Moment came to
hand as the Dispatches were ready to close I can only acknowledge
the receipt of them, and forward an order on the Counties for any
Specifics that may be in them. I am fully satisfied you have been
traduced, but as you had it in your Power to prevent any bad effects
from such representations by keeping me fully informed of the Steps
you had taken and your inability to carry your Orders into Execution, you must attribute anything that may be disagreeable to you
to your own Inadvertence but of this I shall write more fully in
my next.

I am Sir

&c.

B. H.

Father Pierre Gibault to the Virginia Commissioners,

March 4, 1783

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

A Messieurs Les Commissaries De la Virginie presentement a la Chutte.

Messieurs, quoyque Je nayc pas I honncur D etre connu Dc
Vous, n y Du Congres General, il se peut cependant que Vous avea
entendu Dire quelque chose De Mon Zcle pour La Liberie ct poui
le Succes De Ceu x qui en ont pris Les interest et La Deflfence. J ai
tout expose et sacrifie a Cette occasion, non seulement mon Bien,
mais meme plusieurs fois ma propre Vie. Je me suis moi-mcme
Expatrie pour prendre Le parti Des ameriquains Contre Les Royalistes: qu' on fasse seulement attention a la Reduction Du poste Vincennes sur oiiabache et on Connoitra mon amour pour La Liberie.
Je Vous Prie encore messieurs, De Consulter Le General Clark et
tous ceux tant oiSciers que soldats qui ont etc sous luy on apres luy,
pour sur Garand De mon Zele. Cependant, Messieurs, j en ai ete



2IO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

si peu Recompense, que non seulement on ne m a pas Donne un sol
De Gratification pour mes peines, mes Voyages et mes fatigues et
Les Depenses pour ces memes Voyages De long Cour, mais meme on
ne m a pas paye Les Chases necessaires a leurs Vies, Comme Boeufs,
Vaches, Et 1' ard, Dont Je me suis moy-meme prive, pour montrer
Bon exemple a mon peuple, qui ne L ont que trop imite pour leur
malheur etant presque tous prives De la Vie et De L entretien pour
L avoir Donne aux troupes ameriquaines. On m a meme tue
plusieurs animaux que J aurois Donne D un Bon Coeur si on me les
avoit Demande, au Lieu De les prendre par Violence; puis qu ayant
toujours ete prest a me sacrifier moy meme, il n est pas vray semblable que J aurois Epargne mon Bien. on m a tue Deux Vaches,
Dont on ne m a pas seulement Donne une oballe, Excepte De Belles
promesses qui sont encore a etre Execute, si J aurois profile De la
necessites on le trouvoient Les troupes ameriquaines et Vendu plus
Cher que Le Cour ordinaire, J aurois tort De Demander un entier
payement: mais J ay Donne mes Dimes De farine et De mays au
menie prix que Je les aurois Vendu en piastres sonnantes Espagnolcs
sur L autre Rive Du Mississipi, etant plus Charme De soulager ma
patrie qu un allie; Croyant D ailleurs avec Confiance, Comme Les
Espagnols memes, qui ces Cartes De papiers, Valoient autant que
les piastres R ccllement D ar^cnt on en or; En Jamais Je ne Voiis
aurois faites ces Representations, si la necessite et la pauvrete on les
ameriquaines nous ont plonge moy et mon peuple, ne me mettoient
Dans L' impossibilitc De me taire. Je passe sous silence un nombre
presqu' infini De Griefs. De molestations, D unjustice et De Violence en tout Genre qui ont presqu entierement Ruine Le pays. Ce
n est point a moy a Examiner La Conduite qu on tenu nos Commendans et nos Commissaires qui nous ont Gouverne et admistro tant en
militaire qu en civile notre soumission Volentaire etoit notre Regie;
mais c est a Vous messieurs, D examiner pourquoy et par qui nous
avons etc si inliumainement traite.

Je Vous envoye ey Joint ce que Je peux avoir De Cartes, De
Comptes et De Certificats De Fournitures pour les Etats unis, en
particulier pour la Virginie J espere De Votre Equite, que J en serai
Exactement paye. au surplus mon Zele sera toujours Le mene et
Jc scroy toujours Contant Demes Juges et feray en tous Icins Dcs



I

I



GIDAULT TO WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 211

Voeux pour leurs prosperites et me Dirai toujours avec Respect

Messieurs

Votre tres humble Et tres

obeissant Serviteur
aux Kaskakias Pre Gibault Pretre Vicaire

le 4 De Mars general aux pays Des Illinois

1783.

\^TranslationY
To THE Commissioners of Virginia present at the Falls.

Sirs, although I have not the honor of being known to you nor
to the General Congress, it may be that you have been told something of my zeal for liberty and for the success of those who have
taken an interest in it and its defense. I have endangered and sacrificed everything for that cause, not only my property, but several
times even my life. I have exiled myself to take the part of the
Americans against the Royalists: Should attention be paid only to
the capture of Fort Vincennes on the Wabash my love for the cause
of liberty will be recognized. I ask you, further, sirs, to consult
witli General Clark and all those, either officers or soldiers, who
have served under him or after him for a trustworthy guarantee of
my zeal. In spite of this I have been so ill-recompensed, for my
zeal that I have not been given a sou of indemnity for my sufferings,
journeys and fatigue, and the expenditures for these same journeys,
and I have not even been paid for the things necessary to sustain
life such as beeves, cows and bacon of which I deprived myself to
set a good example for my people, wiio have imitated me only too
well to their great distress, being almost deprived of subsistence and
of livelihood through giving all to the American troops. Persons
have even killed several animals belonging to me which I wotiid
gladly have given to them if they had asked for them instead of
taking them by violence. Since I have always been ready to sacrifice myself it is improbable tiiat 1 should liave spared my propcity.
They killed two of my cows, for which they have paid me not a
penny except fine promises which are yet to be fulfilled. If I had
profited by the necessitous conditions in which the American troops
found themselves and sold dearer than the ordinary price, I should

Translation by the editor.



212 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

be wrong in demanding full payment but I gave my tithes of flour
and corn for the same price that I would have sold them for ringing
Spanish dollars on the other bank of the Mississippi, being more
desirous of helping my country than an ally, and thinking moreover
with confidence as did the Spaniards that these papers were worth
really as much as piasters of silver or gold. Never should I have
made these representations if the necessity and poverty into which
the Americans have plunged us, myself and my people, had not made
it impossible for me to keep silent. I pass in silence an almost infinite number of grievances, molestations, wrongs and acts of violence
of every kind which have almost completely ruined the country. It
is not for me to inquire into the manner in which our commanders
have beh ived and of our commissioners who have governed us and
have administered in military as well as civil affairs. Voluntary
submission was always our rule of action. But it is for you. Sirs, to
inquire why and by whom we have been so inhumanly treated.

I send you herewith whatever I may have in records, accounts
and certificates of supplies furnished to the United States and especially to Virginia. I trust to your equity that I shall be justly paid.
In addition my zeal will be the same and I shall always be satisfied
with my judges, and oflEer my vows at all times for their prosperity
and will ever style myself with respect,

Sirs
Your very humble and very

obedient servant
Pre Gibault, priest and
vicar general in the
Kaskaskia Illinois Country.

March 4th
1783Clark to Benjamin Harrison, March 8, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Lincoln 8'" March 1783

Sir

Yours of the 19"" Dec"' came safe to hand the 2' Ins* I am

happy to find that my proceedings with the Chicasaws met with

■This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3-452-454.



CLARK TO HARRISON. MARCH 8, 1783 213

your approbation, although Cap' George was not as successful as
I could have wished he mentioned very little on the Subject of
Land to them, as I had Verbally instructed him not to do so, except
the Nation was j;cn'> at home. His arrival at their Towns bcinn in
the hight of hunting time, they could not collect the Council necessary in such cases: but I believe the Lands may be obtained with a
good deal of case if proper measures are taken: This is the first
oppertunity since his return of a safe conveyance to you, the talk of
the Indians, wh i ch you have enclosed I believe the Peace is fivcd
between us. I did not know, nor yet learn where they were to meet
Major Martin If the Chicasaws arrive before I leave the Country, I shall attempt to compleat your wish with them. The several
letters I hope you have received this winter will give you an Idea of
the Situation of Affairs in this Quarter at that time, but much more
alarming at present as the Ouabache Indians have at last generally
Declared War, and I doubt the Combination of Savages which the
last Expedition was intended to have confused, still subsists; and
if the destruction of the Shawnee property and the appearance of such
a force in their Country at a time when they supposed we were too
much weakened to attempt anything, do not discourage them, I am
afraid the Western part of this Settlement will be tore to pieces the
insuing fall, without the greatest attention, without something
should be done by Government to prevent it The Illinois will be
Garrisoned by the English in a short time, as they have now little to
fear, since getting the whole of the Oubache Indians engaged against
us we should have cut our way through them before we could get
at such Garrison: I have but little confidence in British promises
of putting a stop to the Savage s continuing the War its dangerous
to their Interest; and their Conduct among the Western Indi.^ns
fully point out their ViewsSupposing them sincere, the late Expedition would be attended with the most salutary Consequences in
shewing the Indians what they might continue to expect, and they
would of course, with greater Ease comply with the British request
for they do not view themselves as dependant on the English, for
them and ourselves have formerly taught them to think so much of
themselves, that they would Strike both if they were equally
affronted



214 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

In my last letter I flattered you with the prospects of our
attemptinf; one of the Forts on the Ohio immediately: I was too
sanguyne in my hopes without Funds from you for thep urpos G purcliase of Provisions Enough could not be procured to march a. sufficient Dody of Men to the Spot Corn is the only Article of Provision
that could be got in tolerable plenty, a Bushel of which could not
be got on the Credit of the State: I cant certainly conceive what
reason your Excellency could have for supposing that I should be
backward in having your orders respecting those Forts executed: if
in my Power one of them in particular would add greatly to my
interest, and supposing me to be fond of Command, I then of course
prefer the greatest Number possible.I thank you Sir for your permit for retireing the smallness
of the Command could not have been my reasons 4ef-4tas it is
certainly extensive, but a quite different cause: Every Exertion in
my power have been made for many years for the Defence of this
Department, k/nowing the safety of all our Frontiers depended on
it of course took pleasure in encountering the greatest fatigues, leaving nothing in my Power undone either by dividing the Counsils
of the Indians, taking necessary steps to keep great numbers in our
Interest, making necessary Excursions into their Country to Distress
our Enemy and cause the Friendly to keep so, and attempting to
destroy the Interest of that Numerous Clan of Partizans or pretended Proprietors residing in Philadelphia That was endeavouring to divide the Counsels of the People here, and at the same time
destroying their interest at the seat of Government more effectually
to compleat their disaffection to the State: As soon as I found they
were likely to carry their point, I at once saw the destruction of the
Country if the W«r should continue; and of course wished not to
be a Witness to it as. 4uag6the great success in their attempts against
me as the greatest stroke they could possibly make, put it out of my
power to save the Country I wished to be clear: These were my
reasons

You mention that you wish a stop to be put any 4affurther
Drafts on New Orleans, it has long been the case, I dont know of
a Bill of any kind being drawn for two years. I have continued to reduce the officers as the number of soldiers decreased
since I was first acquainted with the Act for that purpose.



WESTERN COMMISSIONERS TO HARRISON 215

By this conveyance I expect you will receive a full account
of the situation of the Country from the Board of Commissioners
as they have received every information in my power to pivc them:
It is truly alarming You will find by the last returns the great
scarcity of Lead, If you will send an order to the Mines for 1000
or 1500"' previous to my arrival at that place, I will contrive to
get it forwarded by any plan your Your Excellency should propose

or direct

I am Sir. \vith the utmost respect
Your M" Obed' H' Serv«
G R Clark

Western Commissioners to Benjamin Harrison,

March 9, 1783

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Lincoln County March 9'^ 1783
Sir.

The Commissioners wrote by Mons"" Carbenaux the 17"' of Feb'
last, a duplicate of which, and of the Papers sent, they now transmit,
Your Excellency, least that should miscarrylikewise several copies
of letters, to from Col' Todd, on a careful! perusal of which,
these marked A N° i, 2, 3. 4. they are of Opinion that M^ Pollock was sufficiently warned not to honor the Draughts of any person
not authorized to draw Bills, especially where directed to be charged
to their private accounts, and that he accepted these Bills at his own
risk, more particularly after he received Col' Todd s letter N° i.
the receipt of which seems implied by M"" Pollocks subsequent letters,
On this principle the Board think the Bills drawn by AP Elliot are
voidable, as he was not in the service of Virginia, but imployed by
Congress in behalf of the United States, likewise the Bills drawn
by Will" Lynn in 1778 appears by A N" 10 to be for private purposes and voidable. The Bills for goods shiped on Account and at
the risk of the United States, on viewing the papers marked B seem
only chargeable in part to Virginia, as by the information of Gen'
Clark wiiat is contained in the Invoice N° 2 is all he received, being
part of a Cargoe tiiat was damaged in the Voyage up tiie river the
whole of which is contained in the Invoice N° i. Gen' Clark is re2i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

turning and will be able to throw more light on this affair:The
papers marked C. relate to Cap' Georges Bills in favour of Cap'
Barbour, the Board not having time to copy all, and expecting to
return, by the time this reaches Your Excellency, have only selected
such as may be immediately necessary for your perusal, and on
inspecting them carefully have doubts considering, the date of the
receipt on the back of the largest draught, the tenor of the letters
N" 3 4. And the time of Cap' Harbours leaving New Orleans,
which he informed the Board was a few days after the date of the
receipt. Whether the receipt was given after notice was obtained
of the lion acceptance of the draught Col" Moritgomcrys, Ace"
have been before the Board sometime, they are not yet finislied being
in great confusion, he has produced Vouchers for some his Bills that
appear satisfactory a Copy of his deposition accompanies tliis, in
which he seems to hint that the second bills which he took up from
M'' Pollock and afterwards left with him, giving W Pollock a
Bill on the Treasurer for the amount of the whole, and there drawn
in favour of Malvert, being in the same circumstances, may have
made their appearance,— two said to be drawn by him in favour of
Hanah Dalton and Valentine Thomas, he suposes Valentine Thomas
Dalton, he denies, several others, he has no account of either tenor
date or whose favour drawn. Several of General Clarks bills are
not yet answered forPapers marked D are concerning the present
State of Fort Nelson and the Illinoise Battalion The Commiss" beg
leave to represent, that the Illenoise Country, that is Kaskaskias.
Kohos. S Vincent and their dependencies are in great confusion for
want of Persons with proper authority to enforce order The French
inhabitants are not well affected to the State of Virginia the
neighboring Indian Tribes formerly either Neuterals or our friends
are faling from our Government into the British interst, if that
Country is yet a part of Virginia, and not ceded to Congress, it is
our opinion that it will be entirely lost to this State without some
speedy coersive steps are taken. We dare not say whether it is an
advantage to have that Country anexed to this State, or whether
Virginia is able to support the expence of maintaining it, but should
it fall into the hands of Britain the Indian Tribes dependants on
the district will be active enemies The situation of Fort Nelson



I



fVESTERN COMMISSIONERS TO HARRISON 217

makes it a place of importance, built on the banks of the Ohio, a
little above the Falls, it is a convenient landing place for boats coming down the Ohio, and altho no Post on the river can be looked on
as securing a pass to hinder the Enemy from penetratinc into the
Country, yet the strongest settlements of Jefferson County depend
on it. and if this Post is not properly supported, we look on that
County to be in a deplorable state Your Excellency will observe
by the return laid before the Board by Gen' Clark, the whole strength
of the State Troops in this Quarter is reduced to fifty three effective
with Eighteen Officers, &c. Men might be recruited here if Bounty
money could be advancedThe Garrison is chiefly supplied in meat
by hunting too precarious a support to depend on and yet costs the
State near as much, as if properly furnishedFlower is brouglit
down the river and is subject to spoil by which much is lost Your
Excellen'' will observe there is no lead returned an immediate supply is absolutely necessary, but we refer to the several papers relative
thereto and have only to add that the horses mentioned in the return
were taken with great numbers of others by the Enemy, and several
people killed whilst we were in the Neighborhood of that Place,
from every apearance the Enemy may be expected in force this Summer, Fort Nelson if attacked will probably fallWe shall have
all the papers &c. that can be obtained in regard to the business we
came out on, in our possession by the last of this month, and the
Accounts that are not finished, may be closed after our return
If M"' Dodge and the others from S' Vincent do not come before
that time we need not expect them as from their letters they were
to be here before this. We are solicitous to return the latter end of
this month as we will have the opportunity of a Considerable CompV
returning which will save the expence of an Escort and which in
reality can not be taken from this Country The Commiss' expect
to be in Botetourt the 20'" of Aprile and wish to have Your Excellencys derections by that time whether they are to send the papers
immediatly to Richmond or to close the Accounts before they are

sent down We have the Honor to be Your Excellencys

Most Obedient Humble Serv
William Fleming
Sam l M<=Dowell
Caleb Wallace



2i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Clark to Major George Walls, March 25, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.— Copy.]

Cave Spring March 25"" 1783
Sir.

You are fully acquainted with my Design of leaving this
Country agreeable to the permit of his E xcellency of Course would
wish to Give you some Gen' Instructions by which you are to conduct
j ourself untill the reception of further Orders from your Superiours
your known Abilities in the Management and oeconomy Necessary
in a Garrison Circomstanced as the one you Command is Sufficient
inducement for me to Supose that but little on that head need be Said
to you, I know you Cannot Support the few Troops you have So
plentifully as I Could wish, but probably Such as will be Absolutely
necessary for their Support from my knowledge of them they are
not Deficult to please without that Subordination Necessary among
all Troops Should be neglected which I have no Reason to Suppose
will be the Case and as the Safety of this Settlement Greatly depends
on the circle of intiligance that ought to be kept up beyond the Ohio
I would recommend it to you not to Neglect Such a Case of importance although the Neighbouring Tribes of Indians on the Wabash
hath Declared war I dont Supose it would prevent you from a Corrispondance at St Vincents Such a manner that the Indians should not
know of it all intiligance of importance you must Imediately Transmit To Government as it is necessary to Inable the governer to take
the most necessary Steps for the Gen' Defence, the Strength of your
Garrison ought to be proportioned to the Quantity of provisions you
have in Store and probable Supplies that you are like to Get paying
attention to the Apprahentions of Danger Should you find from circumstances that it would be advisable to have a Raignforcement Call
on tiie County Lieut' in proportion to their IMilitia or Delenquents
takeing the Concil of Colo. Floyd I have Had Some thoughts of y''
Setiding one of the Indian women that you have to the Shawnawa
Towns pretending to negotiate an Exchange of prisoners in order to
bring on some Conversation tiiat might tend to the advantage of the
State if your council Should advise Such a Step do it but by no means
drop an Expression to them would give an Idea that we would wish

'This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3:461-462.






CAMPBELL TO CLARK. APRIL 5 1783 219

for a peace with them as it would be Distructive to our Interest
and inflame the war between us Confirming the Idea that all our
former policy taught them too between that of of our being affiaid
of them is too true but we ought to Destroy it if posiable Should
a treaty be brought about do nothing desisive untill orders for ll c
purpose as you Cannot previously know the designs of Government
you will pay attention to the Resolution for Reduceing Offertcrs
of your Core in proi)ortion to the decrease of the privates this must
not be neglected as the order positive and necessary if anything Else
Should occur to me I shall transmit it to you wishing you Success

I am Sir your Hum Serv'

Signed G R: Clark
Major George
Walls Fort Nelson

John Campbell to Clark, April 5, 1783
[Draper MSS., 52J81.— A L.S.]

Pittsburgh Ap' 5"" 178 5
Sir 1 have waited some time past with Impatiance for an Opportunity of writing to you but happened Yesterday to be out of the
way when some boats passed this place for the Falls of Ohio I want
to take an Opportunity wliich I can depend on therefore must postpone what I wish to communicate till an Opportunity which I expect
will offer soon.

In the meantime I must mention to you that the Offers of
Brittain to America are exceeding Flattering no less than Absolute
Independence a Cession of all the Country from Nova Scotia to
East West Florida bounded by the Mississippi the Lake of the
Woods Long lake Lakes Superior Huron Erie Ontario the other
Articles seem also to be in the same Spirit but these I only consider
as offers in case they can make no better of it. I am well inclined
to believe that no means will be left untried by them to endeavour
to cajole us if possible it behoofs us therefore to be circumspect
to provide against the worst and to expect nothing from them but
what is extorted by main force I have more than probable authority to apprehend that several of their emissarys are now in your
Country they have passed amongst the prisoners who have been



220 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

enlarged from Canada other wise a Vigilant eye towards them
may discover them to your penetration This Country has been
lulled into a security expectation that the Indians would Commit
no more depredations they have been awaked from that delusive
dream for no less than 25 Persons have been killed wounded
captivated in different parts of this Country in a few days past I
understand that people have made use of my Name to strengthen
those reports and perhaps some such may reach you I believe the
English I mean the King his adherents to be as bad men as ever
disgraced any Country I believe them capable of any Villiany that
disappointed Tyranny ever dictated I dont look upon any concessions in favour of America as the result of Conviction of the
Wrong they intended us or their inclination to redress it I look
uppon it a forced recantation whicli I believe they mean to be binding on them No longer than convenient and at the present they have
every emissary engine of darkness employed to forward their
Diabolical purposes you will therefore be pleased to observe what
j ou hear if any thing is mentioned as coming from me which
does not tally exactly with these sentiments pay no regard to it and
if you will be good enough in my name to disavow it you will possibly serve the Cause in which you are engaged and Oblige me.
6''' This far I wrote and Capt" James Brenton a Man who I have
found an Active good Officer being arrived I inclose you Capt" Daltons Letter it may be necessary to distinguish what is probable in
his information and what changes the System adopted by the British
Ministry may make, in the different plans proposed to be carryed
into execution on the side of Canada and I choose to Acquaint you
that C Daltons staying in Canada when I am convinced he might
have come away with us gives me no good opinion of his Conduct
the Manner he was taken gave suspicion I understand with you of
this you are the best Judge my Affairs do not permit me to go to
the Falls immediately I hope to be there in the summer sometime
and have the pleasure of communicating Vive Voce what I find
very difficult to commit to writing

and Am Sir

Your Most Obedt Servt
John Campbell
Brigadier Clark



HARRISON TO CLARK. APRIL 9. 1783 221

John Campbell to Clark, April 6, 1783
[Draper MSS., szjgz.— A L.S.]

Pittsburgh Ap' 6'" 1783
Sir Since I wrote in the Morning I understand that the Preliminaries between Brittain and France were Signed the 20''' Jan' last
and that a Cessation of Hostilitys has taken place in consequence
thereof I congratulate with you on this important intelligence
understand that the English have made no provision for their Indian
Allies I hope therefore the Continent will take such Measures as
to effectually subdue them put it for ever out of the power of them
to Annoy us in future

a Mf Merrey\veather who goes down now has a hand liill
wliicii contains these particulars or I would be more full on the
Subject

I am Sir
Your Most H. Serv*

John Campbell
General Clark

Benjamin Harrison to Clark, April 9, 1783
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1783-1786, pp. 95-99]

General Clarke.

In Council April 9'" 1783.SlR,

Your favors of the 8''' and ig'"" of last Month came to hand
two Days ago, I have my Hopes that the Apprehensions of the
Settlements in your Quarter will vanish when they are informed
that a general Peace has taken Place, that all the English Posts on
the Lakes are to be given up to us and that Congress intend to
garrison tliem with continental Troops the former part of this Intelligence you will find in the Paper enclosed published by Authority,
the Letter comes to me by good Hands but not officially, I believe
it true as Prudence dictates the Measure and it will be the greatest
Security against the Incursions of the Indians that we can possibly
have however tho' all these things may take Place yet I would not
depend too much on them, nor leave that to others which Prudence



222 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

calls on us to do for ourselves the Post directed in my last at the
Moutli of Kentuckey must at all events be taken and garrisoned,
and Provisions for the Purpose must be obtained some way or other,
it surprises me to find the People unwilling to part witli Provisions
that are to be used for their Protection, and more so to hear that
they expect to be kept out of their Money as they formerly were,
if they will take a view of our situation at present and compare
it with what it was formerly, they might easily see that their Prospects of Payment are widely different, we had then a depreciated
Paper currency amongst us which was every Day growing worse,
and threaten d the distruction not only of Individuals but of the
State also, this forced us into an instantaneous Abolition of it, which
at once stagnated our Trade, and left us for twelve Months almost
without resourse, and to add to our Misfortunes left an enormous
debt on our Shoulders which it is impossible for us to pay off at once
Time must therefore be given to free us from that Incumbrance,
but our Situation is widely different at present, we are emerging
fast from the distress brought on us by the Paper Money, our Taxes
are paid in gold or Silver or in Commodities that will bring them,
which enables us to comply with some degree of punctuality with
all our present engagements. This State of our Circumstances
will when laid before the people I make no doubt enable you to contract for what Indian Corn of other Provisions you may want and
you may pledge the word of the Executive that your engagements
shall be fulfilled, the great abuses that have been committed heretofore by officers entrusted with the Care of the Soldiers and providing
for them lays me under an Obligation to use Caution in the Powers
I give and I hope you will not impute it to a diffidence in you
that I tell you your Contracts must be temporary and only for a
Continental ration of Bread, Salt, and Meat and that I expect but
very little of the latter will be wanted as you may chiefly supply
yourself with that Article by hunting and I beg you to turn your
Attention as much to it as the good of the Service will admit off,
the lower your Expences are the greater certainty there will be of
their being Paid.— I do not well know what to say to you on the
Subject of offensive operations against the Indians, in case they
should continue the War, I am satisfied that that alone will keep



HARRISON TO CLARK, APRIL 9, 1783 223

them in Order and yet the difficulty of supplying your wants, and
the Expences attending such expeditions are obstacles which I know
not well how to get over, however I shall not at present forbid them
but rather wish to encourage them, and therefore desire you will
form some plan for an extensive Attack, with an estimate of the
expence that will attend it, and forward them to me by the first
Opportunity for the Consideration of the Executive.— If you should
be attacked in force this Summer my former letter empowers you
to call on the most convenient Counties for Assistance, to which
I refer you for my Sentiments on that Subject.

It may be necessary to explain what I mean by a temporary
Contract for Provisions that there may be no clashing between you
and a Person to be appointed to act as your Commissary, you l therefore let it extend no farther than for six Weeks Provisions from the
Time this gets to hand at the expiration of which I expect some person will be appointed to take it off your Hands, which will ease you
of much trouble and enable you to attend more to your proper line
of Duty. You may with Safety assure the persons with whom you
shall contract that an order will soon be forwarded for the disposal
of the commutable Articles that have been or shall be received in
Taxes, and that they shall be paid out of the Sales. You may also
let the Soldiers know tlieir Cloaths and necessaries with some pay
shall be sent down the Ohio to tliem this Summer.I like your Proposal of sending the Indian Woman to the
Shawnees to sound them on the Subject of Peace, your prudence
will suggest to you not to appear too forward in this Business lest
it should encourage them to continue the War.The meeting of the
Commissioners appointed to settle the terms of Peace with the
Chicasaw and Creek Indians has been long delayed by the unaccountable Conduct of a Mr. Netherland who was sent express from your
Part of the Country and was charged with dispatches on his return
to Col: Martin, which he never thought fit to deliver. They have
now received their Instructions and dispatched a Major Reid to
invite them to a treaty and to fix on the Place of holding it, which
I expect will be at the french licks on Cumberland river or in it s
neighborhood, but I have no certainty of it. The delay I am apprehensive will be injurious to the State as it will deprive the Commis224 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

sioners of your advice which I much wish d them to obtain unless
you will be so kind as to communicate it by Letter.— I am sorry
to find you have taken my Permission to retire in the light you have
done the smallness of the command was my only reason, I am fully
impress d with the Services you have render d you Country on
many Occasions, and have often lamented that the Situation of the
State should be such as to put it out of my Power to enable you to
gain fresh Laurels that you have some Enemies is certain, and
that they have misrepresented you is as certain, but their representations have never had sufficient weight to injure you materially with
the Executive, they knew you had Orders to build forts for the
Protection of the Country, as it was not done they had some Cause
to complain, and your not informing me immediately why the Instructions were not carried into Execution gave a force to clamors
tliat would not have been attended to, if you had been as explicit
in Time as you have been since. I shall be glad to see you as soon
as your Affairs will permit you to come to Richmond.

I have forwarded an Order to the Mines for fifteen Hundred
weight of Lead but can not devise a Way to get it forward, if you
can fall on any you will oblige me by directing it to be done immediately, the expence of Carriage shall be paid on demand.I am Sir
yrs: &c.

B. H.



The Northwestern Commissioners and Western Debts^

April 14, 1783

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Monday14th April 1783I. The Commissioners can by no means depart from the

the principal, that the State is not Obliged to Honour Bills
drawn by persons unauthorized, but where artickles have been
furnished to the amount, which artickles have been really
applyed to the Support of the Troops, such Bills they are of
opinion ought to be taken in at the real value of the Bills when
furnished



COMMISSIONERS AND WESTERN DEBTS 225

That the Bills drawn on the Treasury of Virginia ought
to be paid off agreeable to the Illenois scale of Depreciation,
after depreciation took place in that Country.

But as it appears by M^ Shannons Book s that he drew
bills counter signed by General Clark for artickles of a mixed
nature, some appearing to be purchased by depreciation Currency, whilst others are not and many of his Vouchers being
lodged with the Auditors, the Commissioners cannot in Justice
fix the Payment of those Bills either by the scale of any other
way in their Power

It appears to the Commissioners that many Bills are
drawn by those authorized by Government, for which they
can produe no vouchers for artickles for which these Bills
were drawn, and of course the Bills become chargable to
the Drawers, But the Commissioners cannot undertake to
say whether the state ought to take up these Bills or not as it
is of great consequence they think it worthy the attention of
the Legislative, by the first general principle, none of Montgomery s Bills for which articles do not appear to be expended
on, or for the support of the Troops, are legal demands against
the State. The bills for Cash in the recruit^ Ace* is reduced
by the scale of the State, which brings the bounty allowed
for enlisting equal in both Countrys, as depreciation was so
rapid after the 15'" of Nov'' 1779 that it kept pace with the
depreciation here till paper currency stop d altogether, on the
calling in the two emissions of 1779 1778— where money
was advanced the Commissioners have reduced by the State

Scale

The time of M'' D' Murray s contingency on the Department
of Commissary not being mentioned prevents the Commissioners from liquidating his Account.
M"' Murray will expect the inclosed Bills to be returned



226 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Benjamin Harrison to Virginia Delegates in Congress,

April 19, 1783

[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1783-1786, pp. loo-ioi.]

Virginia Delegates in Congress.

Richmond April 19'" 1783.
Gentlemen

I received your favor by the last Post. It appears to me
astonishing that Nathan should give you so much trouble, when he
must know his Debt can be paid no where but at this place this his
Agent has been told, and that there are no funds as yet establish d
for that Purpose; I shall lay the Award of the Arbitrators before

the next Assembly, who will no doubt provide for the payment.

You must consult your own Prudence in the affair of Pollock, the
Assembly have refer d it to you to take proper Security, and it will
probably behove you to be cautious, as 1 have additional reasons
(lately received) to those I formerly had for thinking he has been
at least the most imprudent Man in the world; great Part of his
demand is for Bills taken up by him after the receipt of a Letter
from Col Todd from the Illinois a Copy of which I have forbiding
him to pay them and informing him they were drawn by Adventurers who had no right to draw and who were procuring Money
in that way for their Private Purposes.I am waiting for a public Express with Official Accounts of
the Confirmation of Peace, your Proclamation is arrived by a Private
Hand but of that I can take no Notice. I am with respect

Gentlemen
Yrs: &c.
B. H.



CHAPTER VIII

CONDITIONS IN THE WEST AFTER PEACE APRIL ?o 178?
DECEMBER 22, 1783

Problem of the Indians Lands Granted the Officers of the Illinois
Regiment Plea for Western Creditors Reasons for High Prices
IN the West during the Revolution Clark Relieved of his Command Clark Asked by Jefferson to Lead a Party for the Exploration OF THE Territory West of the Mississippi River Clark Appointed Principal Surveyor of Bounty Lands.

Clark to County Lieutenants of Jefferson Lincoln
Counties, Kentucky.

\_Cal. of Fa. Stale Papers, 3478.]

Read Creek, April 30th, 1783.
"Sir,

By late dispatches from his E xcellency the Governor, I find
that the Ta.\es of the Kentucky is to be appropriated to the suppott
of different Garrisons intended to be kept up for its defence, and
that letters have already been sent to the different County Lts: to
that purport. This will enable the Building Garrisoning the
mouth of Kentucky which his Excellency is Extremely anxious for.
I have Instructed Majr. Walls to have it put into Imediate Execution Caling on the County Lts: for a proportion of their militia
to build garrison that post and the falls and to divide the Regular.^

between the two posts, you will be pleased to furnish him with

men when called for, to be releived agreeable to Law observing this.
That every Delinquent furnisli d is to be Included in the number
called for. I am sensible that nothing in you will be wanting to
promote this business, and hope the people will be convinced of the
propriety of it and chearfully give every aid. Especially when they
are informed tliat the faitli of Government is pledged for the pajm t
of any expence they may be at. And that a total subjugation of tiic
Indians is now in contemplation, which their Implicit Obedience
to the orders of Government will greatly facilitate, and Encourage
the Executive to study the promotion of their future hapiness.

227



228 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

You may take it for granted that a genl peace hath taken
place much to our advantage. All the brittish posts on the lakes
are to be given up to us garrisoned by Continental Troops, and
hope that a spirited exertion of the frontiers this summer will put
an end to their sufferings, that peace and tranquillity will take place
in your little Country when the long and spirited Exertions of the
people so much entitled them to it. I don t think that any thing
on the part of Government will be wanting, as they apear Exceedingly dispos d to use the most salutary measures to answer the purpose of Reducing the Indians to Obedience. And their circumstances must be so widely different to what they formerly were that
they will he able to execute what they please."

Jacob Rubsamen to Clark, April 30, 1783
i [Draper MSS., 51J85.— A L.S.]

Lead Mines Aprill 29'" 1783.
Sir.

I recieved Yours the Order of the Governour for 1500"*
I>ead, Si shall punctually Comply with it, as far as lays in my Power.
I am sending off this Evening to M' Roger Oates in Order to hire
his AVaggon having none of my own. Should I be disapointed in
getting his Team, I hardly Know what to do as Waggons are extrcamly scarce to be had, at this bussy time of the year. However
I will forward it as quickly as possible. I am Your very

hble Sv'

Jacob Rubsamen
His Excellency General Clark

Endorsed: M' Rubsamen Ap' 30"" 1783

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, April 30, 1783

[Cal. of Va. State Papers, 3 H7*-477]

Geo: Rogers Clarke to the Governor of Virginia.

Read Creek, April 30th, 1783.

"Sir,

Your several favours of March, and 9th of April Inst: come
to hand on my Rout to this settlement. The agreeable news with



CLARK rO HARRISON. APRIL 30. 1783 229

Brittain I am in hopes will greatly alter the face of affairs in the
back Country. The prospects of our possession of the posts on the
lakes will, I make no doubt, divide the councils of the Indians for
some time, and prevent their making any Capital stroke on the
Settlement of Kentucky.

As the Inclosed speech to a few of the cheifs of the Oubash
that continue in our Intersest, will be fully credited among the
whole, as it calculated for the purpose of dividing their Interests.
But I have not the least Idea of their Quitting the war until they
are Envited to A treaty by the prospect of presents, or Reduced to
a peace by an armament in their own country. They are, or will
be convinced that a peace will take place and will push the war by
small partyes with great Vigour, supposing that the greater number
of prisoners they got, or the more formidable they make themselves
to apear to us, the greater price they will get for peace, making no
doubt of it whenever they choose to offer it, suposing that we are
under obligations to them for it. This is the Idea that I could
wish to be destroy d. that they should be obligated to treat with
us on our own terms, and convinced that they were Inferiour to us,
and that they are under obligations to us for the Very lands they
live on. An Army of 1500 men would be necessary to do this. I
belcive easily to be got, but how they are to be furnish d, it is impossible for me to tell not knowing the Resources of Government.
But as I hope to h ive tiic pleasure of waiting on your Excellency
in a few days. I shall Endeavour in the mean time to Inable myself
to sketcli out some plan the most agreeable to my Ideas of the General Interest of the State. Inclos d is copies of Instructions &c.,
which I hope your Excellency will aprove of. I could not think
of any plan so likely to have the lead convey d to Kentucky as the
one I have fallen on. I am in hopes that the orders you have sent
for the different Taxes to be deliver d will Inable us to garrisou
the mouth of Kanlucky in time, Except the collectors should be
negligent in their duty. I could have heartily wished to have been
at the treaty with the Chicasaws, but am convinced it will not take
place until the fall or latter part of the Summer, as it will be a
considerable time before Mr. Reed gets to that nation. I met him
on his Rout to Kantucky and Recommended it to him to go by



2JO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

water from the falls as the most Expeditious and Safe Rout he could
take, and if it was agreeable to the Indians, to have the Treaty
at that place. My principal Reasons for such Recommendations
was the great scarcity of provisions at the French Lick. The Indians
continue to make Incursions into the different Countys in Kantucky
and have Repeatedly suffer d the loss of some of their men.

In answer to your Letter of the 29th of Novemb r 1782,
which lately came to hand, I can only say that Major Landot
[Linctot] was Employed by me in the Spring of '79 as an Indian
Agent for the upper Mississippi. That he rendered singular services in that department, and was permitted to go to Government,
where he was Commissioned as Agent, and I beleive was very serviceable until his death, previous to his latter appointment I Generally Judg d of the propriety of iiis Expenccs, and paid tliem myself and charged them to the State, which was the case with all the
Agents in the Western Departm t, several of them being necessaries.

I am S r your Excellency s

Obedt. Humble Servt."

Clark to George Walls, April 30, 1783

[Cat. of Va. Slate Papers, 3476.]

Geo: Rogers Clarke to Majr: George Walls.

Read Creek April 30th 1783.
"Sir

I have Inclos d the last Letters from Government to me,
for your perusal, and make no Doubt but it will give GenI Joy to
the Inhabitants of Kentucky when they find the prospect of peace
with the Indians so certain, In the course of the Insuing Summer.

You ll find that his Excellency still wish to have the post
at the mouth of Kentuckey Established to Inable it to be done
hath Sent orders to the Different Counties to deliver the Taxes for
the purpose of Victualing the Troops which you will call for as
they are wanted, orders to the Different County Licuts: accompanying this for furnishing you from Time to time with one hundred
militia Lincoln 65. Jefferson 25. Fayette 10 men, those aded to
the Regulars you have will Inable you to Garrison both of ye posts
with 68 Rank and file. Exclusive of a small party that may occasPRESTON TO HARRISON, MAY 5, 1783 i^i

ionally be Detach d on hunting parties &c. It s highly advisable
to Divide the Regulars Equally between the two posts, by which
means the militia be kept to the duty. As I expect this will have
a speedy conveyance to you, I hope you will loose no Time after ye
Reception of it to have the orders put in Execution. By all means,
the plan is highly advisiable as it may cause the Indians to suppose
that we determined to correct them for tlieir former Insolence, and
perhaps confuse their Councils. I think the plan proposed last
winter for tiic Building those works very Good and wortiiy attention. I hope that you will find no great Difficulty in furnishing the
Troops Tolerable for four or five montiis, by which 'I imc I think
you may be sure of assistance. Don t fail in Embracing every
opertunity that ofifers in fowarding all Inteligance of Importance
to Government. 1500 lbs. of Lead is Sent to the Block-house on
Holston, to be from thence conveyed to Kentuckey. You know
how necessary it is to pay the Greatest Attention to the Expenditures
of Ammunition as it is Exceedingly Difficult to be got to you.

I am Sir, your

Obedt. Servt."

William Preston to Benjamin Harrison, May 5, 1783

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

Montgomery the 5th May 178J
Sir

Your E xcellency's letter of the 6th 7th of March last
came to hand the 19th of that month. Previous thereto, at the
earnest request of the People most exposed to danger, I had ordered
out some good Woods men as Scouts directed the Captains on that
Quarter to hold their Companies in readiness to move on the shortest notice to the relief of that frontier in case of any Alarm. In
this Situation matters stood untill the 21st of March, when a party
of Indians came undiscovered past the Inhabitants of Clinch Si
Blue-Stone to Walkers Creek and killed one Man, took his Wife
two Children Prisoners; also two Children belonging to a poor
Widow. They were immediately pursued for several days through
the mountains by a Party of good \Voodsmen, who lost their tracks
and could not overtake them. A few days afterwards a man was



2J2 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

killed on Blue Stone by a small Party who were also pursued to no
Purpose.

I have, in consequence of these alarms sent out two Companies for the defence of the People, who were in the utmost Consternation, and they are there at this time on duty; which has in
a great measure guided the minds of these distressed Inhabitants I
have taken every possible measure to procure Provisions for the
Militia on duty by recommending it to the Holders of Provisions,
who are able to wait for their money, to spare what they can; by
opening a Subscription to purchase from such as are not able to
wait for the money, to which I have engaged to pay fifty pounds,
the People of property who have no Provisions to spare have
generous contributed thereto, and have agreed to lay out of the
Money untill Government can be enabled to repay them: as also
by issuing a press warrant, not to be used unless both the other
Methods failBy these means I hope the men on duty will be
supplied on good time, without impressing.

The bad State of Health I have been in for several Months
past, have put it out of my Power to meet Col' Campbell to confer
with him on the Subject recommended by your Excellency.

I had it not in my Power to give your Excellency earlier
Notice of the damage done here unless I had hired an Express, which
I was not willing to do, but hope it will answer the same Purpose
to send it now by my Nephew Mr. Breckinridge who is going down
occasionally

I would beg leave to assure your Excellency that nothing in
my Power shall be wanting for the defence of this Frontier, in doing
which the strictest attention shall be paid to Oconomy.

I am

Your Excellencys most very hble

Ser.
Wm Preston



ILLINOIS REGIMENT TO VIRGINIA ASSEMBLY 2^x

Officers of Illinois Regiment to the General Assembly of

Virginia, May 21, 1783'

[Legislative Petitions, Va. State Archives.]

To THE HONORABLE THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF VIRGINIA

the Petition of the Officers of the Ilinois Regiment
humbly slieweth,
That sometime in the Year 177 Cd o George R. Clark
knowing the great advantages that would be derived to the Comnionwcaltii and especially to the Western Frontier from the Conquest
of the British Posts on the Oubache and Missisippi Rivers proposed
a plan for their Reduction which was approved of and Authority
given him to carry it into immediate execution; he was likewise
promised if the Enterprise succeeded a liberal Gratuity in Lands,
in that Country, for the Officers and Soldiers who adventured with
him: that witii great labour and hard marching the Expedition was
conducted with so much secrecy and the Affair managed with such
address, that all the settlements on the Missisippi were surprised
and forced to surrender before any Assistance could be sent them
the Reduction of Post Vincents following that of the Kaskasky
Forts and Villages the designs of an industrious Enemy who were
then meditating the means of depopulating our Frontier Settlements,
were entirely frustrated and an extensive and fertile Country put
into the possession of the State. That the Assembly sensible of
the importance of the services in the Cession of the country NorthWest of thee Ohio to Congress, among other Reservations, made
the following, to wit, "As Colonel George Rogers Clark planned
and executed the secret expedition by which the British posts were
reduced, and was promised, if the Enterprise succeeded, a liberal
gratuity in Lands in that Country, for the Officers Soldiers who
first marched thither with him. That a Quantity of Land not exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand acres, be allowed and granted
to the said Officers and Soldiers, and the Other Officers Soldiers
that have been since incorporated into the said Regiment, to be laid
ofl in one Tract; the length of which not to exceed double the
breadth, in such place on the north west side of the Ohio, as the

'For the proceedings of the officers of the Illinois Regiment disposing
of lands granted to them, see post, 413^234 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

majority of the Officers shall choose, and to be afterwards divided
among the said Officers and Soldiers in due proportion according
to the Laws of Virginia," That a majority of the Officers of the
said Regiment having convened for the purpose, after the most
effectual Steps being taken to make themselves acquainted with the
Country, made choice of the Lands opposite to the Town of Louisville on the North-West side of the Ohio, Beginning where the
Silver Hills bind close to the River, running thence up the River
as far as the Grant will admit and back for the quantity; which
Land Your Petitioners concieve may answer several valuable purposes to the public as well as to the Regiment as a Settlement on
them will serve as a Barrier to the Settlement on this side the Ohio,
and in case of a continuance of the Indian war, it will draw thither
the attention of the Ouabache and Miami Tribes; and from its
situation is well calculated for an Indian Trade, which from an
Experience of their disposition. Your petitioners apprehend is the
most effectual mode of conciliating their Affections, and from inveterate Enemies making them substantial Friends. That as the
immediate settling these Lands is an object of national as well as of
individual Interest, and as the Officers and Soldiers of the Ilinois
Regiment have in a peculiar manner experienced every evil which
so remote a Station cut off from any Intercourse with a civilized
people, and a savage Enemy could impose, and bore up under all
the calamities of Hunger, Nakedness and Shame without a murmur,
keeping always in view that as soon as the State was able she would
comply with her promise and recompense her suffering Troops for
all their misfortunes. Your Petitioners pray that the Assembly would
explain and confirm the Grant of the above mentioned Lands to
the said Regiment, appoint a surveyor for the purpose of running
the Lines which shall include the Bounty, and as it is uncertain
wliat description of men are entitled to a proportion of these lands,
that the Assembly would declare what office and what Services give
Ripht to a share thereof, and in what proportions tliat are to be
divided amoung the several Claimants. That as the establishing
a Town on a proper Basis may be a great means of bringing a Trade
to the Country and of collecting a sufficient number of Men to withstand the attacks of the Enemy should they attempt it, Your petiCLARK TO HARRISON. MAY 22. 1783 235

tioners further pray, That Trustees may be authorized to lay off
a Town in such convenient place within the Grant on the River and
upon such plan they shall find most convenient, with power to perpetuate their succession in case of Vacancies, and also to reserve a
proper place for a Landing above the Great Point, to have Warehouses erected for the reception of Tobacco, Hemp, etc. and for
other purposes. And Your petitioners will ever pray etc.

G. R. Clark
Will Shannon
Jn' Montgomery
H Clark

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, May 21, 1783

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]'

Richmv 21" May 1783
Sir

Nothing but necessity could Induce me to make the following Request of your E xcellcncy, Which is to grant me a small sum
of money on Ace', I can assure you S' that I am ExceedinKlv
destress d for the want of necessary cloathing &c and dont know of
any channell thro which I could procure anyExcept that of the
Executive, The State I believe will fall considerably in my debt,
any supplies that your Excellency favour me with might be deducted
out of my Accounts

I have the Honor to be your
Excellencys Obed' Serv'

G R Clark

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, May 22, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.— A L.S.]

Richmond 22 May 1783
Sir

Inclosed is a farther answer to your last letters to me. It
is my Ideas of tiie most advantageous policy that could be usd in
order to Reduce the Indeans to that subordination necessary to

■This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3487.



236 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Ensure a perfect tranquillity to the frontiers, I have not Enlarg d
so much on several heads as I at first intended as it bore so much
the apearance of dictating to your Excellency but am in hopes that
I have been sufficiently Explicit

I have the Honor to be Sir
Your Devoted and
Very Humb'' Serv'

G. R. Clark
His Excellency the Governor of Virg*

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, May 22, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives A L.S.]

Richmond 22* May 1783
Sir

Agreeable to your Excellencies Instructions, I lay before you
the plan of such oflencive measures as I sliould suppose the general
Interest Requird to be put in Execution this season against the
Indians, It is notorious that those tribes that have been for the
greatest length of time acquainted with us fermly beleive that they
can make war or peace with us at pleasure. And that we would
at all times gladly Embrace the offer of any terms with them. They
have abundant Reasons to believe it if they Judge from our former
conduct, as a treaty was always attended with considerable presents
from us which causd them to believe we were afraid of them, In
short Every kind of lenity Shewn them by us is Imputed to timedity.
And untill this Idea is destroyd, a war will be the consequence of
the least Supposd afifront they Receive from us, which period the
j oung warriors will often wish for. And promote in order to have
an Opportunity to shew their Valour to which they are also Excited
by the prospect, of gain as well as by plunder as that of presents
at the End of the war. Confidently assured of peace when Ever they
shall offer it. The Idea I presume hath not yet gaind much ground
on the Oiiabacii and the nations west of that River, As by some
lucky strokes and the Smiles of fortune the Effections of near four
thousand of their warriors were weaned from the brittish Interest
in the fall seventy Eight, Having the management of them myself

'This letter is printed in Calendar of Virginia State Papers, 3:488-490.



CLARK TO HARRISON, MAY 22, 1783 237

thro the means of agents I Endivourd to Instil such notions into
them as will yet be of advantage to us in future treaties, altho, they
have lately made war on us owing to the Inabillity of our Merchants
to supply them with goods and the distresses of the State being such,
that they could not give any assistance. Those Circumstances gave
the british Emisaries Every advantage in Engaging them again to
Receive their bloody belts, And I make no doubt but their correspondence with the sliavvances wiandots and others will Induce the
whole of the to Embrace those Ideas I have before mentiond. They
have no notion of being dependant on Either the Brittish or aniericans. But would make war on both if Equally Insutltd, They
Conceive the English to be greatly Indebted to them for the assistance given them during the war, and I suppose are by this time
pretty well convinced that a peace will take place, and I am confident
tlicy will prosecute the war with a great Violence as possible in
order to make themselves more formidable to us. That the terms
of the treaty may be more to their advantage. Which might be
brought about in a very short time by sending a general Envitatioii
to them. It is what they will Expect, and generally attend to, Influenced by the hopes of Receiving presents. Rather than a desire
of being friendly witli us, should tliis line of Conduct be persucd
they will yet View themselves as superior to us. And we shall be
Eternally Involved in a war with some nation or other of them, until
we shall at last in order to save blood and treasure be Reduced to
the necessity of convincing them that we are always able to cru'^h
them at pleasure, and determind to do it when Ever they misbeha\c,
A peace between us and brittain may not have the Impression on
them as is generally supposd. Of conveying to them such an Idea of
our Importance as to cause them to fear us, I make no doubt but
the English Emisaries Explain the case in its most favourable light
on thier side and cause us to appear as Insignificant in the eyes of
the Indians as possible, A greater Opportunity can never offer to
Reduce them to Obedience than the present moment, as they are
generally at war (I allude to those north of the Ohio) And nothing
we could do to them would destroy our faith among other tribes.
On the contrary have a Valuable Impression on them as we have
Every Excuse, If Reducing them to Obedience should be Resolvd on



2.?8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

I sliould Recommend the following plan, To march an army of at
least two thousand men immediately into the heart of their Country,
If they Imbodied and fought you, a defeat would Ensure the terms
you wish for. But I am confident they would generally sollicit to
treat when it would be in your power to Convince them of what
you were determined to do, Giving them their own Choice Either
to come to your terms or Continue the war. There would be no
doubt of your wishes being compleated as they would be at once
convinced that their non compliance would be the destruction of
their families Judging from your uncommon and apparently determind conduct, your speeches to them could not be too daring but it
mipht be advisable to have the terms Easy and let them know, that
if they broke a single article that you would make war on the nation
that did it, Such conduct would soon put a final End to the thoughts
of a war Existing among them. At the same time Justice Requires
that we should not Infringe on the treaty ourselves, From their
disposition I have found that nothing will so firmly bind them to
us as the fear of our arms and the dread of loosing their country.
Which would be the greatest Security we could possibly have for
thier good conduct by obliging them to give up part of their Country
to pay us for the Expence of the war which might lay waste until
government chose to have it disposd of. And Informing them that
whenever they Acted Contrary to a single article of the treaty that
you would make war on them and take as much of thier lands as
would pay the Expence, Should your Excellency order such an
armament, I conceive the most Easy and cheap plan would be to
have the Rendezvouse at the Kantucky, The people of tiiat Country
wo\ild Rejoice at the prospects of an advantageous peace with the
Indians, and most chearfully furnish near half the number of men,
Malitia might Easily march from Ilolston, New River and other
parts of the frontiers without any great Expence and I should suppose ought to be Equally Interested with the Kantuckians as they
undoubtedly have been greatly coverd from the depridations of the
Savage by that people, Perhaps it might be thought advisable for
some assistance to be given from the frontier in the neighborhood of
piitshurg thro' the channell of the Ohio, Rut your Excellency will
be the best Judge in what manner such force could be collected with



MEETING OF ILLINOIS OFFICERS, 1783 239

the greatest Ease to the falls of Ohio, which is undoubtedly the
most Central and advantageos post that is now Possesd by the Americans for the management of the Indian department in general, To
Equip such an army as here proposd with all those necessary supplies
that would Enable them to do the greatest service possible would
Require a sum of money which I doubt from the present state of
affairs could not possibly be furnishd, And of course suppose that
the Smalest scale that could be thought to answer the purpose would
be preferd. From my long Experience in Indian afifairs and tlie
knowledge of the policy of those nations alluded to, I take it for
granted that if the plan was Enterd into and prosecuted with Vigor,
that it would be of but short duration, and that two or three months
provisions might answer the purpose, The greatest part of which
must be procurd in the pittsburg Country, The Expence of the
small supply of Horses and provisions necessary to enable such an
armament to answer the desireable purposes could not be V^ery considerable provided they get on thier march by the latter part of this
summer, I learn the brittish posts on the lakes are to be Garrisoned
by Continental troops, If those troops and the armament propos d
were to commence thier Rout nearly at the same time it might greatly promote the general Interest, A few troops of horse would be
much wanting as it is found by Experience that they are of singular
service in the Indian department. If there is any farther information in my power to give your Excellency that may Enable you to
Conduct your western frontiers to greater advantage I shall a' all
times do it with pleasure I have the Honor to be

Your Excellencies Devoted
and Very Humb' Serv'
G R Clark
His Excellency The
Governor of Virginia.

Meeting of Illinois Officers for Location of Lands,

May 27, 1783

[Cal. of Va. State Papers, 3 492-493-]

Tuesday Richmond May 27th, 1783.
Proceedings of a meeting of a number of State Officers, in
consequence of an advertisement from Major Meriweather, request240 ILLINOIS IIISTORIC/IL COLLECTIONS

ing them to meet, "for the purpose of endeavouring to get proper
means adapted for locating, allotting surveying their lands: to
have their certificates put upon proper footing, and measures taken
to give them a sufficient credit: to have their claim to half pay
finally determined by the Assembly." Genl G. R. Clarke acted as
President. Resolutions were passed That a memorial be presented to the assembly requesting that officers soldiers of the State
Line navy be put upon the same footing with the officers soldiers
of the Va. Continental Line with respect to these Land Bounties,
&c., and stating that in lieu of their half pay for life, they preferred
to receive full pay for five years only.

Genl: Clarke, Colo. Brent, Colo. Muter, Col. Dabney,
Major Meriweather, Capt: Rogers, Capt. Boswell Capt: Roane
appointed to draw the memorial.

Genl: Clarke, Colo. Montgomery, Maj Wayles, Capt:
Walsh, Capt: Rogers, Lieut. Humphery Marshall, Lt: Rice Lt:

C appointed to "superintend the surveyors employed to survey

the Lands, together with the Officers appointed by the Continental

Line for that purpose and to see that the regiments and corps

that had served "in the westward" were duly provided for: as all
other troops, in the memorial to be prepared for the Genl Assembly.

The officers appointed to draw the memorial, presented it
according to order, which having been signed by the President, was
on the next day "given in to the Assembly."

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, June i6, 1783
[Draper MSS., 52J86.— A L.]

Richmond June 16"" 1783
Sir I am aprehensive that few persons since the Commencement

of the war with america have had the same cause to address their
superiors on a subject similar to that of this letter. It is with pain
E<]ual to the misfortunes that cause it that I daily View persons in
this City and Reflect on others absent that have Reduced themselves
to a state of Indigence by supporting the Credit of the state to the
westward with a zeal that I at that time thought actuated the breast
of Every friend to his Country, What must be the feeling of those
men that advanced their property with the pleasing Reflection of



1!-CLARK TO HARRISON. JUNE 16, 17 S3 241

suporting the General cause, making no doubt of a speedy Reward
at the End of the war should they find that they were not to Receive
their payments for a series of years to Come; since my Return to
this place I have discoverd Various opinions Respecting the propriety
of those Expenditures, As it is a truth that will apear Obvious to
Every man that will make himself acquainted with the situation of
the frontiers and its enemies I can with the greater boldness afHrm
that it hath been the Consequential services attending those Expenditures that have savd the frontiers of this state from ruin and prevented us from going to three times the Expence. What would
have been our situation had not the Executive prosecuted the measures she did to the westward, And tlirough the means of her Officers Silcncd many of those tribes of Indians by treaties and otherways
and kept them Either attach' to us or in suspence until it was too
late for tlicm to Execute any plan destructive to our Interest, had
not those measures been taken it is Easy to Conceive what would
have been the Consequence of four or five thousand Indian warriors
with all tiie assistance brittain could give them let loose on our frontiers for the course of seven years, might we not with propriety
suppose that part of the blue Ridge would have been contended for,
and all the assistance you have Received from those Valuable frontier countrys would have been lost to you. For my own part altho
I have sufferd Every disadvantage that a person could Experience
for seven years anxiety and fatigue, subject to the Clamours [of]
Every Vilinous principal perticularly the Enemies of this state I
could bear it with greater fortitude was I to be the only sufferer
and the Creditors of the state alluded to paid. The whole of the
western accounts will now be laid before you After considering
the Expence of Recruiting and supporting several hundred troops
for a number of years in a Country where Every article necessary
for them was Extravagantly dear. And the great number of treaties
that have been held with Various tribes of Indians, Every kind of
military stores to purchase. Expeditions against the Enemy &c I
flatter myself you will find them when Reduced to their Value
Exceedingly inadequate. As I know that Every attention was paid
in order to have them so where they came under my notice, Hut
the great distance from One post to another often put it out of my



242 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

power certainly to know for a considerable time what conduct was
usd and many large accounts presented which the department under
my command had nothing to do with, The whole of which I Expect
the Commissioners of western accounts will fully point out to you,
As those Gentlemen have been at uncommon pains to make themselves fully acquainted with Every circumstance ther knowledge
of the conduct of the greatest part of those Creditors induce me
perhaps to be more Sollicitous for their being favourd as I Conceivd
the motives which Enduced them to advance their property was of
the purest nature, and it must be granted that they have been of
Infinate advantage to the State, as they at the Earliest period shewd
their Zeal for the cause otherways the Country we had possession
of must have been abandond. Our Interest with the Indian nations
totally lost, The Kantucky (The great preservitive of the frontiers
of this state) would have been depopulated, and those numerous
savages would have pourd in on Every quarter of the frontier which
must have been supported by the Very troops which have Renderd
Such signal service in the Eastern defence. Those ideas I always
had in View and thought myself happy in preventing the Evil, many
of my smaller charges against the state have no Vouchers, After
you consider the V^arious circumstances attending the Command I
was Intrusted with you could not suppose it strange that only memorandoms should be taken of some of them and many totally neglected
which I doubt will prove Ruinous to my private Interest as the
great Variety of other publick business solely Engaged my attention
and Required all the adress I was master of to superintend the
publick Interest to advantage, not only the Civil Government of
the people of the Illinois to attend to Recruiting disposing of
troops that was difficult to support &c But numerous tribes of Indians
that had Ingagd in war against us that Required great and constant
attention as well as Considerable sums of money to support necessary
Comisarys among them, many that was continued in service thro
the necessity of employing them, Altho their Characters otherwise
not Equal to your wishes, at so great a distance from Government
to get Council or much aid, and but few persons to give assistance,
and latterly numerous partizens to Contend with that was Confusing
the Inhabitants and nearly [MS. illeffible] to the departments, I



CLARK TO HARRISON. JUNE 26. 1783 243

hope to be Excusd in praying for an Immediate Redress of those
Creditors which I Expect there is no doubt of as this stale hath
Repeatedly given proofs of her gratefull disposition, and which will
farther Inable her with greater propriety to claim that honour she
deserves for protecting through the Course of the war at least one
third of the western frontier of the united states.

As for the advances I have made of my own by bond &c in
Cases where the necessary Requisites Could not be otherways obtained from the low state of our finances I pray for an Indemnity
by your Interposition

I Have &c

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, June 26, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.— A L.S.]

Richmond 26''' June 1783.
Sir.

The following hints will sufficiently |X)int out the Cause of
every Article of Life on the Ouabacli being raised to so great a
price as charged in June of the Western Accounts, On our getting
possession of Fort S» Vincennes in 1778 and gaining three or four
thousand Warriors to the American Interest, all Commerce between
that Country and Detroyt immediately ceased, the Checasaws, part
of the Cherokees and other Southern Indians warmly attached to
the British Interest, rendered it exceedingly difficult for the Merch*"
to get supplies from the Mississipi as numbers of them were cut off
on their passage up the Ohio by the Indians who had been instructed
by the English to block up that River if possible. Those Circumstances caused every Article at S' Vincent to raise at least to four

or five prices The Garrison kept at that post were obliged to

recive its Supplies from the Inhabitants of the Town whom consisted
of about three hundred Militia, about one Fourth farmers, t
scarcely raised a Sufficiency of provisions to supply the Inhabitants,
The British on the Lakes sensible of our growing Interest with the
Savages, spared no pains, to regain them by Emissaries &c» which
made it necessary that the greatest attention should be paid on our
part. Consequently vast numbers of Savages were constantly at that

'This letter is printed in Calendar of lirginia Stale Papers, 3:501-502.



244 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Post, councilling &c* as Agents were kept in every Quarter of their
Settlements where we could venture them, and S' Vincent at once
became the Seat of Indian Affairs— and those Articles necessary for
the Solemnity of Treaties, support of troops, &c* was generally
procured for the State by a few Merchants (Lagrass [Legras],
Barrow, Lanetot [Linctot], and others whose zeal induced them
to advance their fortunes for the public Interest Governor Hamilton by his Enemies in the Pittsburg County being informed there
was a great number of disaffected Persons in that Quarter, ready
to join him, resolved to make a Descent on that place, with all the
power he could raise. General Carlton approved of his plan, but
recommended it to him just to drive the Rebels of the Illenois Country, otherwise they might possibly step in and take possession of
Dutroyt, as he would have to leave it in a defenceless Situation,
after puting the latter into execution he might regain the whole of
the Indian Interest, and complete his fame to enable him to execute
his first Design (the attempt was daring) but the prudent measure
that Gentleman conducted himself by, enabled him to get possession
of S' Vincent without much Difficulty, the Season being too far
advanced, he was obliged to take up his Winter Quarters at that
place and of Course disperse his Indian forces untill the Spring, In
the mean time got Captured by a Superior force, which doubly revived our Interest in that Quarter and extended our Influence nearly
to the Walls of Dutroyt, and the great Concourse of people that
consequently happen d for many Months, Troops, Indians, &c*
nearly caused a famine. The Inhabitants not being able to receive
their former plenty, in 1 78 1 were obliged to aband" the Post for
the want of Supplies, from which moment our Interest with the
Indians s»mk as rapidly, as we had gained it, and nearly the whole
engaged in War against us

I am S'' your Humble
And Obed< Serv<

G R Clarke



•■i:



HARRISON TO CLARK, JULY 2. 1783 245

Clark s Accounts with Virginia, July i, 1783
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.— Copy.]

In Council July i" 1783
When the Auditors have settled the accounts of Gen' Clark
they will grant him Military certificates for the part of his pay
which shall appear to have been due before the 8"' day of JanJ' 1782
warrants on the Military fund for what has become due since that
period

Benj Harrison
Shoud any Monies appear to be due to Gen' Clark exclusive of his
pay the Auditors will grant him a warrant for them.

Benj Harrison

£3397-16 5 i/2 Commissioners Office 28th June 1783It appears to the Commissioners tiiat there is due to General
Geo. R Clarke, for flour &c furnished the Garrison at Fort Nelson,

One Thousand two hundred Four Pounds 6/5 J^ for his pay

as Colonel from 2nd January 1778. untile 22 January 1781 :£iiOifor his pay as Brigadier Gen' from 22 January 1781. till 26th June
17831092 10in all Three Thousand Three hundred ninety
seven Pounds 16/5^ as p Accounts and Vouchers received—

By orer of the Board.
J A Lyle j? Ass' Sec'

Benjamin Harrison to Clark, July 2, 1783
[Benjamin Harrison Letter Book, 1783-1786, pp. 164-165.]

General George R: Clarke.

In Council July 2* 1783.
Sir,

The conclusion of the war and the distress d situation of the
State with respect to its Finances call on us to adopt the most prudent Oconomy. It is for this reason alone I have come a determination to give over all Thoughts for the present of carrying on
an offencive war against the Indians which you will easily perceive
will render the Services of a General Officer in that quarter unnecessary, and will therefore consider yourself as out of Command, but
before I take leave of you I feel myself called on in the most forci246 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

able Manner to return you my Thanks and those of my Council for
the very great and singular services you have rendered your Country,
in wresting so great and valuable a Teritory out of the Hands of
the British Enemy, repelling the attacks of their Savage Allies and
carrying on successful war in the Heart of their Country, this
Tribute of Praise and Thanks so justly due I am happy to communicate to you as the united Voice of the Executive.

I am with respect.
Sir
yrs. &c.
B:H:



Clark to Benjamin Harrison, July 2, 1783
[Draper MSS., 11J25. Transcript.]

"Richmond, July 2, 1783.
Sir I had the pleasure of receiving your letter of this day s date,
and can assure you tiiat no reward for past services could be so satisfactory to me, as that of the gratitude of my country. I am happy
in the idea of having met with the approbation of your Excellency
and Council. Should anything hereafter transpire, wherein I could
he of service to you, in the promotion of the interest of your government, its execution will again enable me to enjoy some of those
pleasures that I have often experienced on the reflection of having
rendered service to my country.

I have the honor to be, Your Excellency s
Most obedient and humble servant,
George Rogers Clark.
His Excellency, Ben. Harrison, Esq."

Walker Daniel to Clark, September 15, 1783
[Draper MSS., 52J91.— A L.S.]

Bachelors Office, Sept. 15th. 83.
Dear General, The Inhabitants of this Country have been variously agitated since You left us, occasioned by some reports propagated by designing and perverse members of Society, that the claims
under Virginia were all void, and that Improvements would entitle



DANIEL TO CLARK. SEPTEMBER 15. 1783 247

to more certain estates from Congress: however the partial acceptance
of the Cession of Virginia by Congress has in a great measure quieted
these commotions.

You have, I think, to blame Yourself, for not mentioning
to me the Suits that Cleveland brought against You for the impressing his Whisky and for false imprisonment. In Your absence they
have prosecuted both Suits with great vigor: last Court they were
tried. As I was wholly unacquainted with the circumstances myself I endeavour d to get what information I could from others,
learned that M"" Finn, now at Post Vincennes, could prove something in Your favor: accordingly I moved to postpone the Trial
till Finn s return, but was overruled. The Suit for the Whiskey
was then brought on fortunately for You they had committed two
Blunders, which I the t myself justifiable to take advantage of
nonsuited them. The other was immediately tried, the Jury brouglit
in £217 Damages, I moved for a new Trial as the Damages appeared excessive, but the Court would not grant it. I then proposed,
at the request of some of Your Friends, to pay off the Judgment in
property to be valued by two honest men, on a promise from Clevelands att° not to issue Execution. However my back was scarcely
turn d when a fieri facias was levied on every Thing, without exception, You had in the County, and they were proceeding to sell
them at cash prices to tiie highest bidder. Provoked at their want
of common veracity generosity I prayed obtained an Appeal,
which has superseded all their proceedings: and so the matter rests.

■^'ou may prosecute the Appeal or not as You please. I am
confident they have committed Errors, and that the Gen. Court
will reverse the Judgment, but perhaps You and Cleveland had
better compromise the Affair, as perhaps the man might have suffer d
undeservedly. I hope You will think I have done what Friendship
dictated, perhaps [more] than You ought to have expec[ted] considering Your own negligence. I am much pleased at finding no
obstacle in the way of the Grant s being establish d, tho' I am sorry
it was obliged to be postponed till next Session. However a matter
of some consequence can now be alter d w''" might have injured the
Business if it had been finally compleated last Session. I will write



248 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

^'ou more fully the first opportunity.
Permit me to subscribe myself

Your Friend hble Sert.

Walker Daniel
P. S. Have You seen any of my friends in King Queen?
will they ever write me? I wish anxiously to be building on our
great Point. W. D.
Addressed: Brigadier Gen. Clark Richmond

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, October 12, 1783
[Cal. of Fa. State Papers, 3:535.]

Geo: Rogers Clark to Gov: Harrison.

Caroline October 12th 1783
"Sir,

I have been informed that your Excellency hatli lately received dispatches from the Westward. Being anxious to know the
success of the Commission to the Chicasaws induced me to take the
liberty of writing to you hoping that some moments of leisure might
offer, and that your Excellency would Honour me with the Information, from report I fear all is not well in that Quarter. I hope
Sir that you will pardon this intrusion, and beg leave to subscribe
myself.

Your Excellency s very
Hbl. Serv t."

James Monroe to Clark, October 19, 1783
[Draper MSS., S2J92.— A L.S.]

Richmond Ocf 19. 1783.
Dear Sir I was fav* a few days since with yours by our friend
Majf Crittenden and thank you very sincerely for the contents.
My engagements with the Major are to a considerable amount, were
founded have since been conducted upon a perfect confidence in
his honor integrity: sentiments w^ were formd in my mind in fav""
of him by your own the communications of Col' Marshall his



MONROE TO CLARK. OCTOBER 19. IT S3 24O

son John.' His conduct hitherto has been perfectly honorable
fully corresponding with y'' information so that I have no apprehensions that I shall at any future period have reason to be dissatisfied [with] him: on the contrary my confidence hath increas d from
a personal acquaintance tryal of him. I have to beg of you that
as you will be in tiiat country with the Maj"" will have an opportunity of seing his land sold me that you vv^ill with him give me y''
opinion of that w^ you think y' perferable. he will give you a list
of the tracts out of which I am to chuse. tomorrow I sit out for
Princeton so that I shall not have the pleasure of seing you before
you go. my wishes are that you have a safe profitable trip, with
respect to the employm' you have heard I have in contemplation I
can assure you I have not made up my mind thereon even if I had
y' office within my reach, but if I had was ever so solicitous of
it these appointments are so incertain depend on such a variety
of contingencies that it wo'' be to be calculated on as a remote
probability. I intended going with M'' Jefferson some time since
when he held y' appointm' to the C of Versailles to negotiate y'
peace but whether he will now go or not is incertain if he does
'tis very doubtful as s^' above whether I shall accompany him. but
whether I stay on the continent of America or go abroad I shall
always be glad to hear from you shall be very happy to render
you service, you will continue to correspond with me at Princeton or whereever Congress may reside shall wish you make yr.
communications as usual with perfect freedom, our interests in the

'This was the John Marshall, son of Colonel Thomas Marshall, who
afterwards liecame chief justice of the United States Snpreme Court.
Father and son entered the continental service in the Revolution in the same
organization, Thomas Marshall as major, John as lieutenant of a regiment
of minute men from Fauquier, Orange and Culpeper counties, which met and
defeated Dunmore s forces at Great Bridge late in 1775. This organization
was soon disbanded, and John Marshall was on July 30, 1776, commissioned
lieutenant of the Third Virginia Regiment where his father held the rank
of major. He was commissioned captain-lieutenant in December, 1776, to
rank from July 31, and was transferred to the 15th Virginia Line. In the
winter of 1777-1778 he was with Washington at Valley Forge, having been
appointed before going into winter quarters deputy judge advocate of the
army of the United States. He participated in the battle of Monmouth and
July I, 1778, was promoted to the rank of captain. Later in the summer
of 1779 the term of enlistment of his regiment expired, and with other
supernumerary officers he went back to Virginia, returning to active service
only for a brief time during Arnold s invasion of Virginia.



250 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

western country are very similar of course whatever will promote
mine will serve yours: the plans w^ I take with respect to my private property I will inform you of wish you also to inform me
what you think y' most eligible, of this you may rest assur d that y'
object of this part of y° State an object w^ will govern in all our
Councils will be to effect a separation erect an independend' State
westw^, as it will enable us to oeconomize our aff^s here give us
greater strength in y« foederal councils.
I am very sincerely yr.

most obvery humble serv'
Ja' Monroe

Thomas Jefferson to Clark, December 4, 1783
[Draper MSS., 52J93.— A L.S.]

Annapolis Dec. 4. 1783.
Di;ar Sir

I received here about a week ago your obliging letter of
Oct. 12. 1783. with the sliells seeds for which I return you many
thanks, you are also so kind as to keep alive the hope of getting
for me as many of the different species of bones, teeth tusks of
the Mammoth as can now be found, this will be most acceptable.
Pittsburg Philadelphia or Winchester will be the surest cliannel
of conveyance. I find they have subscribed a very large sum of
money in England for exploring the country from the Missisipi to
California, they pretend it is only to promote knolege. I am
afraid they have thoughts of colonising into that quarter, some
of us have been talking here in a feeble way of making the attempt
to search that country, but I doubt whether we have enough of that
kind of spirit to raise the money, how would you like to lead such
a party? the I am afraid our prospect is not worth asking the question, the definitive treaty of peace is at length arrived, it is not
altered from the preliminaries, the cession of the territory West
of Ohio to the United states has been at length accepted by Congress,
with some small alterations of the conditions, we are in daily expectation of receiving it with the final approbation of Virginia.
Congress have been lately agitated by questions where they should
fix their residence, they first resolve on Trentown. the Southern



CLARK APPOINTED SURVEYOR 251

states however contrived to get a vote that they would give half
their time to Georgetown at the Falls of Patowmac. still we consider the matter as undecided between the Delaware Patowmac.
we urge the latter as the only point of union which can cement us
to our Western friends when they shall be formed into separate
states. I shall always be happy to hear from you and am with very
particular esteem D'' Sir

Your friend humble serv'
Th: Jefferson
Addressed: Gen' George Rogers Clarke

Clark appointed Principal Surveyor of Bounty Lands,

December 17, 1783

[Draper MSS., 32J93.— D S.]

Be it remembred, that on the seventeenth day of December in
the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred eighty three,
that George Rogers Clarke of the State of Virginia for and on the
part of himself, his heirs, executors administrators of the first
part and Col George Muter, Lt Col Charles Dabney Maj'
Thomas Merriweatlier the deputation on the part of the officets and
soldiers of the Virginia State line for this purpose duely appointed
for and on the part of the said officers and soldiers, for themselves
their successors, in such deputation of the second part, have covenanted, promised, contracted and agreed And do by these presents
covenant, contract, promise and agree, to and with each other in
manner and form following, that is to say. First, the party of the
first part being elected, the principal survejor, for the purpose of
locating surveying the several bountys of land, which have been
given granted by the General Assembly of this State to the said
officers and soldiers, shall forthwitli proceed to proceed to obtain the
legal qualifications for effectually executing his said office of prmcipal surveyor, and having obtained such qualifications, shall proceed
as early as may be, on the bussiness of locating and surveying the
bountys of lands aforesaid, for the several officers and soldiers entittled thereto as original grantees of the State, for their heirs,
agreeable to their respective warrants, according to such modes and
regulations as have been, or shall hereafter be established by tlie



252 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Gen' Assembly, faithfully effectually doing performing at every
stage of the bussiness whatever it is customary for surveyors to do
perform. Secondly the said party of the first part, shall carry
with him and keep in service during the time of his being on the
said bussiness, or untill discharged by the superintendants, four
effective men for chain carryers, markers hunters, armed furnished with ammunition, and also equipped with the necessary utensils for performing the dutys aforesaid for each deputy or assistant
surveyor he shall employ, whose pay shall not exceed three shillings
per day, to be paid by the said surveyor, and he to be reimbursed
therefore, by the partys of the second part. Thirdly, the party of
the first part, shall out of his own fees pay the College dues that
shall arise on this bussiness, exonerating the said officers soldiers
therefrom. Fourthly the partys of the second part, that is to say,
the said officers and soldiers, their heirs, executors or administrators
respectively, shall pay or cause to be paid, to the party of the first
part, his heirs, executors administrator or assigns, the usual surveyors fees as by law established three shillings whereof for every
tliousand acres to be paid down at tiie time of lodging the warrant
or warrants, on which the said surveys are to be made.

In witness whereof the said parties have hereunto interchangeably sett their hands the date above written.

G. R. Clark

George Muter

Cha Dabney Lt Col.

Tho' Meriwether

Clark as Principal Surveyor of Soldiers' Bounty Land,

December 20, 1783

[Cal. of Va. Stale Papers, 3:550.]

Decern. 20th 1783
Bond of George Rogers Clark and Wm. Croghan, in the
penalty of Three Thousand Pounds, to George Minter, Chas: Dabney, and other Officers of the State Line and State Navy,

authorizing them to receive from all officers and Soldiers of said
Line, as Principal Surveyors of Public lands, for such amounts of
lands as they may be entitled to respectively, "one half dollar for



CLARK AND ACCOUNTS, 1783 253

each tliousnnJ acres" as Surveyor s fee, and "one dollar for eacli
hundred acres" contained in sucli warrant, upon delivery of the
same, to form a continpent fund for executing the provisions of act
of assembly granting public lands, &c., &c.

Clark assumes Revolutionary Accounts, December 22, 1783
[Draper MSS., 46J45. 1 ranscript.]

June 5"" 1783. General George Rogers Clark

To Charles Gratiot assignee of Cap^" lixctot Dr
To a bill of exchange accepted by you for 7678 Livres* £427-13-4

To Interest on the above Bill from the 5^* of June
1779 til the s'"" of June 1783 4 years at 5 p. c J 85-10-8

To Bill of Exchange accepted by you for 3836 Dollars 1150-16
To Interest on the above Bill from 5" of June 1779

til 5'" June 1783 4 years a 5 p c 230-3



£18943
6 livres to a french Crown.

I certify that Gen' Clark as paid to me the with
account with Interest

By power of attorney of Godefroy Linctot
(Signed) Ch. Gratiot

1894-3
1618-5-3



275-17-9



Richmond 22'' December, 1783



CHAPTER IX

CLARK S ACCOUNTS WITH VIRGINIA, MARCH 30, 1778
JUNE 9, 1783

Virginia Debtor to Clark Virginia Creditor to Clark Summary op
Accounts Connected with the Conquest of the Northwest Bills
Drawn by Various Officers Pay Roll of Captain Joseph Bowman s
Company, August 8, 1778 to December 14, 1778 Pay Roll of Captain Edward Worthington s Company, July 17, 1778 to June i, 1779
Pay Roll of Captain Jesse Evans' Company, December 29, 1778 to
April 5, 1779.

Clark s Accounts with Virginia*
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

The State of Virginia

To Brigadier CJen'' G. R. Clark
For Sundry Payments, Expences other Disbursements by him
made in behalf of the said State, Illinois Department. Viz:



1778



Many of the Vouchers for this a/c
are in a Bundle endorsed, "Vouchers for Gen' Clarks a/c consisting
of &cn



Dollars



Mnr 30
A p. 4"

8"
•5"



25

30"



May 12"
«4



To a treat at Rendezvous 13}^

p<' an Express from the Mouth of

Muddy Creek
p l for flour for Cap' Helms' C".
p'' 10 Men for bringing boats from

Wheeling to Redstone

p<' for a Treat to Capt Helms s

CO

p'^ioT-.d" for Cap' Bowman s

C»

p l for 66 yds Linnen for Boat

Covers 2fi}i

p"" for repairing Boats i6J^

p'' John Maxwell, for 12189" flour

in Barrells ^ii^'A

p l Jacob Bousman for 130 ferriages lo^^



273



Vs



'This material has been printed, in part, in English, Conquest of the
Country Northwest of the River Ohio lyyS-ljSs and Life of George Rogers
Clark, 2:1040-1056.

254



IVIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



255



Dolla



July 5"

n

17

27

Aug' i"





7


15




14


16


Nov


•9"


17


Mar


16"


18


May


24"


19
20



25



27



II

12



13



14



21

22

23
24

25
26

27

28

29
30



32

33
34



p"* for 4 Hand Cuffs 10

p^ Francis Charleville for 10

Beeves 237^^

p'^ Cha^ Charleville for 150" Gunpowder 248

p'' for rum p Cap' Worthington s rec' 19

p'' for 142" Gun Powder 340

p'' M'' Murray for rum for use of

the Troops ^^Ys

p'' for sundry ferriges to the Spanish side of Cert 4

p'^ for 14" Bacon at 1/2 a Dollar
lb 7

p*" for a Boat p'' Major Bowman s
Cert 30

p"' Delouri, for Storage Cartage
of Merchandize at Misereinthe
Spanish Country 36

p"' an Armorer for 37 Days Work

at 8 livres p'' day 59^^

p'' a Carpenter for 38 Days Work

at Fort Clark 61 J-^

p'^ for repairing the Garrison at

Kaskaskia 2sVi

p'^ for 20 Powder at 2 Dollars

p'' lb 40

p'' for 50 Lead at 1/2 Dollar p'' lb 25

p"^ for roo flints 2

p* for 15" Flour Barrells 15

p'^ for 40" Lead 20

p'' for 70" Powder 140

p'' for I Grappling Iron (say Boat

Anchor) 30

pi^Diff' ferriages over the Mississippi 10

p'^ M'' Labadie for 1000" Lead.. 250
p^ 3 Men employ d by Will'!' Swan

for repairs at Fort Clark 28^

p^ Serj' James Espy, as p'' rec' on
his Pay Roll 50

Carried over.



2 087



465



228



528



H







H



3 583






256



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Dollars



35
36

37

38
39

40

41
42



43
44
45

46



47



49

50
5'

52

53

54
55

56

57



To Amot brot over 3 583
John Sanders for Services p

rec' 31

for transporting Troops to the

Cherokee Fort 352

for an Horse furnished M''
Gibault for his services to S'

Vincent J 60

Doctor Laffont for like Services 60

Charlo Charleville for 56 Gall.
Tassia, deN to Ind^ at Sundry Councils treaties

4 Doll p Gall 224

d° for 13 Quarts Liquor for like

purposes 19%

d" for an Horse 40^

dofor Gall. Tassia, del i
the fatigue Party for raising a Boat J 3

Mr Gratiot for 112 Gunpowder 112

d»for Cartage of d" i5^

d° for 14 Go rum for fatigue

Party loading Boats f 3^

Mr Gibault for a Colt lost
while his Mare was in publice Service

Capt John Williams his pay
Abstract 5 128



p'' Cap' Joneast for sundries fur1
nish d the Troops p his Accot
rendered at Fort Clark J 600

p'' Cap' Edward Worthington his

Pay Abstract 2 547^

p^ Cap' Richd M^Carty. his d? d". 1 248^

pti (Jo (Jo for jiij Volunteer Company 72o3i

piS Lieut. Perault for his Pay
Abstract 516

p*! Cap' Joseph Bowman for his

d° 1 703/^

p l Cap' Ahr"! Kellar for his. d". 1 855
p*! Major Joseph Bowman for his

d° 442f^

p'^ for 2 days Work 2^

p"! Lieut. John Girault in part of
his recruiting Acco' his receipt thereon J 900



H



6 042



'A



VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



257



Dollars



58
59
60

61

62

63
64

66
67



p"" for sundry necessaries for the
Hospital 20

p'' for 205 flour.. (S) 8 p hundred, delC Capt Shelby i6>^

pd Cap' Fras Charleville for his

Pay Abstract 323

p'' for sundry necessaries for use

of the Hospital 37

p'' Lieut. John Bayly, exp' on recruiting 21 Men rect f 118

p"! an Express from S' Vincents

to the Vermillion Towns.. f 20
p'' Mons. Antoine Gamelin

Ind. Agent, for sundry Exp?

while he was treating w'*"

the Ouabache Ind^ J 1 143^^

p'' for sundry necessaries for use

of the Hospital at F. Clark. 45
p<3 Chs Charleville for 2^ Cw«

flour at 8 Cwt 17

Transferred to folio 2



10 895







1 380



Vs



21 901



258



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Dollars



1778



July 27'



Sepf 26'



68
69

70
T
72
73
74

75



76
77
78
79

80
81
82

83

84
85
86

87
88



To Amo' bro' over from folio i

p'^ 2 Men for 3 days search after

Public Horses 9

p"' for 2 Gall' Tassia for Kaskaskia Indians 12

p^ for 4 loads of Wood 4^

20 Gunpowder 40

100 flints 2

50 Lead 20

p'' an Express to Kahokia 10



p<i a Coxswain for 70
days Service on
Board the Willing Batteau on the Exped"
to Post Vincent



p<l Jonas Menafield for 45 days



Work at F. Clark.



p'' an Armorer for repairing

Arms at d"

p"" for 232 Pickets at one Livre

each

p'^ Cap' Leon s Helm in

part of his Pay

Abstract transmitted to

Government as p his

rect thereon

p l Cap' Joseph Bowman in part

of d° as p d° I

p"" Capt Will Harrod in part of

d° as p d° I

p"! Cap' John Montgomery in part

of d" as p d" 2



70
45

247^5
46 Ks

889^^
>i83j^

161^



p'> Ch= Caderon for Provisions other necessaries furnished Cap'
Bowman s Co. on their
March to Illin? J 76^

p"! Monsr Bolsey for i Cwt. Gunpowder p rec? Cap? Bowman. 100

p'' horse hire as p rec' of Cap'

Bowman 87^

p'' Lacroix s Acco. p Majr Bowman s Cert 115/^

p<i Lacroux s d° for Provisions p

Cert of d" 254^^

p'' Tho' Brady s d° for Rations

p d" of d° 560^



21 901







97



H



5 557



Vs



VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



259



Dollars



Oct 31"


89


Sepf 20"


90


Nov"' 10"


91
92


iS"


93


24"


94


27"
30"
Dec 2


95
96

97


1779
Jany 28"


98


(■779)




19"


99




100


27"


lOI


a8"


102




103



p"' Lacroix s d° for..p d" of d°

(Ind Acco) 43?^

piJ Lacroix s d" for pdoofd". 359^!

p<iRichS MfCarty s Acco p di of d" 76^

p^ for horse hire p d" of d" 8

p* Mons'' Lavasseur. p d° of d". 2^

p lfor Stone, Wood &c. p d" of d" i^A

p-ifordO-.-do &c pd ofd".. jYs

piiford". do &c pd°ofd".. ^yi

p'^ Lacroix s 2 Accot* for Provisions p d" of d° M°%

p"" Monsr Cotineau for rum for
Volunteers Ind' p Cap'
Mccarty s Certificate J 3>^

p''atPraire de Roche p Cert, of

Capt Bowman 20 J^

pd Exp? at Philips to S' Pierre p

d" of d" loH

p'' Rich^ M Carty for Ensign Levine s Board 11 days 35^

p"" Exp9 at Kaskaskia p Capt Bowman s Cert 88

pS Monsr Barbee s Acco^ Certified

by Cap' M<^Carty 2oJ^

Transferred to folio 3



1 603



Vs



49'



143



29 794






26o



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS









Dollars


'779




To Amo' brot over from folio 2




29 794


H


May 22


104


p l Lacroix s prov" Acco Certified
bv \faior Bowfnan


7085/5
159J5








105


p"! Lacroix s d". d". by. d".








106


p"! Horse hire Loss of saddle
p Cert.. do


iH








107


p<ifor do& d" p ..d" d"..


iVs








108


p-lfor d<>& d" p Cert. d»


8








109


p"! for Provisions at Kaskaskia
p d" d"


145/5








no


p'' for I Perriogue. p d°..d''..


30








112


p<i for 2 Flour 2 recepts Dan'
Murray


12








113


p"! Mr Barbineau for 1000" flour
600" Ind. Meal p rec' of
Dan' Murray


72








114


p<i d° for icxx) lb flour p rec' d".


60








"5


p iRago Bauvais for 291 flour p












rec' d"


lyVi


1 229


'A




116


p"" M"' Charleville for 2205 flour






2059" Ind. Meal, 50" Loads












Hay p rec' Daniel Murray..


posy s








"7


p lM'' Plassy for 2" Nails


I/S








iiS


p") for Corn p rec' of Dan' Murray


6








119


p"! Mr Plassy for 200" flour p
rec' d"


12








120


p* Ml" Barbineau for 200" flour










121


p rec' d°


12
12








pd d" for 200" d" prec d".






122


p lRenovf for Corn prec d".


6








123


p<i d" for d" prec d".


6








"4


pd Degane for d" prec d".


12








"5


p"" Mr Barbeneau for 100" flour

Corn 18 dollf= for Corn

p rec' d".


24








126


pd d" for 200" flour prec d".


12








127


p^ d" for 100" D" p p rec' d".


6








128


p i Rago Bauvais for 49 d°

p rec' d".


3








129


pdMr Plassy for 100" d"

p rec d".


6








130


p^Rago Bauvais for 49

P rec' Ho.


•5








'3'


p'' d" for 100" d" prec d".


6








132


p'' M'' Bienvenue for 4000" flour
p rec' do.


240








133


pOMr Plassy for 29" Buffaloe












beef p rec' d".


2


787


Vs









VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



261









Dollars




134

135
136

137

138

139

140

141
142
143


p<l Cerre for SoU Indian Meal

prect d". 2V^

542" flour prec d". 32^

19 824" Beef p rec' d". 1982 Ji

100" flour p rec d". 6

400" d" p rec' d". 24

405" Buffaloe Beef

p rec' do. 2o5S

1 784" flour prec d". 107

446" Ind: Meal. p rec' d". 13?^

1 Canoe prec d". 10

CartageiDay p rec d". 2


2 200


Vs




Transferred to folio 4


34 011


Vi



262



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Dollars



1779
Jany 11"
12

13



16


ISO


t8


151




152


20


•53
154


23


155




156




•57


25
27
Feb 39


158

•59
160
161
162


1778
July 28"


163
64
65



Sept. 24'



28"



144

•45

146

•47
148

•49



166



167

1 68
169



To Amot bro' over from folio 3

p"^ for Dan Murray s Cert, to

Bienvenue 5

pi^ for 5 424 BufFaloe Beef p Dan.

Murray s Cert 325?^

p* for 7 150" flour., p. d". d". 429
p* for D. Murray s rec' of this date i^
piJ for d" d° of this date for

Wood 36

piiford" d" of this date for

Provision 132



pd for d° d" of this date for

Wood

p* for d° d" of this date for d"

p Sford" d° of this date for

Provisions

pii for d" d° of this date for d°

pd for d" d" of this date for



1000" flour



p"! for d° d" of this date for

5 580!' d"

pd for d" d" for 600" Ind

Meal

p<i for d" d". for 119" Loads

Wood

pdford" d<'.for 725 Pork.

pd for d° d". for Wood.

p<J for do d". for 33 Loads d"

pd for d" d" to Mr. Plassy.

p<) for d" d" for Provisions 60

p* d" for I Hde Taffia

p l for do Cert, for Provisions..

pd for 6 days board for an Ind.
Interp'

pd L B. Lacroix for
sundry Expences
treating with the Ind'
between i" Aug this date
p his Acco. rendered

pd Thos Brady s 2 Acco" for
sundry Indian Expences as
Certified by Major Bowman

pd Mons"" Lacroix s Acco. for sundry d" p Cert, do

pd Moses Henry for his Acco of
d p Cert of Cap Helm



4

2
138

77^
60

4451^
18



119

58

3

33
167



iH



12

140^

12



205^
216?^

43?^
77?^



34 011



Vs



929



H



500



VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



263



Dollars



170
'7'

172



'73



■74

■75

176
•77
178
179



p"" d". for d". p order of d". 60
p^ an Acco. certified by Capt Bowman 144^

p"" M'' Danis his Wages as Ind.
Interp' from Kaskaskias to
Wiaw, under Cap' Hela., for

Horse hire &ea.&ea 260

p* Mods'' Lacroix s sundry Expences while treating
with different Nations of Indians as

p Acco j izsYi

piJ for Goods furnished to Indians as p Cert. Cap Bowman 118^
p 3 for rum to Indians at Sundry

times 2iJ^

p"" for d" Goods &ea to Indians. 156

p"* for 5 Bottles rum to d° 7?^

p lfor 5 Bottles d" to d" 6

p"! for Rum at a treaty in Novera'' 12

Transferred to folio s



1 248



37 688



Yi



264



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Dollars



i8o



182
183
184
185
186
187

188

189



190



191
192



193

194

195
196

197

198

199
200
201

202

203

204

205

206



To Amo' bro' over from folio 4

p^ Mons' Deneau for a trip to the

Chipwa nation as Ind. Agent. 240
p"! for 2 Bottles of rum for Indians 6

p'^ for 4 p'' Shoes for d".. 12

p'' for 13 Shirts for d".. 43?^

p"" for 10 pr Shoes for. d". 30

p* for 3 Quarts Taffia for d" 12

p<i for I.. do d" for d" 4

p'' for Sundry Exp' at a treaty at

Post S' Vincent s in Feb. 1779. 47
p'' for taffia at sundry times for

Indians 60

pd M' Gibault s Lafont s Expences at taking possession of

Post S' Vincent in 1778 J 657

p"" Cap' Helm s order fav' M'

Hubberdeau for sundry Exp'. 218
p* d. d">. fav'' John Louise.. 128
p"* I. M. Legras' Acco for sun1

dries furnished p Cap' f

Helms' Certificate J 1 631}^

p*" Cap' Helms' order fav

Cha» Amoneau for sundries

furnished the Troops J 87

p i Cap' Helms dft favor John

Louise for sundries 171

p") d". d" fav' Fra» Bosseron

for d"' 500

p* d°. d" favr Pierre Cornia

for. d>> 500



pd Qr Mr Rogers' Cert, fav' Mr

Renault for d" 123

p'' Capt Helm s order fav' Jean

Vauchers for d° 921

p"! do. d" fav' M' Renault for d" m A
p^ d°. d" fav' John Gibert for d" 2795^
p") d". d°fav' M' Lafontaine for

d 300

pi d". dofav' of the Bearer for

d 103^

p"" Lieut. Rich* Brashear s order

fav' Cripeau for d" J 135

p"" Cap' Helms' order of JanX last

fav'. for d" 625^

p"! d". d" fav' M Roberdeau for

do 46

pOd" d»fav' for d" 178?^



37 668







4 346



H






VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



265



207

zoS



209
210

211
212

213

214
215

216



p id" dofav'' for d" 643^

pti d". d" fav'' Francois Bosseron for d" S o



p"" Mich! Antia for Sundry Services &ca 30

p^ a blacksmith s Bill of this

date for sundry Iron Work 53^

p"" a Carpenters Acco for Work j

repairs at F. Clark j 43^^

pil Mons'' Cerre s Acco for Provisions &ca furnish d the
Troops at Fort Clark between
7"" last July this date
p his Acco' rendered J 2 862^

p"! James Manafee for 12 Chords
Wood 12

p-id" for 12.. d" 12

p^ Armstead Dudley for 8 days

Work 4

pi" James Graham for 10 days
Work 5



Transferred to folio 6.



Dollars



3 980



Yi



3 023



49 039



Vs



266



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS









Dollars






To Amo' bro' over from folio 5.




49 039


Vi




2lS


p<> for Patt. Kennedy s Bon s l
for diff' Public Services p
his Acco. 2951 2 6


590 J^








221


p<i Dan' Murray for 24 Bush'
Salt at fi Doll D


^14










Casks Cooperage


6








222
223


p<i M' Plassy for Pitch Oakum.

p<i for Casks by order of Cap'

Harrod


9H

135 5








224


pdfor 15!^ Bush. Salt p Cap'
Harrod s order


77^5








225


p ifor63 D»&2 Casks p do-.d".


401?^








226


pi for 61^ D" pd-.-d".

91^ D" pdo.-d".


370^
47^3








227


p"" for 102^ Gunpowder p d". d".


3075^








228


piifor i85>4 Lead pdo.-d".


18 sH








229


pi" for repairing Cap' Harrod s










234




6


2 159






p* for 2 Hhds Taffia as p rec'














Capt George


400








237


p lBartlet Searey for going Express from S' Vincents to the










2 8


Falls


75








p^ Harman Consler as Express








from Kask» to Wmburg


1 000








239


p^ for sundry Attendance

Necessaries furnished for the
p"" Sick at the Falls of Ohio.


li^^i








240


pd Edw<" Murray as Express from
Kask» to the Falls of Ohio.


100








241


pi Boston Damewood for taking


100








242


To Cash of the recall d emissions novf returned p rec'
Geo. Brooks i


6 271








244


To d° pi Jacob Lacourse for i












Hhd Taffia

p Cap' Helms 3 Sundry Dfts


600


18 865


Vi












on me of the 24 Oct. 78. Viz.











245


I in favor Cripeau for


•48?^









246


I in favr Chapoton for


211









247


I in favor I. M. P. Legras
(of the 29)


7«o^






1778


248


pi M' Barbeau for Lodging the








omitted




Chipwa s vrhen coming to








Nov 10'^




treat


4?^













VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



267



Dollars





249


p* I. R. Hanson, for his Acco. of
sundries for the friendly Ind"


124^








250


pOBeaufrere the Taylor p Certificate of Major Bowman


148








251


p^Ahavniand at Caho p d" of d"
for Sundries for the Sick


60^








252


p"" Kenell for making flags for
the Ind» p Cert. Major Bowman


22 J^








253


p* Major Bowman s dft on me
for furnitures


454 J^






X


254


p lRich'' M^Carty for sundries p
his Acco Cert by Maj"" Bow139






X


255


p JJos. Brown for 793" Beef for










the Troops per his rec'


160






X


asfi


p'' Sundry Expences as p Voucher


109






X


257


pd Maj'' Smith for support of the










2 8


Kentucky Volunt' p rec'

p* Will Helm for Bacon as p rec'


500


2 843


^5


X


7




X


259
261
260
262
26s


p"! Joseph Andrews for rum for
Ind' p. Cert Cap' Helm

p"! T. Brady for Provisions furnish d at F. Clark

p'' for simdrics for use of the
Hospital p Doctor Rey

p"' Antoine Hlenvenue for Provisions furnish d at F. Clark..

p'' Ch9 Charleville p rec' for


269

35
246












428 ^J


1 762


M




Tiansferr d to folio






7


7+.670


'A



268



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS









Dollars








To Atno' bro' over from folio 6




74 670


'A






264


p iChaa Charleville p rec'..


22 Ks










265


pii Brasseau for his Acco


3










266


p"* I. B. Lacroix p rec'


6 4H


639


M


1779


267


p^ for an Horse furniture


P












order Moses Henry


8o






Aug


25"


26S


p^ John Hargis in part of his Cor
tract for Beef




200






Oct.


9


269


pdfor I Gall. Taffia as treat to












Col" Rogers' men after the


r












defeat


8o








29"


270


p"" 2 of Cap Linetots Volunteers












8 Months oav


177










271


p*' Moses Henry p his 3 Acco^.


•i 3>5








V


272


p*^ Cap' Quirk, sundries for use


f








V


273


p"" Cap' Helms in part of his Acco'














354

f








V


274


piiCap' Worthington for use o












his Compy p rec'


9 6H








V


275


advanced Henry Crutcher, a
reduced Commissary, In
part of his services
before he was reduced.














(book debt)


24

y


3i294


\i




V


276


advanced Cap Rich" M«Cart












(deceased) in part of his Pa


y












for recruiting other nece^















sary purposes (book Acco).


■3 S9'5^








V


277


advanced Capt Ah"!" Kellar i
part of his pay for recruitin
other necessary purposes

(book acco)


n

g

189








V


278


p" Lieut: Perrault in part of his
recruiting Acco p rec'
thereon


600








V


279


advanced Doctor Rey for
use of the Hospital


150








V


280


advanced Cap Evans for use












of his Compy (book Acco).


123^








V


281


advanced Cap' 19 Shelby

for use of his C"


109








V


282


advanced Cap' Isaac Taylor












for use of his C»














(book Acco)


1 118


4 881












it



VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



269



Dollars







284






28s


177s

June


21


286


June


27


287


May


16


288


June


20


289


Nov


9


290=



Cash p<i I. M. Simmons for

Copying my public Acco

p rec'

p'' Will Shannon s 54 dfts on

me in favr of sundry persons

for public services &ca, as

will appear by his Accols

34 206 livres J 6 841 J^

p<i d" dft on the Treasi favr Monsr

Cerre (N" 120) 875

pd d" d° on d" favr Charlo Charleville (N" 132) 1 095}^

pd Jo Jo on me (N" 65). 32

I p"! d" d" on me (N" 102) 461 J^

p'^ d" Sundry Small d on me.

P his rec' a^



p<^ d" dft on the Treas' fav""

M M.Carty (N" 115). 73

p ldodfton the Treas"' fav"' N.

Randolph N" 170). 9 718

Transferred to folio 8..



9 338



9 79J
102 715



Vs







270 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Dollars



'779






Nov.


14


4




20


S


Dec


6


6




8


7




23


8

9
10




29


II


178c






Jani'


I


12







13




19


14







15







16




35


'7







18


Feb)'


4


19




16


20


Mar


12


21



20
a4

25



Api 8

Sept

Oct s

1781

feby 12

Mar 25

May 19



22
23

24
25

26

27
28

29
30

3»

32

33
34



Specie
Pen^Ciirr y

To Amo? bro! over from folio 7

p^ Capt Dodge for one Perriogue

p^ Swan for Iron

p^ for a large Copper Kettle

p^ioT Wood for Barracks

p'^ expences in making 42 bushels Salt
at Bullet s Lick per Richard Chenoweth

p^ for Tallow

p"! for Fuel

pii M"=Gee for his work p Cert, in lieu
of 9 yds of Cloth

p'' for 8 bushels of Corn

pd for Wood for Barracks 100 Dollars

d" 18 Dol

p* Marsham Brashear for Corn p rec'.

p* for Beef

p"" Jesse Rood for Haleing fuel

p"" Express from S' Vincents

p'' for Wood

p'' for Cutting Hauling fuel

p'' for repairing Barracks

p'' Silas Harlan for 16 bush Corn delivered into Store

3 d" deH to Cap' Haley for

Recruits

200" Flour for the Troops..
p*! John Briscoe J'' for Casks p Cert..
p"" Levin Powell for an Iron Chain

Grate p d

p^ d° {oT a Batus appraised to £2000..
pii d" for 6J4" powder iij^" Lead 200

flints

p"" for Whisky for the Troops

p^ Thomas Vickroy for a Bag p Cert.
p") John Donnes' Acco for provisions &ca
p"" Thomas Vickroy for paper p Cert..
p'' Anthony Rolins for 1635^" flour

p'' Lieut Col° Joseph Crocket p rec'..
pd Isaac Fisher for expences as Express

to Holdston

p'' Coleman Hill as Express from the

Fall to Fort Pitt

p* Hardy Hill for 16 bush Corn p rec'.



102 715
365

80
130

20



1 788

79
10

562

320

118
225
50
50
50
60

5°
150

2 240

300

600

45

306

6 666

884
798

70

40 104

136

817

17 050
1 000

6 2O0

1 620











i



fe



VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



271







Dollars


June 2


35


p'' Ensign Tannehill for his expences as








July




Express from Richmond to Fort Pitt.


4 650






July 28


16


p* William Harrison' in full of his Acco.












p rec' £i5i56 i4


50 522




y<.




37


p<i d" Benj Harrison s^ expences p Acco


436







March












seeW^H


37
38


piJ d" in behalf of Government p rec'
£126 582, b/k-£. i8=9=6J4 (this accot
for in Accot,)

p"" John Gibson Merch' for Goods he furnished Col° Gibson for use of Indians
on Acco U. States p his rec'. .£72 2"4


421 941






Sept 1


39


p"" Daniel M'^Kinneys Acco. of Smith
Work


276








40


p^ Cap' Isaac Craig s Acco. of expences










from Fort pitt to Philadelphia p rec'.
Transferred to folio 9. 90=11=10^=


'.997








665 483


V,'



'William Harrison, the son of Lawrence and brother of Col. Benjamin
Harrison, was born in Virginia but at an early age moved to Yohog inia
County, Virginia, now the neighborhood of Connellsville, Pa. He was a
lawyer, served as sheriff of his county and as a member of the House of
Delegates. He served in the Revolution as major and colonel of the militia,
and met his death in the expedition of Col. William Crawford, his fatherin-law, in 1782. Kellogg, Frontier Advance on the Upper Ohio (ff^is. Hist,
Colls., 23), 165-166, note i.

'Benjamin Harrison, who was the son of Lawrence and brother of
William Harrison (see above), entered service in the Revolution as a
captain in 1776, and retired as a major in 1781. In 1782 he was colonel of
the Westmoreland County militia. After the death of his brother William,
Benjamin moved to Kentucky, where he had an active career as sheriff of
Bourbon County, as member of the conventions of 1787, 1788 and 1792, as
representative in the legislature of 1793, and as state senator, 1795. He
took part in Col. George Morgan s New Madrid enterprise and later
settled in Missouri in the Ste. Genevieve district. Kellogg, Frontier Advance, 386, note 3.

"The figure is given as it appears in the original. The fraction, however, should be 3/15.



272



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Dollars







Penns Currcy










Specie










To Amount bro' over from folio










8.. £90:11:1054


665 483


Ve


I78I










Sep' I


40


pd Cap' Isaac Craig in part of his expences at Philadelphia returning,
Wagon hire &ca p rec'


7 303








40


p"" d" Craig bath of said Acco..£"i4




4


4>


To Carp p Henry Hoglan Express


1 100




5


42


p"! Butler Hart going Express


7 041


Ve


IS


43


p*^ Edw Murdock as Spye


4 800






44


pii Thomas Phelp s Acco. for provisions.


29 47s




25


45


p"! John Allan in part for a Rifle Gun fo
John Baptist the Indian Chief


r

900




Om i Aug'


46


p'' for Subsistance for wounded Soldiers


80




8, 1780


47


pii for Liquor for Soldiers on Command.


3 5




Nov48


p"! for Whisky for d" at Bakers


200




•775


49


p"! my Expences at Hogs p Voucher..


10 026




feby 10


50


p*" Express to the County Lieut of Berkle


y 500




12


51


p'' for 10 Quire of paper


A en






52


p"" for three pair of Stockings for Soldiet


450
8 Soo




1+


S3


p"" Expences at Winchester at Edmondsons incluK i2o io"for N. Randolph p rec'


4 94'







54


piljohn Gibson for Sundries






furnished at Fort=










pitt p Acco.. i302 7"9


i






55


p''Cap' Robert George in part of his re
cruiting Ac' as p his receipt thereon.


28 550






5«


pd Jo (Jo in part of his pay Abstract a
p his Rec'


s






57


p*" Col John Montgomery in part of hi
pay p rec'


4 427
s

3 800






58


p^ Major Thomas Quirk as p rec' on hi
pay Roll


s

107 tiO






59


piiCap' Richd Brashear in part of his re


'"7 3*9








cruiting Acco as p his receipt thereo


1. 4 769


'A




60


p^ Cap' John Williams in part of his pa
as p rec' on his pay Roll


y

2 771






61


p* Martin Carney Q Master in part
his pay p his rec' on his pay Roll.


f

2 450






62


p"! Jacob Pyatt p order of Cap' Joh
Rogers for provisions p Voucher..


n

5 560






«J


piiCap' John Bailey in part of

his Acco for recruiting as p rec' there
on


16 087






64


p"" John Donne in part of his pay p Rec'


4!584





VIRGINIA DEBTOR TO CLARK



273



X



6s
66

68



69



70



Dollar!!



Advanced Joseph Lindsay p rec' for
purchases in the Commissary Departm'

Advanced Leonard Helm Superintend' in part of pay p his Rec'.

Advanced Cap' Worthington in part
d° p his rec'

Advanced Nat. Randolph for publick
purposes p rec'



Transferred to fol. 10 £1429:13 ijj^

Penns Currey

Specie

To Amount bro' over from folio 9.

£'429:'37)4

Advanced William Shannon p his

reef for public^
purposes

Advanced John Donne p rec' on his
I ay Acco. 9:12 :6
see Voucher N' 64

£1 439:6:1^4=
To Ballance on this Acco. at yrCr in
New Acco.17 4:7=

1 456:10:9=^



18 950

1 500

8 898

115 266



1 058,358

1 058,358
1 119,558



2 177,916
23 476



2 201,392



4/.














Note: The charges mark d V the vouchers for them have been lodged
in the auditors office in February 1780. as will appear by the auditors certificate. Those charges marked the vouchers accompany this acco'
those not marked are taken from entries made in the Books.'

No explanation can be made for those items marked x.



274



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Virginia Creditor to Clark.

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]



17


78






Dollars


July


'S"


I


By my dft of th


s date on Oliver Pollock












pble to Laffont for..




285 20






ig"


2


By my d° of do


on do.


C. Charleville


208






24"


3


By my d" of d".


on do.


Rapicault


516 20






2S"


4


By my d" of d".


on do.


Iluhlierdeau.


239 80






d"


5


By my doof d".


on do.


Cerri


',273






do


6


By my d°of d".


on do.


Lauipe


337




Aug


fi


7


By my d" of d".


on do.


Datchurut


738 60






7"


8


By my d^of d".


on do.


Ant Morain.


III








9


By my doof d°.


on do.


Fagott


1 100








10


By my d°of d".


on do.


C. Charleville


2 789






8"


II


By my doof d».


on d°.


Laffont


657






10"


12


By my d" of d".


on do.


Rapicault


229 80






14"


13
14


By my d" of d".
By my d" of d°.


on do.
on do.


Datchurut
Picard


146


8 630.60




144








15


By my d" of d<>.


on do.


Dan Murray.


660








16


By my doof d".


on do.


Laffont


358 40








'7
18


By my do of do.
By my do of do.


on do.


d


544 60
116








on do.


Mad? Bentley.




Ocf




'9


By my do of do.


on do.


Duplasi


670 80




Nov''


19"


20


By my do of do.


on do.


Motard


1 156.60








21


By my do of do.


on do.


A. Chouteau.


431 80








22


By my do of do.


on do..


..do


1 680








23


By my do of do.


on do.


Duplasi


124 20






21"


24


By my do of do.


on do.


Pierre Cornia


500








25
26


By my do of do.
By my do of do.


on do.
on do.


Bosseron

Valli


500


6 886.40




551






224


27


By my do of do.


on do.


Cerre


800






24"


28


By my do of do.


on do.


Jos Perault..


920 20




Dec


4"


29


By my do of do.


on do.


Vigo


8 716.40






10"


30


Bymy doof do..


on do.


Rapicault


823






16"


3'


By my do of do.


on do.


Datchurut


2 591






17"


32


By my do of do.


on do.


Deloner


521






18"


33


By my do of do.


on do.


Vigo


921






19"


34


By my do of do.


on do.


Duralde


225 20








35


By my do of do..


ond"..


Molard


1 040








36

37


By my do of do.
By my do of do..


on do..
on do.


J. P. Perrault
Vazquez


1 357.20


18 466




1 022.40








38


By my do of do.


on do.


Duplasi


1 000








39


By my do of do ond°..

Transferred


•Sarpy

to folio 2..


964 60


2 987






3«,970



JIRGINU CREDITOR TO CLARK



21^



Dollars



1778
Dec'' 20'

Jan>' 23'

29
30

Feb. 2|
4"

5"



April 30
May l^y
20

July 17"

Aug' 7''

May 21"

22"



25
26'

27'
June 1"



2


66





67


8"


68


17


69
70


J»


7^2


18"


73


23


74


Aug' 3


75



40

4'

42
43
44
45
46

47
48

49

50
5'

52
53
54
55

56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64



65



By Amo' bro'
By my dft On




192
2 234.60

600

440
1 456.60
1 452
J 752
1 565.40

784 40

625

519

579 60

613 60

220 20

381 40

3 950.60
1 851

900
1 140.80

811

432 60

300

800

408

400


36 970


Oliver Pollock of this date


By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d° on
By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d" on

By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d" on.
By my d" on.
By my d" on
Bv my d" on t
I. M. P. L


d°. Datchurut

d" Cap' Janis

d". Risharry




d". Rapicault

d" Vigo




d<'..Charlo Charleville
d". Plassy




d". Rapicault


11 101


d". Laulpe




d". Lafontaine

d°.. Peter Godin

d" F. Trotter

d". Godin




lie. Treasurer of Virg^',




By my d" on.
By my d" on
By my il" on
By my d" on
By my d" on.
By my d" on
By my d" on.
By my d" on
B)' iny d" on C


d" Bently




d". Hubberdeau

d". John Girault

d". Marie Menaze..

Cb Trleville

d''..F. Charleville

d". Antoine Peltice..

d». Rapicault

)liver Pollock., f a V"A. Bien13 307.80






By my d" on '1


'reasurer of Virginia fav:


Soo

4S0

483
1 427.80
2 716

"37
298
303 80
447-80
607
1 143-20

4 000

31 333.40




By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d° on
By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d" on.
By my d° on.
By my d" on
By my d" on
By my d" on
By Cash rec^

1778 12
By d" recti f r

Col" Mon


d". Pierre Boncaux

d". M. Poure




d". Gratiot (say Feran)

d" R. Mt^Carty

d''..M?Crae C

d®. Vigo




d". Ahavmand

d" I. B. Lacroix

d". Rapicault

d". Antoine Gamelin.
from Govern' in January
00 V: Cur)'=




Dm d° in May 1779 p'' Lb




the i»' of these Bills in Legrass the 2''
i" in Nf Nathans PossessionTransferred to folio 3..




44. 1 78'


105 557.80



'This is the figure given in the original, but the correct total is 44 177.



276



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



'779



Dollars



Dec 14



1780
Jany



Feby



Mar. 28



By
By Bi
Kvci"
By do
By do
By do
By d°
18, By do
22 By do
28 By do
9 By do
iBydo
--JBydo
lyjBy do
20 1 By do
2o Bydo



By do
Th
By d°



--By do.
--[By do.
--iBydo.
By do.



Apl 25

1781
Jany



1781
July 27



Oct



'5



1781



Amo' of C' brought forward from folio 8.
II on the Treasury fav^ Col" John Todd.
Thomas Phelps

Henry Smith

Rich Chenoweth

Evan Hinton

James Batey

Marsham Brashiar

Peter Sturgus

Henry Ploldman

Henry French

William Pope

do

Thomas Phelps

Squire Boon

Evan Hinton

on do favr Ch» Myn

ruston iooo o"

Simon Triplet.. 2568 9"6

Charles West £sTi ij"6

John Smith ■j^6"\i 6

Charles Dean 288 o"Levin Powell.. 4 77i"8"9 948"8 6===^
By Cash rec'' of CoW Todd p John Rogers.
By Cash £405 000 Equal to
By 13 Bills of 750 Dollars each drawn on the
Treasurer for the Recruiting Service
dated Feby 9"' Mar la! 80



Transferred to ful. 9.



Specie
Penns Currcy

By Amount of Cr brot over from folio 9

By my Bill on Treasurer fav'" Jn". CSibson Merch'
for I4i9 i6"9

By my At fav. Capt Isaac Craig 36 i4"Transferred to folio 10. 1456:10:9

Penns Currcy
Specie
By Amot of Cr. brought over from Fol. 9

1456:10:9=
By Cash rec3 of Capt Cherry last June

1 78 1 £200 000.



1456:10:9



105 557


80


10 013




2 666





5 417


V6


',193




1 333


'A


1 333


'A


1 333





',333





',333


Vb


600





2 000





2 000





533


M


',333





500





33 161

3 333
1 350,000



9 750
',534 726



',534 726



',534 726



'.534 726
666 666



2 201,392



00

Yb






'The fraction should be 3/10, but the above figure is given in the
original.



NORTH fFESTERN ACCOUNTS



277



Virginia, Northwestern Territory (Account of expenses incurred by the
conquest protection of the Northwestern territory, due from the Ignited
States to Virginia, From February, 1777, to August, 1784.) Vol. i.
[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]



1778
Janiiar)General George R. ClarkeFor Cash advanced him at different
times upon Account for the use of
Public expenditures in the Illinois Department; Viz:

To Cash upon Account to raise

seven Companies of Militia 1200Ditto., upon Accf 10 000"



Decembr 15

1780
January 10. ."Ditto.
29. ."Ditto.

April 8 "Ditto.

Decembr 19. ."Ditto.

1785 [>78i?]

January 19. "Ditto. dc 400 000April 3 "Ditto. d'? 200 000d' 900dc 67 470-"

do 600-"

A'> 5 000-"



unt I



June 2 "Ditto. d'

23 "Ditto d' Bill fav. Dl Hart.

17S2
April 27. To Cash in Specie upon Acco'
for biiililin)^ Hoats.,

1783

May 22 niilo..(|o ..d'

June 19 Ditto.. d" for his attendance ic

on the Gcnl Assembly respecting the Officers Mem' &c..

Decembr 18 Ditto. d" &c

1779 Cap! John RogersJune 24. To Cash upon Account for the use of

the Illinois Department

Ditto d?



36 000(,60Specie
50-"-"

60-"-"



d?



October 21.

1780
Nov'' 25 Ditto

1781
Decembr 18.." Ditto d? deduced from pay

1783

June 19 Ditto Specie on account for his

attendance &c: on the GenI Assembly respect^ the Officers Mem'



25 ••41779July. 5.



Herman Consellea.To Cash on account as Express to
Illinois



4
6

42
44
60

75

75
100
250
250



300
1666



•533
10
66

5333
2000
144



25



o
13

6
o



2 5 4-"










42-"-"


20


'77
360


4






7 200





6 000


28


214


6


6


1 200


74


16


44


40 000


1000


£40







•5



11915



17



278



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



June
July



26.
>9



1779
Novembr g

1780
Jan?. 1
May 8

June 7

17
August 4
Septenil)'' 11

1781
Jany ..20

Feby 20

March 22
June 23



August.. 7.

M

Septembr 3.

1782

October 4

1783

Decembr 1



John Dodge', Indian Agent i Com7
For Cash advanced him for various
purposes in the Illinois Department,—

To Cash upon Account

Ditto ditto



11915



'7



Col? George Slaughter-^

For Cash advanced him upon account for public use in the Illinois
dept

To Cash upon Account



Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto

Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto

Ditto

Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto



ditto.
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto
ditto

ditto
ditto
ditto.
ditto.
ditto

ditto
fav"'
ditto
ditto.
ditto
ditto



p bill fav. Jn? Fervor

Sundries

Jas. Meriweather.

Geo. Wilson

S Triplet

2730
favr Jos Saunders
Wt" Pope 575
fav. Jas Meriweather

Rich^ Barbour

in Jany 1780



5 00061 000-"



22 500300-"
2 851.4

5 9H-4

1835 8

3 000-"

7 50-"

219-"
35 749-8
I 95024085743 305360900-"
17 206

6 502



Ditto ..Specie

Ditto ..dc

Ditto d^

Ditto dv



€6 12.2

15 6. 10

'S S'SI0 5.7.



250
400



42
60

65
65

70
72

75
go

90
250
250



20
152



36 625



..7.

4790
28

42
10

2.
446.
21
o

34



500 6

500 14

600 I

42 409

42 154



45



14079



19

4
17



18
17.

13

19
5



13.

4



'3

16



18



19



14079 19"
Cap< LinctotFor Cash advanced him on ace' for
1780 the use of the Illinois Departm!Feby 7 To Cash upon Account 127-"March 10 Ditto ditto 38 12.

22.. Ditto ditto 3000-"29Ditto ditto 305-14

A bioj;raphical sketch of John Dodge will be found in Cahohia Records, xcv ff.
also Kaskiiskia Records, 104, note i.

For Col. George Slaughter, see ante, t()i, note i.



45


2


16


5


50





15


5


50


60








50


6


2


3



NORTHWESTERN ACCOUNTS



279



Septr


1781
21


Feby.
Mar:


1780

7.
8


May


22-.
1783

25Deer


1778
25


1778
Deer


26


'779
Feby
1780
Mar:


II

4.


1780
Mar:


22


1780
Mar:


20



78.

June 26.
Septr 14



1780
August 10.



Ditto ditto 3000-"CoW Le GrasTo Cash upon accot *3-"

Ditto D9 2500-"

Ditto D? 5000-"To Cash in Specie.



50Capt Robert ToddTo Cash upon accot to recruit for

the Illinois Expedition 750~"



Cap? Thomas QuirkTo Cash upon accot for the Illinois Expn



Ditto ditto.

Ditto ditto.



Anthony GamelinTo Cash upon Account as Indian

Agent in the Northern departmt 1000-"

Dorsey Penticost-*
To Cash upon Account for the subsistance of Capt' Jn' Roger s
Troops 7500-"—

Thomas Bentley.-To Cash on Ace* 5000-"Ditto d? loooo"600



45


I


50


50


50


100



50



50



2 50
600



'4737



Major George VValls.To Cash on Account. 30 000-"-"
deduct for so much p^
Capt Wni Cherry paymt
to Col' Crockets regt. J 24 533Balance expended for the use of
the Illinois departmt..



5 367-" 70



SO



'25



73 8.6


12


4


300-"10


30





366. 1250


7


6



150



20

16



16



'4737



76



16



'3



Dorsey Penticost, a Virginian who had settled in Westmoreland County, Pa., in 1769,
moved to the Youghiogheny River region in 1777 and became judge of Washington County.
As county lieutenant in 1778 he gathered troops for Clark s expedition to the Illinois country. He died in 1802. Thwaites and Kellogg, Dunmore s IVar, 101-102, note 47.

'For a biographical sketch of Thomas Bentley, see Cahokia Records, xcv ff., au l A«.
kaskia Records, xvii ff.



28o



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



1783

>.iril 24



1780

Septem

Octobr
Oecr

1785
Fehr
April



1780
May 8.



Novr 7.



1781
June 26



br 29



518.
20.



17K0
Aii^ist

1781

April

June

Deer



10



Monsf CarbonneauxTo Cash on Account.



James Fr» Moore,' Corny Genl in the

Illinois depi
To Cash upon Acct as Commissary 1

in the Illinois departmt

Ditto ditto

Ditto ditto

Ditto ditto



Ditto
Ditto
Ditto



Jas



ditto bill in fav. J. Bisen

ditto Hugh Faber

ditto J S Triplett 1937 10:0 1
Sullivan: 20000



£21937-10 0



30 937 10



William H. Cavendish.To Cash upon accot p Andrew Donelly to purchase provisions for the
of the Militia embodied against

the Indians

To Ditto. for balance of his account as Com^ of Green=
briar Militia stationed on the
Frontiers



7 0004 ioi8"i9 2



Daniel ClarkeTo Cash on accot in part paymt
Certain Bills of Exchange..







5 000



Evan Raker,' depty Q'^Master.To Cash upon accot as Qr Mas50 000ter for the Illinois Departmt

I

20 Ditto ..ditto 50 000-"

25 Ditto ..ditto i55 io

26 Ditto ditto £67 590-"-"

22 Ditto ..ditto 32541. 16. II



30



309



50



74



250



140



554



tt



10 000


72


38


18





20 900


73


286


6





29 703


75


382


14


--2


300000


75


4000








540


80


6


'5





40 8


100


0


8


I



7"



6 2



20683"


5[2]


20683"


5 2


70 714


6. 7


100 500





250


12. 5


250





100 131.16 11

For James Francis Moore see Kaskaskia Records, 421, note 10, Cahokia Records, index.

'Evan Baker and his father, Isaac Baker, had moved from Maryland to settle in the
Ilolstdn River region near the Virginia-Tennessee border line. In the latter period of the
Kevoluiiiin Evan Haker was commissary of Washington County, Virginia. Kellogg, Frontier Retreat, 193-194, note 2.



NORTIIIFESTERW ACCOUNTS



281



•779




August


20,


Novf


n1780




June


•71781




March.


10.


Novr


21




22.


1782




Novembr


91783




Jany


7.


1778




Decembr


18.


1780




Decembr


22.


1781




March


28.


1781




April


II.


Julv


JODeer


4Deduct for sundries not
expended for the use of
the Illinois Departmt.£ 70 255.16 11

29 876Joseph Martin,' Indian Agent.To Cash upon Account as Agent

to the Indians 500-"

Ditto d<? 773-6 7

Ditto d? 800-"-"

Ditto d' 500-"Ditto dl 4800-"Ditto d' 10 000Ditto Specie. d» 100. 1

Ditto ..dv d<> 180. J

Capt Rowland Madison-'
To Cash upon acco' for the use I

of the Illinois Department.. f 100

Ditto d' 500 000"

Ditto d^* 400 000

William Harrison—

To Cash on Account 300000

..To Di'.d(> ..f 400 000

Deduct for so much Cash

returned of the aliove to

(he Treasurer 243 660-" J 156340



1779

Febr 5,

1778
Dec!^ 16



Colv John Montgomery
To Cash upon Acco! to recruit men

for Illinois Expedition

James Buchanan—
To Cash on Accot for procuring
provisions for use of the Illinois
Departmt



3000226622 22
36 21"

65 12"



90


--5


800


--6"


800


--I2-.



280



I4-.
9'

6"



7



6

75


16
6666


>3"
■3"


4
4


90


4444"


8"


II



100 3000 o



400 390 17



36928" 4" 9"



36928 4 9
10 300 o

6 376 13 4



'For General Joseph Martin, see anle, 11, note 2.

'Rowland Madison was the son of John Madison, who was first cousin of the father
of the president, and the younger brother of James, first bishop of Virginia. He came to
Kentucky at an early day. Thwaites and Kellogg, Dunmore s ll ar, 280, note 98 Kellugg,
Frontier Advance, 276, note i.

'From this point the totals obtained by adding the items do not check with those given
in the original.



^82



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



'779

Feb? 5

778
Pecembr 18

'779

October 21
1780

April 8

1780

Octobr 5

1781

Jany 20



Feby 6.



Ma



April
June



17.

20.



Ditto d' 2500-"

John ToddTo Cash on Acco? of the Illinois Dept.

Ditto ditto

Ditto ditto

Ditto ditto 1000-"-"

Ditto ditto 1366 6Williaiji Shannon, ConductorTo Cash on Acco* as Conductor in y'

Illinois Jacob Myers 4765-"

D? d? James Sullivan 3000-"

D' do John Philips 6750-"

D9 dejohn Byars 5 239 19D9 A9\\'m Pope 655-"

James Sullivan 3000

D' d' James Wright 4000

Ja. Vameter 72000
Aq. Whitaker 2300-8



D' d John Hundly 737-'

DC dcW'!' Pope 2787-"

D? dvThs. MfGee 6000-"

D9 dc Sundries 54i299"">-"

V> d? James Wright 4 000

DC dcThs Doudle '5«>



1782

Octobr 5.



60



io8 30o"8 80



250



150-"-"


6


25






200-"-"


6


335


8


250-"-"


6


4'


13


4


000-"-"


28


35


'4


3



40306"



15



73


65


5


6


75


40








75


90








80


65


9


II


80


8


3


9



•353" '5 I—



90


8


3


9


90


30


19"


4


90


66


'3


4


100


543








250


16








250


6









18"



D' dc Jacob Myers.



4 482.



1779 Capt Jesse EvansNovf 10. To Cash upon Account to recruit Men

to serve in the Illinois Departm* 10 000-" 36 277" 15 6
1780
June 26 Ditto dc d? 2 135-" ^532" 7"

1778 Henry Smith, Com?

Dcct 14 To Cash upon Acco' for the use of
Washington Militia ordered to
Kentuckey 1000-"" 6" 1 66 13" 4

1779 Ditto dc in September last 63 46 10 10" 8

June 23 Ditto dc 4152. 1 9 20 207" 12" i

N. B. A Bill in favour of Col" Legrass was presented to the Commis dated Feby 2,
•779. for I7ii2 the 2'' Set Legrass says Is in M' Nathans hands, this Itill is not on Genl
Ace' but one of the same tenor date in favour of Carlo Charleville N"> 46. which we
su pose to be the same.



BILLS DRAWN ON VIRGINIA 283

A GENERAL STATE of the Amount of Bills drawn by the Officers of the Illenois department, on the Credit of the State of Virginia, is as follows, viz.

Amount of Bills drawn by General Clark Dollars S D.

as appears by his Books 146 400 5 6

{Amount of Bills drawn by Mr William Shannon

as pr his List in 1779 f 97 827
Amount of Bills drawn by William Shannon

after the first January 1780 as p his List 434 116 3 5
Amount of Bills drawn by Col' George Slaughter

as pr his Lists 148 920 6 2

Amount of Bills drawn by William Lynn as pr

List N>? 5 6 zj6 y%

Amount of Bills drawn by David Rodgers as pr

List N' 6 N? 6 i 4 633 Vi

Amount of Bills drawn by John Montgomery as

pr List I 25 161 Yi Specie

Amount of Bills drawn by Robert Elliot 607

Ditto drawn by Isaac Collier 1 096

Ditto drawn by Stephen Gooding 707 5^R

Ditto drawn by Richard M Carty 4 000

Ditto drawn by William Gillaspie235 Yi

Ditto drawn by Alexander Henderson S% Y&

Ditto drawn by Perault 50

Ditto drawn by I B Bacon 46 Y2

Ditto drawn by Jean Pieto 100

Ditto drawn by Powree 759 ^6

Ditto drawn by Mr Serpey 160

Ditto drawn by Ja? Robinson 1 503

Ditto drawn by Robert Dunn 27 Yi



Amount of Bills, Orders &c drawn by I



289 607



Leonard Helm 1 492

Ditto drawn by Robert George242 740

Total dollars 533-839* 583 036 9 7

'This figure does not check with the total obtained by adding the items given.



284



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Pay Roll of Capt^' Joseph Bowmans Company of Infantry of the IllinoisVirginia Regiment. Colonel George Rogers Clark, commander August 8,
1778 to December 14, 1778

[Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.]

When InWhen dispay pr

listed Charged No of Month



NAMES

Joseph Bowman
Abrn Kellar
Abr"' Chapline
Daniel Durst
Isaac Kellar
James Brown
John Hoosard
Ab"" Miller
CurneKis Ruddell
Will'" Montgomery
Tilman Camper
Sam' Ilumphres
Geo: Levenstone
Cha? M=Glochland
Peter Coager
Jacob Coger
James Whitecotten
Philip Long
Tho= Chlifton
\ym Berrey
James Bentley
John Bentley
Michael Setser
John Setser
Joseph Anderson
Henry Funk
George King
James Curr
(torn) Flandegin
(torn)

Barney Waters
Philip Orben
James Holmes
Peter Blaine
Patrick Conray
Peter Brazer
James M intosh
Abr Lewzader
James Cox
Michael Senkler
Geo: Waise



'There is a discrepancy between the figure given in the original and that obtained by
totaling the separate items which is not accounted for by the amount to be substituted where
the manuscript is torn.



Rank


into the


out of th


e days


&Sub


Virginia




Served


Service.


Service


they


sistance


Currency




in


1778


1778


served Dollars





S


D


Capt"


Aug' 8


Dec i 14


128


60


---76


16





Lieut


do-do--128


i^V}


---46


18


8


Ensig"


do--do--128


30


---38


8




Sarg Majr dodo--128


10


12


16




Sarg'


do-do--128


10


12


16




Sarg'


do-do--128


10


12


16




Sarg


do-do--128


10


12


16




Private


do--do--128


6V3


---8


10


8


do-do-do-128


6^/3


---8


10


8


do--do--do-128


6V3


---8


10


8


do--do--do-128


(>y3


---8


10


8


do--do-do-128


kVi


--8


10


8


do--dodo-128


eVi


---8


10


8


do--do-do--128


6V3


---8


10


8


do--dodo--128


(>y3


---8


10


8


do--do--do--128


(>y3


---8


10


8


do-dodo--128


eVi


---8


10


8


do--do--do128


eVi


---8


10


8


do--do-do--128


(>V3


---8


10


8


do--dodo--128


6^/3


--8


10


8


dododo--128


6?^


---8


10


8


do--do--do--128


6^/3


---8


10


8


do--do--do--128


(>V3


---8


10


8


do-do--do--128


(>y3


8


10


8


do--do--do--128


(>V3


---8


10


8


do--dodo--128


(>y3


8


10


8


do--do--do--128


eVi


---8


10


8


do--do--do--128


(•y3


---8


10


8


do--do--do--128


(>y3





lorn)




do-do-do-128


(>y3


--8


10


8


do-do-do-128


(>y3


8


10


8


do-do-do-128


6y3


---8


10


8


do-do-do128


6^/3


---8


10


8


do--do-do-128


6^3


---8


10


8


do--do-do-128


6^/3


---8


10


8


do--do-do-12S


6y3


---8


10


8


do--do-do-128


m


---S


10


8


do--do-do-128


(>y3


---8


10


8


do-do-do-128


iy3


---8


10


8


Aug' 14


do-do-122


ey3


---8


2


8


Sep' 23


do-do-82


6y3




---5


9


4




510


19


10'


hat the above Payrolle is Just


True


Jos:


Bowman,














G R Clark



286



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Pay Roll of Captain Edward Worthingtons Company of Cavalry of
MANDER. July 17, 1778 to June i 1779



when entered
in service

No the names of the Company 1778

1 Edward Worthington Capl July 17

2 John Gerault L' July 17

3 Francis Charliville Corn' July 17

4 Shadrach Bond Sergent Aug' 20

5 Pleasant Lockett Serg' Octor 20

6 William Moires private July 17"" 17

7 Thomas Moore Aug' 8"" 8

8 John Moore Aug' 8

9 William Marshal Ditto 9

10 Jonas Manefey July —27

11 Armestead Dudley July —27

12 Joseph Durnovv Aug' 4

13 Daniel Blewen Aug' i

14 Edward Murrey Aug' 9

15 William Ryley Aug' 23

16 Frances Contraw Aug' 23

17 John Leveridge Deem'' 11

i3 Daniel Boalton Sep'' 17

19 Joseph Pelter Nov'" 13

20 Michel Compo Octo'" i

21 James Kincade Novem 12

22 Samuel Perkins Augt 9

23 James Drumgold Serg' April 3

24 William Drinkwater D" May 20

25 William Paine April 3

26 Frances Comprey May 8

27 Frances Lafarlow May 8

28 John Gaines April 12

29 Isaac Booth Ditto 12

30 Ric* Mi^Deade Ditto 13

31 Samuel Wadkins Ditto 14

32 James Sharlock Ditto 3

33

34 Pearce Martin May 2

35 Jackway Lecase May 2

36 James Green May 9

37 William Lickledg Aug 8
William Prescott April 11



[Clark MSS., Va.



when No. of pay

Discharged Days p Day



June


I


319





10/


March


4th


231


(cb


6/8


Februy


5


203


Cf^


5/4


Octor


20


61


(d>


1/


April


I


163





3/


April


I


267


1/8


March


4 h


218


(d)


1/8


Ditto


4 b


2l8


(S)


1/8


April


st


235




1/8


May


6


284




1/8


Decem''


i th


137





1/8


March


4


212





1/8


Sep'8


--39




1/8


Tune


let


293




1/8


Aug'


30


7




1/8


June


ist


--271




1/8


April


ist


III




1/8


June


I


--257




1/8


Decern''


26


44




1/8


March


4th


35




1/8


June


st


201




1/8


April


iSt


234




1/8


June


1='


"58


3/


June


st


II


('H


3/


June


I


S8




1/8


June


iSt


23




1/8


June


I


23




1/8


June


I


49




1/8


Ditto


I


49




1/8


Ditto


I


48




1/8


Ditto


I


47




1/8


May


20


17




1/8
1/8


June


I


29




1/8


June


I


29




1/8


June


I


22




1/8


April


I


235




1/8


June


I


50





1/8



Pay Roole

Capt Worthington



No.



W.



CAPTAIN fVORTHINGTON S PAY ROLL 287

THE Illinois-Virginia Regiment, Colonel George Rogers Clark, comState Archives.]

subsistance

money Dead or Deserted Amount

20 Doll' pr month _.223'* 16

10 Doll' p Month 100" 7

10 Doll p month 74" x g

9" 3

24" 9



Dead 22" 5

18 3 4

18 3" 4

19 II 8

23 3" 4



Deserted



ii" 8" 4

17" 13" 4 pd

3" 5

24 3 4



22 II'

9" 5"



21" 8" 4

3" 13" 4

2" 18

17" I

19" 10

8" 14

'3

Deserted 4" 10



I' i8' 4

i" 18" 4

4" i" 8

4" i" 8

Deserted 4

3" 18" 4

Deserted torn 4



2" "8 "4
2" 8" 4X

i" 16" 8



>9

Deserted 4" 3'



764 7



Fort Clarke June i;"" 1779

Then Rec from Col GeorRe Rogers Clark the above amount
of seven Hundred Sixty Four Pounds Seven Shillings Current Money of
Virginia

EdW WORTIIINGTON CapH--TestJohn Hawkins



288 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Pav Roll of Captain Jesse Evans' Company of Infantry of the Illin
MANDER December 29, 1778 to the Expiration of time of Services

[Clark MSS., Va.

Time of Service
Names Rank Commencment Ending Months days

Jes^e Evans Capt. Dec"ag'" lyySJuUy 13 1780 iS 15

Antony Crockett Lieut. Ditto 29 78 Jully 13 1780 1815

William Campbell Ensign March 29 79 August 14:79 416

William Perie Sergeant Feby 20 79 July 13 80 16 22

John Slaughter Ditto Jany 4:1779 July 13 80 18--9

Andrew Clark Ditto Ditto 4 78 July 13-80 18-9

Lewis Wallers Private Ditto 4 79 January 13:80-12 9

David Fannen do-Jany 679 March 30 79 i 25

James Mayfield do--Jany 679 July 13 80 18 7

Isaac Mayfield do do 779 do 13 80 18-6

Michaja Mayfield do--do 778 do 13 80 18 6

Elisha Mayfield do--do 779 do 13 80 18 6

John Brown do do 779 do 13 80 18 6

Low lirown do do 779 do 13 80 18 6

John Lasley do do 779 do 13 80 48 6

Richard Chapman do do 2979 do 13 8017 15

Abenezor Maid do do 29 79 Decern"' 10: 79 10 12

John Bennet do Feby 779 March 30: 79 i 25

Robert Smith do--Feby 28 79 Ditto 3° 79

William Cheek do--Feby 28 79 Ocf 19 79 719

James Rise do--Feby 29 79 March 30 79 i 17

Jipshua Ilollis do April 5 79 July 13 80 158

John Patterson do--April 5 79 July 13 80 15 8



CAPTAIN EVANS' PAY ROLL



289



OIS-VlRGINIA RliGIMIiNT LlEUTENANT CoLONEL JoHN MONTGOMERY CoMState Archives.]

Amount of pay !n
Dollars Virginia Currency
pr Month S D



50


277


10i^-Vi


I7-514


0


25


344


8


403


48


439


4^


S


43.


9


4^


--eYi-24


12







3


13


4N


6?/j


36.


9


4S


iVi


36.


8




--bVi-3 68





6^/3


36.8




6^/3


3 68




bVi


3 6.8




65/3


36.8




6^3


356J/3


2016





6%


3•3


4N


--6%-2N


65/3


"•55


46^3


354N


--eVi-30108.


--6V3-30


108



Casualties
Warr' for Bal<= deliv'' Col" Christian
March 12 r 1784Resigned the 14 of August 1779
Discharged dd D B

ditto Do

ditto Do

Ditto Do

Quartered March the 30"' 1779 dd D B
Discharged



ditto


dd D B


ditto


Do


ditto


Do


ditto


Do


ditto


Do


ditto


Do


ditto


Do



Killed Decern'' lo"" 1779 dd
Disarted March the 30"" 1779
Ditto March 30"" 1779
Killed 19"" Oct""" 1779
Disarted March the 30"" 1779
Discharged Do

ditto Do



D B
Do
Do
Do
Do



CHAPTER X

JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS NOVEMBER i, 1782

JULY I, 1783

First Meeting of Commissioners at Harrodsburc, November i, 1782
Recommendations of the Commissioners on the Construction op
Forts December 23 Misapplication of Funds or Stores Report of
Proceedings of the Commissioners, February 17, 1783 Situation at
Fort Nelson March 24. 1783 the State not obligated to Honor
Bills Drawn by Unauthorized Persons Bills to be Paid According
TO the Illinois Scale of Depreciation Doctor Connard, Surgeon
TO THE Illinois Troops, June 19, 1783 Amounts due Clark.

Appointment of Western Commissioners, December 20, 1781
[Draper MSS., 2ZZ86.— A. L. S.]

Uecr 20. 1781.
Sir

I was favoured a few days ago with a letter from the Executive
inclosing a resolve of the House of Delegates of June y° 21*' impowering the Executive to call to Account all persons concerned in
the disbursement of public monies, who have been or ar in service
in the Western country, belonging to this State &c: likewise an
order of Council of Dec'' y' 7'^ 1 78 1, appointing W" Fleming in
the room of Col W"!* Christian to carry into execution the above
resolution of Assembly, and for liquidating all claims whatsoever
which any person or persons in that Western country may have
against the State, those resolves were accompanied with a letter
informing me the Gentlemen to act in conjunction were Col' W""
Preston Col: Sam' McDowal Col: Tho' Marshall and that it
was expected by consulting witli each other a day might be fixed on,
to meet at the Falls of the Ohio before the first of march next, and
afterwards to adjourn to such place or places as a majority shall
find expedient If I am not mistaken when the Legislative made

A summary of this letter is printed under date of December 26, 1781,
in Calendar of l^irglnia Stale Papers, 2:672.

'The men originally appointed on this commission were Colonels
William Christian, William Preston, Thomas Marshall and Judge Samuel
McDowell. The first two named declined to serve and Colonel William
Fleming, brother-in-law of Colonel Christian, and Judge Caleb Wallace
were appointed as their successors.

290



•■.y



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 291

the resolve of June y° 21^' they apprehended frauds were committed
by persons intrusted in that quarter and that the great distance from
the seat of Government prevented detection. The Executive were
authorized to call the delinquents to Justice. This the Executive
have Judiciously choose to do by appointing persons on the spot to
examine the validity of each claim. On this supposition that the
Legislative intended to bring to light any Frauds that may hitherto
have taken place, or to introduce a reform in the disbursements of
that department. Your Excellency will pardon my mentioning the

For Colonel Thomas Marshall, see ante, 124, note i.

Judge Samuel McDowell was born in Pennsylvania but removed with
his parents to Virginia in 1737 when he was two years of age. He was
captain of a company of militia from Augusta County at the Battle of Point
Pleasant. For a number of years preceding the Revolution he represented
that county in the House of Burgesses, and took a prominent place in the
pre-revolutionary conventions. He was colonel of a regiment from Augusta
County during the Revolutionary War. During 1783, he presided as one
of the three judges over the first district court ever held in Kentucky and
in 1785 was president of the first convention which was called to consider
the separation of Kentucky from Virginia.

For a sketch of Colonel William Fleming, see ante, 32, note i.

Caleb Wallace was graduated from Princeton and became a preacher
in the Presbyterian Church at Cub Creek and Little Falling River in Charlotte County, Virginia, but later removed to Botetourt County. He was
appointed one of the western commissioners. During 1782, he was elected
to represent Lincoln County in the Virginia Assembly. The following
year he removed to Kentucky, settling on Elkhorn Creek, Fayette County
(Woodford). Taking up the practice of law, he was appointed (1783) one
of the assistant judges of the Supreme Court in the Kentucky district. He
was a member of four, and possibly others of the nine conventions which
were held for the consideration of the admission of Kentucky into the Union.
When it was admitted, he was chosen judge of the Court of Appeals,
holding this oflice until 1813.

March i, 1782 was fixed as the date for the first meeting of the commission at Louisville, but it was early in October before they were prepared to set out on their journey of 450 miles from Botetourt, Virginia.
The distance was covered on horseback in twenty-three days. The first
meeting of the commission was held at Harrodsburg, November i, 17S2,
but so many persons had accompanied Clark on the Shawnee expedition
that they adjourned to meet at Lexington on November n.

Numerous difficulties were met in the execution of their task. A number of the creditors had removed from Kentucky, others had died and their
papers were in great confusion. Persons from the Illinois country, cited to
appear, were much delayed. Having collected all possible evidence, in
which they were greatly aided by Clark, they set out for Virginia April 16,
1783, with a "horse-load" of papers. The records of the legislature for
many years show frequent petitions against the decisions of the commission.
There is said to have been not a single instance in which such a petition
was granted.



292 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

powers the Commiss'^ should be furnished with, as what occurs to
me at present to enable them to carry the resolves into effectual

execution I am a Stranger to the instructions Your Excellency

and the Hble board have given your deputies but I am no Stranger
to the difficulty there will be, in bringing defaulters in that quarter
to Justice, at the same time it is a matter of great moment to the
peace wellfare of this state, that right should be rendered individuals by persons intrusted by Government perhaps a neglect

on this point has lost us the affections of the Western French, and
greatly weakened our interest with the Indian tribes, and may still
be attended with greater inconveniences It is a very considerable trust reposed in your commiss"'' to liquidate all claims in that

quarter They should be allowed a Clerk proper books that

every account adjusted by them may be properly entered, copies
of which should be transmitted from time to time to the Auditors,

Treasurers or where else directed A list of the sums of money

advanced to any person, in that department on publick account shoidd
be given the Commissioners, and if not finally settled, what part
remains unaccounted for, this may prevent double claims for the
same service any accounts before the boards not settled should be
transmitted them, it might be proper to give the Commissioners instructions by a table of depreciation or the price of tobacco at different times, if that is made the medium to reduce contracts in currency
to specie, they should be acquainted with the powers vested in
Commandants or Indian Agents, in drawing bills, or extending that
traffick on the credit of the State, to enable them to detect frauds
they should be assisted by the Civil power to send for Witnesses
&c: otherwise their going out will be only a burthen to the state,
and these accounts may be better settled in Richmond. The number
of Commiss" that can proceed on business I think is not mentioned.
I would infer from the letter I was honoured with, that the whole
were required to attend, if so, the business may be stopped either by
disapointment in not meeting. Sickness or some other accident. It
is a Journey of about 450 miles from Botetourt to the Falls of the
Oliio, a great part of the way through an uninhabited desert infested with Indian Enemies, the Country there still more dangerous
than the road, it would be necessary the Commissioners be provided



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 293

with escorts in their different adjournments I am willing to

obey any Instructions or orders I may receive where I can be of
any service to my Country, an infirm state of health makes it very
uncertain, whether I will be able to undertake the Journey, a
rhcumatick complaint that has seized my right arm, renders it difficult for me to express my thoughts on paper.

I am with the greatest respect

W. F. [William Fleming]
Your Excellencys -&c.
To THE Governor.

Journal of Western Commissioners, 1782-1783

[Illinois Papers, Vol. 7, Va. State Archives.]

Harodsburg, Friday November ist. 1782.
William Fleming Tiiomas Marshall Samuel M Dowcll and
Caleb Wallace Esti"^' Being appointed by the E xecutive Commissioners for settling and liquidating Claims in the Western Country,
in consequence of a Resolve of the Legislature of the 2 1st of Jutie
1 78 1, and a Resolve of the E xecutive of the 20th of July following.
Met at this Place according to Appointment, when their Powers
and Instructions, dated January 29th and September 6th 1782, being
read; They proceeded to choose John M Dowell Secretary.

The Board then took it into consideration, that as an Expedition is now carrying on against our Enemy Indians under General
Clark, and most of the Claimants being absent. They could not
proceed on business before the Troops returned.

They therefore think proper to adjourn and do accordingly
adjourn to meet at Lexington in Fayette County on Monday the
Eleventh Inst.

Le xington Monday November nth 1782. The Commissioners Met according to adjournment. Present William Fleming
Thomas Marshall Saml M Dowell and Caleb Wallace Esqr= Settled several Receipts for Rations furnished the Militia of Green
Brier County while on duty here in 1 78 1. Entered in Page 266
as p Vouchers No. 1 2. 3 in Bundle A. In Vouchers No. 2 3
The Claiments appear to have boarded more men than specified in
the Certificates, but the OflScer has returned the whole number of



294 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

rations as if furnished for one. Wrote circular Letters to the
County Lieutenants of Fayette Lincoln and Jefferson as in Letter
Book No. I.

Adjourned till tomorrow morning Tuesday November I2th
The Commissioners met according to adjournment and proceeded to
business. After settling the Claims of several persons for boarding
the Militia of Green Brier County entered in Page 266 as p vouchers
No. 4. 5, 6 Bundle A.

Adjourned till tomorrow Wednesday November 13th The
Commissioners Met according to adjournment and proceeded to
business.

Being informed that a great quantity of Public Beef &c is
lodged in the Store at Lexington which is much damnefied and unfit
for use Request Levi Todd Robert Todd and William Henderson
Gentlemen to inspect the stores in sd. magazine and make a special
report of the state they are in to the Board.

Adjourned till tomorrow Thursday November 14th The
Commissioners met according to adjournment, and proceeded to
business.

The Gentlemen who inspected the Magazine agreeable to
the order of yesterday Report that they found in the Magazine about
five or six thousand weight of Beef quite unfit for use by reason of
age, and no inattention or neglect of the Commissaries; and about
fifty weight of good Tallow, see return No. i Bundle B.

The Troops not being returned the Commissioners find they
cannot proceed further on business at present Ordered a Letter
to be wrote to General Clark to inform him of the arrival of the
Commissioners &c. see letter Book No. 2 And then adjourned.

General Clark having returned from the Expedition against
the Indians the Board of Commissioners met at Viney Grove in
Lincoln County on Monday the 25th of November 1782.

Present William Fleming Samuel M Dowell and Caleb
Wallace, The Board proceeded to look over the several accounts
and papers relating to their business. Adjourned till to-morrow
morning

Tuesday November 26th.
The Board Met according to adjournment. Present William FlemJOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 295

ing Samuel M Dowell and Caleb Wallace Directed that circular
Letters be wrote to sundry Debtors to the Commonwealth on account
requiring them to attend the Board without delay that their accounts
may be settled see Letter Book No. 3 adjourned till the 28th Inst.

Thursday November 28th
The Commissioners met according to adjournment. Present William Fleming Samuel M Dowell Caleb Wallace Esq"-' Capt"
Rowland Madison appeared before the Board, and represented that
he was not now prepared to settle his accounts with this Commonwealth, For which he assigned the following reasons viz. That
his late instructions as Quarter Master Commisary dated 23*
Decf 1780. specified that his accounts are to be finally settled with
the Board of Auditors. That his Excellancy the Governour has given
his Opinion upon the said Instructions dated April 13'" 1782. that
they Auditors ought to settle the business as it does not appear
necessary to send the person imployed to the Commissioners. And
that Majr. Patrick Lockhart of Bottetourt as a District Commissioner gave him notice to render his accounts to him. And therefore
not Expecting to be called on by the Commissioners he left his Accounts and Vouchers in Bottetourt County. The Board after hearing Capt' Madison s Reasons and considering their own Instructions
and the nature of the Account against Capt» Madison referred to
them by the Executive. Think proper to require Capt" Madison
to lay his Accounts before them as soon as in his power. Adjourned
to meet at Colo. John Bowman s on Monday

the 2nd of December next.
Monday December 2« met according to adjournment. Present
William Fleming Samuel M Dowell and Caleb Wallace Esq^'
Colonel George Slaughter appeared before the Board. Directed that
the Settlement of his Accounts be deferred untill his Quarter Master
and Commissary is also present who he is desired to have before
them as soon as possible.

Adjourned till tomorrow Morning Tuesday December 3'' met
according to adjournment. Present as above.

The Board Spent the Day in looking over the Papers of Joseph
Lindsay late Commissary, which were laid before them by M^'
Lindsay. Adjourned till tomorrow Morning



296 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Wednesday December 4ih.
Met according to adjournment. Present as before. Received by
M' Isaac Hite sundry Papers belonging to Silas Harlin, George
Owens and others as p"^ Receipt delivered see Bundle No. i Iron
Bank Papers. The Consideration of which is deferred untill further
information can be obtained. Settled a certificate belonging to
George M Afee for a Steer furnished the Militia of Kentucky in
1780. Enter d in Page 271 as p Voucher in Bundle E.
Directed that a Letter be wrote to Capt" Robert Todd Executor
of Colo. John Todd Dec^ desiring that his Papers as Escheater
with his other public Accounts may be laid before the Board as
soon as possible, as in letter Book No. 4.

The Board wrote a Letter to the County Lieutenant of Jefferson
with Advertisements inclosed to give Notice of their meeting at
the Falls of Ohio the 15"" of January next.

They also wrote Letters to the Court of Kaskaskias and to CoK
Le Gras at St. Vincents, with Advertisements inclosed, to have their
meeting on the 15th of January next notified in the Illinois Country, and amongst the Spaniards on that Quarter, as in letter Book
N' 5.

And the Secratary was directed to inclose these Letters to
Gen' Clark requesting that he would have them forwarded \viti»
Dispatch, as in Letter Book N? 6 Adjourned till Friday the 6th
Inst

Friday December 6tli met according to adjournment Present
jfi flbovo vvill 13m r iprninp jniiipl jYTp IjowpI li ■jrid C^nl ch* V y n l 1 ncP'
E*^' Directed letters to be wrote to Colo. John Montgomery and
John Dodge Esq' two of the Debtors to the State. See letter Book
N' 7 8.

adjourned till Monday the g"" Inst.

Monday December gth met according to adjournment Present
jg ^P Qy fl AA il liam Fl cminc Sa muel iV IJ o w cll nnn Cal eb A\^n l 1 'ii f*
Esq''^ directed that theSecretary a Letter be wrote to the County
Lieutenant of Lincoln requesting him to furnish the Board with a
list of all the Pay Rolls and accounts for which he has drawn Money
from the I reasury and also a list of those he has paid, see Letter
Book No. 9.






i



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 297

adjourned till Thursday the I2th Ins*

Thursday December 12th met according to adjournment. Present as
before. Ordered that William Gillispy be Summoned to appear
before the Board to be examined concerning Bills of exchange drawn
by him and in his favour, At this place on Monday the 16th Instant
Directed that the Secratary write Colo. John Bowman late County
Lieutenant of Kantucky requesting him to furnish the Board with
a list of all the Pay Rolls and Accounts for which he has drawn
money from the Treasury and also a list of those he has paid see
Letter Book No. 9

Adjourned till tomorrow Morning.
Friday December 13th Met according to adjournment Present as
before. William Gillaspy appeared before the Board and was
examined on oath concerning sundry Bills drawn by him in his
favour see deposition N? I in M'' Pollocks papers. From which
it appears that the Bill drawn by Colo. Montgomery in favour of the
said Gilaspy dated June 7th 1779 for 3500 Spanish milled Dollars,
was given for about 4000 Dollars paper Currancy and not for sundries for the State of Virginia as expressed in the Bill. It also
appears to the Board from the Scale of Depreciation for the Illinois
Country, that the Bill ought not to have been given for more than
666 2/3, Spanish Milled dollars.

Adjourned till to-morrow morning.

There appears due to William Morrow for a Hors lost on an
Expetion against the Indians two pounds fifteen four pence half
penny Specie, as p Voucher entered in Page 256 also forty Shillings
Specie for Horse hire on S^ Expedition Entered in ditto.

There appears due Robert Bowmer as p Voucher rec^ two
pounds Six Shillings one penny Three farthings Specie for a
Horse lost in an Expedition against the Indians, entered in Page 256.
Monday December 23* Met according to adjournmt.

Present as before

There appears due to William Morrow as p Voucher received the
depriciated value of one hundred and Eighty pounds in July 1780
for a Horse lost on an Expedition against the Indians, also forty
shillings specie for the hire of a Horse on s^ Expedition, entered
in Page 163There appears due to Robert Bowmer as p Voucher



298 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

received the depriciated value of one hundred and fifty pounds in
July 1780 for a Horse lost on an Expedition against the Indians,

entered in Page 163

The Board wrote the following Letter to the Executive Dated

December 23" 1782

Sir

We received your Excellancys favour of the 16''' of October
by M"" Netherland Novf 24'" and yours of the 4'" of Novf by Colo.
Buford the i8th Ins' and shall pay due attention to their contentsGcii' Clark has consulted the Board with regard to erecting Posts
at the Mouths of Kantucky Licking Limestone, in consequence of
your Excellancys orders to him on maturely considering the affair.
We are of opinion that a Fort at the Mouth of Kantucky would be of
great service to the Country and may be more easaly supported than
one at Licking, that a Fourt at the mouth of Licking would not be
an effectual security to the Inhabitants of Fayette as it is more
than 60 Miles distance from them the Indians not being oblidged
to come that way, they may penetrate into the Country without the
Garrison having it in their power either to prevent them or warn the
Inhabitants of their danger that to the greater part of the Enemy
Indians the mouth of Kantucky is more immediately in their course,
and a Fort there would cover the Inhabitants of Jefferson Lincoln
Fayette to more advantage than either of the others proposed and
by it the watter carrage from the Ohio to the internal parts of both
the Counties of Lincoln Fayette would in some measure be supported, Drenings Salt Lick a place of great consequence would be
commanad by it which would greatly distress the Enemy as it is
much resorted to by them for game, here they kill and cure meat
to serve them in their incursions, for these reasons the Board advised
the Gen' to have a Fort erected at the mouth of Kantucky as soon
as posible, they look upon the mouth of Limestone which is further
up the river, more out of the way of the Indians and much more
dificult to supply with provisions to be still more inconvenient, but
if a post is thought necessary in that Quarter the blue Licks on
Licking for the same reasons that were given about Drenings Lick
may be a proper place, but it is our opinion that neither the state of
you n^reasury, nor the State of this Country are equal to the exI



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 299

pence of money to support three additional Posts, nor to furnish
men if to be Garrisoned by the Militia, When we arrived in this
Country the 24'" of October all the officers civil Military the
generality of the men being engaged under Gen' Clark in an Expedition against the Miami Indians we found that little could be done
untill the return of the Troops, Notwithstanding the Board met at
Harodsburg the first of November with design to get in what Accounts they could, afterwards went over to Lexington in Fayette
County with the same intent and there prepared Letters for Gen'
Clark the Militia OiT'^' Debtors to the State &cc. In that to General Clark lie is required to lay before us copies of the orders
Instructions, he had given either to Quartermasters Pay Masters
Commissaries Contractors Agents in the commercial department
or supcrinlcndants of Indian alfairs, and informing iiim We call
upon all who have been concerned in the disbursements of public
Monies to appear with their Accounts the proper Vouchers for
their expenditures; That those who have drawn Bills are required
to attend with their powers for drawing &c: and those who have
commanded Posts are to make out returns of the strenth of their
Men from Time to Time that we may be able to judge of the expenditures In return to which the Board received a Letter from
Gen' Clark assuring them of his chearfully complying with our request, as it was what he earnestly wished for; that some persons
alluded to in theirs did not comewitiiin his line in the settlement
of their Accounts as John Dodge Commercial Agent Colo \\'ill.
Harrison purchaser for the Campaign Eighty one Capt" Rowland
Madison Quarter Master &c: As the Geni^ Papers are at Louisville we can not enter into a thorough investigation of his Accounts
till we sit at that place, and the parties concerned are collected. We
have despatched a Messenger to Kaskaskias and S' Vincent and wrote
to Colo. Montgomery, Dodge &c: and ordered M^ Madison to lay
his accounts before us and expect to be at Louisville before the
return of our Messenger from y" Illinois Country, Capt" George
went with the Chickesaw Indians to their Towns and is not yet
returned, Colo. Harrison, Colo. Lynn, Colo Todd and Mr Lindsay
are all killed Their affairs will require time to investigate great
care to come at the truth, as some of them have kept no regular



300 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

accounts, these reasons have prevented us from advanceing in the
business with that Expedition we could wish. They Survyors
Offices in Fayette and Jefferson Counties being opened to recieve
Land Warrants the attention of the People is so much engaged as
greatly to retard the getting the Militia Accounts settled. Our
Letters to the County Lieutenants required tiiem to order Pay Rolls
of their different Comp™ or Parties of their Militia that have been
on actual service and which have not been settled by the State, to
be made out, and after having been attested by the Capt' or Commanding officer on Oath and certified by them to be laid before the
Board. All Commissaries Accounts or others furnishing provissions
by their Orders with proper Vouchers are likewise to be laid before
us, also Vouchers for Provisions and other articles impressed for the
use of their Militia, and when Vouchers cannot be had Witnesses
to prove facts are to attend. We expected by this method to have
settled the Militia accounts with expedition, but calling on the County
Lieutenant of Lincoln for his returns, he informed us he could not now
attend, as his business called him to wait on the N. Carolina Commissioners at Cumberland. Your Excellencys Letter of Nov'' the
4^^ informs us that many demands have been made by Mf Nathan
and some others for payment of Bills drawn on the Treasurer or
Governour of this State, by Colo Todd Gen' Clark, and that
from the enormity of the sums demanded and the high price of
every article where an Account has been rendered, there is just cause
to suspect that the goods were bought for depreciated Money, and
that some advantage has been taken of the Drawers, And that it
now rests with us to take such measures as may be in our power to
investigate the truth which you requst we will do as soon as posible
and give our opinion at large. We beg leave to observe that we
are not furnished with a list of the Bills in whose favour drawn
the sums drawn for, nor the invoices or accounts referred to by your
Excellency there must be an oversight in the Clerk not transmiting
such necessary copies. Gen' Clark informs us that he is altogether
a stranger to what Bills Colo. Todd drew, and that he cannot at
present charge his memory with what Bills he has drawn himself,
so that until he can have recourse to his papers at Louisville he can
only refer your Excellency to his certificate upon the Scale of DeJOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 301

preciation for the Illenoies, which you mention in your Letter, to
which he cannot recollect an exception but one Bill in favour of an
Agent whose name he has forgot for the expences of a treaty with
the Upper Wabash Indians, which probably were settled in specie
and the Bill given accordingly. Colo Todds Executors cannot lay
his papers before us till some days hence so that it is not in our
power now to send your Excellency that explicit oppinion which is
required. We have too much reason to fear a backwardness in
some who have had the disposal of public Monies Stores to lay
their Accounts before us but as soon as our Messenger returns from
the Illenoise we shall loose no time in closing the business in general,
We shall use every precaution to guard against impositions and
report very specially on such accounts as may require further investigation, Wc take in all accounts with the Vouchers that we adjust,
and enter them in our Books under their proper titles with remarks,
and give certificates that wc have received them. We have given
your Excellency this state of the business as it stands at present that
you may be enabled to send us such instructions as you may think
proper. With great respect we have the honor to bcYour Excellencys
William Fleming
Most obedt hum' Ser" Samuel McDowell

Caleb Wallace

Adjourned till tomorrow morning.

Thursday December 26th Met according to adjournment.

Present as before

No business coming before the Board Adjourned until Tomorrow Morning

Friday 27th Met according to Adjournment. Present as before No business coming before the Board Adjourned until!

Tomorrow Morning.

Saturday December 28th Met according to adjournment. Present as
before No business coming before the Board. Adjourned till Monday morning.

Monday December 30th Met according to adjournment Present as before. No business coming before the Board Adjourned
until Tomorrow morning.



302 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Tuesday December 31st Met according to adjournment.

Present as before Received Capt' William Hogan s Pay Roll.

from May Fifteenth until August i8th with Voucher inclosed. See
Bundle Fayette Militia The Board observe that the above mentioned Pay Roll from May 15th to July 17th is made out in consequence of a Custom which was practised in this Country of keeping
the Inhabitants inrolled, and drawing pay for them when at home
but it does not appear to the Commissioners that they should receive
pay but on the date of Colo Lx)gans orders. See paper N' i Inclosed
dated July 17th 1780. Unless this custom was by order of Goverment. from July 17th they were in actual service on an Expedition under Colo G: R: Clark. It is likewise the opinion of the
Commissioners that the pay of those whose names are opposite to the
cross' in the Collumn of days in Service, should remain in the Treasury, till it is either personaly called for or their Heirs apply to the
Auditors for it Likewise his Pay Roll from the 20th of November until the 27th of December 1780. See Bundle Fayette Militia.
The Commissioners observe that the above Pay Roll is for no actual
service performed but for guarding the Fort of which they were
Inhabitants, And Colo Todd s certificate seems to be given in compliance with a custom formerly practised, in the infancy of the Settlement; Whatever the necessity of the Country might be at that time
The Commissioners cannot see the reasonableness of continuing it,
as they drew rations at the same time and considerable consequential
expenses were incerred. The Commissioners observe as in the other
Pay Roll, that it "is their oppinion that the sums opposite to their
Names, who are crossed in the Collumn of days in Service, Should
remain in the Treasury, till either personally called for or applied
for by their Heirs

There appears due to James Hogan twenty pounds Specie as
p'' Voucher received, intered in Page. 163

Received of Colo. Daniel Boone C. Lieutenant of Fayette
the following Pay Rolls Accounts for his Militia viz: Capt^
Hazlerigg s Pay Roll from the 24th of October until the 23'' of
November 1782. See Bundle Fayette Militia accounts. The Commissioners observe that Capt' Hazelrigg is only entitled to Ensigns
pay the Lieu< to Sergents Pay and one of the Sergents to have pay



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 303

as Private, as an Adjutant for the Battallion. a Quarter Master a
Packhorse Master for the Battalion a Packhorse Master for the
Artillery, were taken out of this Comp^ In adjusting their Pay we
have considered them as privates and added to their pay the allowance by Congress for such extra Services when done by officers from
the Line.

Capt' William M Connells Pay Roll from the 24 of Octolier
untill the 23'' of November 1782. See Bundle as above Tiie
Commissioners observe in this Pay Roll that the Captn. is only to
draw Ensign s Pay, the Lieutenant Sergents and one of the Sergents
to be reduced to a Private. Capf Robert Johnsons Pay Roll from
the 27th of March untill the 27*^ of April 1781. See Bundle Fayette Militia accounts Entered as above. The Commissioners are
of oppinion that the pay of those whose names are crossed in tlie
above Pay Roll should be reserved in the Treasury till Personally
called for, or applied for by their representives or Heirs. As Colo
Boone does know them supposes many of them have removed, and
some of the killed have no heirs in the Country, in which case their
pay would be entirely a perquisite to the Capt' lost to the persons
or their heirs who have performed the Service.

Capt" Constants Pay Roll from the 24"' October untill tiie
23* Novcm'' 1782 Sec Bundle Fayette Militia accounts The Commissioners observe in Capt' Constants Roll that the Capt' is only entitled to Lieutenants Pay and two of the Sergents to be reduced to
Privates. Capt" Robert Johnsons Pay Roll from Ocf 24 until November 23^ 1782 See Bundle Fayette Militia Accounts

The Commissioners observe that in Capt' Johnsons Roll, He
is entitled to Lieutenants pay the Lieu' to Ensigns pay the Ensign
to Sargents pay and two of the Sergents to privates.

Capt. William M Connells Pay Roll of M Connells Station,
from the 24"* October untill the 23^ of November 1782 See Bundle
Fayette Militia Accounts Capt' M Connell in his Pay Roll is
entitled only to Lieutenants Pay, the Lieutenant to Ensigns and the
Ensign to Sargents pay, and one of the Sergents to be paid as private.

Capt' Robt. Johnsons Account and Voucher for Plank, in
which there appears due three pounds seven Shillings and eight pence
Specie entered in Page 171



304 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

M' William Hayses Appraisment Bill for a Beef Steer, In
which there appears due three pounds one Shilling sixpence farthing Specie Entered in Page 173

Colo Boons Accounts for five hundred eighty two pounds
of fresh Beef at two pence p pound which amounts to four pounds
seventeen Shillings Specie entered in Page 173

Martha Boons Account for Horse hire for thirty one days
at one Shilling three pence p day which amounts to one pound

Eighteen shillings nine pence Specie Entered in Page 163

Mordecai Morgans Account for Horse hire for thirty one days,
at one Shilling three pence p day which amounts to one pound
Eighteen shillings nine pence Specie entered in Page 163

Colo. Todds Certificates for services performed by Spies in
March, May October 1781 It appears to the Commissioners
on the whole certificates that there is due from the Treasury twenty
Eight pounds fifteen Shillings Specie as entered in Page 167

There appears due to William Grant for six hundred
Seventy seven bushels of corn Seventy five pounds four shillings
nine pence Specie entered in Page 171 also to Israel Grant for
Eighty bushels of Corn, nine pounds twelve Shillings Specie entered
in Page 171

There appears due to William Marshall and Barnabas BoyI
fourteen pounds fourteen Shillings Specie for their services as Spies
entered in Page 167

There appears due to Hugh Cunningiiam for on hundred
forty seven rations furnished the militia as pr. vouchers. Three
pounds fourteen shillings six pence Specie entered in Page 169

There appears due to Edward Hammon three pounds, for
thirty bushels of corn furnished Col' Crocketts Regiment Entered in
Page 171

Adjourned untill to-morrow morning Wednesday January
i^' 1783 Met according to adjournment Present as before

The Board had some of Colo Todds papers laid before them,
which they examined but could find nothing relative to the Bills
mentioned in the Governours Letter of the 4"" of Novem"" last.

The Papers of Maj'' Joseph Bowman Dec*" and Capt' Isaac
Bowman were laid before the Board, Which were examined and



;p



sh;



i



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 305

finding them necessary for the settlement of other Accounts take
them with them to the Falls of Ohio

The Board being informed that M' Isaac Hite Angus
Cameron could give information concerning the dissipation of some
of the Public Stores by the Officers of the Illinois Regiment ordered
them to be summoned to attend the Board at the Falls of Ohio on
the is'^ Ins' and subpencs were issued accordingly.

Ordered that public notice be given requiring all who can
give the Board any information concerning the dissipation or misapplication of any of the Public stores or Monies by any persons to
attend at the Falls of Ohio for that purpose See Letter Book N»
14. Adjourned to Jefferson County

Monday Jan'' 6'*'. Met in Camp, near Colonel Coxes Present as before.

The Board being informed tliat Joseph Blackford Squire
Boone Philemon Waters David Glenn were meterial witnesses
concerning the discipation of Public Stores by the Officers of the
Illinois Regiment ordered Subpoenes to be issued to summon them
to appear at the Falls of Ohio the 15'' Ins'

Adjourned till tomorrow.

Tuesday Jan'' 7'^ Met according to adjournment Present
as before The Board received information that Tho' Phelps William Oldiiam Geo. Owens others were Witnesses to some misconduct of the Officers of the Illinois Regiment, ordered them to be
summoned, to attend the Board at the falls the 15''' Instant Adjourned till Tomorrow

Falls of Ohio Jan' 10"' 1783

In your favour of Dec'' 16'" you was pleased to consult the
Commissioners about the propriety of erecting Posts at the Junctions
of the Kantucky Licking Limestone with the Ohio on which
subject we had afterwards a conferrence with you and then gave
it as our opinion that it was impracticable for many reasons to
carry on the building of more than one of these Posts at a time
And on mature consideration We judged the Post at mouth of Kantucky to be of the most immediate service to the Country in general
and accordingly recommended it, to be first undertaken immediately set about, you sir are acquainted with the reasons that induced



3o6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

us to give the above advice, and wishing to have our opinion in
writing we chearfully give it and are with great respect your most

obedient Hum' Ser'

Signed, William Fleming
Sam^ M'^Dowell
Brig" Gen^ George R Clark Caleb Wallace
And finding that they could not do business at the Falls, as the
Garrison was scarce of Provisions— no forrage for horses. Or entertainment for Persons obledged to attend the Board, and sundry
other reasons— Adjourned to some convenient place in the Neighborhood

The Board expected to meet with the Persons summoned on
the 6— and seventh Instant to appear at this place, and take their
depositions, but none appeared. Adjourned till Tomorrow morning.

Thursday Jan? i6 Met according to adjournment Present
as before.

Ordered that the Secretary advertise the siting of the Commis", at New Holland &c Adjourned to meet at New Holland
Station Friday January 17th. Met at New Holland according
to adjournment Present as before

Drew off separate lists of Bills of Exchange drawn by each
perticular Person from the general Abstracts for the convenience
of future enquiries

Adjourned till Tomorrow Mor'^ Saturday Jan? iS'"" Met
according to adjournment Present as before

Were employed in taking lists of Bills of Excliange etc. (as
on the proceeding day)

Adjourned untill Monday Next

Monday Jan? 20"" Met according to adjournment Present
William Fleming, Tho' Marshall, Sam': M Dowell Caleb Wallace Esq."Colo. Pope Sheriff of Jefferson County returned to the
Board some of the Subpoenies directed to him executed on the following persons Viz: Angus Cammeron, Isaac Hite, Edw* Tyler,
Rob* Tyler, Rich^ Masteson, Philemon Waters, Tho' Phelps, Tho'
Wilson, Joseph Blackford, Wm. Oldham, Geo. Owens, David Glenn
and George Wilson



1; i
i:



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 307

The Commissioners finding it inconvenient at present to take
the depositions of some of the witnesses summoned relative to Mf
Shannon s Accounts deferred their examination untill the 29"" Ins'

The Board rec'' Gen' Claries accounts for examination

Proceeded to take the Depositions of several witnesses summoned before the Board, relative to the misapplication of Monies
or Stores by the Officers of the Illinois Regiment. See Bundle
Depositions Illinois Depart""^' No. I. 2. 3. 4

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning Tuesday January 21"
Met according to adjournment Present as before

Rec^ Sundry accounts of Francis M Dermorth as p"" Receipt
delivered the settlement of which was deferred for further examination

Took the deposition of Rich* Masteson with regard to some
of Capt' Shannons Accounts, See Bundle Depositions Illinois Dep'
N-s.

Capt' Barbours accounts were laid before the Board, which
were rec* for examination Capt' George called upon to elucidate
the same.

Several Depositions were taken with respect to the Stores in
possession of Capt' George his Officers at the Iron Bank or Fort
Jefferson. See Bundle Depositions Illinois Departm' N" 6 7

Adjourned till Tom^ Morns Wednesday Jan? 22" Met according to adjournment Present as before

Rec'' Sergeant Crumps Account and Vouc'' for services performed as an Express, from which there appears due from the Treasury four pounds ten Shillings Specie. Entered in Page 175

The Com"^ took the deposition of Majf Moore with regard to
Capt' Shannons Ace" See Bundle Depositions Illinois Depart""*
N 8

The Board being informed that John Burk M^ John May W™
Crump Eliz. Burke Bosten Demote Maj"" Moore Isaac Kellar. Lieu'
Clark Martin Carney were material evidences concerning Bills of
Exchange drawn in favour of Cap" Barber by Capt' George and with
regard to the accounts of other Officers of the Illinois Dep' Ordered
Subpoenies to be issued summoning them before the Board.



3o8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

The Sheriff of Jefferson County executed the Subpoenies on
the above named persons and made return to the Board

The depositions of M'' Clark M^ Carney were taken relative to Bills drawn in favour of Capt' Barber by Capt' George
for a large cargo, and the application of it See Bundle Depositions
Illinois Depart"^' No 9. 10

Adjourned till tomorrow Morning Thursday Jan^ 23* Met
according to adjournment Present as before

Wrote to Capt' George requiring him to lay before the Board
returns of the Strength of his Garrison at Fort Jefferson, a copy
of his Letter to the Executive relative to the Bills of exchange in
favour of Capt' Barber, also the Invoices Capt' Barber gave him
for the Cargo purchased.

The Board rec* information that Ed" Worthington Marsham
Brashears Isaac Kellar Aquilla Whitaker, Abraham Whitaker,
John Foakes James O. Finn were witnesses to prove the dissipation of Public Money or Stores by the Officers of the Illinois Regiment and ordered them to be summoned to appear before the Board
on Monday the 3* of Febf ^4«rt:

A petition from the Soldiers of the Illinois Regiment was
presented to the Board praying redress of deficiences of Cloathing
pay and other Grivances. Which was received, and the Board
desired Gen' Clark to order the Capt" of the Regiment to make out
pay rolls and accounts of Cloathing and lay them before the Board

The Depositions of Isaac Kellar Bosten Demore were taken
by the Board with respect to the application of Public Stores &c. at
Fort Jefferson, Kaskaskias St. Vincents See Bundle depositions Illinois Department N' 11. 12.

Adjournment till Tomorrow Morning Friday Jan'' 24. Met
according to adjournment Present as before

The Commissioners finding it necessary that a Sheriff should
attend the Board at certain times during their sitting at New Holland directed Col' Pope to attend on Monday last which was omitted
to be entered in that day s Journals

Ordered that the Sec^ Write to Mr. Carbeno desiring him to
wait on the Board See Letter Book N. 15



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 309

The Board was employed in examining Gen' Clarks Accounts
which were mentioned in the Journal of the 20^^ to be received by
them.

Adjourned till Tomorrow Morn*, Saturday Jan'' 25'^ Met
according to adjournment Present as before.

Mr. W^ Clark was called before tha Board Sworn a second
time and Further examined relative to Capf Georges Accounts See
Bundle Depositions Illinois Deparf" No 13

There appears due to John Cardine Seven pounds ten Shillings for services performed as Express, as p'' Voucher N' I Entered
in Page 177 Also for Services performed as French Interpreter at
S' Vincents One Hundred and sixty nine pounds one Shilling as p'
Vouchers N' 2 3. Entered in Page 177

Agreeable to the Letter of Yesterday directed to Mr. Carbeno
the Board had an interview with him in which he was informed on
the powers given the Commissioners which being explained to him
he informed them he would lay his accounts before them on Monday
and desired a private interview with M^ Daniel Atti' Gen' of the
State when it was convenient, feyWfrihe meant to inform the
Board of some matters of importance

A Subpoena was issued to summon evidence in favour of Capt"
Shannan to appear on the 29th. Ins' (relative to his Accounts)
Adjourned until Monday morning, Monday Jan^ 27"" Met according to adjournment Present as before.

A Subpoena was issued to summon Zephaniah Blackford to
appear before the Board and give in evidence (In behalf of the
State) what he knows concerning the Misapplication of Money or
Stores by the officers of the Illinois Regiment.

There appears due to Domenic Flannagan sixty-two pounds
Eight Sliillings Specie, his arrears of pay as a Soldier when in Captivity as p Voucher N' 4 entered in Page 177

The Board rec* a Letter from Capf Rob' Todd Executor
of Col' John Todd, Dec"" informing that he had carefully examined
all the Col^ Papers, and was sorry it was not in his power to lay
before them such papers as are necessarily required to elucidate his
accounts respecting the Bills that were drawn by him when acting
in the Illinois Department See Letter in Bundle. (Letters) No. 3



3IO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Agreeable to Mr. Carboneauxs request made the 25 of last
Month to have a private conferrence with the Att^ Gen' for the
Western District the Att>' met him at the Falls, and by the assistance
of Capt' Tardeveux as Interpreter collected what he had to say, and
presented it in Writing to the Board, See Letter N' 4 in Bundle
(Letters)

Adjourn till Tomorrow Morning Wednesday Feb?' 5th. Met
according to adjournment Present as before

The Commissioners laid over Capt' Barbours Accounts from
the 29th Ult' untill the present date expecting to be better informed
with respect to the different prices of Goods at New Orlans at the
time Capt' Barbour purchased the Cargo sold at Fort Jefferson but
having re* no further inforrriation, they proceeded to settle them, and
Call* upon M'' William Clark to inquire of the Different qualities
of the Goods purchased by Capt' George, desired Capt" Shannon
was desired to give in Writing the different prices of Goods as far as
he knew while at N. Orleans from which Acc*^, and the Inventories
of other Cargoes they proceeded to fix prices to the Different Articles
contained in the Invoices of the Cargo, the final settlem' of w^ was
deferred untill Tomorrow

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning Thursday Feb'' 6*^ Met
according to adjournm' Present as before.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to John
Phips for services performed as Express from S' Vincents to the
Falls of Ohio four pounds ten Shillings Specie as p. Voucher No. 4
Entered in Page 175 There appears due to James Asturgus One
Hundred and six Dollars, for Fifty three days work in building the
Galley at the Falls, (as chief Artificer), at two Dolp day as p
Voucher N» i Entered in Page 178

It appears to the Commissioners that James Asturgus is entitled to one Thousand four Hundred ten pounds Currency by a
Bill from Will. Shannon dated July i« 1781 which is when reduced by the Scale of Depreciation Three pounds ten Shillings
Six pence Specie, Entered in Page 169

There appears due to John Ray two pounds thirteen Shillings
and seven pence Specie for two Hundred and sixty Eight weight of
Flour 20/ p Hundred, as p Voucher rec* Entered in Page 173



JOURNAL OF JFESTERN COMMISSIONERS 311

There appears due to Joseph Phelps twenty one pounds Specie
for a field of Corn taken for the use of Public Horses as p Voucher
rec^ Entered in Page 171

The Board in a note to Gen* Clark requested a Copy of his
instructions to Lieu' Col' Montgomery for drawing Bills of Exchange on the Credit of the State, in answer to which the Gen' gave
his instructions in writing a copy of his orders for the distribution
of the Troops at different Posts under his command See in Letter
Bundle (Letters) N' 5

Adjourned till Tomorrow Morning Friday Feb^ 7^ Met
according to adjournment present as before

The Board Wrote to Capf Rob' George requiring his immediate attendance; as the Final Settlement of Capt' Barbours Bills,
(with them) was near a close, and Capt" Barbour having purposed
to produce Witnesses to cast new light upon his Acct' it was necessary he should be present at their examination See Letter Book
N' 17

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Reuben
Camp Two pounds seventeen Shillings and two pence Specie for
services performed as a Waggoner in the Service of the State as p
Voucher N' 6 Entered in Page 163

Colo. William Pope John Edwards came before the Board
and being sworn, (at their own request) gave testimony with respect to the conduct of Capt' Shannons Commissary General in the
Western Department See Depositions in Capt' Shannons Ace'"
Bundle Illinois Separtment. N' 24. 25

Adjourned till Tomorrow Morning, Saturday Feb>' 8th. Met
according to adjournment present as before

At. Capt' Barbours request Martain Carney Qr M. at F
Jefferson was call^ before the Board and examined on Oath relative
to some articles of his s* Barbers Cargo which was delivered at
Fort Jefferson not contained in the Invoices, in the Hands of the
Commissioners and was questioned with respect to the quantity
and quality of different articles in s"* Cargo. Also Sergeant Pitmans Deposition with respect to sundry articles of Cloathing and
Taffia rec^ of Capt' Barbour by him, for Soldiers of the Illinois



312 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Regiment on their passage up the Missisipi, See Depositions in Capt'
Georges Accounts Bun' Ilh nois Department. No. 26. 27

Mr. Wilh am Clark was call d upon by the Board to inform
on oath whether the Inventories in possession of the Commissioners
were wrote by him whether they contained all the Goods brought
by Capt' Barbour &c. See Deposition in Capf Georges Ace''
Bundle Illinois Department N' 28

Adjourn till Monday Morning.
Monday Feb'' 10^ Met according to adjournment Present as before

The Board being informed by Majf George Walls that the
Garrison at the Falls of Ohio had not received any Salt as rent for
the public Kettles at the Salt Works, for some time past, and that
he apprehended the rent of S* Kettles was misapplied by Private
Persons, They took the matter under consideration and resolved on a
future enquiry witli Colo John Bowmans Manager of the Public
Kettles in behalf of the State and proceeded to examine Joseph
Brooks John M'^Fall relative there to See Depositions in Bundle
John Bowmans Acct' N' 1 2 The deposition of Majf George
Walls was taken by the Board in consequence of a report circulating
to the prejudice of Gen' Clarks character respecting a private Trade
carried on by the Gen' in partnership with Mi" Rob* Elliot, See
Deposition in Gen' Clarks Accounts, Bundle Illinois Departm' N' 29

On the 21^'Ulto. Capt' Phillip Barbour Merchant, laid
before the Board a copy of a first of Exchange drawn by Rob*
George, Capt' Comdat Fort Jefferson on Olliver Pollock Esq""
Agent at New Orleans for the united States of America in favour
of the said Philip Barbour or Order, and dated i^ of Jan'' 1 78 1
expressing 232 320 Spanish Milled Dollars to be paid on Sight, for
Liquors and Dry Goods furnished the said George, for the use of
purchasing provisions, and to support the Troops in the Illinois
Department and on the Back Received of Olliver Pollock Esq''
the sum of 32 500 Dollars on the Account of the within contents
dated New Orleans 18*^ July 1781, signed Philip Barbour; likewise
a Certificate signed Zach. Burnley, a Magistrate for Orange County,
That the within contains a true Copy of a Bill of Exchange as produced by Capt' Philip Barbour with a receipt on the back agreeable



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 313

to the original and dated 4^ September 1782. Some days after
Capt" Barbour produced the Original Second of Exchange for
232 320 Spahish Milled Dollars, also a Second of Exchange drawn
by Robert George Capt" Com*" at Fort Jefferson on Olliver Pollock
Esqf Agent at New Orleans for the United States of America in
favour of Philip Barbour or Order and dated i" January 1781.
expressing 5000 Spanish Milled Dollars to be paid on sight for
Liquors Cloathing furnished the said George for the use of the
troops in the Illinois Department. These two Setts of Bills with
a Letter of Advice were inclosed in a Letter for Capt" Barbour to
M^ Pollock of the same date requesting that he would Act with them
agreeable to what they formerly Spoke of; Endorsed on the back,
This Letter with the Bills enclosed, is not to be sent to New Orleans until you hear from me P. B. See Bundle K. No. i

The Letter of Advice from Capt' George, directed to Mr.
Pollock, Agent for the State of Virginia at New Orleans informs
him that Capt' Philip Barbour had furnished him with a large Cargo
of Liquors dry Goods for which he had given him two Setts of
Exchange for 237 320 Dollars which he most earnestly begs M'
Pollock may pay in Gold or Silver Coin without hesitation. See
N» 2 The Board call d upon Capt' George for information on
the Case, and required him to lay before them his powers for drawing
these Bills of Exchange, and his reasons for incurring a Debt so
enormous on public Account, Upon which Capt' George produced
a Letter from Lieut" Colo. Jno. Montgomery dated Nov^ 15 1780.
advising him to purchase the whole of Capt' Barbours Cargo for the
use of the Troops &c. drawing Bills upon Olliver Pollock Esq'' Agent
at NewOrleans, See N' 3

Capt' George also pleaded that the Necessities of the Garrison, and the solicitations of the Officers of the Garrison were so
pressing that he was constrained to purchase the Goods of Capt'
Barbour, and thought himself authorized by Col. Montgomeries
Letter above mentioned to draw Bills on Mr. Pollock for the
Amount of the price

Colo Montgomery then informed the Board that he himself
was only authorized to draw Bills either on Gen' Clark or the
Treasury of Virginia to defray the necessary Expenses of the troops



314 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

in the Illinois Department See N' 4. From which it does not
appear that Colo Montgomery had any powers himself, and consequently he could not authorise Capt' George to draw Bills on Mr.
Pollock The Board therefore, after mature deliberation are
unanimously of opinion that the State of Virginia are under no obligations to Honour them as a legal Claim.

It being alledged that the distresses of the garrison would
justify the purchase and entitle Capt" Barbour to payment. The
Board proceeded to inquire into the Fact, and find by the Testimony
of W™ Clark George Owens and others. See No. 4 that the troops
and inhabitants had been several times invested and their Crops
of Corn greatly Injured by the Indians in the Summer preceeding
the afforcsaid purchase, that during the Fall Season they were very
sickly, and at the time of Capt. Barbours arrival they were nearly
destitute of provisions and entirely without Spiritous Liquors; To
confirm these Testimonies Capt' Barbour produced a Writing dated
August 20'' 1782, subscribed John Montgomery Colo, of tiie Illinois
Regiment certifying that he met Plu lip Barbour on the Missisipi
Nov'' 1780 with his Battoe ladded with Goods; He (Montgomery)
knowing the great want we were in of them, wrote a Letter of advice
to the Agent or Capt. George to purchase them and if the purchase had not been made, a great part of the Troops must undoubtedly have perished See No. 5

From these Testimonies as it does not appear that Cloathing
was greatly wanted, or that Capt. Barbours cargo afforded an immediate supply of provisions, the Board cannot be of opinion that
the purchase was indispensible. Yet the Board being conscious of
the equitable Intentions of the State of Virginia, and their readiness to reward those from whom they have received Services; Are of
Opinion, as the necessities of the Garrison might in some measure
induce Capt' George to make the purchase and as the Cargo was
made use of by the Troops under his command, that Capt. Barbour
should be paid a generous price Therefor, And the Board ordered
Capt. George to lay before them Invoices of the Goods. Capt. George
informed them that he had lost or mislaid the Invoices, and that
after using the most anxious endeavours they cannot be found



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 315

Upon wliich Capt' Barbour produced a writing dated rort
Nelson Falls of Ohio 7"" of July 1782. Given under the Hand of
Robert George Capt' before a Magistrate of Jefferson County. In
uhicii he certifies tliat he received of Capt. Philip Barbour at I'^ort
Jefferson Sundry Invoices for a Quantity of Goods of him there
received, amount of the first cost of the same in New Orleans, 23 732
Dollars &c which Invoices through the tiurry of removing from tliat
Post have been cither lost or mislaid. See No. 6

This certificate Capt. George informed the Board he gave
from a memorandum which he found amongst his papers, and which
he has since lost. But laid before the Board an Inventory of a
Quantity of Taffia &c by him delivered to Martin Carney Q'' M.
and another for a Quantity of Broad Cloths &c with a receipt on
the Back signed Israel Dodge Dep^ Agent dated Fort Jefferson December 15*^ 1780, and witnessed by John Baley Capt' Leonard
Helm, expressing that he had received of Robert George Esq'' Capt'
&c the within Merchandise for the use of the Troops in the Illinois
Department belonging to the State of Virginia See N» 7 8,
Also Accounts of the Issues made of the said Goods by the s^ Quarter
Master Deputy Agent. See N» 9 10, In which he alledged were
specified the whole of the Cargo that he purchased of Capt' Barbour, This allegation was supported by the Testimony of William
Clark referred to above. The Inventories were read over Article by
Article to Capt. Barbour who answered that he thought the Quantity
was small but not having a copy of the Invoices, he could not certainly remember any part of his Cargo, but what is contained in
the afforesaid Inventories, only two Half Hogsheads of Taflfia,
twelve blankets, twenty-eight yards of Stroud, Six pair of Shoes
Sixty Gallons of Tafiia which by the certificate of Martin Carney,
Q. M, and the Deposition of Buckner Pitman, Sergeant See N' 1 1
12. were also furnished the Troops of the State by Capt' Barbour
on their passage up the Missisipi, as also a Bale of sewing twine
some dozens of pocket Looking Glasses, several pieces of Stroud
a Quantity of Blankets Butcher Knives which arc not ascertained
by Testimony. From the afforesaid Inventories &c, The Board
made out an Invoice from the best information they could obtain
of the prices of such Goods at New Orleans, the latter part of the



3i6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Summer 1780, the time which Capt. Barbour is said to have purchased them there, affixed the first cost of each article as p Invoice

Doll. Liv s
N' 13 The amount 7 588 i. 6^, which is far below the sum
expressed in Capt. Georges certificate, but as the certificate was
given from a memorandum that is now lost, and no proof being produced that a greater quantity of Goods was delivered, the Board
can only form a Judgment upon the afToresaid Inventories returns
from the Quarter Master and D" Agent. Before the Board determined what advance it is reasonable to allow Capt. Barbour upon
this Invoice, He laid before the Board a letter dated 25 Jan' 1783.
Setting forth his motives for bringing up his Cargo to Fort JefTerson
the Risk cSc the Loss he incurred in the undertaking, and also the
profit which he would have made upon the Cargo if he had taken
it to the Illinois, and that the circumstances he recites will Justify
his layini; 1 000 pC upon his Cargo. See N' 14 for which he asserts
he agreed with Captain George subsequent to the Determination of
the three Officers who awarded him 1 500 pC This Capt. George
confesses to be the Truth and does not deny that he might have wrote
the Letter to Mr. Pollock, as recited in Capt. Barbours, but says
he cannot remember it, and that he generally kept Copies of his
Letters but can find none of the aforesaid See N' 4 But as it
appears from a number of depositions in No. 4 that the Risk and
expense must have been very considerably; Therefore the Board
think it Reasonable that the State of Virginia should pay Capt.
Barbour two hundred and twenty-five percent upon the aforesaid
7 588 Dollars i 1/3 Livers, the supposed first cost of the S^ Goods,
that is to say three Dollars and a quarter for every Dollar laid out
by him on the purchase of said goods at New Orleans, amount
24661 Dollars 4 Livers, 6 Sous 8 Deniers. And the Board likewise think it Reasonable, If it should hereafter appear the first cost
of the said Goods at New Orleans was greater or a greater Quantity
was actually delivered by Capt. Barbour to Capt. George, than is
expressed in the above mentioned Invoice, that the State of Virginia

should likewise pay the same pC upon their first cost.

As the Board have not sufficient Evidence before them to form
a Judgment whether the State ought to reimburse Mr. Pollock the



JOURNAL OF IVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 317

32500 Dollars which is receipted on one of the aforesaid Bills they
herewith transmit Copies of sundry Letters that may assist the
Executive in the Determination. See N'' 15

The Board also observe, from the Remarks upon Mr. Pollocks
Vouchers with which they arc furnished by the Executive, tliat upon
the first of the above mentioned set of Bills for 5000 Dollars there
is a Receipt on the back signed Philip Barbour 31" of March 1781
which for the Said Reasons they also refer to the consideration of
the Executive.

Colo. M Dowell, one of the members of the Board, has leave
of absence, to Lincoln County on private business Adjourned till
Tomorrow morning Tuesday Febi' ii"" Met according to adjournment Present William Fleming Tho' Marshall and Caleb Wallace
Esqf'

The Board was employed in examining and compairing Mons'
Carbouneauxs Accounts Bills of Exchange, presented on the 27^
Ult' with the Accounts Vouchers of the Officers by whom the
Debts were contracted which were not finally closed but deferred
for further examination.

Adjourned till Thursday next
Thursday Feby 13'" Met according to adjournment. Present as
before The Commissioners were engaged in examining Mons.
Carbouneaux s Ace" &c as on the preceding day

Adjourned till Tomorrow Morning. Friday Feby. 14"" Met
according to adjournment Present as before

Colo Jn' Montgomeries Accounts Vouchers were presented
to the Board for examination and Mons'' Carbouncaux Bills which
were deferred until said Ace'' were laid before the Board, were
taken up and examined but not finally settled

Adjourn^ until to-morrow morning Saturday Feb' 15 Met
according to adjournm*Present as before

There appears due from the Commonwealth of Virginia to
James Orr Seventeen pounds five shillings and four pence Specie
for his service as a Soldier in Capt' James Shelbeys Comp'' in the
Illinois Regiment from the first day of Jan'' 1779 until the 16'"
Scptr following being 259 days at one shilling four pence p day
as p Voucher N' 5 Entered in Page 177



3i8 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

The Board proceeded Finally to adjust and liquidate Sundry
Bills of Exchange Accounts laid before them the 27th Ult» by
Mons. Carbouneaux Viz Four Bills of Exchange drawn by William Shannon Commissary Gen' One on Gen' Clark for 204^ Dollars Specie, in Favour of I. M. P. Legras dated Sepf 1 781. which

from the S'^ Shannon s Books Vouchers N' 6 appears just

and ought to be Settled.

One Second of Exchange on tiie Treasurer of the State of
Virginia in favour of Mons. Carbouneaux for 9280 Dollars dated
the 14'" October 1780. and assigned to Mons. Dalchurust, which
from Shannons Books Vouchers N» 25, appears Just, and ought
to be settled with 127^ Dollars Specie.

One Second of Exchange on the Treasurer &c. in favour of
Mons'' Carbouneaux for 1 600 Dollars dated October 14th 1780,
and assigned to Mons'' Dalchurust, which from Shannon s Books
Vouchers N» 25 appears just and ought to be Settled with 21
Dollars 5/6 Specie

And one on the Treasurer &c for 500 1/5 Dollars in favour
of Patrick Kennedy dated 24'" Sept. 177Q and endorsed Pat. Kennedy, accompanied with a duplicate of the Account for which it was
given. The Vouchers Mr. Shannon lodged in the Auditor s Office,
and therefore the Board can make no certain Report upon the Bill.

Also Six Bills of Exchange Drawn by Colo. John Montgomery One on the Treasurer of Virginia in favour of Capt.

John 'Williams for 750 Dollars advanced for recruiting Service,
dated Apl. lo"" 1780, assigned to Rennoe, which from Colo. Montgomery s Vouchers No. 41 appears Just and ought to be settled TVith
12J Dollars Specie.

One on the Treasurer of Virginia in favour of Capt. John
Williams for 182, Dollars, dated April 8th 1780, assigned to M'
Rennoe which from Colo. Montgomery s Vouchers N*" 12, appears
just and ought to be settled in Specie though not so expressed in
the Bill.

One on the Treasurer &c. in Favour of Aud'" Ray for 550
Dollars dated 2lst July 1780 endorsed Rew, wlu ch from Colo.
Montgomery s Vouchers N' 21, appears to be given for Taffia at 154
Dollars p Gallon and ought to be settled with, iij Dollars Specie






JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 319

One on the Treasurer &c in favour of John Gerault for 650
Dollars, dated 21" July 1780, endorsed Gerault, which from Colo.
Montgomery s Voucher N' 20, appears to be given for Taffia at
i54 Dollars p Gallon and ought to be settled with laf Dollars
Specie

One on the Treasurer &c for 1372/5 Dollars in favour of
Antoine Renault dated July 28"" 1780 endorsed Antoine Renault,
with account of particulars on the Back except Line Second which
expresses Sundries See Vouchers amounting to 400 Livers N' 24
which also accompany the Bill, The Board are of opinion that the
Bill ouglit to be Settled in Specie

And one on the Treasurer in favour of Stephen Gooding for
1350 Dollars advanced to Lieut. Perault for the Recruiting Service
dated nth August 1780 which ought to be settled with 19 2/7
Dollars Specie, as Colo. Montgomery can produce no certain Vouchers The Board have charged the Bill to his account with the State.

Also a Bill of Exchange dated 27th June 1779 drawn by
Colo John Todd on the Treasurer of Virginia for 741 Dollars in
favour of Moses Henry, due from the Commonwealth of Virginia
for money advanced by him. There is no Voucher for this among
Colo Todds papers laid before the Board by his Executors, but they
think it probable that the Bill was given for paper Currency and
that it ought to be settled with 185^ Dollars Specie agreeable to the
Illinois Scale of Depreci°°

Also an order dated 8th December 1778 in favour of Pierre
Lefevre drawn by Leonard Helm Comm*" deceas* on Colo G. R.
Clark for 3535 Livers (equal to 707 Dollars) and countersigned by
G. R. Clark for which no Vouchers can be produced by the Executor
of the deceased and therefore the Board can make no certain report
upon it

Also an account against the State of Virginia certified by L
M. P. Legras L' Colo. 24'^ March 1781 Countersign^ by G. R.
Clark, amount 2035 Livers equal to 407 Dollars From which the
Board think it reasonable to deduct, 112 Dollars for excessive
Charge, and that the remaining, 295, Dollars should be settled with
Specie



320 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Also an account on the State of Virginia dated 1779 drawn
by Nicolas Perrot for Taffia at sundries amount, 750 Dollars Certified by Leonard Helm Superintendant and countersign'' on tbe back

G. R. Clark, by the Deposition of Capt. Todd No. this

account must be stated in paper Currency and ought to be settled
with 75 Doll' Specie agreeable to the Scale of Depreciation for the
Illinois Country

Also a certificate from John Rodgers Capt. Commandant
dated Decem. 8'^ 1780, in Favour of the Estate of Capt. Plasse for,
65 1 J'-'' Gross Beef, which ought to be settled at J Dollars p Lb
amount, 81 2/5 Dollars Specie

Also a certificate from Zephaniah Blackford Dep' Comm'
dated 13'" August 1781 in Favour of Pierre Mazure for 1800 Beef
at a Liver p Lb, amount 1800 Livers (equal to 360 Dollars) which
ought to be settled with Specie

Also two orders on Boje, one dated December 20"" 1780 for
two Loads of Wood N. i The other dated Jan'' 19th 1781, for
two loads of wood N' 4 signed John Rodgers Com'Two Orders
on Rennaux, one dated Dec'' 20'^ 1780, for two Loads of Wood No.
2 the other dated Jan'' 26th 1 78 1, for two Loads of Wood No. 3,
both signed John Rodgers Com*"' And one Order on Towrenger
dated Jan'' 2" 1 78 1 for two Loads of Wood N' 5 signed John
Rodgers Comman"*' The Board think it probable that the Wood
was received and that it should be settled at one Dollar the Load
Specie

Also Lieu' Mombrun s Pay Roll from the 12"" May 1780,
till the I2t_h of May 1782, at 26 2/3 Dollars p Month Amount 640,
Dollars. The Board find that Lieut. Momrun was without a Command the greater part of the time specified in this Pay Roll, but
approve the Claim from the Recommendation Accompanying it
which are confirm*' by the Report of Gen' Clark.

Adjourned till Monday morning
Monday Feb'' 17 Met according to adjournment present as before.

The Express sent by Gen' Clark at the request of the Commissioners, to Illinois, in Dec"" last with dispatches from the Board
returned on Sunday the i6"'Int. with a packett from Kaskaskias
which was sent to Government by Mons'' Carbouneaux.






JOURNAL OF IVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 321

It appears that on the is'" Decf 1782 Edw* Parker William Boush were sent Express from the Falls of Ohio with dispatches
from the Board to the Court of Kaskaskias &c and returned to this
place the i6th of Feb'' 1783, and they have faithfully perform* this
Service, the Board think it reasonable that they should receive from
the Treasury of Virginia the sum of Forty Pounds to be Equally
divided between them Entered in Page 175

The Board after making Enquiry relative to Col' Lynn s
Accounts, find that the Administrator can produce no Vouchers, for
his drawing Bills of Exchange on Mr. Pollock, State Agent, and
being informed that Colo Montgomery John Sanders Gen' Clark
were acquainted with his drawing Bills on private Account in the
Illinois took their Depositions. See Bundle Col' Lynn s Ace' Illinois Department N' 30, 31, 32. 5or.

The Commissioners are therefore of opinion that all Bills
drawn by Colo. Lynn accept these drawn when, sent to New Orleans
for Powder, come under the first General Remark in Page 148.

The Commissioners wrote the following Letter to his Excellency the Governour dated Feb" 17"^ 1783

Sir

The Board of Commissioners wrote the 23d of December in
return to your Excellancy s favours of Oct. i6th Nov. 4th. In
compliance with your orders we have diligently searched all the
papers in our possession, that could throw light on the nature of
the Bills in Mr. Nathan s Hands, yet remain much in the dark, as
Colo. Todds Books Accounts are supposed by the Executor to be
somewhere in the interior parts of Virginia, and he can only lay
before us some detached papers amongst which we find a Letter fio n
the Executive dated Will burg in Council August 20"" 177'^ 11
which the Honbl* Lieu' Governor acknowledges the receipt of several
Letters from Colo Todd by Colo Slaughter of the i'^ 2* July
1779 which were laid before the Council who were pleased with
the contents and approved of Colo Todds Conduct and plan for
supporting the Credit of the paper money but that it must be submitted to the assembly who alone can give it efficacy. That the
Eight draughts Colo Todd mentions have not been presented but
shall be duly attended to, as the Gentlemen to whom they are pay322 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

able are highly deserving of the Greatful attention of Government,
The Board likewise found a Peltry Account amongst Colo Todds
papers by which it appears he purchased a quantity of Peltry from
Mf Beaureguard sometime in the Fall of the year 1779 Amounting
to 2i ooo£ for which it is probable he drew Bills to the amount.
The Peltry by this ace' seems to be paid to sundry Persons, Colo
Montgomery s Certificate information to the Board likewise accompanies this. On the whole as no Bills of Colo Todds drawing
have appeared before us, nor are any mentioned in the lists transmitted to us, We imagine the Bills in M^ Nathans possession may
probably be for the above purchase but as we are not favoured either
with the amount or dates of these Bills, and no direct light can be
got here we cannot be positive. On the supposition that the Bills
were given at that time, and on that Account the Commissioners
have to observe that 210 packs of Peltry costs the State 20/ p lb
and at the time the purchase was made peltry Silver were nearly
on a par as it appears Colo Todd is said to have given a high price
for the Peltry allowing 3 livers p lb which is 50 p C higher than it
generally is; shews the purchase was made with depreciated paper
money at a little more than five a half for one, if the Bills in
question were drawn for the above Ace* the Comm" think they ought
to be taken up at the above discount, but the Board wish to refer
your Excellancy to Colo Todds Letters of the i" 2^ July 1779
which we suppose lodged in the Council Chamber to elucidate the
aflair as we cannot meet with copies of them. The Board have
finished Capt' Georges draughts on M'' Pollock in favour of Capf
Barbour, but not thinking it prudent to trust the papers relative
thereto by this conveyance, they hope your Excellancy will dispence
with the principles they went on till they have an opportunity of
laying the papers before the Executive as no Invoices were produced
eitlier by Capt. George or Capt. Barbour, the Board affixed the
prices to the Cargo delivered at Fort Jefferson from the best lights
they could get at Seven thousand five hundred Eighty Eight Dollars, one Liver 1/3 as the prime cost at New Orleans, on which
the Board allowed two hundred twenty-five p C advance for
the Cargo delivered at Fort Jefferson, amounting in the whole to
twenty four Thousand six hundred and sixty one Dollars, four LivJOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 32 1

ers six sous, eiglit Deniers including all expences. We have not
yet closed Gen' Clarks Accounts as we find them so conected with
the other Accounts both the Quarter Masters Commissaries as
well as the Officers that we could not finish them before wc had a
general view of the whole, we will be able to settle his in ten days,
to examine all the accounts minutely will take up a great deal of
time perhaps more than the Executive can imagine, as double receipts
have always been taken for sums paid, the Vouchers should be listed
alphabetically to prevent double entries. None of Mf Pollocks Bills
he presented for payment, have appeared before this Board, but one
of Jan'' i" 1 78 1 for 5000 Doll' which appears to be for part of the
same Cargo Capt' George purchased from Capt" Barbour, and was
a second Bill and is considered as part of the 24661 Dollars 5
Liv" allowed as above for that Cargo, By Depositions it appears
that these Bills drawn by Wm Lynn in 1778 were for Goods purchased by Lynn on his own Ace' at Kaskaskias Mesiere and ought
not to be Charged to the State. It likewise appears that Capt"
Elliots draughts the Invoices of Goods ship* on account and at
the risk of the United States, but charged to the State of Virginia
by M' Pollock was in consequence of the Cargo being lost in the
Missisipi and some of the articles that were saved from the Wreck
being made use of by the troops in the Illinois, Inventories of the
wliolc Cargo and what was saved applied to the use of the Troops
are Copying but as we have not fully examined the affair we defer
giving our opinion in it. The Board inform* your Excellency in
theirs of December 23* that an Express was sent off to Kaskaskias
to which they had a return last evening informing them they might
expect some of their principle Inhabitants would wait on them with
the unsettled Accounts &c in a Short time, M^ Carbouneaux who
will present this is an inhabitant of Kaskakias and comes to get some
private affairs settled but we suppose principally as a deputy to represent the confusion the Country is in, which if not settled by this
State, we apprehend he will proceed to Congress None of the
Posts which your Excellancy mentioned in your favour of the 16^
of Ocf last are yet erected. We expect Gen' Clark will lay before
you his reasons for defering this business. We have lately received
an address from the Civil Military officers of Fayette which ac324 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

companies this and praying us to report our opinion to Government.
We think could a Fort be erected at or near the mouth of Limestone it would tend greatly to encourage Settlements in that County
and that it should be garrisoned by a Comp^ of Regulars aided by
the Militia furnished with flour from the Neighbourhood of Fort
Pitt

When we get a little more through the business we will inform your Excellency by an Express of our proceedings with such
remarks on these Bills, which have been presented for payment and
are not laid before us as may be necessary for the Executive to have
before we can return our whole proceedings we are with great
Respect

Your Excellency s Most obed' Hum' Serv''
W" Fleming,
Tho? Marshall
Caleb Wallace
Monsf Carbouneaux laid before the Board a Bill of Exchange dated
6'* Aug'' 1 78 1 drawn by George Slaughter Commandant in favour
of William Boush for 50 Dollars for performing Express from Fort
Patrick Henry to the Falls of Ohio. Which the Board are of opinion is an excessive Charge and ought to be settled with 20 Dollars
And also these Certificates drawn by Zephaniah Blackford
Dep' Comm''

One dated 7"* June 1781 in favour of Mons'' Pazzar for
373 of Beef at a liver in Money p. Lb and-6"' Iron at 2J Livers
p lb

One dated 10'* August 1781 in favour of Maj"" Godfrey

Linetot for 19I Gallons Taffia at 100 Livers in Peltries p Gallon

And another dated i"* April 1781, in favour of said Linetot
for 4I Gallons Bears Gil at 10 Livers p Gallon in peltries
Which as they are not properly certifyed cannot be pass d until
Blackfords Books come before the Board.

N B The Board observe that on the 15"" Instant Two Bills is

second of Exchange were adjusted, drawn by William Shannon in

favour of Mons' Carbouneaux One for 9280 Dollars and the other

127 1/3, which he informs were given into the hands of Mons'' i|.

Gratiot, and may probably also be presented for payment



I
I



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 325

Mons'' Carbouneaux has obtained an order from the Board
on Majr Walls at Fort Nelson for a boat belonging to the State
valued at 40 Dollars, which is to be deducted by the Auditors in
Settling this Account.

Adjourned until Tomorrow Morning Tuesday Feb' 18'''
Met according to adjournment Present as before

The Commissioners were engaged in examining Colo Montgomery s Accounts Vouchers mentioned in the Journal of the
Eleventh Ins' which were not finally Settled by the Board but deferred for further examination

Adjourned until Tomorrow morning, Wednesday Feb^' 19""
Met according to adjournment present as before

Tlic Commissioners were engaged in examining Gen' Clarks
Colo Montgomery s Accounts which were not finished but
deferred for further examination Adjourned until Tomorrow
morning.

Thursday Feb'' 20'^ Met according to adjournment present

as before

The Board continued to examine Colo Montgomeries Accounts, (which remain unsettled and are to be furtlier examined

Mr. Martin Carney, Q M In the Illinois Department, Laid
his Ace" before the Board, which were entered upon, and part of
them examined

Issued a Subpoena at Capt. Shannons request summoning evidences relative to his conduct in the Q M and Com' Departments.

Adjourned untill Tomorrow Morning

Friday Feb^ 21°' Met according to adjournm' present as

before Received from Martin Carney Quarter Master at Fort

Jefferson in the Illinois Department in the years 1780 and 1 78 1,
all his Ace" of Stores and issues with the Vouchers for the same
Which on inspection we found to be just as p General Account of
Arms N' i, of Ammunition N' 2 of Soap, Tobacco Whiskey N'
3 of Flints Engineers Stores, N' 4 of Quarter Master Stores
Artillery, N' 5 of Boats and other Craft, N» 6 of Taffia and Sugar,
N? 7 of Military Stores, Cavalry Accountrements Sund^ Stores
N' 8 of Q' Masters Stores, and Ace' of Artificers imployed by him,
N» 9 of Sundry Merchandise issued by him, part of a Cargo pur326 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

chased from Captain Barbour, N' lo of a Cargo purchased from
Debruil, N' ii also N» 12 containing issues of sundries brought
from Richmond in 1782, N' 13 Forrage, waggon Provision and
Cash Accounts in taking the above to Fort Pitt likewise a memorandum of Sundry Articles left buried at Fort Jefferson when that place
was evacuated, Viz: Seven Hand Mills, one Waggon a damnified
four pound Gun, fifty Stand of old arms, one Grinding Stone two
56 weights one 28 D' one Beek Iron

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Hanah
Breeding three pounds nine Shillings Specie for Making Soldiers
Shirts at Fort Jefferson as p. Account Vouchers reed. Entered in
Page 182 (Page 52 O. B.)

Adjourned untill Tomorrow Morning Saturday Feb^ 22^
Met according to adjournment. Present as before

It appears to the Commissioners that Arch'' Lockard is Entitled to ten pounds, one Shill^ six pence for Extra Service Whilst
a Soldier, Also 15, 7, 8J4 for five pair of Hand mill Stones,
made for the use of the Troops in the Illinois Department as p.
Voucher', N» 2 3 rec* Enter in Page 182

It also appears that there is due to the said Lockard Six
pounds Eight shillings three pence, by a certificate assign d to him
by Mr' Nilly Lewis, for attending on the Sick Soldiers in hospital
as p Voucher rec* N» i Entered in Page 184.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due from the
Commonwealth of Virginia to M^^ Spangler Administratrix of William Spangler Deceased Eleven pounds one Shilling for furnishing
221 days rations to soldiers as p Voucher N' 2 Enter d in Page
184

It appears to the Board that there is due to Edw'' Parker
Sergeant four pounds five Shillings Specie for going Express to St.
Vincents as p Voucher N' 5 entered in Page 175

It appears to the Commissioners by a settlement with Martin
Carney, Dep^ Quarter Master, (in the Illinois Department) of his
accounts with the State of Virginia that there is a ballance of two
hundred thirty pounds fourteen shillings Eleven pence half
penny, due as p account and Vouchers received. Entered in Page
182



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 327

Adjourned untill Monday morning Monday Feb^ 24'^ Met
according to adjournment Present as before.

The Board received of Capt. William Oldham his Pay Roll
from the 20"" of July untill the 20'* of August 1780, See Bundle
Jefferson Militia Accounts N' i

The Commissioners observe that Capt. Oldham is only entitled to Lieu*^ Pay on the account of Deficiency of the Number of
Men upon his Roll the Lieut, to Ensigns Pay, the Ensign to Sergeants pay and the two Youngest Sergeants to the pay of a private
Soldier.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Capt.
Oldham Rations furnished himself on the expedition in the year
1780, one pound ten Shillings as p Voucher N' 2 Enter d in Page
165 Bundle Jefferson Militia.

It appears there is due to Robt. Hamilton twenty five pounds
Specie for a Horse lost on the Expedition in the year 1780, as p
Voucher Entered in Page 163 also a certificate for provisions fiirni'^h''
on sd. Expedition amount one pound ten Shillings as p Voucher N'
3 Bundle Jefferson Militia.

Mr Isaac Hite having informed the Board that Angus Cameron had informed him that he was not interrogated by the Board
relative to some things that concerned the enquiry about Gen' Clark
At Mr Hites instance the Board ordered another subpoena to issue
for s* Cameron. He appearing on the 24"" was sworn and interrogated by the Board See Deposition N» i Bundle Illinois Department. (Gen' Clarks Accounts)

Tlie Militia Accounts for Jefferson County were laid bctorc
tlie Board by Colo. John Floyd, the settlement of which is deferred
untill Tomorrow morning.

The Commissioners being obliged by the business to go to
Lincoln County, on Friday the 28"' Instant; Called on Col' Floyd
for an escort of twenty five men to attend them thither

Adjourned till Tomorrow Morning. Tuesday Feb'' 25^
Met according to adjournment Present as before.

The Commissioners received of Colo John Floyd the following Pay Rolls and Acc^ for the Militia of Jefferson County Viz.which was red by Colo. Barber from Aud. offce.)



328 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Capt. James Davis' Pay Roll from October 21" untill Nov'
25, 1782See Bundle Jefferson Militia Amount entered in Page

165

From the Number of Men in this Pay Roll the Comm" are
of opinion that the Capt' should only receive the Pay of a Lieu*, the
Lt. the pay of an Ensign, the Ensign the pay of a Sergeant the
three youngest Serg'^ the pay of privates.

Capt. James Samuels Pay Roll from the ai** Octf untill as'*"
Nov' 1782, Bundled and Entered as above

From the number of men in Capt. Samuels Pay Roll, the
Comm" are of opinion that the Capt. should only receive the pay of
an Ensign the Lieut, the pay of a Sergeant the Sergeants the pay
of privates.

Capt. James Rodgers' Pay Roll from the 2ist October untill
the 25th of November 1782. Bundled and entered as above.

From the number of men in Capt. Rodgers Pay Roll, the
Commissioners are of opinion that the Captain should only receive
the pay of a Lieutenant, the Lieut, the pay of Ensign, the Ensign tlie
p iy of a Sergeant and the three youngest Sergeants the pay of
Privates.

Capt" Jacob Vanmaters Pay Roll from the 21'' Ocf untill
the 25 of Nov'' 1782 See Bundle Jefferson Militia, Ent^ in Page
165 from the number of men in Capt. Vanmater s Pay Roll, the
Commrs. are of opinion that the Capt. is to receive pay as Ens° the
Lieut, as Sergeant the Sergeants as privates

Captain John Varbruse' Pay Roll from 21st of October untill
the 25 of Nov'' 1782 Bundled and Entered as above

From the Number of Men in Capt. Verbruses Pay Roll, the
Com" are of Opinion that the Capt. receive Lieu'° Pay the Lieut.
Ens" Pay and the Ens" Sergeants pay two of the Sergeants are to
be paid as privates

Capt Ch» Polices Pay Roll from the ig"" of Ocf untill the t

25"" of Nov'' 1782 Bundled Entered as above

Capt. James Rodgers Pay Roll from the 29'" of June untill

the Sixth of July 1782 Entered and Bundled as above Capt.

Rodgers Pay Roll from the 4'" of May until the 11'" 1782 Entered 4

and Bundled as above ;i

I



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 329

Lieut. Geo. Wilsons Pay Roll from the 2i'' of Ocf until!
the 25"" of Nov'' 1782. Entered and Bundled as above

At the desire of the Lieut, his pay is settled as a Private

Capt. Dan' Halls Pay Roll from the iS"" July untill the 25""
of August 1780. Entered and Bundled as before.

There being but fifteen Privates in Capt Halls Pay Roll,
the Commissioners are of opinion that the Capt' Should receive Pay
as an Ensign, the Ensign as a Sergeantthe Sergeants as Privates.

Capt» Hardy Hills Pay Roll from the i8"» of July untill the
21^ of August 1780 See Bundle Jefferson Militia Entered in Page
165

From the Number of men on Capt Hills Pay Roll the
Comm"^ are of opinion that the Captain should only be paid as an
Ens^ the Las a Sergeant the Ensign Sergeants as Privates.
Also Captain Hills Pay Roll for Rations found from the iS*^ of July
untill the 21" of August 1780both entered and bundled as above
It apears that the Rations Specified in Capt Hills pay Roll were
furnisli d agreeable to yrders from Gen' Clark considering the
great Scarcity of provisions at the Time the Com"^ are of opinion
that it should be Settled at one Shilling the Ration

Capt Charles Polks Pay Roll from the iS^^ of July untill
the 21'' of August 1780 as also a Pay Roll for Rations of the
same dates Entered Bundled as above

From the number of men in Capt. Polks Pay Roll the
Commr' are of opinion that the Capt. ought to draw pay as Lieut,
the Lieut, the pay of Ensign and the youngest Sergeant the Pay of a
private It appears that the rations specified in Capt. roll, were
furnished agreeable to Gen' Clarks orders, and on account of the
scarcity of provisions at that time the Comm" are of opinion that
it Should be Settled at one Shilling p Ration

Capt. Ricli^ Chinowiths Pay Roll from the 20''' of Oct'
untill the 24'" Nov. 1782 Entered and Bundled as above

The Commis^ are of opinion that from the Number of Men
in Capt. Chinowiths Pay Roll the Capt. is to receive pay as Lieut,
the Lieut, as Ensign and two Sergeants as privates.

Capt Danl. Halls Pay Roll from the 18"" of July untill



330 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

the 21^' of august 1780 for Rations See Bundle Jefferson Militia,

Entered in Page 166

It appears that the rations specified in Capt Halls Roll were furnished in Consequence of Orders from Gen' Clark, and on the Ace'
of the great Scarcity of provisions at that time the Commr''' think
it reasonable that it should be settled at one Shilling the ration

Captn. James Davis' Pay Roll from the 24"' of June untill
the 13"" of July 1782 Entered and bundled as above

From the Number of Men in Capt. Davis s Roll, the Commissioners are of opinion that the Capt. should only be paid as an
Ensign one of the Sergeants as a private 58

Capt. Peter Asturgus' Pay Roll from the 18'" of July until
the 21'' of Aug*' 1780 also his Pay Roll for rations furnished
during the above Service Entered and Bundled as above

From the Number of men on Capt Asturgus Pay Roll the
Comm" are of Opinion that the Second Lieu' should only receive the
pay of Ens" the Ens" the pay of a Sergeant and the two youngest
Sergents the pay of privates

It also appears that the rations Specified in Capt. Asturgus s
Roll were furnished in consequence of Gen' Clarks orders, and from
the scarcity of provisions at the time the Comm"^ are of opinion
it should be Settled at one Shilling the ration.

Capt" AquUa Whitikers Pay Roll from the 31°' of May
untill the 22^* of June following in 1782 Entered Bundled as above

Capt. James Pattons Pay Roll from the lo'*' of April untill
the 3^ of May 1782 Entered and bundled as above

From the number of men on the above roll the Commissioners
are of Opinion that the Capt. should only receive Lieu'' pay, the
Lieut. Ensigns pay, the Ensign Sergeants pay and the youngest
Sergeant the pay of a private.

Capt. John Vautries Pay Roll from the 20"' of March untill
the S'*" of April 1782. Entered and Bundled as above

Capt James Asturgus Pay Roll from 21" of October untill
the 25 of Novf 1782 Entered and Bundled as above

From the Number of Men in Capt. Asturgus' Pay Roll the
Commrs. are of opinion that the Capt. should receive pay as Lieufti



I
I



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 331

tenant the Lieut, the pay of an Ensign the Ens" pay as Sergeant
the youngest Sergeant the pay of a Private.

Captn. James Fattens I ay Roll from the is"" of July untill
the 25 of August 1780. Entered and Bundled as above From
the number of men in Capt. Pattons Pay Roll the Comm"^" are of
opinion that the youngest Sergeant should receive pay as Private.

Capt. Lewis Hickman s Pay Roll from the iS'^ of July untill
the 25 of August 1780. Entered and Bundled as above. Also his
Pay Roll for Rations furnished during the above term Specified in
his roll. From the Number of Men in this Pay Roll the Comm«
are of opinion that the Capt. Should only receive the pay of Lieu'
The Lieu* the pay of Ens', the Ens' pay as Sergeant the youngest
Sergeant the pay of a Private

It also appears that the rations Specified in Capt Hickmans
Roll were furnished agreeable to an order from Gen' Clark, and on
ace' of the great Scarcity of Provisions at the time. The Commf
are of Opinion that it should be Settled at one Shilling the ration.
Capt. Aquilla Whitakers Pay Roll from the 21" of Ocf untill the
25''' of Noyf 1782. See Bundle Jeflferson Militia Entered in Page
166

From the number of men in Captain Whitakers Pay Roll the
Comm''' are of Opinion that the Capt. should only receive pay as L'
the Lt. the pay of an Ens' the Ens' the Pay of a Sergeant and the

two youngest Sergeants the pay of Privates Also Capt. Wliitakers

Pay Roll from the 15'" of June untill the 20'^ 1782 Entered
bundled as above

Sergeant Ricli^ Lees Pay Roll from June i" untill the 16th
1 78 1. Entered and Bundled as above

It appears that there is due to Morris Hansbrough three
pounds Eighteen Shillings as p Vouch" entered in Page 171

It appears to the Commf" that there is due to Capt James
Sullivan twenty five pounds for going Express from the Falls of
Ohio to Richmond as p Vouchr Ent^ in Page 175

It also appears that Capt. Sullivan was employed 38 Days on
the Expedition against the Shawanoes in the year 1780, as Horse
master and that the Service was performed Faithfully. But as the



332



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Cominis"» are not acquainted with the Usual allowance they refer it
to the Auditors to affix his Wages

There appears due to Geo. Wilson on a Certificate reed, by
the Comm"^ for rations furnished on the Expedition in 1780. one
pound Six Shillings three pence, also on Ace' Sign^ by Gen' Clark,
for boarding Soldiers in 1779. 1780 am'« to twenty five pounds.
Likewise an Ace' of his Wages as issuing Com^ for thirteen Months
two days for 156 lO S. Entered in Page 184

The Board not having the State Establishm'* before them are
induced from a letter of Colo William Davises respecting Martin
Carney, Deputy Quarter Master in the Illinois Department to allow
Mr. George Wilson 40 Dollars p month as Specified above.

It appears there is due to Jane Grant for twenty one days
Horse hire the Sum of one pound Eleven Shillings tliree pence
Specie entered in Page 163

It appears to the Comm^' that there is due to James Brown
Sergeant, Six pounds for a Rifle Gun lost in the Service of the State
as p Voucher Entered in Page 177

It appears to the Commr' that there is due to Samuel Eakin
Eight pounds twelve Shillings Six pence for twenty three days
Service as Express as p Voucher Entered in Page

It appears to the Comm''' that there is due from the State of
Virginia to Graves Wapshot the sum of one pound Six Shillings
one penny Half penny, for Flour furnished himself on an Expedition
in the year 1780 also a Hunting Shirt lost in service as p Vouehf
Entered in Page 173

It appears to the Comm" there is due to George Grundy the
sum of three pounds for Sixty rations furnished a Sick Soldier &c.
as p Voucher Entered in Page 169

It appears to the Commiss""" that there is due to Edw^ Holman
Ass«' of Noah Cruse, the sum of two pounds Six pence for thirteen days work at the Row Galley as p Voucher Entered in Page 178

The Commissioners received a Letter from General Clark of
the 23d Inst, enclosing one from Majf Walls with a Regimental
return returns of Stores at Fort Nelson, on which the Board had
a Conference with the General Majf and Gave it as their opinion



I



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 333

that a State of the whole ought immediately to be sent to Government. See No. 6.

The Board received a letter from General Clark of the 25th,
See N' 7 requesting the Commissioners to join him in the representation to Government.

Adjourned until Tomorrow Morning Wednesday Feby 26th.
Met according to adjournment. Present as before

It appears to Comm"^ that there is due from the State of
Virginia to Capt' Kellar Joshua Archer five pounds two Shillings
Six pence Specie as p Voucher reed. Enter* in Page 182. Also
there appears to be due from the State to Joshua Archer Eighteen
pounds Six Shillings Six pence Specie as p Vouchers rec*" Entered
in Page 1 82

It appears that the Estate of James Robinson is Entitled to
receive pay agreeable to Certificates receiv* for nine hundred
forty five days service of his Negro Caesar to be paid at the rates
usually allowed to Artificers by the State entered in Page 185

Receiv* of Captain Payette Vouchers Acc'» of Issues &c
for the year 1778 of provisions &c. at the Falls of Ohio whilst he
acted as Commissary by Col' Bowmans Orders by which it appears
the Issues exceeded what he received in several articles pork excepted
which was ordered to be served out fresh and no proper returns

made

It appears to the commissioners that there is due to John
McGar for Services as Express at different times to S' Vincents
&c twenty one pounds twelve Siiillings as p Voucher rec** Entered

in Page 175

It appears to the Comm" that there is due to Buckner Pitman
four pounds ten Shillings for going Express from the Falls of Oiiio
to Col» Logan &c Also for services as Boat Master at Fort Jefferson Twelve pounds two Shillings Eight pence as p Vouchers reed.
Entered in Page 182

It appears that there is due to Edw* Johnson for work at the
Row Galley 120 days at one Dollar p day am< 120 Dollars as p
Voucher Entered in Page 178

Rec* of Captain Payette his Pay Roll for a Comp" of Mariens,
Commencing in March and ending in Sept^ 1782



334 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Received of Capt. Rob' George an account against the State
for discharging a Doctors Bill for a Soldier amounting to five pounds
Specie John McGar came before the Board of Commissioners and
made oath that the State of Virginia was indebted to him fifty six
pounds two Shillings for Services under Colo Rodgers on the Voyage
to New Orleans But as no other Voucher is produced, the
Comm" refer it to the Determination of the Auditors Entered
in Page 175

It appears to the Commis"* that there is due to Joslah Phelps
Sixty Six pounds for two Horses a Saddle Bridle lost in the Service
of the State as p Voucher Entered in Page 163

It also appears that there is due to William Cummins forty
Pounds for a mare lost in the Service of the State as p Voucher
Entered in Page 163

Received a Pay Roll for Part of Captain Chinowiths Company of Militia in Jefferson County from the 20^^ of April until the
12 May 1782 See Bundle Jefferson Militia Ent* in Page 166

It appears to the Comm" that there is due to James Patton
nine pounds Eight Seven pence for a Quantity of Meat Flour
furnish*" the Troops at Fort Nelson as p Vouch"" Entered in Page
184

It appears to the Com" that there is due to Joshua Archer
twelve pounds ten Shillings four pence for Buffalo Beef Bear
Meat furnish* Capt" Georges Troops as p' Vouch"" Ent* in Page
182

It appears that there is due to John Nelson two pounds Six
Shillings Eight pence for 140''' of Pork as p Voucher, Entered
in Page 184.

It appears that there is due to Mark Thomas Six pounds for
furnishing the State Troops with fifteen pair of shoes at eight Shillings p pair as pr. Voucher Enter* in Page 184

It appears to the Comm" that there is due to James Asturgus
James Welch three pounds ten Shillinds for services as Spies in
Jefferson County as p Voucher Ent* in Page 175

It appears that there is due to Israel Ruland ass'° of John
Vaughan Sixteen pounds thirteen four pence as bounty for enlisting as a Soldier as p Voucher Entered in Page 185



JOURNAL OF IVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 335

It appears to the Board there is due to Levi Theel as Bounty
for Enlisting Sixteen pounds thirteen Shillings four pence as p
Voucher received Entered in Page 185

It appears to the Commissioners that Benj' Pope furnished a
Beef Cow to the Troops at Fort Nelson, by the Commissarys Books,
and adjudged tiie price to be four pounds ten Shillings as p Voucher;
It also appears that there is due to Mi" Pope for Sixty Pounds of
Iron furnish 'd said Troops Six Pounds as p Voucher Both en.
tered in Page 184

It appears to the Comraf that there is due to L' George Wilson Nine Pounds, for thirty Six days Service as an issuing Commis?
on an Expedition in the year 1782 as p" Certificate. Entered in

Page 166 in Bundle Jefferson Militia

Thursday Feby 27th Met according to adjournment Present as
before

Rec^ from Capt John Bailey Pay Rolls from Nov"" 1781 to
Feby 1783 likewise a Certificate for his pay as Lieu^ for 305 days
from May 9"" 1779 to the 9"" March 1780

Also Captain Brashears Pay Roll from the 30"" of May 1780
to November 30'*' 1 781 inclusive with a Muster Roll recruiting
Account

Rec^ from Capt. Robt. George Pay Rolls Muster Rolls
from the 4''' of June 1779 to the first of Feb!' 1783 also a list of
his Inlistments and Bounty money Paid, also a Certificate for a
disabled Soldier

Rec^ from Col» John Montgomery Capt. Williams Pay Roll
for 1779 beginning May 29'" Ending May 28"" 1780 likewise from
the first of June 1780 to the first of Dec^ 1781 Also a Countersign*
Ace* for Bounty Money likewise Capt. Isaac Taylors pay Roll for
his CompJ' from Decf 31" 1778 untill Aug" 22, 1780 likewise Capt
Tho' Quirks pay Roll for his Com' begining Dec"" 1778 ending
Augt lo'*" 1779 Also U Ramsey s Own Pay Roll for May, June,
July, Aug", Sept. part of October 1 780 Likewise his own account
for pay as Lieu* Col°, from the first of Jan^ 1782 to the first of
May 1782 likewise his Forrage Ace* D'

Rcc*' from Capt. Thomas his Pay Rolls to Novf 30"" 1781



336 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

also Dec' 21" 1781 likewise the Muster Roll and Several receipts

It appears to the Comm" that there is due to Peter Coleman
David Glenn for going Express from the Natchez to the Falls of
Oiiio fifty four pounds Specie Unless it Should appear that the
Same has already been paid in Consequence of a former Certificate
mentioned in the Vouch^ to be lost by Colo Todd. Entered in Page

175

It appears to the Comm"^ that there is due to Edward Tyler
Six pounds one Shill? and nine pence, for 574 feet of Plank three
days Horse hire 173'^ Flour as p Voucher rec** Entered in Page
184

It appears to the Comm^^ that there is due to Rob' Floyd
Seventeen pounds fifteen Shillings for Sundry Services perform* as
Express, and his Expenses attending it as p Voucher Entered in
Page 175 It also appears that there is due to Daniel Sullivan thirty
Pounds thirteen Shillings for Sundry Services performed and Expenses attending it as p Voucher Entered in Page 175

It appears to the Comm"^ that there is due to David Glenn,
Seven Pounds Sixteen Shillings for going Express from the Falls of
Ohio to Kaskaskias St. Vincents as p Voucher Rec* Entered in

Page 175

The Depositions of Sundry Persons were taken relative to
Cap' Shannon s Conduct as Corns' and Quarter Master, See Depositions in Bundle Illinois Department N' 33, 34, 35.

Received of Mf Israel Dodge duplicates of Capt John Dodges
Accounts against the Officers and two abstracts of Issues of his own
whilst acting in that Department

Received by Lieu' Clark Capt Geraults Pay rolls for Decf
1 78 1, and to the first of Aug'' 1782

The Board received Colo. Montgomerys Deposition relative
to Bills of Exchange Drawn by him on Oliver Pollock &c wrote
by himself and Sworn to before the Board, See Deposition N' i in
Colo Montg? Acc^" Page 67

Adjourned to meet at Col' Bowmans in Lincoln County.
Friday March 7^ Met according to adjournment Present William



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 337

Fleming, Sam' M Dowell Caleb Wallace Colo Marshall absent
in Fayette County on Private Business

The Board was employed, preparing papers to be sent to
Government by Express

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning Saturday March 8'Met
according to adjournment present as before The Board continued
preparing the packett to Government as on the preceding day

Adjourned till Tomorrow Morning Sunday March 9'" Met
according to adjournment Present as before.

Tile Commis 3 furnished the Dispatches and delivered them
to Martin Carney, the Express Adjourned to Meet at Lexinton in
Fayette County

Tuesday March 11"' Met according to adjournm* Present
William Fleming Tho» Marshall, Sam' M Dowell Caleb Wallace Esq"

It appears to the Comm" that there is due to Daniel McClain
three pounds Seventeen Shillings three pence for Services as a
Comm'' at Lexington as p Voucher Entered in Page 167

It appears that there is due to Hugh Martin two pounds,
Seventeen Shillings Seven pence Half penny for Beef &c furnished
for the use of the State as p Voucher Entered in Page 173

It appears that there is due to Henry McDonald one pound
Eight Shillings five pence for Beef furnished for the use of the
State as p Voucher Entered in Page 173

It appears that there is due to Dan' McClain One pound,
for services when Commissary in the Service of the State as p Vouclier
Entered in Page 167

It appears that there is due to William Martin one pound
two Shillings Six pence for rations furnishd for the use of the
State, p Voucher Entered in Page 169

It appears that there is due to Alexr. McClain fifteen Shillings for service as a Spy as p Voucher Entered in Page 175

It appears that there is due to Robert Patterson Six pounds,
for Three Hundred Seventy five pounds of dry Beef as p Voucher
Entered in Page 173

It appears that there is due to James Wason Seven Pounds
four Shillings three pence three farthings for Four Hundred



338 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

fifty one pounds of dry Beef as p Voucher Entered in Page 173

It appears that there is due to Jn' McDonal five pounds
Sixteen Shillings for three Hundred weight of dry Beef thirty
seven pounds of Tallow furnished for the use of the State as p
Voucher Entered in Page 1 73

Received of John Pleak Ens' His Pay Roll from the 25'" of
March untill the 15 of June 1781 See Bundle Fayette Militia, the
amount of which is 53 ii"5j^ Entered in Page 167

from the Number of men on Ens" Pleaks Pay Roll the Commissioners are of opinion that the Ensign should only receive the pay
of a Sergeant

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Mich'
Warneck five pounds Eighteen Shillings four pence for Seven
hundred Eighty nine pounds of Beef as p Vouc^ Entered in Page

173

It appears that there is due to Francis McDermoth Twenty

three pounds Eight Shillings, for work done on the Row Galley and

service performed in Salting Beef as p Vouchers Entered in Page 178

It appears that there is due to Samuel Kelly Two pounds
two Shillings for Rations furnished two Soldiers of the Green Bryer
Militia as p Voucher Entered in Page 169

It appears that there is due to Rob* Thompson Nine pounds
Eighteen Shillings, for Salting Smoaking Beef for the State Sixty
Six days at three Shillings p day as p Voucher Entered in Page 167

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning Wednesday March 12""
Met according to adjournment present as before.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Nicolas
Brabston One pound Eleven Shillings three pence for the hire
of a Mare 25 days on an Expedition as p Voucher Entered in Page

163

It appears that there is due to Sam' Johnson Eighteen Shillings for three days Service as Express as p Voucher Entered in
Page 175

It appears that there is due to James McConnel twelve pounds
for Making three Canoes for the use of the State as p Voucher
Entered in Page 167



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 339

Received Lieutenant Thomas Stevenson s Pay Roll from the
20^^ of July untill the ag'*" Annount Entered in Page 167

It appears to the commissioners that there is due to Mich'
Warnick Six pounds thirteen four pence for building a Store
House at Lees Town as p Voucher Entered in Page 167

It appears that there is due to James Alexander McConnel
the sum of two pounds two Shillings, for their Services as Spiesp Voucher Entered in Page 175It appears that there is due to Tho' Fecklin five pounds
fifteen Shillings for a Rifle Gun lost at the defeat at the Blue Licks,
p Voucher Entered in Page 167

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Rob<
Sanders Eight pounds three Shillings for the Hire of three Horses
in the Service of the State; also for sundries one pound fourteen
Shillings Six pence, as p Vouchers Entered in Page 163

It appears that there is due to John Little, one pound four

Shillings for his service as a Spy as p Voucher Entered in Page 175

It appears that there is due to Rob* Johnson, John Sugget

Michi Stucker Joseph Rodgers Fifty pounds ten Shillings for

Corn &c as p Acct. and Vouchers Entered in Page 171

It appears that there is due to And' Steel for Service as
Quarter Master Commissary in the service of the State Seventy
Eight pounds ten Shillings and Nine pence as p Account Voucher
ReceivedEntered in Page 168

It appears that there is due to Levi Todd Ass«« of John
Napper the Sum of three pounds Nine Shillings two pence for
Beef as p Voucher Entered in Page 173

It appears that there is due to Jas. Masterson five pounds
four Shillings six pence for service as a Spy also to John Napper
for Service as a Spy one pound four Shillings six pence as p Vouchers Entered in Page 176

It appears that there is due to the Estate of Tho' Stevenson
Five pounds for a Rifle Gun lost at Colo. Todds defeat as p Voucher

Entered in Page 168

It appears that there is due to Van Sweringen Eighteen
pounds Six Shillings for 2032 of Beef as p Voucher Entered in
Page 173



340



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Received Capt' Rob' Pattersons Pay Roll from the 2o"» of
June untill the 26"" of July 1782 See Bundle Fayette Militia,
amount Entered in Page 168

Received Capt. William McConnels Pay Roll for Baggage
horses on an Expedition from the 23^ of October untill the 24'^ of
Nov'' 1782 Entered and Bundled as above



Rec** Lieutenant Francis McDonalds Pay Roll from the 13''
of Jan^ until the 24'* 1783 for Guarding the Commissioners also
from the 9"" of March until the lo"" on the Same duty with Pay
Rolls for Horses rations forrage of the Same dates Entered
Bundled as above

From the number of men on Lieutenant McDonald s Pay
Rolls the Commis" are of opinion that he Should receive the Pay
of a Sergeant

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to William
McConnel, one pound twelve Shillings, for one Hundred pounds of
dry Beef as p'' Voucher Entered in Page

Adjourned untill Tomorrow morning
Thursday March 13'^ 1783 Met according to adjournment Present
as before Rec^ a List of appraisments of Horses, Guns &c lost at
the Battle of the Blue Licks August 19'" 1782 containing the fol11^ i^t i.L' vviLii tiyiiia


13111uiiis iiuiii v^uiu. j^aiii^


1 XJUUIIt

L


S


Jacob Hunter


a Black Mare appr''"


to 30




William Shott


a Black Mare


20




Thos. Brooks


a Rone Horse


20




Dan' Boone


a Brown Horse


16




ditto


a Black mare


20




John Sucey


a Bay Horse


14




Josepii Schola


a Hay Mare


18








L


S


John Little,


a Bay Horse appraised


8




Pegg Stucker


a White Horse


10





William Shannon deed, a Bay Mare Saddle bridle Blanketaprd. 21L
Ephraim January a Sorrel Horse aprd. 8

Matthew Patterson a Bay Horse 13



JOURNAL OF JFESTERN COMMISSIONERS 34'



do
do



John Hambleton a Gray Mare
James January a Black Horse

Benj' Neatherland a Bay Horse
John Stevenson a Bay Mare
Jane Wiley, wife of Matthew Wiley dec*

a iiorsc appraised

John Nutt, a Gray Horse appraisd. do

Dan' Boone two guns

Joseph Oldficld deed. One Gun

Squire Boone Wounded one Gun

John Morgan Killed

Sam' Boone

Dan' Boone One Saddle

Jacob Hunter

Chs. Hunter, one Saddle Bridle

John Morgan One Saddle

A lordccai Morgan One Saddle

And' Rule

Alexf Penlin one Saddle

Josepii Oldfield one saddle

Sam' Shortridge One Saddle

Bertley Sucey one Blanket

Sam' Boone two blankets



apprd.



do



25

17

6

22

16

15
12

5
6

7
7
3
2

3

I2.

3

2
I

I
I



10



10



10



10
15

7
s
10

10
10

12



Alexf Penlin One Blanket
Sam' Shortridge one Blanket
John Morgan One Blanket
Joseph ShoU one Blanket

do one Saddle

For the amount of the above See Page 264.
Also a list of appraisments of horses etc lost at Capt. Constants
Defeat on the 14th of August 1782 at the Upper Blue Licks.



List continued. L

James Buchanan, a Bay horse appraised 25

ditto a Sorrel mare 25

John Douglas two Guns 7

Aquilla White one Bay Mare 8



S d



342



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



William Stevenson a sorrel horse
Emanuel Kelly one gun saddle
Elizabeth Clemons a Rone mare
ditto a Bay Mare

ditto one Saddle Blanket
John Long one Saddle
Total Am* Enter^ in Page i68



15

4
14
10

2

I



5



73

The Board having Carefully enquired into the propriety of the
Claims contained in the foregoing List, find that the Horses &c,
were ordered to be taken into the Service of the Militia of Fayette
County by Colo Todd and Capt. Constant in Cases of Emergency
that would not admit of appraisments being made Certificates
given in the usual way. Appraisments Certificates have therefore
been obtained Subsequent to the loss of the property, which the
Board are enduced to receive as just and true; And as that County
was then Invaded by a large Body of Enemy Indians, which required
the utmost Exertions of the Militia, without a Strict attention to

the forms prescribed by Law

The Board are of opinion that the several Claimants should
be paid agreeable to their appraism' Bills for the Horses Saddles
Bridles Guns lost in the above Named defeats.

Received of Colo. Daniel Boone the Following certificates

and appraisments

Jolin Niblecks certificate for 7J bushels of corn

i<^^ June 1 78 1 Fifteen Shillings 15

Wm. Niblock i Saddle Aug" 20th 1780 i 11 4^
Benj' Neatherlands Cert, for a Horse in
Service on an Expedition in 1782 under
Gen' Clark I18-9

James Masterson-dittoditto i— 189

John Torrance 1189

Sami Kelly I1 8-9

Rich^ Wade Late Capt' Cert, for his

pay as a Soldr. and his Gun Lost 68" 14

Tho' Tuke ditto ditto 125 17 4

Sam' Brooks ditto ditto 127 18 8

William Brooks ditto ditto 90 148






iJOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 343

Colo. Boons pay ace' for the Expedition

1782 18 12 o

Colo. Pattersons pay ace' for ditto 15 10 O

The Comm" have reduced Colo. Boones pay from Colo, to Lieu'

Col'' and Lieu' Colo Pattersons pay to a Majors but have not

determin'' whether they are entitled to Subsistanee

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to David
Mitchel William Mitchel Seventeen pounds twelve Shillings
two pence for Beef furnished for the use of the State as p Voucher
Entered in Page 173

It appears that there is due to John Clarke one pound Eighteen Shillings four pence half penny for Service as a Spy as p
Voucher Entered in Page 176

It appears that there is due to Jn' Long One pound Six
Shillings Nine pence for Horse hire as p Voucher Entered in
Page 163

It appears that there is due to Rob' Johnson, David Hearndon, John Ficklin, Wainwright Lay Benj' Smith, Nine pounds
and Seven Shillings and Six pence for horse hire as p Vouclier
Entered in Page 163 It ilso appears that there is due to John
Williams for Service as a Spy in April June 1 78 1 four pounds
four Shillings as p Vouclier Entered in Page 176

Rcc^ of Capt. Rob' Todd his Pay Roll for a Comp^ of tlie
Illinois Regiment from the 20"* of December 1778 untill the i" of
June 1780 Also a State of his account with the State of Virginia

Rec^ of Colo. Levi Todd an Account against the State for
building the Fort at Lexington, amount of the Ballance due to
Sundries Ninety two pounds three Shillings and Six pence Entered
in Page 168

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to William
Stafford two pounds two Shillings and Six pence for Bear meat &c
as p Voucher Entered in Page 173 Also to James McCullough
three pounds twelve Shillings for a Beef Steer as p Vouch^ as above
Likewise to Hugh McGary Sixteen Shillings for Eight Bushels of
corn Entered as above

And to Tho' Smoot one pound for ten Bushels of Corn Entered as above



344 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Received a Pay Roll for a Detachment of Capt Rob' Pattersons Comp^ under the Command of Lieu' Jn» Morrison in the
Months of May June July 1781 Amount entered in Page

168 In this Pay Roll the Lieu' for the Month of May is

to receive Ensigns pay, the Ens' Sergeant s the Sergeant as a private, and in the month of June the Lieu' to receive Ensigns pay the
other Lieu' to receive Sergeants pay

Adjourned to Meet at Colo Bowman s in Lincoln County on
Monday next

Monday March i?'"" Met according to adjournment Present
William Fleming Sam' M Dowell Caleb Wallace Esq"-^ Col'
Marshall absent in Fayette County

The Commissi find that Col'' John Todd Escheator of Fayette County sold two Thousand acres of land the property of
British Subjects. Heirs of Lieu' Poison in two separate serveys of
one Thousand Acres Each both being in Fayette County, One of
which he sold to Col' Joseph Crockett lying on Jesamin Creek for
six hundred pounds, the other Tract he sold to John McClure of
Augusta County for Three hundred Fifty six pounds for both
which Tracts the Escheator took bonds for the payment on the purchasors after deducting three p Ct. his Fees as Escheator which brings
Col' Crockets Bond to Five hundred Eighty two pounds and John
McClures to Three hundred Forty five pounds six Shillings
six pence Col' Crocketts bond is in Col' Jn°Montgomery s possession who has a part of the purchase, but whether the Money
is paid into the Treasury we cannot say but think it is not as Montgomery reports. Officers Certificates were offered in discharge, which
were not received, How the Bond came into Jn' Montgomerys
hands we cannot account for, McClure s Bond for L. 345.-6.-6 the
E.\ecutor still has in his possession The Commis" have to observe
that the Escheator did not act agreeable to Law, in taking bonds in
lieu of Money, but that the land could not be sold for ready money,
or greatly below the Vallue. Adjourned till Tomorrow Morning.

Tuesday March i8th Met according to adjournment present as before

Rec* Monsf Gratiotts Ace'" Vouch' for consideration
Adjourn'' till Tomorrow morning



i



JOURNAL OF JVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 345

Wednesday March ig^ Met according to adjournment
Present as before

The Commissioners were engaged in examining Sund* Ace'*
in their possession which are not finally Settled Adjourn^ till
Tomorrow Morning.

Thirsday March ao'*" Met according to adjournment, present
as before

Rec^ of Mr Jacob Payette Com^ the following Receipts
Certificates Viz

A Certificate in favour of Sami Stroud for 36 days Service
at Six pence p Day (when reduced by the Scale) amount thirteen
Shillings Six pence p Vouch"" Entered in Page 184

A Certificate in favour of Geo. Puff for 212 Rations at
Eight pence p Ration am' Seven Pounds one Shilling four pence
p Vouch^ Entered in Page 169

One in favour of George Owens for 134 Rations am' four
Pounds nine Shillings four Pence Entered in Page 169

Also a Receipt for Beef &c furnish^ by Jn'' Sanders am' two
Pounds one Shilling Six pence p Voucher Entered in Page 173

It appears to the Commis" that there is due to M'' Jacob
Pyeatte for service as issuing Comm^ at the Falls of Ohio Seventy
three pounds twelve Siiillings as p Voucher Entered in Page 184

It appears to the Comm" that there is due to Samuel Rice
for diets to Soldiers on Com^ Three Pounds as p Voucher in Bundle
A. Ent^' in Page 169

It also appears tliat there is due to Sam' Rice for Horse hire
Five Shilings p Voucher Entered in Page 163

The Board Received of Col' Benj' Logan of Lincoln County
the following Pay Rolls Accounts of the Militia Viz:

Capt John Boyles Pay roll from the 18*^ of July untill 1 3'*'
Aug^ 1782Also his Pay Roll from the 8^^ of October untill 15^^
1782 See Bundle Lincoln Militia Am' Entered in Page 159

From the number of men in Capt" Boyles Pay Roll the
Comm" are of opinion that the Capt. should receive Lieut' Pay
the Lieu' Ensigns pay in his Roll for Aug'*; and the Capt' in the
Roll for Oct!" to receive Sergeants Pay



346 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Capt Jn' Boyles Pay Roll from the 28'" of May untill the
iS"* of June 1782 Bundled and Entered as above

Capt Jn° Boyles Pay Roll from the 18"' of August untill the
27"" 1782, Bundled and Entered as above In this Pay roll the
Commr' are of opinion that the Capt should draw Lieu* Pay the
Lieu' Ens'** pay, and the Ens" Sergeants.

Capt W P M'=Brides Pay Roll from the 20"" of April untill
20"" of May 1782, Ent** and bundled as above

Lieu' Jn" Souths Pay Roll from the 24'" of June untill the
24"" of July 1782 Also his Pay Roll from the i" of Octob'' untill
i" of November 1782 Bundled Entered as above

From the Number of men in Lieu' Souths Pay Rolls the
Commis." are of opinion that in the Roll for July he is to rerecie Sergeants Pay and Pay as Ensign for the Roll in November

Adjourned untill Tomorrow morning
Friday March 21'' 1783 Met according to adjournm' present as
before

Received of Col' Benj" Logan the following Pay Rolls &c
for the militia of Limcoln County.

Captain Nath' Harts Pay Roll from the 24'" of RLiy untill
24"" of June 1782 See Bundle Lincoln Militia am' Entered in
Page

From the Number of Men in Capt. Harts Pay Roll the Commissioners are of opinion that the Captain is to receive Sergeants Pay.

Capt. Joseph Kincades Pay Roll from the 17''' of August
untill 26^^ 1782. Bundled and Entered as above

Also in Capt. Kinkeads Pay Roll, the Capt' is to receive pay
as Lieu' the Lieu', as Ensign the Ensign as Sergeant

Capt. George Adams Pay Roll from the 29''' of June untill
the 25''' of July 1 782. Bundled and Entered as above

From the Number of Men in Capt Adams Pay Roll the
Comm" are of Opinion that the Capt. should receive Pay as Sergeant
and the Ensign as Private

Capt. John Snoddys Pay Roll from the 4''' May untill 4''
of June 1782 Bundled entered as above

The Comm"^ are of opinion that Capt" Snoddy is to receive
pay as an Ensign



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 347

Ensign Elisha Clarys Pay Roll from the ii"" of June until!
1 2"" of July 1782 Entered and Bundled as above.

Ensign Clarys Pay Roll from the 18"" of July untill the
19'" of Aug" 1782, Entered Bundled as above The Commf"
are of opinion that Ens' Clary in his pay Roll for Aug'' should receive pay as a Sergeant

Ensign W™ Caseys Pay Roll from the 1" of April untill the
30'" 1782, Bundled Entered as above

Capt John Woods Pay Roll from the 3^ of April untill 17^
of October 1782 Bundled and Entered as before

It appears to the Board that Captain Woods Pay roll is just
and ought to be settled; as by the Information of Col". Logan the
Capt. was on duty for the time Mentioned in his Roll and that the
Men were changed every Month and an Ensigns Guard was ordered
by Col' Logan from which circumstances, the Comm"^ are of opinion
that Capt. Woods should receive Pay as Ensign

Capt. Nathan Houstons Pay Roll from the 22'' of October

untill the 24'" of November 1782. Entered Bundled as before

The Commis" are of opinion that Capt. Houston is to receive Lieutenants pay

Capt. George Adams Pay Roll from the Ocf 22 untill the
24"" of November 1782, Entered and bundled as above

The Comm" are of opinion that Capt. Adams ought to receive Ensigns pay the Lieut. Sergeants and the Sergeant pay as a
private

Capt. John Siioddys Pay Roll from the 22'' of Ocf untill the
25"" of November 1782 Entered and Bundled as before

Capt. John Irvines Pay Roll from the 22* of October untill
the 24"" of November 1782 Ent^ and Bundled as before. The
Comm"are of opinion that Capt. Irving in his Pay Roll is to
receive pay as Lieut, the Lieu' Ensigns pay. The Quarter Master
acted for the Batallion, also the Quarter Masters Sergeant Sergeant Major, Serv'" for the Batallion 8l

Capt" Sam' Kirkiiams Pay Roll from the 26'*' of June untill
the 31" of July 1781. See Bundle Lincoln Militia Amount Enter''
in Page 160 The Comm"^' are of opinion that Capt. Kirkham, by
his pay Roll, is to receive Lieu'" pay the Lieu' Ensigns pay



348 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Capt. John Woods Pay Roll from the 24*'' of Ocf untill
24'^ of Nov^ 1782 Enter^ Bundled as before

It appears to the Comm''' that Capt' Woods in his pay Roll
is to receive pay as an Ensign.

Capt. Sam' Kirkhams pay Roll from the 22^ of Sepf untill
the 21=' of Ocf 1782 Enter^ and Bundled as before

Capt. Gab' Madisons Pay Roll from the 22'' of October untill
the 3^ of Novf 1782, Enter* and Bundled as above

It apears to the Commissioners that Capt. Madison in his
Roll is to receive Lieut' Pay the Lieutenant Ens''^ and the Ens^
pay as a Sergeant one of the Sergeants to receive Privates pay

Capt John Dohertys Pay Roll from the 22* of July untill
the 22* of August 1782 Entered Bundled as before It appears
that Captain Doherty in his Roll should receive Lieu'" Pay the Lieu'
Ensigns and the Ensign Sergeants pay.

Capt" Tho' Moores Pay Roll from the 4^ of Novf untill the
23* 1782 Bundled Entered as above

It appears to the Comm" that Cap' Moore in his Pay Roll is
entitled to Lieu" Pay the Lieu' Ensigns Pay, and the Ensign Pay as
a Sergeant the youngest Sergeant as a Private Soldier.

Capt. Samuel McAfees Pay Roll from the 22* of October
untill the 23* of November 1782 Enter* Bundled as before. It
appears to the Comm^^ that Capt McAfee in his Roll is to receive
Lieu'" pay the Lieu' Ensigns pay the Ensign pay as a Sergeant
two of the Serges as privates.

Capt. Sam' Kirkhams Pay Roll from the 22* of October untill
23* Nov^ 1782, Enter* and Bundled as before

Capt". James Downeys Pay Roll from the 24'^ of Ocf untill
24''' of November 1782. Am' Entered Bundled as before.

Capt' Sam'. Scotts Pay Roll from the 22* of Feby. untill the
22* of March 1782 Entered Bundled as before From the
Number of Men in Capt. Scotts pay Roll the Comm^' are of opinion
that the Capt". Should receive Lieu". Pay.

Capt. Simon Kentons Pay Roll from the 23'' of Ocf untill
23* of November 1782 Enter* Bundled as before

It appears to the Comm""' that Capt Kenton is only entitled






m



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 349

to Lieu" pay the Lieu', to pay as Ensign the Ensign, Sergeants
Pay.

Ensign Tlio'. Montgoraerys Pay Roll from the 28'^ of Feb'
untill the i of April 1782, Enter* and Bundled as before

Capt. William Hoys Pay Roll from the 24"' of Oct^ untill
the 4"* of November 1782. Entered Bundled as before From
the Number of Men in Captain Hoys Pay Roll the Comm'-' are of
opinion that the Capt is only Entitled to receive Lieutenants Pay
the Lieu' Ensigns pay.

Adjourn* till Tomorrow morning Saturday March 22'' 1783
Met according to adjournment Present as before

The Board proceeded to settle \l'. James Sherlocks Accounts
as French Indian Interpreter, rec*. at New Holland Station in
Jefferson County, and find by Q Master Carney Dodges accounts
a number of articles of Cloathing &c. Charged to his Acct. which
are Stated to be Credited to the State and Bundled with his account,
And as the Comm''' are not furnish* with an Invoice of the prices
of the Goods, they are Induced to defer the Settlement See Bundle
M N' 4

It appears to the Comm''' that there is due to Elizabeth Swan
Administratrix of John Swan deceas* the sum of Twelve pounds
five Shillings four pence for 578'" of Flour at 361 p. C 149'°
of Pork at 3* p. p. Vouch^ Enter* in Page 173

It appears that there is due to John Templin Twelve Sliillings three pence tliree farthings For Forrage furnish*, the State
p. Vouch'' Enter* in Page 171

An account of Capt Isaac Ruddles was laid before the Board
for his Comp'' Rations when the Illinois Country was taken by
Col°. Clark the Money has been drawn by Col' Montgomery at
the Treasury and carried by him to Kaskaskias from whence he sent
it by Isaac Bowman on from thence to be deliver* to Isaac Ruddle,
on the passage Isaac Bowman being taken by Indians his papers
destroy*, yet saved the Money, and after he was set at liberty gave
it to M^ Pollock, for this reason and as part of it seems to be a

private Account. The Comm''' could not settle it

'Tapers put into Bundle 5)

The Commissioners Rec* a Pay Roll of Capt Isaac Ruddles



350 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Company of Militia on Duty at Licking Creek Station, from the
lo"' of March untill the 24'" of June 1780 See Bundle Fayette
Militia Am< Enter*" in Page 168

It appears to the Board by Col' Bowmans Certificate that
Capt. Ruddles Com^ of Militia of Kentucky County was on duty
from the 10'-" of March untill the 24'" of June 1780, When they
were Captured by Capt. Bird from Detroit a party of Indians;
and the Fort at Licking destroyed It is the opinion of the
Comm" that the money remain in the Treasury till applied for
by the pefsons concern'' or by their proper Representatives, Capt.
Ruddle informs the Board that John Marshall whose Name is
Cross^ had a Certificate from him, for his service, and that he understands he drew his pay after his return from Captivity, By Capt"
Ruddles parole given at East Bay Sign* Isaac Man j^ he appears
to have remain* in Captivity to the third of Nov'' 1782 as appears
by a Copy of the Parole Since the above mentioned Pay Roll was
given in. Information was laid before the Board that Isaac Ruddle
was inimical to the United States of America and Sundry Depositions were taken in his Presence which accompanies the Pay Roll,
dated March 29th 1783. which are Submitted to Government, It
has also been Reported to the Commissioners that Several of the
Men on his Pay Roll have Enlisted in the British Service since tlicy
were taken to Detroit

Received of Colo Benjamin Logan the following Pay Rolls
&c for the Militia of Lincoln County

Captain Lawrence Thompsons Pay Roll from the 5'* of Nov^
untill the 24'" 1782. See Bundle Lincoln Militia Amount Entered
in Page 160

From the Number of Men in Capt Thompsons Pay Roll the
Comm" have reduced the Capt"' pay to Lieu" the Lieutenants to
Ensigns pay, the Ens" to Sergeants the Youngest Sergeant to
Privates pay.

Capt". Andrew Kinkeads Pay Roll from the 22* of October
untill the 24''' of November 1782 Amount Enter* and Bundled as
above Capt. Kinkead in his pay Roll is to receive Pay as Lieutenant the Lieu' as Ensign, the Ensign the Pay of a Sergeant and
one of the Serg^" as a private.






JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 351

f Capt" John Boyles Pay Roll from the 22* of October untill
the 24 of Novr 1782 Ent'' Bundled as above



Capt. Sam' M''Afees pay Roll from the 26''' of August untill
the 13'^ of December 1782 Enter* Bundled as above

The Comm" have reduc* Capt McAfees Pay in his pay Roll
to Ensigns the Ensigns to Sergeants pay

Capt. Jn' Doughertys Pay Roll from the 24''' of Ocf untill
the 24'* of Novr 1782, Enter'' and Bundled as before

Capt. Jn' Martins Pay Roll from the 21"' of April untill the
27 of May 1781 Entered and Bundled as before The Comm"
are of opinion that the pay of those men in Capt' Martins Pay Roll
whose names are remark* kill* or removed, ought to remain in the
Treasury untill applied for by them or their Heirs or by orders
properly attested

Capt John Martins Pay Roll from the 22* of Ocf untill the
26"' of Nov'' 1782 Enter d and Bundled as above The Comm"^
are of opinion that Capt. Martin ought to receive pay as an Ensign,
the Lieu' and Ensign as Sergeants, Sergeant M^Annally as a
private, (in his pay Roll in Oct^ Nov"" 1782)

The Adjutant Q. Master Sergeant Major Mentioned in
the Roll were necessary for the First Battallion of the Militia of
Lincoln on an expedition in 1782 and are allowed accordingly

Capt Rob' Barnets Pay Roll from the 15'^ of March untill
the 15'" of April 1782 Entered and Bundled as before

It appears that Capt Barnet in his Pay Roll ought to receive
Lieut' Pay, the Lieu' Pay as Ensign the Ensign to be paid as a
Sergeant and one of the Sergeants Privates Pay. The Q"" Masters
Sergeant in Ca|)t Barnets Pay Roll serv*. as such for a Battallion
of Lincoln Militia at the Falls of Oiiio in 1782

Capt. Rob' Barnets Pay Roll from the 23* of Oct. untill the
23* of November 1782 Entered Bundled as before Capt. Barnet in this Pay Roll is to receive pay as Lieu' the Lieut, as Ensign
the Ensign Sergeants Pay and one of the Sergeants pay as a priv'
It appears that the Q' Masters Sergeant in Capt Barnets Roll served
on an Expedition in 1782 in the first Batallion of Lincoln Militia

Rec* by Major Walls, from Ann Elms an Account and
Vouchers for Twelve pounds two Shillings which cannot be liqui352 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

dated untill the Commerceal Agents Accounts are inspected

Adjourn^ untill Monday Morning

Monday March 24th Met according to adjournment Present as
before

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Edward
Parker fifty one pounds two Shillings Eleven pence half penny
for Buffalo Beef &c furnish'' the State as p Vouchers Entered in
Page 174

It appears that there is due to Sergeant Elms Six pounds
Eleven Shillings Eight Pence for Buffalo Beef as p Vouch^ Enter**
in Page 174

It appears that there is due to William Thompson Eighteen
pounds Twelve Shillings Six pence for Buffalo Beef as p Vouchers
Enter*" in Page 174

It appears that there is due to Moses Lunceford Three pounds
for Beef as p Voucher, Entered in Page 174

It appears that there is due to Josiah Smith the sum of one
pound three Shillings two pence for Beef as p Voucher Entered
in Page 271.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Henry
Allen Eleven pounds fourteen Shillings, as Bounty for Inlisting as
a Soldier at Fort Nelson July 25'^ 1782 as p Vouch'. No. 11
Entered in Page 184

It appears that there is due to John Morris, Eleven pounds
fourteen Shillings, as Bounty for Inlisting as a Soldier at Fort
Nelson the 5"* Jan^ 1783 p Vouch'. No. 12 Ent^ in Page 184

It appears that there is due to Joseph Coubage Eleven pounds
fourteen Shillings as Bounty for Inlisting as a Soldier at Fort Nelson Feb'' 2' 1783, p Voucher No. 13 Enter" in Page 184

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to John
Johnson Eleven pounds fourteen Shillings as Bounty for Inlisting
as a Soldier at Fort Nelson Feby loth 1783 p Vouch'No. 14 Entered
in Page 184

It appears that there is due to Jn". Joynes Eleven Pounds
Eight Shillings as Bounty for Inlisting as a Soldier at Fort Nelson
the 10"" of Feby 1783 p Voucher No. 15 Enter* in Page 184

It appears that there is due to W"". Bush Eleven pounds



;f



JOURNAL OF JVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 353

fourteen Shillings as Bounty for Inlisting as a Soldier at Fort Nelson the 4'^ of March. 1783 p. Vouch^ No. 16 Entered in Page 184

It appears that there is due to John Armstrong Eleven pounds
fourteen Shill^ as Bounty for Inlisting as a Soldier at Fort Nelson
the 5!^ March 1783 p Vouch^ N' 17 Entered in Page 184

Received of Maj^ George Walls the Following Ace'' Viz:

His Account against the State for Corn N» iHis Pay Account as Q"' M. Gen' from y' as"* of June untill y« 24"" of March
N' 2 His Pay Ace' as Maj^ in Col°. Croclcetts the Illinois Regiment No. 3 His recruiting Ace' No. 4 David Moirs Claim as
Assistant Qj M. Gen' and Conductor of Military Stores N' 5, and
his Vouchers for 300 lb. of Buffalo Beef No. 6.

Also his Q'' Masters Accounts Vouchers from July 1781,
and one receipt Book of Duplicates of the Vouchers, a Book of Store
Issues Vouch' and two Books of duplicates of Vouchers also a
Book of Regimental Stores Issues with the VouchersHe likewise
laid before the Board Returns of the receivals Issues made by
William Johnson Conductor General of Military Quarter Masters Stores on the Sale Expedition with proper Vouchers for the same.

As M"^ Johnson has since been Captured by the Enemy Indians, and it appears from his returns that there are sundry Guns
other Valuable property in the hands of the Militia not accounted
for by the Quarter Masters for the several Batalions The Board
thought proper to return the S^ papers to Maj''. Walls and requested
him to use his Endeavours to recover the aforesaid property for the
State

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Scrg'
Ab"* Frazer Six pounds fifteen Shillings as Bounty for Inlisting as
a Soldier at Fort Nelson p Voucher Entered in Page 184

It appears that there is due to Christopher Horn Eleven
pounds five Shillings as Bounty for Inlisting as a Soldier at Fort
Nelson p Voucher Entered in Page 184 pd. to Colo.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to William
Barbour pd. W. Bradhead
Puque, John Coldwater, Fredrick Rath, Christopher Keener

George Rupord Soldiers Enlisted at Fort Nelson Eleven Pounds



n

a



354 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

five Shill" Each as Bounty for Inlisting p Vouc° Entered in Page
184

Adjourned untill Tomorrow morning.
Thursday March 25"" Met according to adjournment Present
as before

A Certificate from Zephaniah Blackford Conductor of Military Stores to Matthew Jones for L 8. 15. Dated ii"" April 1782
was presented to the Board for settlement, which was not received,
as Mr. Blackford has declined Laying his Ace'* before the Board

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to James
Finn Ass'°. of W™ Bush the sum of Fifteen pounds ten Shillings
four pence Half penny for Beef &c furnished for the use of the
Garris p at Fort Nelson p Vouch"" rec"*. Entered in Page 174

The Board of Commissioners find from the General Returns
of the Strength of the Garrison at Fort Nelson, Made to them
by the Commanding officer at that Post, and the State of the Garrison laid before the Board that the number of Men are so reduced
as to endanger the loss of the Place before recruiting instructions
can be had from the Executive, They therefore are induced to advise Maj'. George Walls without delay to endeavour to recruit as
many men as will Supply the deficiency and to draw orders on the
Executive for the Bounty Money of such Men so recruited allowing them the same Bounty which is given by the State to their own
Troops

Received of M^ James Finn his Accounts Vouch' Issuing
Commissary from the 8'^ of Dec^ 1781 untill the 31" of Jan^ 1783
which upon Examination the Commis"^ find to be just Also his
Account of pay as Commissary from the 23* of March 1782 untill
the 27th Feb^ 1783 at Eight Shillings p Day amounting to £134
which is not closed untill his Accounts with the Quarter Master

Commercial Agent are Settled

r It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to William

Little Forty one pounds for a Waggon Guns taken into the service

[of the State as p appraism'. Bill rec^ Entered in Page 161

The Commissioners Considering that the Garrison at the
Falls is like to suffer for the want of Salt, Directed the Secretary
to Give Majf George Walls an order to Mf Paul Froman, for all



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 355

the Public Kettles pans in his possession for the purpose of making
Salt, And wrote to the Major on the Subject See Letter Book
N». 1 8

Rec*" Lieutenant William Clarks Account of Pay Subsistance from the 6^* of June 1780 to the 31" of Jan'' 1783-Amount
Three hundred and two Pounds Eight shillings four pence Which
is not finally Settled till the prices of the Goods he is charged with is
Collected from the different Invoices of the Q"' Master Commercial Agent.

Also Capf. M Cartys Pay Roll Muster Roll from the
30th of May 1779 to the second of June 1781, Capt". Geraults Pay
Muster Rolls from the 3d of June to the 30th of November 1 781,
A Certificate of Capt". Geraults Services as Linguist for the French
A Certificate for his services as Commissary his recruiting account,
and an Account (of s"". Geraults) with Vouchers for Expenditures
the Ballcnce due Capt" KellarLieu' Peraults recruiting account,
and a Certificate from Patt. Kennedy Commissay for rations due L'
Perault Likewise a Certificate of John Moores services as Issuing
Commissary on Board the Galley in the Ohio Countersign'' by General Clark. It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to
John Moore for the above service as Comm^ the sum of Two pounds
thirteen Shillings, as p Voucher received Entered in Page 178

adjourned till Tomorrow morning Wednesday March 26th
1783 Met according to adjournment Present as before

Received of Col°. Benj' Logan of Lincoln County the following Pay Rolls and Accounts for the Militia of the County

Capt. James Rays Pay Roll from the 23^ of Oct^ untill 22*
Nov'' 1782.

Sec Bundle Lincoln Militia Amount entered in Page 161

Ensign John Smiths Pay Roll from the 4'" of Jan^^ untill 13'*'
1783 Entered and Bundled as above

Capt Robert Barnets Pay Roll from the 21" of aprii untill
the 24"' of May 178'! Entered Bundled as above It appears to
the Commis" that Capt Barnet in his Pay Roll is to receive Pay
as Lieutenant the Lieu' as Ensign and the Ensign whose name is in
the middle of the Collumn, the pay of a Sergeant.



o



o



356 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Ensign John Smiths Pay Roll from the 28'" of Dec' 1781
untill 16"' of Jan^. 1782 Entered Bundled as above.

Ensign John Smiths Pay Roll from the nth of Sepf untill
17*^ 1782 Entered Bundled as above

Capt. Andrew Kinkeads Pay Roll from the 22" of May untill
the 21°' of June 1781 amount Entered and bundled as above.

It appears to the Commissioners that Captain Kinkead in his
Pay Roll is to receive pay as an Ensign

Capt. John Cowans Pay Roll from the 22* of March untill
the 22^ of April 1781 Entered and Bundled as above

Lieu' Pettets Pay Roll from the 23^ of March untill 21"
of April 1 78 1 Entered bundled as above It appears that Lieu'
Pettet in his Pay Roll ought to receive pay as an Ensign

Lieu' Benj" Pettots Pay Roll from the 22'' of May untill
June 21°' 1781 Entered Bundled as above Lieu' Pettot in this
Pay Roll is to receive pay as an Ensign the Spies are allowed the
pay anexcd to their names in the Roll

Capt Samuel Kirkhams Pay Roll from the 17"' of August
untill the 25^ 1782 Entered Bundled as aboveIt appears that
Capt. Kirkham in his Pay Roll ought to receive pay as a Capt" for
Six days and the Pay of an Ensign for three days, The men in his
Pay Roll returned for three days were Killed at the Battle of the
Blue Licks But their Families of Friends are in Kentucky

Capt". John Smiths Pay Roll from the 22<' of Ocf untill the
23^ of November 1782 Entered Bundled as before

It appears that Capt Smith in his Pay Roll is to receive pay
as a Lieutenant the Lieut, as an Ensign the Ensign Sergeants pay
one of the Sergeants pay as a Private.

Lieut. James Browns Pay Roll from the lo*^ of July untill
2'' August 1782 See Bundle Lincoln Militia

It appears that Lieu' Brown in his Pay Roll ought to receive
pay as an Ensign

Capt William M^Crackens Pay Roll for a Comp'' of Light
Horse from 23^ of Ocf untill the 23^ of November 1782 Entered
and bundled as before

It appears to the Commissioners that the Capt in the above
Roll is to receive pay as a Sergeant the Lieutenant Ensign



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 357

Sergeants pay as Privates with the allowance of one Shilling and
three pence p day for their Horses

A pay Roll for Part of Capt. Kirkhams Company from the
lO^ of Sepf untill the 31^' Entered and Bundled as before The
men in this Pay Roll were ordered on Guard at Mf Triggs and the
Board are of opinion it was requisite

Capt. John Martins Pay Roll from the 18'of August untill
the 28'" 1782 Entered Bundled as before Capt. Martin in his

Pay Roll is only entitled to Lieu" Pay the Lieu' Ensigns pay

Likewise Capt. Martins Pay Roll from the 20"? of April untill May
2^ 1782 Entered in Page 162 Also his Pay Roll for Horses in
Service During the above term Enter^ and Bundled as above

Received of Col°. Benj'' Logan a List of Sundry Accounts
with Vouchers Inclosed for the Militia of Lincoln County ^Amount
Six Hundred Seventy Seven pounds Eighteen Shillings ten pence
p. Vouchers in Bundle Lincoln Militia Am' Entered in Page 162

Also the Accounts of Pay for the Field officers of the County
in Service on an Expedition under Gen' Clark in Nov'' 1782
Sund. other services-Amount One hundred Six pounds twelve
Shillings five pence as p Vouchers in Bundle Lincoln Militia,
Ent^ in Page 162

The Commissioners have not determined whether the officers
above ment^" are entitled to Subsistance

Received of Col°. Benj" Logan the following List of appraisments of Cattle for the Expedition in 1782 Viz:
No. I One Cow Calf the property of Dav^Gunst 5>.o„o
No. 2 One Cow Calf both Strays Described 6„o o

3 One Red Bull a Stray ditto 2„5„o

4 One Pied Steer a Stray do i„io„o

5 One Black Bull stray do i„i5 o

6 One do do do i>.5»o

7 One Black White Steer do do--i„i5,.o

8 One Large Red white Steer do 4 io„o



Amount Carried over 24„o„o

Amount Brought forward L 24„o o

9 One Black Steer the Property of Benj. Pettet 4.,io„0



358 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

10 One Bridled Steer, a Stray Described 3„o„o

11 One a Red White Steer, Stray-d^ 3 iO„0

12 One Red Steer the property of Jn°. Bartley 3 o,o

13 One Red Steer a Stray Described 3 iO,o

14 One a Red Steer do-do-2 io,0



43>,io„o
For the Amount of the above List See Page 162 Vouchers Filed in
Bundle Lincoln Militia

The Commissioners have to observe that the Stray Cattle
marked in the Margin (of the Q"' Masters list received, to be the
Property of any Person, are to be Paid to them respectively and
those not marked the Money to remain in the Treasury, till the Owners prove their Property

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Isaac
Hite Eighteen pounds Twelve Shillings Six pence for Rations &c
as p. Vouchers Entered in Page 169

It appears that there is due to John Pringle Eight Pounds
fourteen shillings for provisions furnish^ p Vouchers Entered in
Page 169

It appears that there is due to Jane Travis Five pounds
fourteen Shillings for provisions furnished p Voucher rec'' Entered
in Page 169

It appears that there is due to William Wilcox for provisions
furnished one pound Eleven shillings as p. Vouch^ Entered in Page
169

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Col'
John Floyd Twenty seven pounds for Service on an Expedition in
1782 as p. Voucher rec*. See Bundle Jefferson Militia amount
Ent^ in Page 166

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Majr
John Critenden One hundred and thirty nine pounds Eight Shillings
seven pence half penny for service as Brigade Maj'' p Vouch''
Ent* in Page 183

It appears that there is due to Bartlet Searcy for Service
as a Sergeant in Capt. Buchannans Comp/ and for Spying, Thirty
five pounds twelve Shillings as p Voucher Entered in Page 176



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 359

It appears that there is due to Pliilcmon Watters Thirty two
Pounds for a horse lost in the Service as p Voucher Entered in
Page 163 On further Examination as Waters had not joined the
Troop of Horse untill his horse Died, The Board therefore leave
it undcrtermincd for the Auditors to Settle

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Doit''
George Hart the sum of Forty three pounds four Shillings for his
Services as Surgeon p Voucher Entered in Page

The Commissioners are of opinion that the charge against
Bennum Brown in the Doctf Harts was done during the time that
the Claimant was paid as Surgeon to the troops under Gen' Clark
then Col°. at the Falls and tlicrcforc reject it The Second Charge
they think Just and ought to be settled at 8/p day Ninety Eight
days Thirty nine pounds four shillings,— It appears to the Board
that Domnic Flannagan did not belong to the Illinois Regiment
when under Docf Harts care and therefore not chargeable to the
State— It likewise appears that James Coburn was wounded at the
Blue Licks and one of the Militia of Lincoln the Board do not
think they have power to liquidate that Claim. A Certificate of
Services for two Soldiers of Col' Montgomerys Regiment as p Cert,
allow"*, four pounds

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Samuel
Hinch for a mare lost in Service the Ballence of an Account Certifyed by Capt. Shannon for Going Express, and for Horse hire
Twenty nine pounds Eight pence as p Vouch' Entered in Page
163

Adjourned till tomorrow morning

Thursday March 27'" Met according to adjournment Present
as before

Rec^ M"" James McAfees Accounts of Receivings and Issues
as Issuing Com^: ^t McAfees Station, The Vouchers for the Issues
being less than the receivings he was qualified to the justness of the
Issues before James Robertson a Majistrate as p his deposition annexed to his Issuing Account.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to James
McAfee Twenty Three pounds for service as Issuing Commissary
as p Vouchers rec'' Entered in Page 162



36o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

It appears that there is due to James Laurence One pound
five Shillings for Rations found the Greenbrier Militia p Voucher
Entered in Page 169

It appears that there is due to W" Crow Ass'°. of Alex'
Mahan Eighteen Shillings for a Bag furnished the State p Voucher
Entered in Page 183

It appears that there is d\ic to William M°Whortcr Ten
Shillings for Rations furnish* p Voucher Entered in Page 169

It appears that there is due to the Estate of William Robertson Dec*". Twelve Shillings six pence for Rations furnished a
party of Capt Rodgers Light Dragoons as p Voucher Entered in
Page 169

It appears that there is due to Mary Hinton the sum of two
pounds one Shilling six pence for 116"' of pork p Voucher Entered
in Page 174

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to the p lOl
loi Estate of James Right Deceased the sum of Twenty four pounds
Eighteen Shillings Eight pence for a horse lost in Service sundries p Vouchers rec^ Entered in Page 163

Rec^ of Mr James Trabue his Account with the State for his
Service as Militia Commissary in Kentucky County from the 8th
Day of December 1779 to the 24"" of June 1780, and of a Horse
saddle Bridle Gun taken with himself at the Capture of Ruddles
and Martins Stations on the 24th 26th of June

Also Eight Lists of provisions received by him with receipts
which he pass^ to the several Claimants for the same and a List
of seven Cattle Impress"", for the use of the s"" militia with the appraisment Bills which the Commissioners are of opinion cannot be
finally settled untill recourse is had to the Auditors Books-See Bundle
Marked N.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to John
Hinkston Seven pounds thirteen Shillings ten pence for a Cow
furnished the State p Voucher rec^ Entered in page 174

It appears that there is due to Tho°. Harrison Wife Three
pounds Sixteen shillings Eleven pence farthing for 206^ lb. Flour
and the Balance of a small account p Vouch^ rec*. Entered in Page
183



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 361

It appears to the Comm''' that there is due to Edward Hogan
Five pounds Seven Shillings cSc two pence for 643 lb. of Buff". Beef

p Vouchers rec*". Entered in Page 1 74

It appears that there is due to Jacob Sodowslcy Twenty tlirce
Pounds for a horse lost in the service of the State p Voucher Entered

in Page 164

Friday March 28th. Met according to adjournm'. Present as
before

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Edward
Tyler Five Pounds Fourteen Shillings for Service as an Express p
Vouch''Entered in Page 176

It appears that there is due to James Baxter Eleven pounds
fourteen Shillings for Work done on the Row Galley p Vouchers

Entered in Page 178

It appears that there is due to William Smith Twenty two
pounds ten shillings for work done at the Row Gaily p Vou^ entered

in Page 178

It appears that there is due to Jacob Myers Four pounds
Thirteen Shillings ten Pence for Carpenter Tools Sund''^. p

Vouch^ entered in Page 183

It appears that there is due to Rachel Swan Thirty three
pounds two Shillings Seven pence half penny for a Mare lost on
an Expedition also for the hire of a Mare of the same date as

p Vouch'" entered in Page 164

Received from Capt Abraham Chaplin his Pay Roll Muster
Roll from the First of Sept. 1782 untill the 31st of January 1783.
Capt". Isaac Taylors Pay and Muster Roll from the First to the
Thirty first of August 1782 Also Capt. Abraham Kellers Pay and
Muster Roll from the Ninth of May 1779 untill the Ninth of
November 178 1— Likewise Mr. Jarrat Williams Account against the
State for service as a Lieutenant in the Illinois Reg' from the fifth
day of June 1780 untill the first day of August 1782, and Pay as
Ensign from the First day of Jany 1779 to the Fourth day of June
1780.

Rec"". of Capt. John Dougherty John Pattersons Claim for a
Mare lost on the Expedition in 1780Settled by the Commissioners,
at two Pounds Six shillings one penny Three farthings Also



362 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Sundry Claims for Horses


in Service


on the s"" Expedition


and


Settled as Follows, Viz










John Dougherty


I Horse


44 days


2 I5-0




Stephen Fisher


I Horse


44 days


2 I5"0




William Robertson


ditto




2 15.O




Jn°. Doughtery


ditto




2 I5"0




Robert Carr


ditto




2 15.0




Gasper Bops


ditto


20 days


I" 5 0




For the amount of the above


accounts.


See Page 164







Col". George Slaughter laid his Accounts before the Commissioners In examining which they find two obligations one from
Sam' Wills John Carr for four Hundred weight of Bear Meat
the other from Carr Escridge for Five Hundred fifty five
pounds w* of Bear meat which is due the State by them for Bills
drawn by Col' Slaughter which were enclosed and Directed by the
Commissioners to Maj^ Wills for the support of the Garrison at
the Falls of Ohio

Capt' Benj' Roberts laid before the Board 7662 of the
late paper Currency of Virginia and a Writing therewith given
upon Oath, Upon which the Board are of opinion that the S^
Money should be returned to Government and the S"" Roberts should
receive Specie in Lieu thereof in Payment for Three Horses for
which he stands bound with Phillip Dejein and purchased by them
at the request of John Dodge for the use of the State Upon the S*"
Roberts precisely ascertaining the date of the purchase For the
money &c mentioned above See Bundle marked with Letter O.

It appears that there is due to Jane Travis Six pounds three
Shillings Si. three pence half penny for sund«' as p Acc^ Received.
Entered in Page 183

It appears that there is due to Joseph Hunter Twenty two
pounds Six Shillings for Beef Corn &c furnish*' at Fort Jefferson
p Vouch' Entered in Page 182

General Clark laid before the Board sundry accounts of
Goods received Issued by liim, with accounts against the Officers
of the Illinois Regiment, without which the Commissioners could
not Settle their Accounts.



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 363

Capt. Rowland Madison laid his Accounts before the Board
for examination.

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning Saturday March 29'*
Met according to adjournment Present as before

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Plenry
Hutton Lou Brown Seventeen pounds Eight Shillings for Sundry
services perform^ p Voucher Entered on Page 177

It appears that there is due to Jacob Frowman Six pounds
Seven Shillings Six pence for Eighty five pounds of Iron used
in Making the Row Gaily p Vouch^ Ent* in Page 178

It appears that there is due to Col' Abraham Bowman Three
pounds Eighteen shillings for fifty two pounds of Iron found for
the Row Gaily p Vouclr' Entered in Page 178.

It appears that there is due to John Burks Six pounds Seven
Shillings six pence for 365"' of Beef 35'" of Venison furnish*
at Fort Jefferson p Vouch™Ent* in Page 182

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to James
Harrod Eleven Shillings for a Yearling Bull p Vouch^ Ent* in Page

174

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to John
Cowan One pound Seven Shillings and Nine pence for iii'^ of
Pork as p Voucher rec* Entered in Page 174

It appears that there is due to John Smith Eight Shillings
Eight pence as p Voucher in Page 174

It appears that there is due to Hen''French Eight pounds
Ten Shillings four pence for Beef Plank as p Vouch' entered
in page 1 74

It appears that there is due to John Curd Nine pounds for
50 Bushels of Corn p Vouch'' rec* Entered in page 171

It appears that there is due to Capt. Benj' Roberts One
pound Eight Shillings Seven pence farthing for a Saddle lost in
Service p Vouch' Ent* in page 183

Rec* of Capt' Benj" Roberts a return of Sundry Cloaths, &c
which is drawn from the State also a Return of the Disbursement
of 800 10 which he rec* from the State by Col' Slaughter, and
likewise the application of Sur-liy Horses and other Stores with
Vouchers See Bundle Letter P



364 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Benj"
Fields Thirty two pounds one Sliillings and four pence tliree fartli-'
ings for service as Express his Expenses Sund"^ as p Vouchers
rec*" Entered in page 176

It appears that there is due to Peter Demmery five Pounds
Seven Shilh ngs Eight pence farthing for a Horse lost as p Vouch"
Entered in page 164

It appears that there is due to John May Seventeen Pounds
thirteen Shillings and ten Pence for a Horse lost p Vouch' received
Entered in page 164

It appears that there is due to Samuel Hinch Three Pounds
for service as a Deputy Purchasing Comm" p. Vouch'' received Entered in page 183

Received of Capt. Michael Humble his Pay Roll for a Comp'
of Militia in Kentucky County from the 18'^ of July untill the
21"' of August 1780 amount entered in Page 166 See Bundle
Jefferson Militia

It appears that there is due to John Hagan Eleven Pounds
and Eight Pence for a Horse lost in Service and 196 of Beef
p Vouch', rec* Entered in Page 164. It appears that there is due
to Nathan Sellars Two pounds Seven shillings Six pence for Horse
Hire as p Voucher entered on page 164

It appears that there is due to Samuel Shortridge Fourteen
Shillings for seven Bushels of Corn p Vouch^ Entered in page 171

It appears to the Comm"*that there is due to Samuel Kirkham Two Pounds fourteen Shillings, for an an hoe p Vouch""
Enter'' in page 162

Rec^ of Col". John Montgomery. M^ James Buchanans
Accounts and Vouchers as Commissary for his Regim' for the 1779
See Bundle Q

Received of Capt. Rowland Madison his Accounts and Vouchers as Quarter Master in 1780 and 1781. which were not Settled as
the Commissioners had appointed to Leave Kentucky.

Received of Major James Francis Moore his Book of Purchases (with Vouchers) which were made from 1780 to 1782 which
have been viewed and are to be finally Settled at a future Day as the
Deliveries are not yet returned



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 365

Received from Col°. George Slaughter a list of Bills and
expenditures, with Vouchers while Command'at the Falls of Ohio

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Tho'
Moore Twelve pounds for Express Duty p'. Vouchf entered in page
176

It appears that there is due to The' Morton Twenty six
pounds fourteen Shillings, the Ballance of his Account for work
done at the Row Galley p. Voucher entered in page 178

Received and settled the following Accounts presented by
Col". John Bowman, viz:

Col°. Bowmans appraisement Bill for two horses

Saddles 54 0.0

Edw* Quirk 2 certificates for Express Spy

duty

Col" Bowmans Voucher for Salt

Thomas Clarks Voucher for Beef

Rob' Flemings appraisement Bill for a Cow

An account of Sundry persons for Potts

etc. lost making Salt

Jesse Tomblcston for Beef

169 7.6.

For the amount of the above accounts see page 162 Bundle
Lincoln Militia.

The Commiss"^ observe that Col°. Bowmans appraisement Bill for
fifty four Pounds is to be paid if it has not been already paid to Mr.
John Dodge Agent etc.

Rec* of Mr. James Sullivan his Cash account of Ten Thousand Nine hundred fifty pounds a Bill drawn by Capt William
Shannon Dated lOth of October 1781 for 17 902.4 0 and Sundry other papers, with a General Return of Horses taken from
Jefferson County on the Expedition in 1782.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Francis
Adams, Thirty Six pounds for work done at the Row Gaily as p
Voucher entered in page 178

It appears that there is due to Rob' Witt Four pounds ten



55


5 6.


17


0 0


22,


55.


0.


14,


■17


I,


0.



366 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

shillings for work done at the Row Galley as pr. Voucher entered
in page 178

It appears that there is due to John Pulfer Thirty four
pounds Sixteen Shillings for work done at the Row Galley, as p
Voucher entered in page 178.

It appears that there is due to John Johnston Twenty Seven
Pounds for work done at the Row Galley as p Vouclier Enf in page
178

It appears that there is due to William Rice Four pounds
Sixteen Shillings for Service as Armourer at the Row Galley p
Vouchers Entered in page 183

It appears that there is due to Mr. Lawrance Meredith Four
Pounds Ten Shillings for a Cow taken for the Troops at Fort
Jefferson p Voucher entered in page 182

It appears that there is due to Benj' Fields, One Hundred
Sixteen pounds Fourteen Shillings for his pay and Subsistance
as Ensign in the Service of the State as p Voucher entered in page

183

Received of Mr. Bland Ballard Commissary and Quarter
Master his Book and Abstract with Vouchers whilst he served under
Col' George Slaughter in 1780 1781, also his Book and abstracts
with Vouchers for the time he served as Quarter Master Commissary under General Clark in 1781 1782, and Sundry other
Papers, Books, Abstracts &c with Vouchers, which the Commissioners have not settled.

Adjourned to meet at Col' Benj' Logans on Wednesday the
9th of April 1783

Wednesday April 9th, 1783.
Met at Col' Benj' Logans according to adjournment. Present

William Fleming Tho» Marshall,

Samuel m Dowell Caleb Wallace Esq"

Mr John. Marshall laid a Claim before the Board for a Horse taken
on an Expedition in 1780, which was returned Sold by order of
Gen' Clarke, to Alex' McClure, as a publick Horse. The Board
think proper to direct said McClure to pay the price, he was to
have paid, to the State to John Marshall.



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 367

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due John Berry,
Two pounds Sixteen Shillings for Rations furnished the Militia on
duty as p Voucher entered in page 169

Col°. Legras, Major Williams, and Several Gent' from the
Illinois Country waited on the Board with their Accounts, and the
Accounts of Sundry other claimants of that country were received
by the Commissioners.

Rec* of Majf Williams, a Letter from the Rev*. W. Gibault
of Kaskaskias, with 284 5/6 Dollars paper Currency four Certificates
with receipts on them for 238 4/5 Dollars, Two Bons for three
dollars one Bon for 4 Busiicls Corn, Which the Commissioners
refer to the Executive. See Bundle Marked 2

adjourned till tomorrow morning.
Thursday April loth. Met according to adjournment Present as
before

The Commissioners received Settled the following Pay
Rolls for the Militia of Kentucky Viz. Capt. John Allisons Pay
Roll from 26th February untill the Last of March 1780 Amount
entered in page 162 See Bundle Lincoln Militia

Capt. Briscos Pay Roll from the 20th July untill the 21st
August 1780 Entered Bundled as above

Capt' Henry Prathers pay Roll from the 8th July untill the
21'' of August 1780 Entered and Bundled as above In Capt"
Prathers pay Roll the two youngest Sergeants can only receive pay
as Privates.

Capt. John Allisons Pay Roll from 8th July untill 28th
August 1780 Entered and Bundled as above

The Commissioners are of oppinion that Captain Allison in
his Pay Roll ought to receive Lieutenants Pay, the Lieut. Ensigns
pay the Ensign Sergeants Pay, and the youngest Sergeant the pay
of a Private

Capt' James Estills Pay Roll from 15'" of March untill the
5'* of April 1782. Entered and Bundled as above From the number of men on Captain Estills Pay Roll the Commissioners are of
opinion that the Capt' should only receive the pay of a Lieutenant,
the first Lieutenant the pay of an Ensign, the Second Lieutenant
the pay of a Sergeant, for the first nine Days untill his Superior



368 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Officers were killed, for the Remaining Thirteen Days he ought to
receive Lieutenants Pay

Capt. John Gordons Pay Roll from the 15'^ March untill the
15"' of April 1782 See Bundle Lincoln Militiafrom the number
of men in Capt Gordons Pay Roll the Capt' ought only to receive
the Pay of a Lieutenant, the Lieutenant the pay of an Ensign, the
Ensign the pay of a Sergeant, the youngest Sergeant Privates pay.

It appears to the Board that there is due to Sam' Brigs Tvi^o
pounds Eighteen Shillings for 1 16 Rations furnish d Militia on duty
as p Voucher entered in page 169

The Board received from Maj"" John Williams Capt' John
Dodges Books, and accounts of Goods Delivered the Officers and
Soldiers of the Illenois Regiment, Likevt^ise his Invoices of Goods
Delivered him vouchers for Expenditures against the State

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning.
Friday ii'" April Met according to adjournment Present as before

Received from Capt Edward Worthington, his Pay Roll for
the year 1779, and his pay Roll for 1781 likewise his recruiting
account and Vouchers for Ditto likewise a Certificate for hire
of Horses 290 Days, a Certificate for a Boat lost in Service, value
Three Hundred Dollars also a Certificate for a Cow kill d Three
pounds Seven shillings Six pence

Received from Frederick Guyon several claims of Icabod
Camps as follows Viz: for making four Shirts 18/ work of Two
Negroes £.2.-3-0, Medicines etc £.1 4.0 Accounts of Henry Wills
£11 5.0. Amount of the whole £.15 10.0Four pounds Four Shill'.
to be deducted This Account is not Finally settled till the Agents
Books are Examined.

Received from Capt. Henry Smith by the hands of Frederick
Guyon, the following claims, viz A certificate for Dry d Beef
3600 lb. a 6^. p. pound, amounting to £.90 0.0 A Certificate for
125 Bushels Corn L. 15 0.0 amounting in the whole to One Hundred five pounds, out of which a deduction of Ten pounds Eighteen shillings to be made for sundries furnished him the Balance
remaining is ninety four pounds two shill' also took in a Receipt for
Rations 3/9.



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 369

Received from William Bladsoe an appraisement Bill of a
Mare lost on the late Expedition against the Indians, under the
Command of General Clark Vallued to £.20 entered in Page 164
This claim two others presented by Col' Logan for Joseph Craig
Green Clay, Stand upon the same footing with the Horses lost
at the Battle of the Blue Licks, which are specially reported upon
and ought to be paid, if the Assembly allow the Claims for those
lost at the Battle of the Blue Licks as the whole are referred to their
decision.

Received of Col' Benjamin Logan of Lincoln County the
following Pay Rolls and Acct' Viz: Ensign David Cookes pay Roll
from nth March untill 10'" of April 1782. See Bundle Lincoln
Militia Am' Entered in page 162.

William Steels Vouch'' for thirty Shill' allowed for Half a
Bushel salt; entered in page 171

John Sellers Voucher for Thirty Sliillings allowed for half
a Bushel of Salt entered in Page 171

Henry Babman s Voucher for Rations furnish'' the Militia on
duty amount £.3-10-6 Ent^ in page 169

William Morrows Voucher for 14 Days Horse Hire at one
Shilling three pence p. Day. Seventeen Shillings and Six pence.
Entered in page 164

Joseph Love s Voucher for 15 days Horse hire at one shilling
three pence p Day. Eighteen Shillings and nine pence, entered
in page 164

George Farbush appraisement Bill for a Gun lost at Estills
Defeat, apraised to L 7.IO O-also Jesse Farbusli s appraisement
Bill for a Saddle Bridle appraised to L 2 entered in page 164

The Commissioners are of oppinion that the Claims for articles lost at Estills defeat are of the same Nature with the Blue
Lick Defeat, which are Specially reported upon Adjourned till
Tomorrow morning.

Saturday April 1 2th 1783 Met according to adjournment.
Present as before

It appears to the Commissioners the following accounts are
due to Moses Henry of St. Vincents Viz:



370 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

For an order drawn by Col' John Todd on the Governor of
Virginia, for 704 Dollars currency to be paid at I for 5—

140 4/5 Dollars 42 4. lOj^

For articles furnished the Indians p Ace'. 12. 1 8 0

For Services performed as Indian Agent for

horse hire as p Acct. 120. 2 0



175 4.101^
For the Vouchers See Bundle G.

Amount entered in page 177 Note the Bill or order given by Colo.
Todd is returned to Henry

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due Andrew
Clark L 35.2 0. for work done at the Row Gaily p Voucher enter d
in page 178

The Commissioners rec'-' of M'' Zephaniah Blackford, his Book
as Conductor of Military Stores at Fort Nelson with the Corresponding Vouchers, and an Abstract containing a General State of the
whole. It appears that this Book was kept by David Moore from
July 26tli to October 13th 1781. and by Martin Carney from tlie
14th October to the 10^ of December in the same year, and afterwards by said Blackford untill March 31°* 1783

Also Received of the S*" Blackford Sundry certificates for
pay due from the State and other Accounts amounting to
£.385 6.6 2/5 from which his Accounts with the State are to be deducted, entered in page 183

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Matthew
Jones £.6 2.6 for Services as Armourer, as p Voucher Entered in
page 183

It appears that there is due to Benjamin Pope Eight Pounds
thirteen Shillings Six pence for Beef Furnished at Fort Nelson
as p Voucher. Entered in Page 174

It appears that there is due to Col°. William Pope £.7 5.0
for attending the Board as a Sheriff in Jefferson County as p Voucher
Entered in page 261

Settled a Bill of Exchange drawn by Col' George Slaughter
in favour of Richard Chinoweth for £2962 10.0 Dated April 29th
1 78 1 when reduced by the Scale of Depreciation amounts to



JOURNAL OF JFESTERN COMMISSIONERS 371

£.29 12.6 Likewise a Certificate from M^ William Shannon for
£.7111 10.0 Dated the first Day of June 1781. When reduced

by the Scale amounts to £28 8.10 Entered in page 183

It appears that there is due to Peter Young L 2.10 0 for
a Beef Cow taken for the use of the State, as p Voucher Entered
in page 174

Rec*" of Col°. William Pope Administrator of Col. Lynn Dec*",
Sundry certificates for said Lynn s services as a field Officer, also
for Flour Iron &c furnished by said Lynn for the use of the State,
which Accounts the Commissioners cannot Settle untill his Accounts
with the State are adjusted See Bundle marked R.

The Commissioners being informed that Maj'' John Williams
was a principal Evidence relative to the Conduct of the Officers
of the Illinois Regiment, took his DepositionSee Bundle Depositions Illinois Department General Clarks Ace"* No. 36

Adjourned till Monday morning
Monday April 14th. Met according to adjournment Present William Fleming Sam' M Dowell and Caleb Wallace, Esq".
No. I. The Commissioners can by no means depart from the princioal. That the State is not obliged to Honour Bills drawn by persons unauthorized, but where the State has been furnished with
Articklcs to the amount which articles have been really applyed to
the Support of the Troops, Such Bills they are of opinion ought to
be taken in at the real value of the Articles when furnished.
No. 2. That the Bills drawn on the Treasury of Virginia ought
to be paid off agreeable to the Illinois Scale of Depreciation, after
depreciation took place in tliat country.

No. 3but as it appears by Mr. Shannons Books, that he drew Bills
countersigned by General Clark for Articles of a mix d
nature. Some appearing to be Purchased by Depreciated
Currency, whilst others arc not many of his Vouchers
being lodged with the Auditors, the Commissioners can not
in Justice fix the payment of those Bills, either by the Scale
or any other way in their Power.
No. 4. It appears to the Commissioners that many Bills are drawn
by those authorized by Government for which they can
produce no Vouchers for Articles for which theSe Bills were



372 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

drawn, and of course the Bills become chargable to the
drawers, but the Commissioners cannot undertake to say
whether the State ought to take up those Bills or not, as it
is of great consequence, they think it worthy the attention

of the Legislature

Capt. Trotier presented to the Board a Bill marked
No. I which seems to be drawn for Specie from the Amount
of the Bill 615 Dollars, accompanied with the Articles, the
Commissioners are of opinion that 45 2/5 Dollars should be
deducted from the Articles of Flour an Ax lost charged
two high, which reduces the Bill to 569 3/5 Dollars, this
Bill comes under the General Remark No. i

No. 2. An Account of Sundries comes under the Remark No. I in
this Account 16 Dollars to be deducted from the article

of Flour, reduces the Account to 39l>4 Dollars.

No. 3. A Bill of W"". Shannons countersigned G. R Clark for 60
Dollars comes under Remark N' 3

No. 4. A Specie Bill of General Clark s on Oliver Pollock for 220
1/5 Dollars, the first of tin s Tenor Date sent to New
Orleans.

No. 5. This Bill falls under the 2nd General remark and is 4 3/5
Dollars

No. 6 A Certificate for subsistance of two Soldiers at 2J/2 Liv'
this appears high, but is the Vallue settled by the Court
in that Country

No. 7. An account of Sundries furnished Indians

Mons^ La Chance s papers presented by M'' Trotier.

No. I A first of Exchange for 1400 Dollars, reduced by the
Scale of Depreciation in that Country is 46 2/3 Dollars.
comes under the i"^ General Remark, is protested by
Governor JeffersonCol°. Montgomery imforms the Board
this was given in part purchase of a tract of land for private
purposes

No. 3 Contains two Bills both of the same tenor date and
drawn by Col° Montgomery they are both first sets and
not in the list of Bills drawn by him come under the
first general remark



JOURNAL OF IVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 373

No. 4. A Bill Drawn by Pat** Kennedy countersipned G R Cl uk
for 234 Livers 10 Sols or 46 9/10 Dollars the Board is
informed was for Smiths Work, there is no ace' rendered
with this Bill. By the Illinois Scale of Depreciation is
9 2/5 Dollars

No. 5-A first Bill of Montgomery s for 1200 Dollars on the Treasurer of Virginia, this Bill is not in his list of Bills, and falls
under the first General remark.

No. 6 A Bill by Col°. Montgomery, is supposed to be given for
private purposes, and falls under the first general Remark.

No. 7 A Second Bill for 170 Dollars by Col°. Montgomery, the
Vouchers for this amongst Col". Montgomerys papers are
imperfect

No. 8 A Bill for Cash on Recruiting Service reduced by the Scale
of Depreciation is 62 2/5 Dollars Specie

No. 9 A Bill This is not in Col". Montgomerys List and is supposed to be Counterfeit.
Sundry Papers presented by Capf Trotier.

No. I A Bill by Gen' Clark on the Treasury of Virginia for Scj
Dollars. This falls under the second Gen'. Remark

No. 3 A Bill of General Clarks appears payable, as by the endorsement with 37 1/5 Dollars

No. 4 A Bill Protested by Gov' Jefferson afterwards Countersigned by Gen' Clark for 543 1/5 Dollars, out of which 2
Dollars to be deducted, over charge in Flour, which reduces
it to 541 1/5 Dollars and falls under the Second General
Remark

No. 5 A Bill of Col". Montgomery s for 332 Dollars protested
by Gov'' Jefferson comes under the first General Remark,
but as it was for Cash advanc^ on the Recruiting Service
reduced to Specie by the Common Table of Depreciation
is 5 1/10 Dollars. This Bill is not in Montgomerys list

No. 6 A Bill of Col". Montgomerys for 260 Dollars is not in his
List, falls under the first General Remark is protested
by Gov"" Jefferson

No. 9 A Bill of Col". Montgomerys for 174 2/5 Dollars (a Second
Bill) the Acefor 804 Livers not produced the Article of



374 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Flour IS over charged 4 Dollars. This Bill falls under
the first Second General Remarks.

No. 7 A Bill of Col°. Montgomery s to Ant. Harmond for 1560
Dollars, this is not in his List of Bills protested by Gov'
JeflFerson

No. 8 A Bill of Col°. Montgomery s a first of Exchange for 300
Dollars, advanced for recruiting, this Bill is Paid is Settled
by the Virginia Scale of Depreciation at 5 Dollars, This
Bill falls under the first General Remark, is protested by
Gov'' Jefferson, and not in Col' Montgomery s List Papers
presented by Capt. Trotier.

No. I A Bill of Col. Montgomery s for 411 4/5 Dollars, with
Account anexed presented for Payment Protested by Gov'
Jefferson after which it was countersigned by General Clark.
This Bill is passed as Specie to Montgomery s List.

No. 2 A Bill of Col' Montgomery s for 17 14 dollars advanced for
recruiting Service. This Bill falls under the first General
Remark is protested by Gov' Jefferson, if paid the Commissioners settled it by the Virginia Scale of Depreciation, at
28^ Dollars Specie

No. 3 A Bill of Shannons for 220 Dollars, countersigned George
R. Clark, falls under the third Gen' Remark

No. 4. A Bill of Shannons countersigned by Gen' Clark for 340 4/5
Dollars. This Bill comes under the Second and third General Remarks

No. 5 A Bill of Col» Montgomerys looo Dollars Advanced for
recruiting Service falls under the first General Remark. If
paid the Commissioners, Liquidate it by the Virginia Scale
of Depreciation, making it 13 5/7 Dollars.

No. 6 A Certificate for work Iron L 2.12 0 Specie

No. 7 Ditto Do. 3 15

No. 8 Ditto Do. Settled by the Scale. 15



7. 2. o
The following Bills of Exchange were laid before the Board
of Commissioners by Col. Legras on which they made the
following Remarks, anexed



m



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 375

No. 1 A Bill for 1143 1/5 Dollars drawn by General Clark, on
the Treasurer of Virginia Supposed to be for Currency the
second of this set is said to be in the Hands of Mf Nathan of
Philiadelphia

No. 2 A Bill for 1752 Dollars drawn by General Clark on Oliver.
Pollock Esq'' of New Orleans Supposed to be for Specie
This Bill is not found in the Generals Books, but one of the
same tenor and date is charged to Charles Charleville which
may probably he the same. The first of this set is said to
be in the hands of Mr. Nathan

No. 3 4,5 6,7 8 Were drawn by William Shannon, Conductor General counter-signed G R. Clark referred to the third

Article of the General Remarks before Mentioned

The following bills belonging to Nicholas Perrot were laid
before the Board by Col. Legras

No. 1 A Bill for 500 Dollars drawn on the Governor of Virginia
by Col' Jn» Todd supposed to be for paper Currency, reduced by the Illinoise Scale is 125 Dollars Specie

{A Bill of Exchange of W. Shannons in favour of Mr.
Langtot countersigned Geo. R. Clarke dated June 14th
1779. 360 Dollars.

No. 2 3 Bills 250 Dollars drawn by William Shannon, referred to
Article third in the General Remark settled by the Illinois
scale at 155 i/io Dollars. Also the following receipts belonging to and sent by Mons''. Fontain

No. I A Receipt drawn by Patt Kennedy in favour of Joseph
Fontain for 24 Dollars Specie

No. 2 A Receipt drawn in favour of Mons. Quicket by Patrick
Kennady for 10 Dollars Specie.

No. 3 A Receipt drawn by Henry Croucher in favour of John
Deveneia for 51 1/5 Dollars.

No. 4 A Receipt drawn by Frederick S. Guion in favour of Rosa
Fortune for 28 4/5 Dollars.

No. 5 In favour of Joseph Fontain, a Billet for Rations 10 Dollars

No. 6 Ditto Ditto 2 Do.

No. 7 Ditto signed James Finn 6 Do.

No. 8 Ditto sign d Henry Croucher. 3 Do.



376 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Also the following Bills receipts etc belonging to sent

by Mons'. John B. Vilot

No. I A Bill of Exchange drawn by Valentine Thomas Dalton, in
favour of John B. Vilot 80 Dollars Peltrie 160 Dollars
Specie referred to the first Article of the General Remark
settled at 120 Dollars.
No. 2 A Receipt drawn by John Wilson, One Dollar Specie
No. 3 A Receipt for making one Coffin settled nt 3 Dollars
No. 4 A Billet for Rations 3J Dollars.
No. 5 A promissory Note from Leonard Helm. One dollar.
No. A I. B. Vandrys Commission Certificate &c for 1507 days as
Indian Interpreter 1339^ Dollars. Major Francis Boseron
presented to the Board several Bills of Exchange, certificates
Accounts, the adjusting of which is defered for the want
of time at present, and the Board directed the papers to be
returned to Major Boseron.
Col' Legrass represented to the Board that reports had been
industriously spread at S' Vincents that the State of Virginia was
determined to cut off the Inhabitants of that Village, whicli had
occationed several Families to remove, requested the Board to write
to the Inhabitants to quiet their minds by assuring them the report
was without foundation The Board directed the following Letter
to be Sent them Viz

Gentlemen Col°. Logans, April 14th 1783.

We have with pleasure adjusted your Accounts
presented to us, we are sincerely sorry to understand by Col". Legras
that any false reports have created uneasiness in your minds, We
take this opportunity to assure you that the State of Virginia is
highly impressed with the sense of your good Intentions and firm
attachment to the Americans in general, to the State of Virginia
in particular. Sensible of the great loss you must have sustained by
lying so long out of the Money chearfully advanced by you for the
support of the Troops whilst in your Country As soon as our Enemies
were humbled and brought to reason. Attentive to your Interests a
Board of Commissioners were appointed, to take in and adjust the
Accounts due in your Country. We are likewise to assure you tiiat



OS

1*



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 377

his Excellency our Governor has wrote particularly to the Board of
Commissioners requiring us to acquaint you of the good oppinion
he entertains of your Fidelity attachment to the State. We are
therefore surprised to hear that any influence by groundledd Jealousies, Should be removed and beg you to lay aside these needless fears
rest assured that you are esteemed by every worthy Citizen of
America. Peace will soon be Established, Preliminaries being already settled at Paris Trade will then revive an intimate friendly
intercourse take place Between St. Vincents and this country.
With Sincere regard we are Gentlemen
Your fellow Citizens

William Fleming

Sam"-. M Dowell

Caleb Wallace
The Inhabitants of
St. Vincents.

Mr. Gratiott waiting the return of the Commissioners at
New River.

The Board adjourned to meet in Bottetourt County

Belle Mont Bottetourt County May 6th 7tli 1783
The Commissioners met according to Adjournment

Present William Fleming, Tho^ Marshall and Caleb Wallace

Esq'-''

Major Boseron presented several Bills of Exchange and
Accounts to the Commissioners, the Settlement of which was deferred
in Kentucky, which are Settled Remarked as follows. Viz:
No. I A Bill of Exchange drawn by Val T. Dalton, in favour of
Pierre Pruits for 180 Livers in Peltry, dated Fort Patrick Henry
May lOth 1780, on the Treasurer of VirginiaThis Bill falls under

the first general Remark in Page 117

(The Comm". are of opinion that this Bill should be

/paid with 24 Dolls.

.■H No. 2 A Bill of Exchange of William Shannons Countersigned G

a« R Clark, in favor of Francis Boseron for 3803 1/5 Dollars No. 155

E J"^ n dated Fort Patrick Henry August I2th 1779. This Bill appears to

be in part payment of an Account certified comes under the third



V c



•c ti



5 M



H-5



J5 2



o w



General Remark page 117



378 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

No. 3 A first of Exchange of W. Shannons in favour of Leonard
Helm countersigned Geo R. Clark dated Fort Patrick Henry October lo'^ 1779. No. 166 for 1500 Dollars endorsed Leo. Helm,
this Bill falls under the Second General Remark, page 117. We
observe this Bill is in W". Shannons List of Bills, and think it should
be paid with 880 Dollars.

No. 4 A First of Exchange of William Shannons, countersigned
G R Clark, in favour of Francis Boseron No. 153, dated Fort Patrick Henry 12th August 1779. for 400 Dollars this Bill appears to
be in part payment of a certified account and comes under the 3rd
General Remark in page 117. (The Commissioners think this Bill

should be paid with 400 D.

S.'? No. 5 A first of Exchange of William Shannons Countersigned

E 1. G R Clark, in favour of Francis Boseron for 2863 2/^ Dollars dated

Mrs ■2'=

d nQ September 1779 is in part payment of a certified account
y^ and comes under the 3rd General Remark in page 117

No. 6 A first of Exchange of William Shannons countersigned G
R Clark dated March 8th 1782. in favour of W"^ Antulep for Sundries furnished the Troops to the amount of 88 2/5 Dollars, this Bill
falls under the 3rd General Remark. Page 117 (to be paid with
88 3/5 Dol.)

No. 7 A first of Exchange of William Shannons, countersigned
G. R. Clark in favour of Antoin Marie, for 210 Dollars dated I2p
25th June 1779 this Bill falls under the second general Remark
in page 1 17

No. 8 A Certificate for L 437.16 Specie of William Shannons
"S CTj 2 countersigned G. R. Clark in favour of Francis Bosserom. By
V observing the Articles charged in M"" Shannons Books, altho the
o S P certificate mentions Specie, yet the Commissioners are of opinion

that it falls under the 3d General remark in page 117



No. 9 A bill of Exchange first set, drawn by Leonard Helm in
favour of Francis Bosseron 1067 Dollars, dated Nov. 19th 1779on the pay Master General of the State of Virginia, This Bill comes
under the first general Remark in page 117 and the Commissioners
think it ought not to be charged to the State.



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 379

t £'n!l second of Exchange of William Shannons not CounterV o.



Q



o u Q signed Dated 1 8th September 1779 in favour of Francis Bosseron
S __ 8 No 160 for 4000 Dollars is in part payment of a Certified Account,
2^2-= Tenor Date is in Mr. Nathans hands, this Bill
h 2<4) f^Us under the first third General Remarks in page 177 &c
Accounts Presented by Major Boseron.
No. I. A certified Account countersigned by G. R. Clark for Sundries advanced in the Indian department and for services done, the
25 Commissioners not having the Vouchers produced to them, and un^N o acquainted with the allowance from the State to persons acting in
(2 that Department they cannot pass an Opinion on this, but think Maj''
Bosseron justly deserves what the state allows in such casesthe
Amount of the above certificate is 828 2/5 Dollars.
No. 2 A certified Ace' of 940 Dollars to a Company of Men under
Major Boseron when Govern'' Hamiltons Boats were taken, which
appears to have been paid by Major Bosseron is due to him
No. 3 An Account signed by General Clark for L 510 S in Some of
the articles charged. Stolen by the guard in the House during the
seige of the fort, the Commissioners refer it to the Executive whether
the State is to pay for these articles (The Commissioners are of opinion it should be paid with 122 i/io Dollars.)
No. 4. A certificate of John Dodge, that there is due to Major
Bosseron 272 Livers in peltry on a Settlement the Secretary having
M Dodges Books, this is deferred till these Books are taken to Richmond This Certificate is to be paid with 108 4/5 Dollars)
No. 5. A Receipt of Captain Baileys for Rum, inlisting men, The
Commissioners think this is chargable to Captain Bailey not to
the State.

No. 6 A Certificate from the Commissary for a Hogg i2o"'at 2
Livres p. lb comes to 240 livres or 48 Dollars, 2 Livers p^ lb for
pork is the usual charge in that Country.

No. 7 8Two Certificates for services of Madam Marea as Indian Interpreter. As the Commissioners have little or no light
thrown on these services, they are of opinion that £.20 May be a
Sufficient recompence, but refer it to the Executive.
N0 1-2-&3Are pay Rolls for Major Bosseron and his Company
but as they are not countersigned by the Commanding Officer, the



38o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Commissioners refer them to General Clark A Certificate for
Frederick Guion as Issuing Commissary 189 days 14 3.6. A
Certificate for a Horse Lost in the service the property of Edward
Worthington assigned to Guion

Adjourned to Meet at Botetourt Court House 9"" Inst.
Botetourt Court House May 9th 1783. Met according to adjournment Present William Fleming Tho' Marshall and Caleb Wallace Esq'''

M'. Gratiot laid before the Board Copies of his accounts
Bills of Exchange as follows viz

No. I— A Bill of Exchange drawn by Leonard Helm and Countersigned G R. Clark dated January 14"' 1779. at Fort Patrick Henry,
in Favour of Francis Bosseron, drawn on General Clark endorsed
(on the Back) Francis Bosseron CompanyThe Commissioners
have no amount laid before them for which this Bill was drawn
therefore cannot Judge of the reasonableness of the Demand, but
observe a Bill of the same Tenor date in the List of Bills transmitted them by the Executive in M^ Nathan possession.
No. 2A Bill of Exchange of William Shannons on Col°G R.
Clark in favour of Captain Linctot for 3836 2/5 Dollars dated 5th
June 1779 Accepted by G R. Clark endorsed Linetot, this Bill is
marked private, in the body of the Bill it appears the peltries
were delivered to M'' Barkley. The Commissioners observe M""
Barkley was not in the service. It is rumoured M^ Barkley took a
quantity of Peltries from that country sold them on private Account. By Mr. Shannons Books it seems as if the peltries for which
this Bill was given, were delivered to Patrick Kennedy, which Saliences Kennady s Account for Beef &c there is a remark in Shannons List of Bills, in which he observes he had omitted to settle this
Bill with the Auditors in 1780 From circumstances, the Commissioners are of opinion it is not chargable to the State this Bill
is in the List of Bills in Mi" Nathans hands

No. 3A Bill of Exchange of Shannons, on G R Clark endorsed
Linetot, accepted G R.Clark drawn in favour of Linetot for 1539
3/5 Dollars said to be for peltries given to Le Croix for provisions dated June 5th 1779In Shannons List of Bills, and refers to
Le Croix s Acebut there is no such Articles in the Ace' nor does



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 381

such a Bill appear to be charged to the State in Linetots Ace' and

is in Mr. Nathans List transmited to us

No. 4A Bill first set of William Shannon Countersigned G R
Clark drawn on the Treasurer of Virginia in favour of Linetot, for
3000 Dollars for six Hogsheads of Taffia dated at Fort Clark June
14th 1779. It appears that it is charged at 500 Dollars P Hogshead,
which W. Gratiot acknowledges to be higli, reduces it in his Ace'
Current to 148 Dollars p'' Hogshead. The Commissioners think
this reasonable observe that this Bill is likewise in Mr. Nathans
list.

No. 5 A first of Exchange of William Shannons, on the Treasurer
of Virginia, countersigned G R. Clark October 14th 1780. in favour
of Carbouneaux for 9280 Dollars, the second set of these Bills was
settled with Carbouneaux at 127 J Dols.

No. 5 A first of Exchange of William Sliannons, on tlic Treasurer
of Virginia countersigned G R Clark Ocf 14th 1780. in favour of
Carbouneaux, for 1600 Dollars the Second set settled with Carbouneaux.

No. 7A Second of Exchange Countersigned G R Clark, from Mr.
Shannon in favour of Janist for 721 Dollars dated 25"' June 1779at Fort Clark, on the Treasurer of Virginia, for Sundry Provisions
furnished the Troops stationed at the Illinois, this Bill is in Shannons list of Bills, but no Ace' appears for what the Bill was drawn
No. 8A first of Exchange of Shannons in favour of Joseph Anderson for going Express from Kaskaskias to the Falls of Ohio &c On
the Treasurer of Virginia for 405 2/3 Dollars Dated 11'" August
1779 Kaskaskias. This Bill falls under the first second general
remark in Page 117. But as the Scale of Depreciation would reduce
it too much the Commissioners are of opinion this Bill should be
paid with 20.

Maj'' Linetots Account of Sundries furnished the Indians as
Superintendant of Indian affairs as p^ Certificates &c.
No. IA certificate of Cliarles Dumay for 8i Gallons Taffia at
100 Livers p Galon i lb. Vermillion, 12 Livres Total 837
No. 2A Certificate of Ambrouse Dumay for 24^ Pots Taffia at
70 Livres p Pott. Amount 1715 Livers.
No. 3A Certificate of Dominique Bogar for Sundries 755 Livers



382 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

The following Certificates fall under our tlu rd General Remark in page 117 Viz

No. I.In this Certificate the Taffia is high the Vermillion may

be right 167 2/5 Dollars.

No. 2 This Certificate is high. 343 Dollars.

No. 3 We can form no oppinion of this certificate as the time of

Boarding &c, quantity of articles furnished are not particularized

755 Livres.

No. 4A Certificate Pierre Cournoyer for 2405 Livres the Tobacco

5: corn may be right, the Taffia high.

No. 5A Certificate of Pierre Cournoyer for 400 Livers the

Commissioners have some doubts whether this certificate may not

be included in No. 4

No. 6A Certificate of Lemoureux for work done 40 2/5 Dollars,
The Commissioners are not acquainted with the value of Work in
that country but suppose it is as charged in this account.
No. 7An Account of Major Lanctots for Sundries to Indians,
The Commissioners think the first Article of a Gun at 500 Livres
very high, the Taffia high, the other Guns unless of the best Quality
are Likewise high. 349 2/5 Dols.

No. 8A Certificate of M"" Papins for Sundries furnished Mr.
Langtot to the amount of 7650 Livres 10 SousThese articles were
furnished at St. Louis, where considering there was no expence of
Land carriage, the Commissioners think the articles charged exceeding high, they think the Taffia might be sold there in small quantities at 8 Dollars p Gallon, The linen the Canoes appear high, likewise 3 Horses, but as the Commissioners do not know the qualities
of these and some other Articles charged, the cannot determine on
them, 3 Barrels of Taffia of 18 potts making 54 potts or 27 Gallons
in all, charged 3780 livers taken by Capt" Bailey from Dumai the
property of Major Lanetot at St. Vincents, the Comm" are of
opinion that this Taffia might be reasonable at 10 Dollars p. Gallon
as a Quantity was taken at ortce. They also think the Taffia furnished at St. Vincents in the preceeding Certificates might be afforded
at 12 Dollars p^ Gallon or 6 Dollars the pott in smalls. By the
Vouchers it appears Major Lanetot has paid or satisfied the different



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 383

persons by whom he was furnished (Except the first certificate1530 9/10 Dels.

Mf Gratiot also laid before the Board certified copies of
Certificates Numbered as follows: viz:

No. IA Certificate of Patrick Kennady s to Pierre Douan,
Countersigned, John Montgomery Lt. Col°. for 920 Dollars as

p'. Vouchers produced to him at Kaskaskias, September 30'" 1780

No. 2 A Certificate of Patrick Kennady s at Fort Clark 28th
August 1780 to W"". Jerrards for 149 3/5 Dollars as pf Vouchers
produced to him, as no Vouchers for these two Certificates are laid

before the Commissioners they can form no opinion on them

No. 3. An order of Val Tho'. Dalton at Fort Patrick Henry
April 4th 1780. in favour of Pierre Mallet for a hogshead of Taf^ia,
This Bill comes under the first general Remark in Page 117 600
Dol'.

No. 4.A Certificate of Val T. Daltons to Joseph Andre for Sundries furnished Indians amount 280 Dollars, The Commissioners
thiok the Taffia may be paid at I2 Dollars p Gallon, the Corn at
3 Dollars p Bushcll, and as the weight of the Hog is not mentioned,
they cannot fix it

No. 5A Certified Acc» of Joseph Andre for Boarding four Delaware Chiefs 4 days at two Dollars each 32 Dol". April 5th 1780,

St. Vincents The Commissioners are of opinion 48 livers or

9 3/5 Dollars is sufficient

No. 6 7-Certificates to Ontwine Bellas for wood, half
Dollar Each The Comm" think these claims reasonable

Saturday May loth The Commissioners met, finished the
Settlement of M^ Gratiots Accounts, and adjourned to meet at
M". Breckinridges on Monday next.

Monday May 12th 1783 Met according to adjournment. Present
William Fleming, Sam'. M Dowell Caleb Wallace.

The Board proceeded to settle Capt» Rowland Madisons Accounts, which were received in Kentucky but not finally Settled
not having time to go through the same. Adjourned till Tomorrow
morning.

Tuesday May 13th 1783. Met according to Adjournment Were
farther engaged in the Settlement of Capt' Madisons Accounts.



paid.



384 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning.

Wednesday May 14th Met according to adjournment Were

employed as on the preceeding Day, adjourned till tomorrow morning.

Thursday May 15th. Met according to adjournment

The Commf' continued to examine Capt. Madisons Accounts and
Adjourned till Tomorrow morning.

Friday May 16th. Met according to adjournment Took in Capt.
Rowland Madisons Accounts Vouchers as Quarter Master Commissary for the Western country in the year 1781 there not being

a full Board they could not be finally liquidated

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning.
Saturday May 17th 1783 Met according to adjournment.

Received of Col. William Preston, Maj^ Tho' Quirks receipt for L. 1080 Capt. Isaac Taylors receipt for L 2420 in Discharge of the Commonwealth ace' of £.3500 against him

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to James
Hoglan for 18 days service as a Spy £.3 3 for a Mare lost in service £.30. for a Horse, Mare and Saddle lost £.40 in all £.73 3.0
as p'Vouchers No. 37. Entered in page 164. Bundle D.

It appears that there is due to Henry Hoglan for two Canoes
taken for the use of the state £.6 16.0 also for one Rifle Gun and
Shot pouch £.6 10 for one Horse £.17 10 in all £.30 16

To Richard Hoglan for 18 days Service as a Spy £.3 3 P^
Voucher No. 26 Bundle F. Ent* in Page 176

To John Pryor Same £.3 3p. See page 176.
To Boston Deemwood for 85 days work done on the Galley
85 days a 6/ p Day is is £.25 10 Voucher No. 16 Page 178

A-Iartin Carney is Charged with two Publick Horses £.12 10
to be deducted from the Balance due him entered 22 February last
Page 53

Adjourned till Monday next.
Monday 19th May 1783. Met according to Adjournment.
It appears to the Com" (on examining Capt. Rowland Madisons accounts) that he stands chargable with L. 977 284 for Cash
Received from the Treasury and by the Sales of Horses &c. 33 yards
Oznabrigs at p'. yard and for 84 Horses not accounted for aver1



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 385

aged at L 1654.14 2 p Horse comes to £.138 995.10. Out of which
he has credit by his General account of Cash advanced for Horses
purchased, Services performed &c. L 861.485. And by service as
Quarter Master and Commissary from December 23'' 1780. to July
13th 1 78 1, in all 203 Days at p Day.

On M^ Madisons General Account the Commissioners make
the following remarks viz. In voucher No. I the Corn is high
charged it is at £.20 p Bushel, the selling price on Roanoke was
£.12 or L 15 the highest 200 Bushels of Corn charged by M'
Trigg and for his own Services, he is not qualified to; he charges
about 13/6 Specie p day.

In Voucher No. 2. of the General Account.
No. 21. Pork is charged when reduced by the Scale at 9''. p'' lb.
in No. 10 of the same Voucher, Bacon is i Specie p lb.

23 A Receipt for 400 10 in the amount it is carried out £.399
28 The Articles charged are high.
46 For Shoeing horses, high.

31. Pork is charged (as reduced by the Scale) at 9i p. lb.
In Voucher No. 3.
No. I. Price of a Horse, in the account above the receipt L 1530
in the body of the receipt £.1535. in Bledsocs account it
is only £.1 130.
9. A mare charged £.900. the receipt not signed.
12. A receipt for a Horse £.800 in the account £.1150.
14. A receipt for £.700 in the Account £.800.
16. A receipt for a Horse in the account above the receipt
£.750. in the body of the receipt £.850, and in the Acct.
£.800.
31. A receipt for a Horse L. 1700 in the account charg d £1750.
34 A receipt for £.21 in the Account £.31.
38 A receipt for £.3700 in the Account charged £.3500.
40 A receipt for a Horse £.1300 in the Account £.1350.
41. Two receipts for the amount of £.2900 in the Account

£.2800
61. A receipt for L 15 in the Account L 45.
65. An account no receipt for L 433.12 8
75. An account for Corn L 225. The Receipt for L 200.



386 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

80. An account, no receipt nor proof.

M' Bledsoe charges L 30. p^ Day for his Services 249 Dayshe

charges cash paid Thomas Madison L 4120, no receipt nor Voucher.

Voucher No. i

No. IIs an agreement with Gabriel Madison and Bond for tlie
delivery of 162 Horses at L. 1843 each, the Country to
pay all charges and risk, this was certainly too high and
made this purchase of Gabriel Madison much higher than
any of the others, we leave it to the Executive to Judge.

No. 2Gabriel Madisons account of Sundries No. from I to 20.
in which is No. I an account no receipt.

No. 2 An Account for feeding Horses, the time not specified.
No. 9. no articles specified.

No. 1 1 An Account for L329 not mentioned for whom.

No. 16 A receipt from Matthew Arbuckle for L. 5644 no voucher
how applied No. 18 L. 855 Advanced William Arbuckle
no voucher how applied. Voucher No. 3 wanting. No. 4
Gabriel Madisons Account for Pack Saddles not proven,
no Voucher. No. 5 Voucher wanting. Voucher No. 5 in
M'. Madisons General Account.

Abraham Penn s Account

No. I. A Horse £.1400 no Receipt.

8. A Horse £.1050 no voucherA receipt £.4810. In the

Account charged £.16 900.
12. A receipt for L 2900 in the account L. 1 500.

19. A charge for a Horse £.1200. no voucher.

20. A receipt for £.1250 in his account £.1300.

27. Two horses £.3200 No voucherNo vouchers for the following Numbers 28 29,30 3 1 32,33 34,35 36,37 38,&39.
No voucher for his Expenses to Fort Chiswell.
With these Vouchers there is a receipt from an officer for
a Gray Horse at L/1500. which we think is a Continental
charge.

No. 32In the General Account, for a waggonage of Twelve Bolts
of Oznabrigs from Richmond to Fort Chizwell.

No. 45An account for Shoeing 121 Horses at L. 36 each.

Amount L. 4356. The work was so slightly done that that



■'i-'



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 387

the shoes came off directly-by consequence the Horses got
lame and unable to perform the Journey to Kentucky.
No. 105 Voucher for a Horse at L. 500.
No. 106 A Horse at L. 4500.

No. no L. 5CX) for damage done 18 acres of Wheat, Rye flax.
No. 127 Gabriel Madisons Services at L. 50. pr. Day. When No.
I is considered and his Expenses are seemingly chargcii ii>
certificates, this article is scarce allowable, or if allowed,
certificates of the prices of the Horses he purchased should
be produced the State charged with no more than they
cost him.

In the Account raised for M^ Madison he is charged

with the Horses he does not account for at the average

price.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Col°Benjamin

Logan L. 18 9.6. for Corn as p^ Account Vouchers received No.

14 Bund'. C. Entered in Page 171

Received of Col" Benj. Logan an Account Vouchers for
Horses &c belonging to Sundry Persons, Lost at the Battle of the
Blue Lick amounting to L. 852 16. No. 72 Bundle Lincoln Militia.
Ent''. in Page 162

Note Tlie Horses &c Lost at the Blue Lick are Specially reported
upon in Page 74

The following allowances are made by the Commissioners
for the hire of Horses Horses lost on the Expedition under the
command of Gen'. Clark in 1782 as p'' List Vouchers received
from Colo. Logan, Entered in Page 162 L. 273 2.6. See No. 73
Bundle Lincoln Militia.

The Commissioners observe that the strays in the above List
that are returned or Lost, their prices wages are settled respectively
and are of Opinion, that if the Owners appear and prove their property in said Horses respectively, they should be paid for them-On the
A largin of the list is marked the number of Days the Horses were
in Service, also those lost.

A List of Horses Horse hire allowed to Sundry persons,
amounting to L. 185 6on the Expedition in 1782. See Vouchers
in Bundle Lincoln Militia No. 74. Entered in Page 162



388 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Received and settled Capt. John Swans pay Roll of Jefferson
Militia, from i8th July until 2ist August 1780. amount L. 50 12.
See Voucher No. 33. JeflFerson Militia Entered in Page 166

Adjourned till tomorrow morning.

Tuesday May 20'" 1783.
Met according to adjournment.

Sundry claims for diets Rations &c for the use of
tlie Greenbrier Militia when on duty in Kentucky, were laid before
the Commissioners by Capt. Rowland Madison, and Settled, amounting to L. 5 1 1 6 as p\ Vouchers No. 25 Entered in Page 170

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to John
Stepleton L. 3 12. for Looking after Publick Horses 30 days at 100
dollars p'' Day settled by the scale as p. Account and Voucher

It appears that there is due to John King and Thomas Montgomery (to be equally divided between them)L. 9. 1 1 4. for looking
after Publick Horses 41 days each at 2/4.

A pay Roll of Capt. Hyne s Company of Jefferson Militia
from 2ist Octo'' to 25th Novf 1782. Settled amount L. 78 10.6 2/5.
See No. 35 Bundle Jefferson Militia Enf" in page 166

adjourned till Tomorrow Morning.

Thursday May 22nd 1783.
Met according to adjournment

Settled Sundry claims of the Militia of Jefferson County received of Col. John Floyd Amount L. 219 3.0J p. Voucher No.
36 Bundle Jefferson Militia Entered in Page 166

A Return of Horses lost and Horse hire on the Expedition
in 1780 was laid before the Board in Kentucky by James Sullivan
Horse Master, which is this day examined, and the sums due to the
several persons anexed to their names. Amount L 240.5 9i p'' Voucher No. 37. Bund. Jefferson Militia. Ent*" in Page 170

A return of Horses lost and for horse service on the Expedition in 1782, was laid before the Board by Bland Ballard Horse
Master for the Militia of Jefferson County, which is examined and
the sums due to the several persons anexed to their names, amount
L. 177 6 9. p Voucher No. 38 Bund' Jefferson Militia Ent^ in Page
170

The Commissioners observe that there is three horses enJOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 389

tered by Capt. Hinds in the above list five by Capt. Potinger, are
supposed to be returned to the Owners, the hire of each L. 2 5. seems
due. Several of the Horses returned lost in the above mentioned
Return have no appraisement Bills, so that their value cannot be
fixed, where appraisement bills appear the value of the Horses aie
noted on the Bills.

Accounts of Sundry persons for Guns, Horses &c lost attempting to cover the retreat from Boons Station, were presented to the
Commissioners and Settled, amount L. 66 14, See No. 39Bundle
Jelierson Militia Entered in page 170

Accounts of Sundry Persons for Flour, Horse hire &c were
presented to the Commissioners Settled amount £.11 16.0 See No.
40 Bundle Jefferson Militia Ent^ in Page 170
Adjourned till tomorrow
Friday May 23d. 1783.

No. 41. Bundle Jefferson MilitiaA pay Abstract of Capt. George
Oins s Company of Militia from the first of May to 21st December
1780. is Settled by the Commissioners, amounting to L 578.17 0
Ent* in Page 1 70

No. 42 William Shannons Bill in favour of James Sullivan the
Account anexed for Sundry articles amounting to £.17 902.4 is Settled and allowed by the Commissioners at L 85.0 2 Specie See Bundle Jefiferson Militia, Entered in Page 170

No. 43.A Pay Roll of the Field and StafiE officers of Jefferson
County on an Expedition against the Indians in 1782. under tlic
Command of General Clark is Settled by the Commissioners and
allowed as follows, viz

To Isaac Cox Col. for 36 days Service at 12/£.21 12
To Wm. Pope L'. Col". 36 days Ditto-12/ 21 12

To James F. Moore Maj'. 36 days-ditto60/ 18. o
To Wm. Oldham adjutant 36 days ditto 4/ 74

To Thomas McCarty Q"' Master 36 ditto 4/ 74

To Bland Ballard Horse Master 36 ditto 4/ 74



See Bundle Jefferson Militia Ent. in Page 170 82 16
No. 34Allowed to Major Silas Harlan the p^ Certificates &c
No. IA Balance due Capt. Oins for Beef 42 15.10



390 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

2for 80 lb. Tallow 6 2. o. o

3275 lb. Wild Meat 16/8 2. 5 10

413 864 lb. Wild Meat® 16/8 L i 15. 10 8 I

169 lb. Bear meat do I. 8 2. M 17. 17. 2

55 lb. Tallow 4""--18 4 J £164 18.10

See Bundle E. Entered in Page 271.

5. Major Harlans account for Pay &c was presented, and

the Commissioners find that he had not more than 36

Men to command at Clarksville, and there was one Capt.

Oins of them whose pay has been Settled, Therefore

the Commissioners are of Opinion that the State ought

not to pay Major Harlan, as he was not necessary

ought not to have been appointed.

No. 76. Lincoln Militia The following claims for Horses &c

lost at Estills defeat are allowed by the Commissioners,

vW,.

No. ITo Page Polwood for i Horse &c L 18.2To David Crews for i Ditto 16 10

Carried forward

34-IO
Brought forward £34 10
No. 3. To Benjamin Martin for i Horse 16 10

4. To John Moorefor i Ditto 21 10

5. To John Berry for i Ditto 23 10

6. To Robert Harris for i Ditto 10. o

7. To Stephen Handcock for i Ditto 27 10

Amount entered in Page 162 133 10

The Board having considered the above Claims find that a party
of Indians had come in, taken some prisoners and committed murders.
Capt. Estill mounted a party of his Militia, overtook the Indians,
fought them, fell in the action his party was defeated and the
liorses lost, the Commissioners have to observe that Indian parties
cannot be overtaken in that Country but by persons on horseback,
that if they come to an engagement they must dismount and if defeated it of course occations the loss of several horses &c.
Adjourned till tomorrow.



|l JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 391

Saturday May 24th, 1783.
Settled Major Joseph Bowmans Pay Roll Amounting to L. 164 3

as p'. Vouclicr No. g of Colo. Bowmans Papers, Bundle Lincoln
Militia No. 64. Entered in Page 172

Received from Capt. Rowland Madison, Major Thomas
Quirk s certificate for 12 Horses lost James Davis s certificate for
I ditto lost, which are to be placed to Mr. Madisons Credit at
L I 654. 1 4 2 each.

Adjourned till Monday next.

Monday 26th May 1783.
No. 28Bundle Fayette Militia. A Pay Roll of Capt. Charles
Getliffs Company of Kentucky Militia from 17th March to 26th
June 1780 is Settled by the Commissioners amounting to L 236 3 7
3/5 Entered in Page 168

Note the Captain in this Pay Roll is to receive Lieutenants Pay,
the Lieutenant Ensigns Pay, the Ensign Sergeants Pay, and One of
the Sergeants the pay of a private.

The Men whose names are marked x inlisted with the British
at Detroit, Several of the Men are returnedThe opinion of the
Commissioners is, that the Money remain in the Treasury, til! call d
for by the Claimants or their order properly attested.
Adjourned till tomorrow
Tuesday 27th May 1783.

An order on the Treasurer of Valentine T. Dalton
in favour of George Calhoon assigned to John Dickinson for 504
Dollars; as it is Countersigned by General Clark the Commissioners
cannot Proceed upon it without either of full Board or General
Clarke being present.

It appears that there is due to James Gilmer for

5960 lb. Beef at 2 p' lb. £.49 13.4

509 lb. Bear meat at 2'' 4. 4 10

106 lb. Tallow at 4'* 1 15.4



See Bundle Lincoln Militia No. 77 Ent. 55-I3-6
in Page 172

The following Bills certificates were presented to the
Commissioners by James Gilmer Settled as follows, viz.



392 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

No. I A first of Exchange by Colo. John Montgomery in favour
of James M Afee dated 8th August 1781. for L 20.000 falls under
our first General remark Page 117.

No. 2 A first of Exchange drawn by John Montgomery in
favour of James McAfee dated 8th August 1781 for
£7 715.' this Bill falls under our first General remark
Page 117
No. 3 A first of Exchange dravi^n by Jas. T. Moore in favour of
Samuel Wells assigned to James McAfee dated July 9th
1780 for L iooo. This Bill falls under our first general
remark Page 1 1 7
No. 4 A Bill drawn by Gen' Clark in favour of Andrew Johnston assigned to James M°Afee for 750 Dollars dated i6th
February 1780. Settled by the scale at 16 2/3 Dollars.
No. 5 A Bill drawn by General Clark in favour of James Hays
for 750 Dollars, dated March 1st 1780. Settled by the
Scale at 14 i Dollars L. 4 7.
No. 6 A Bill drawn by General Clark in favour of William
Thompson for 750 Dollars dated i March 1780. Settled
by the Scale at 14 Dollars L. 4. 7.
No. 7 A certificate by Col. Geo. Slaugliter in favour of James
McAfee for 3350 Dollars and countersigned G R Clark.
Dated aug. 8th 1781. The Commissioners are of opinion
that James McAfee did not come express but might bring some
Letters Returning from Post St. Vincents in the corse of his private
business.

The Commissioners present having gone through all the
Business that can be Settled without a Board have directed the Secretary to make out a list of all the Claims against the State raise
as many of the Accounts as possible before the Papers are transmitted to the Executive, which he will take care to do by the lOth

day of June ensuing

William Fleming
Saml. M Dowell.
It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to John

The figure in the original manuscript journal appears as it is here
given; in the copy it appears as £7715.



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 393

M Dowell the sum of Eighteen pounds for a mare which died in
service, carrying the Publick papers from Kentucky,
adj* till tomorrow.

Saturday June 14th 1783.

The Commissioners Met at Richmond, and proceeded to make
out a general State of the Claims settled by them to lay before the
Executive.

Adjourned till Monday morning

Monday June 1 6th. Met according to adjournment Set
tied the following Pay Rolls of the Illinois Regiment, Viz

Capt. Jacob Payettes Pay Roll from the 9th of March untill
the 9th of Sept. 1782, Amount L 346.14 8. Entered in Page

See Bundle Illinois Regiment.
Capt. Gcraults Pay Rolls one for the month of December 1781.
amount L 69.19 4, also his pay Roll from the 1st of January untill
the 31st of August 1782. amount L 522.6 0 likewise his Pay Roll
from the 3d of June to the 30th of November 178 1 amount L 452.15 4

The Commissioners observe that Capt' Gerault in his Pay
Roll ending in November 1782. ought to receive pay for i68 days
instead of the time charged in his Roll

And then the Board adjourned till Tomorrow morning nine
o clock.

Tuesday 17th June 1783.
The board received from Martin Carney Capt. Jepe Evans' Pay
Roll from 29th December 1778 untill the mens time was expired,
Amounting to L. I57<j 2.5 3/5 which is settled Sec Bundle Illcnoise
Regiment Enf^ in Page 185Also Capt. Jepe Evans s pay Account
from 13th July 1780 untill the 20th November 1781 16 months
seven Days at 50 Dollars pr. month L. 243 10 See No. 6
Bundle M. Entered in page

Adjourned till Tomorrow 9 o clock.

Wednesday 1 8th June 1783.
Liquidated John Gibson s account and it appears to the Comm"
that there is due to him L. 1 1 35. 1 7 5 Virginia Currency in lieu of
L 1419.16 9 Pensilvania Currency, as p^ General Clarks Account.

The following Pay Rolls are Settled by the Commissioncrsviz. Illinois Regiment.



394 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

No. 7-Capt. Mark Thomas Company from the time of their
enlistment in November December 1779 till 30th
November 1781, amounting to L 2657,4 7. (See Bundle
M. Entered in Page 185.)

No. 8-A Pay abstract of Capt. Robert George s Company of
Artillery commencing 4th June 1779 Ending 3rd
December 1781 Inclusive, amounting to L 5301.19 9.
Entered in Page 185.

No. 9-A Pay Roll of Captain Abraham Kellars Company of
the Illinois Regiment commencing 9th May 1779
ending 9th November 1781, Amounting to £1702 5.4.
See Bundle M. Entered in page 185

No. 10 A pay Roll of Captain Abraham Chaplains Company

from 1st September 1782 till ist January 1783. Amount
L 516.10 7^ (See Bundle M. Entered in page 185)

No. II A pay Roll of Capt. Robert Todds Company from

December 20th 1778 till June ist 1780. Amounting to
L 608.2 1 3/5 (See Bundle M. Ent". in Page 185)

No. 12 A Pay Roll of Capt. Mark Thomas s Company from

the first till the 21st of December 178 1. Amount
L 64.2 0 4/5 (See Bundle M. Entered in page 185)

No. 13 A pay Roll of Captain Isaac Taylors Company from

their inlistment till 22nd August 1780. Amount
L 873.4 1 3/5 (See Bundle M.Entered in page 185)

No. 14 A Pay Roll of Captain Edward Worthington s Company from 1st June 1779. till i June 1780 Amount
L 679.12 6 2/5 (See Bundle M.Entered in page 185)

No. 15 A Pay Roll of Captain Richard Brashears Company

from the 30th Day of May 1780 till the 30th day of
November 1781 amounting to L 1016.6 4 (See Bundle
M.Entered in Page 185)

No. 16 A Pay Roll of Captain John William s Company from

29th May 1779 till 28th May 1780, Amounting to
L. 1452 15.8 (See Bundle M. Entered in page

No. 17 A Pay Roll of Capt. Robert George s Company of Artillery in tiie Illinois Department from 3rd December



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 395

1781 till 31st July 1782. Amount L. 772 i2.4.(See
Bundle M. entered in Page 185)

No. 18 Another Pay Roll of Captain Robert George s Company of Artillery for the month of August 1782
Amounting to L 8o.i8 8(See Bundle M.Entered in
page 185)

No. 19 A Pay Roll of Capt. Robert George s Company from

1st Sept. 1782 till 1st January 1783 Amounting to L.
235 2. Entered Bundled as above.

Adjourned till tomorrow morning 9 o clock.
Thursday 19th June 1783Tlie following pay rolls of the Illinois Regiment were settled by

the Commissioners viz

No. 20. A pay Roll of Capt Thomas Quirk s Company from

17th December 1778 till 28th May 1780. Amounting
to L. 1 505. 1 2. 10. (See Bundle M. Entered in Page

185)
No. 21. A Pay Roll of Capt. Richard McCartys Company from

30th May 1779. till 2nd June 1781. Inclusive Amounting to L. 1530 3.5. (See Bundle M. Entered In Page

185.)
No. 22. A Pay Roll of Capt. John Baileys Company from the

time of their inlistment till 30th November 178 1

amounting to L. 1859 19.6 (See Bundle M. Entered

in Page 185.)
No. 23. Another pay Roll of Captain Baileys Company for

the month of December 1781 L 63.6-0 (Entered

Bundled as above.)
No. 24. Another Pay Roll of Captain Baileys Company from

the first of January till 31st July 1782. Amounting

to L 437.12 8. Entered Bundled as above.
No. 25. Another Pay Roll of Captain Baileys Company for the

month of August 1782. Amount L. 114. 1 6 8. Entered

Bundled as above.)
No. 26. Another Pay Roll of Captain Baileys Company from

the first September 1782 till 31st January 1783 Amount

L. 534 17.8 (Entered Bundled as above.)



396 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning 9 o clock.

Friday 20th June 1783.
The Following Pay Rolls of the Illinois Regiment are settled
by the Commissioners, vizNo. 27. A Pay Roll of Captain Isaac Taylors Company for the

month of August 1782 Amounting to L. 113. 12 (See

Bundle M. Entered in Page
No. 28. A Pay Roll of Capt. Edward Worthingtons Company

from dates of their inlistments till 30th November 1781

Amounting to L i 350 1 7 1 (See Bundle M. enf".

Page
It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to David Duncan
Three hundred and Sixty Pound Specie Specie Virginia Currency
in lieu of 450 Pennsylvania Currency by a Bill of Exchange drawn
by George Walls I M.G.&C. countersigned by G R Clark Dated
Pittsburg July 28 1 78 1

It appears that there is due to Capt. Isaac Craig the sum of
£29 7. 2^ Virginia Currency in lieu of 36 14 Pens Currency. By
a Bill of Exchange drawn by General Clark, dated Falls of Ohio 13""
October 1781. It appears that there is due to David Duncan 8
Verg» Currency in lieu of Ten Pounds Pensylvania Currency for
Pasturage &c. taken for the use of the army under the Command
of General Clark, as p^ Certificate.

The Commissioners having examined Doctor Connard s accounts find that his Bills N0 1.2 6.8.&10 are for Medecines Services ought to be Protested.

That N"'. 4 5 are for paper Money advanced to Col'
Montgomery, and ought to be paid according to the Scale of Depreciation for the State, as the Scale for that Country did not Continue till the date of the Bills The Bill of 4000 Dollars General
Clark informs the Board was not for Medicines charged the State,
but for Paper Currency advanced.

That the No. 7 9.1 1.& 12 are Bills by Connard taken up
which he wishes to return.

Tiic Commissioners are of opinion that Docf Connard Ought
to be Allowed for one Years Service as Surgeon to the Troops in
the Illinois Country commanded by Col». Montgomery the Sum of



JOURNAL OF IVESTERN COMMISSIONERS 397

Two Hundred Seventy Pounds, also the sum of Fifty Pounds for
Medicins furnished, and Seventy five Pounds two Shillings for Flour,
Taffia, Sugar &c furnished Account as follows viz,

One year s pay as Surgeon(Pay Rations)L 270 OSundry Medecins furnished 50.

Flour, Sugar, Taffia &c furnished 75 2.

I Bill of Exchange date March 3rd 1780 for Paper
Money advanced 4000 Dollarsreduced is 24.

1 Ditto, date Oct. 3, 1780 for 2258 Dollars 9-5-7



L 428 7.7
The Medecins said to be furnished Col. Montgomery the board
cannot judge of, as no Prices are fixed; but are of opinion the articklcs marked were necessary, the quantity of many of tiiem too
great for the number of men, but that the whole might have been
furnished for perhaps less than One Thousand Dollars.

Frederick Sov' Guion laid before the Com''" a list for service
as an Issuing Commissary, by wliich it appears that there is due to
him L I 1. 18 for that Service, also it appears that there is due to s*
Guion Ten pounds for a Horse lost in Service p'' Certificate assigned
to him by Edward Worthington, See Bundle M.

Adjourned till Tomorrow morning 9 O clock
Saturday 2ist June 1783.
The Commissioners proceeded to Examine Col. Montgomerys
Accounts, but not having time to go through the same.
Adjourned till Monday 9 o clock.
Monday 23rd June 1783.
The Commissioners Examined several Bills of Exchange presented by M'' William Murray, and made the following remarks.

The Commissioners Examined the following Bills of Exchange drawn by Colo. John Montgomery on the Treasurer of Virginia in favour of Daniel Murray viz (See Page 285)
No. 1. A first of Exchange for 544 2/3 Dollars dated 5tli

October 1780 drawn by Col' Montgomery on the
Treasurer of Virginia in favour of Dan' Murray the
Commissioners are of opinion, should be settled by tiie
Illenois Scale of Depreciation at L. 10 18.0



398 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

No 2. for 2478 Dollars dated 14th October 1780. This Bill

th Commissioners settle by the Scale of Depreciation for
the State, which reduces it to L 10 3.8. as Col' Montgomery asserts that all the Bills drawn by him on the
Treasurer were for Paper Currency unless otherwise expressed in the Bill.
3 Exchange for 1026 Dollars Currency dated i8th October
1780. which is reduced by the State Scale to L 4.4 4.
4. Exchange for 200 Dollars dated 14th October 1780.

It appears to the Commissioners by a note among Col°.
Montgomerys papers is to be paid with Three Dollars
Specie 18/No. 5-Exchange for 1590 Dollars dated 8th July 1780, which
is reduced by the State Scale to L. 7 6.10.

No. 6-Exchange for 2236 Dollars dated 2 1st July 1780 reduced by the State scale to L 10.6 4
Adjourned till tomorrow 9 o clock.

Tuesday 24th June 1783The following accounts are allowed by the Commissioners as

per vouchers in Bundle D. viz:No. 42 To Robert Ravenscraft for 2 Mares L 37.15

for I Gun L 6. L 43.15

No. 43 To Robert M^Ano for i Horse Saddle &c18 15

No. 44 To Thomas Ravenscraft for i Ditto 35-No. 45-To John Dyalfor i ditto 21 15

No. 46-To Edmund Rice-for 1 Horse 25.-Entered in Page 258) 144-5

The following pay Rolls &c are settled by the Commissioners
(See Bundle M.)
No. 30An account of pay for Thomas Ravenscraft, from nth

July 1 78 1 till 20th January 1783. as a Lieutenant,

amounting to L 252.1 8
No. 31-A pay Roll of Infantry Volunteers under the Command

of Capt. Francis Boseron from 27th October till 17th

December 1778. Amounting to L. 140 12.9-See

Bundle M No 30.)



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 399

No. 32 A Pay Roll of a party of Volunteers under the Comand of Major Francis Boseron on an Expedition from
22nd August till 13th September 1779. amt. L 23.6 1
2/5 See Bundle M

No. 33 Allowed to Major Francis Boseron for 8 months and

4 days Service as a Captain p account L i 13 1 7 4
also for 23 Days Service as a Major p Do. 13 16.



Sec liiiiullc
Lincoln
Militia
N078127 I3.4
The Commissioners are of opinion that there was no necessity
for a Contractor at post St. Vincents, as there was but a small
number of Men there and a Deputy Commissary present, Tliercforc
that part of Major Boserons account is rejected.

Allowed to Joseph Lindsay tiie Following sums as p^ account
Vouchers in Bundle

for Pay as Contractor for General Claries Expedition ag'
Detroit from 20th Novem. 1780 till loth April 1781142

Days at 10/ L. 71 0 0.

for pay as Commissary Contractor for the Militia of
Lincoln Fayette Jefferson from ist October
1781 till 15th August 1782. 252 days at 10/
For 13429 lb. Beef at 16/8 p ct
For 353 lb. Pork at 25 p. ct
For 165 i lb. Tallow at 6" pr. lb.

(Entd. in page 290) L 317. 9. 2

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to Col"John Dickinson assignee of John Carr who is assignee of George
Calhoon 480 2/5 Dollars upon an Account receipt drawn by
Val T. Dalton Counter signed G. R. Clarke for 564 Dollars.
Adjourned till to-morrow morning 9 o clock.
Wednesday 25'" June 1783.
No. 34 Mr. Isaac Bowman presented an account of his Service as Horse

Master to the Illinois Regiment from 12th May till 17th November
1779. 200 days for which the Commissioners are of opinion he
ought to be allowed Equal to Quarter masters pay 6/4 p. day which
amounts to L. 63. 6. 8. They are farther of opinion that he was



126.






III.


18


2


48


3


42


9



400 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

out of the service of the State at the time he was captured
consequently has no legal claim for the time he was in Captivity,
but beg leave to refer it to the Honl. The Executive.
Page 290)

L 64.9 2. (It also appears to the Com", that L i.2 6 is due to the
said Isaac Bowman for Cash paid on behalf of the State,
when he was in Service as pr. Vouchers See Bundle. M.
No. 35 Allowed to Moses Bonnets L 2.13 4 for a Cannoe, taken for

the use of the State (See Voucher No. 35 Bundl. M.
No. 36. Allowed to Daniel Murray for his service as a Commissary in the Illinois department from 17th July 1778 till
17th July 1780730 days at 6/4 P. Day L. 231 3.4
also for his services as a Quarter Master from 15th August
1778 till first March 1779198 days at 3/2 is L 31.7
(See Bundle M.)

Adjourned till Tomorrow 9 o clock.
Thursday 26th June 1783.
Delivered to M^ Nathan a certificate for articles received by Mr.
Shannon, for which Bills were drawn for the amount of 25 224 3/5
Dollars.

Adjourned till To morrow 9 o clock.
Friday 27th June 1783.
It appears to the Commissioners that L. 163 18.10 2/5 the
amount of two pay rolls No. 31 32 settled 24th instant is due
to Major Francis Boseron, he having produced satisfactory proof
to the Board that all the men contained in said pay rolls were paid
by him.

Adjourned till tomorrow g o clock. 'i

Saturday 28th June 1783.

Mons'. Carbeneaux presented an account of the articles for 7^,

wliich the Bill No. 4 reported on in page 57 was drawn, on Examining the same the board are of opinion that it should be discharged

with 125 dollars Speciey' ife

The Bill No. 12 reported on in page 59th ought to be protested till proper vouchers are produced for the articles for which !rj,

this Bill were drawn. I«



JOURNAL OF WESTERN COMMISSIONERS 401

No. IA Certificate drawn by Blackford for 373 lb. Beef allowed 280 Livres 6 lb. Iron allowed 15 Livres in all
295 Livres or 59 Dollars Specie.
No. 2A Certificate drawn by Blackford rejected.
No. 3A certificate drawn by Blackford for 4 2/8 Gallons oil
10 Livres is 41 Livres allowed 8 2/5 Dollars Specie.
A Bill of Exchange drawn by Col". John Todd in
favour of Francis Boscron for 4646 Dollars dated June 26th 1779
at St. Vincents. The Com'" are of opinion that this Bill ought to
be discharged by the Payment of 925 Dollars Specie.

It appears to the Commissioners that there is due to General
George Rogers Clark, for flour &c furnished the garrison at Fort
Nelson L I 204 6.5 Specie, as p. account vouchers, for his pay &c
as colonel from 2nd January 1778 till 22 January 1781. L. IJOI
for his pay &c as Brigadier General from 22 January 1781 till 26th
June 1783 L. 1092 10in all L. 3397 16.5. as p'. account Bundle
M. No. 37

The Commissioners have Examined a Bill drawn by Col".
John Todd in favour of Mons''. Beauregard for 30 000 Dollars dated
13th December 1779and find it was for Peltries, applyed to the
support of the troops in the Illinois— That the purchas was higher
than usual as appears by Col". Montgomerys certificate and Information No. 2 The reasons of which will appear by Col". Todds
Letter, The Commissioners are of opinion that this Bill should be
honoured (See Bundle T.

The Bill of 12 000 Dollars drawn by M^ Montgomery in
favour of Mons^ Beauregard, appears to have been for ten Hogsheads of Taffia, which the Commissioners are of Opinion that it
ought to be settled at one for eight by the best information they can
collect.

The Commissioners having Liquidated as far as in their
power all accounts presented to them, prepared the following report
to be laid before the Honl. The Executive, viz)

Richmond 28th June 1783.
Sir.

The Commissioners having proceeded in the Liquidation of the
western accounts as far as in their power refer to their Journals



40-! ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

for a State of the same, an Index of which will be found therewith they have also stated accounts against several officers &c
to which the Auditors may have recourse

Accompanying these is a general state of the amount of
all accounts by them settled, also the best State the Commissioners could collect of all Bills drawn by the officers others
in the Illinois department on Oliver Pollock, the Governour
Treasurer &c, but have to observe that this state of Bills is
imperfect as the Commissioners had to collect colonel Montgomerys list from detached papers.

They farther observe that serveral Officers &c have not
settled their accounts viz. Col°. Montgomery, William Shannon,
Capt. Robert George, John Donne Commissary, John Dodge,
James F. Moore &c. Mr. Shannons papers are only part of
them here, as by an unlucky actident he was prevented from
attending at this place.

The Commissioners thought it unnecessary to enter up the
credit of officers others, the amount of Pay recruiting accounts &c, as that will fall of course to the Auditors, or those
to whom the final settlement of these accounts may be referred.

The Bundles of vouchers are marked referred to in the
Journals, the sums due the Different claimants, are entered in
the latter part of the book of Journals from page 256th under
different titles, refering to the Journal entry. The Bundles
from A. to L. are filed in one Bundle and mark** accordingly
The pay rolls &c of the different counties, are in separate bundles
and marked with the names of the Counties respectively. We
have the honour to be with the greatest respect your Excellencys
Most obedient

H'. Servants
His Excellency Benj. Harrison
Esq"^ Governour &c. T. Marshall

In Council ist July 1783.
The Commissioners appointed to settle and adjust the Accounts in the Western Department against the State having returned
their Proceedings therein. The Board advise that the same be



m



VIRGINIA ACCOUNTS



403



delivered to the Auditors of Public Accompts, and that Certificates
be granted for the several Balances due by the State according to the
Acts and Resolutions of the Gen. Assembly respecting the same.

Benj. Harrison.



The State of Virginia Dr.

To Sundry Persons for Horses tc Horse Hire



Vouchs.


See Bundle D.


Page


L


S


d


No. I


To W"". Morrow for a Horse lost pr.












Vouchf. in Bundle D


13


2


IS


4K»


I


To— ditto for Horse hire ditto


do


2






2


To Robt. Bowmer for a Horse lost












ditto.


14


2


6


iJ4


3


To JaB. Hogan— for ditto ditto


22


20






4


To Martha Boone for Horse hire do


25


I


Ig


9


5


To Mordecai Morgan ditto ditto


do


I


ig


9


6


To Reubin Camp for 61 days service












as a Waggoner P. Voucher


44


2


•7


2


7


To Robt. Hamilton for a Horse lost


73


«5






8


To Jeane Grant for Horse Hire do


81


I


II


3


9
10


To Josiah Phelps for 2 Horses lost
To W™. Cummins for a Mare lost do


84
85


66






40







II


To Nicolas Brabston, the hire of a














93
95


J


J 1


3

6


12


To Robt. Sanders for Horse hire &c


9


'7


13


To John Long for ditto ditto


lOI


I


6


9


14


To Robt. Johnson and others for horse












hire p. Voucher in Bundle D


lOI


9


7


6


JS


Samuel Rice for 4 days horsehire


105




5


Q


16


To Philemon Walters for a Horse








lost, same


128


32








17


To Samuel Hinch for a mare












Sund. same.


129


29





g


Ig


To the estate of James Right Deed.












for a horse Sund. furnished same


J31


24


Ig


g







274


14


9%


Vouch"




Page


L


S.


d




Brought forward.




274


r4


9%


No. 19


To Jacob Sodowsky for a Horse lost












as p Vouch, in Bundle D.


132


23








20


To Rachel Swan for a mare lost &c












same


do


33


2


7/.


21


To John Patterson for a mare lost












same


133


2


6


ifi



404 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Vouch"




Page


L


S.


d


22


To John Dougherty for Horse hire













do.


do


2


'5





23


To Stephen Fisher for do


do


2


15





24


To John Dougherty for do


do


2


15





25


To Robert Karr— do


do


2


15





26


To William Robertson— do


do


2


15





27


To Gasper Bopes do


do


I


5





2S


To Peter Demmory for a horse lost












as p. Voucher in Bundle D.


137


5


7


S


29


To John May same ditto


do


17


'3


10


30


To John Haggan ditto


do


II





8


31


To Nathan Sellers for horse hireditto


do


2


7


6


32


To William Bladsoe for a horse lost












do


144


20








33


To William Morrow for horse hire












do


145




17


6


34


To Joseph Love for do


do




18


9


35


To George Farbish for a Gun lost












do—


do


7


10





36


To Jesse Farbish for a Saddle












Bridle p. Vouch in Bundle D


do


2








37


To James Hoglan for Horses


170


73


3




38


To Henry Hoglan for ditto


170


30


16




39


To John Stapleton for feeding horses












&c do


176


3


12




40


To King Montgomery for Ditto


176


9


II


4


41


To Thomas McCarty for Sundries












do178


12


I


6






545


3


3/.


42


To Sundry persons p. Ace* Vouchers












Bundle D.


194


144


5





The State of Virginia Dr.

To Sundries for JerrERSON Militia



Vouchers See Bundle Jefferson Militia



Page



L.



S.



No. I

I
2



To Capt. Boone, the amount of his
Pay Roll in Aug. 1780
To Capt. William Oldham, the
amount of his Pay Roll in Aug. 1780
To Capt. Oldham for rations furnish''



35

72
73



39
84



io>4



'0.



VIRGINIA ACCOUNTS



405



Vouch"




Page


L.


S.


d


3


To Robt. Hamilton ditto


do


I


10




4


To Capl. Ja8. Davis the amount ol












his Pay Roll in Nov. 1782


74


77


•5


2^


5


To Capt. James Samuel the amt. of












his Pay Roll in Nov. 1782—


do


57


9


7/5


6


To Capt. Ja». Rodgers the amount of












his Pay Roll in Nov. 1782


do


77


15


2^5


7


To Capt. Jacob Vanmater the amount












of his Pay Roll in Nov. 1782.


75


50


'7


7/5


S


To Capt. John Varbrus the amount oi












his Pay Roll in Nov. 1782


do


9»


2


4^5


9


To Capt. Charles Polk the amount of












his Pay Roll Novr 1782


do


127


6


iiH


10


To Capt. Jas. Rodgers the amount of












his Pay Roll in July 1782


do


29


10


iiH


II


To ditto in May 1782

Carried forward'


do


23





iVs




L


656


10


z%




Brought forward




656


10


1%


No. 12


To Lieut. George Wilson the amount












of his Pay Roll in Novr lygj.


75


24


17


7/5


13


'I o Capt. Uaniel Hall the amount of












his Pay Roll in August 1780


76


49


18


5


'4


To Capt. Hardy Hill the amount of












his Pay Roll in August 17S0


do


80


14


8




Also his ration Roll of the same date


do


33


12




15


To Capt. Cha? Polke the amount of












his Pay Roll in Augs' 1780


do


83


5


8




Also his Ration Roll of the same date




45


17




16


To Capt. RichJ. Chinowith the amount












of his Pay Roll in Novr 1782.


77


75


5


2^


»7


To Capt. Danl. Hall the amount of
his Pay Roll for Rations in August












1780


do


28


I




18


To Capt. Jas. Davis the amount of his












Pay Roll in July 1782—


do


24


S


4


19


To Capt. Peter Asturgus the amount












of his Pay Roll in August 1780


78


III





9:^5


do


Also his Ration Roll of the same date


do


62


18




20


To Capt. Aquilla Whitaker the












amount of his Pay Roll in June 1782


do


80


5


2^


21


To Capt. James Patten the amount of












his Pay Roll in May 1782


do


46


19


2'/5


22


To Capt. John Vartrees the amount












of his Pay Roll in Aprildo


60


10


8



'The figures are reproduced as they appear in the original, but the
total of the items as given should be £662, 10 s, 354 d.



4o6



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Vouch*




Page


L.


S.


d.


23


To Capt. James Asturgus the amount












of his pay roll in Nov. 1782


79


57


13


^'/5


24


To Capt. James Patten the amount of












his pay Roll in July tc Aug. 1780


do


109


4




25


To Capt. Lewis Hickman the amt of












his pay roll in Aug. 1780


do


64


>7


I 'A



Vouch" See Bundle Jefferson Militia



Page





Also a pay Roll for Rations of the












same date


do


29






No. 26


To Capt. Aquilla Vt hitaker the am*
of his Pay Roll in Novf 1782 (see












page 80)


80


97


9


10




Also his Pay Roll in June 1782


do








27


To Sergeant Richd Lee the amount of












his pay roll in June 1781


do


9


16


3


28


To part of Capt. Chinovriths CompT












the amount of a Pay Roll in May 1782


8-;


21


IS





29


To George Wilson for 36 day service
as Commissary, p. Vouch'. Bund', as












above


86


9








30


To Col". John Floyd for service as p.












Vouchers in Bundle as above


128


27








31


To Capt. MichL Humble for the












amount of his Pay Roll in Aug. 1780


137


74


14


It


32


To Col" William Pope for service as












a Sheriff p. Vouch^ Bund' as above.


147


7


5





33


To Capt. John Swans pay Roll do


176


50


12




34


To Sundry persons for Horses &c lost












do—


177


3it


•4




35


To Capt. Andrew Hind s pay roll do
Carried forward'


179


78


10


6Vs




L


2424


li


sH



'The total should be £2418, 13s, s^d.
Account of Jefferson Militia Continued.Voucher



Brought forward Page



S.









2424


16


•iH


No. 36


To Sundry persons as pr list Bundle












Jefferson Militia


179


219


3


'A


37


To Sundries for Horses Ic hire p.












Ditto


do


240


5


9%



VIRGINIA ACCOUNTS



407



Vouchs.




Page


L


S


d


38
J9
40

41

42
43


To Ditto for ditto

To Ditto for Guns Horses &c Lost

To Ditto for Flour Horse hire

To Capt. George Oins' Pay Abstract

do

To James Sullivan for Sundries

To Field k staff officers of Jefferson

do

Total


do
I So
do

iSo
do

igi


•77
66
II

578
85

82


6

14
16

17
16


9

2




L.


3886


15


2Va,



This total, based on the items as here given, should be 3880, 12 s,

The State of Virginia Dr.

To THE Militia of Fayette County



Vouchers




Page


L.


S


D


No. I


To Capt. William Hogan for the amt.
of his Pay Roll in Aug. 1780, see












Bund'. Fay. Mil.


21


331


17


10


2


To Capt. W". Hogan, the am*, of his
Pay Roll in Dec. 1780, see Bundle












Fayette Militia


22


112


6


10


3


To Capt. Hazeltrigg, the amount of
his Pay Roll in Nov. 1782 Bundle F.












M—


23


74


18


4


4


To Capt. Wm. M^Connel for the












amount of his Pay Roll in Novr 1782


23


62


16


8


5


To Capt. Robt. Johnson for the
amount of his Pay Roll in April












1781


23


114


8




6


To Capt. John Constant the amount












of his Pay Roll in Novr 1782


24


77


14


4


7


To Capt. Robt. Johnson for the












amount of his Pay Roll in Novr 1782.


do


79


7


8


8


To Capt. Wm. McConnel of McConnels Station the amount of his












Pay Roll in Novr 1782


do


75


4


8


9


To Spies for Services performed as












p Voucher in Bundle as above


25


28


15




10


To Wm. Marshall Barnebas BoyI
for spying p. Vouch. In Bundle as












above.


26


14


14





408



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Vouchers



Page



D



12
•3



Vouchers



No. 14



15
16



17



18



19



23



24



25



26



To Daniel McClain for service as

Commy. p. Voucher Bundled as above

To ditto ditto

To Ens". John Pleak the amount of

his Pay Roll in June 1781 Bundled as

above.



Continued.

Brought forward
To Robt. Thompson for sun. services
perform") p. Voucher in Bundle Fayette Militia

To James McConnel for making three
Canoes p. Vouch^ In Bundle as above.
To Lieut. Thos. Stevenson the amount
of his Pay Roll in July 1782.
To Mich. Warnick for building a
store House p. Vouch Bundled as
above.

To Thos. Feeklin for a Gun lost in
service p. Voucher Bundled as above.
To And*. Steel for services as Q.
Master Commissary p. Vouch Bundled as above.
To the Estate of Thos. Stevenson for
a Gun lost in service p. Vouch, as
above.

To Capt. Robt. Patterson the amount
of his Pay Roll in July 1782 Bund'
as before.

To Capt. Wm. McConnel the amount
of his Pay Roll in Jan. March 1783.
Lieut. Francis McDonnald the amount
of his Pay Roll in Jan. March 1783.
To Sundries for building the Fort
at Lexington Bundled as above
To Sundries lost at Colo. Todd s de
feat as pr. Vouchr. in Bundle as above
To— ditto at Capt. Constants defeat
To Sundries as p. Cert". Rec<'. of Colo.
Boone.

To Lieut. John Morrison the amount
of his Pay Roll in July 1781 See
Bundle Fayette Militia.
To Capt. Isaac Ruddle the amount of
his pay Roll in June 1780



90
91



92



Page

92

93
do

do
do

95
96

do
do
do



97
98

100



I02
113



53



1030

L
1030



9

12

17

6
5

78



120

9

16

92

361
120

457

78
442



17



12

S
12



18



13
»5



9
•3
7
3
9



J5
10



s A



oj4
D

0%



9

8J4
6

10



VIRGINIA ACCOUNTS



409



Vouch™




Page


L.


S


d


2g


To Capt. Charles Gatliffs Pay Roll
To amount brought over

Fayette County Total


183


236
2343


3
9


7H
6




L


3100


19


W



This fraction should be 9^0



The State of Virginia Dr

To Sundries for the Greenbrier other Militia on Com. 178 i



Vouchers



Page L.



S.



No. I

2

3
4
5
6

7&8



9
10
II
12
13
M
'5
16

17
18

19

20
21
22

No. 23

24
25



To Francis Donally 46 Ration 6*
P. Ration P. Voucher Bundl. A
To Sarah Donnally 70 Ration do
To Daniel McClain 63 ditto
To Robt. Thompson 35 ditto
To Lucy VVimer 246 ditto
To Samuel Johnson 236 ditto
To Hugh Cunningham 147 ditto
To Jas. Asturgus a Bill for rations,
(lillo

To George Grundy for 60 ditto
To William Martin for 45 ditto

To Saml. Kelly for Rations

To George Owens for Rations

To George Puff for do

To Samuel Rice for diets

To Isaac Hite for Provisions do

To John Pringle ditto

To Jane Travis ditto

To William Wilcox ditto

To James Lawrence for rations do

To William McWhorter do

To William Robertson do

To John Berry do

To Samuel Brigs do do

To Henry Baffman do

To Sundry persons for Diets Rations

&c See Bundle Greenbrier Militia A.

To amount Brought over



26

43
82

9»
92

104
104
105
127



128
130



141
143
"45

176



I
I
I

6
5
3

3
3
I

2
4
7
3
18



5
91

97



3
15
II

17

3

18

»3



12
14
14
It

5
10
12
16
18
10

II
10



D



6

6

6
o
4
4
o
6
o
o
o
o
o
6
o
o
6

6

8



4IO ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



The State of Virginia Dr.

To Sundries for Salt 4 Corn &c



Vouchers




Page


L.


s


D


No. I


To Evan Hinton for a Kittle lost at
the salt works, Oct. 30, 1777 p Voucher in Bundle C.


12


4


5





2


To Robt. Johnson for Plank p. acct












and Voucher, Bundle C.


25


3


7


g


3


To W"". Grant for Corn as p Voucher












in Bundle C—


26


75


4


9'/4


4


To Israel Grant ditto




9


12




5


To Edw. Hammon ditto




3






6


To Joseph Phelps— ditto


43


21






7


To Morris Hansbrough ditto


80


3


18




8


To Robt. Johnson Sund. ditto


95


50


10




9


To John Templin for forrage


112




12


iV4


lO


To John Curd for 50 Bushels corn


136


9








H


To Saml. Shortridge for 7 ditto


137




14





12


To William Steel for Yi Bushels salt


145


I


10





•3


To John Sellers for ditto




I


10




14


To Col. Benjamin Logan for Corn
(Warrants issued for the above)


175




iS


9


6




202


13


3/4



The State of Virginia

To Sundries for Beef, Flour, &c.



Dr.



Vouchers




Pa Re


L.


S


D


No. I


To. Wm. Hays for a Steer as p












Voucher In Bundle E.


25


3


I


6 '4


2


To Col" Daniel Boone for 582 lb. of












Beef p. Vouchr Bundl.— E—




4


17




3


To John Ray for 278 lb. of flour p.












Voucher Bundle E.


43


2


13


7


4


To Gravis Wapshott for 23 lb. flour












a Hunting Shirt P. Vouch. Bund. E.—


82


I


6


1V2


5


To Hugh Martin for Beef &c as pr.












Voucher Bundle E.


91


2


17


7'/.


6


To Henry McDonald for Beef furnish l pr Voucher Bundle E.




I


8


5


7


To Robt. Patterson for ditto




6







VIRGINIA ACCOUNTS



411



Vouchers




Page


L.


8


D.


g


To James Lindsay ditto




6






9


To James Wason ditto




7


4


3?4


10


To John McDonald ditto




5


16




II


To Mich!. Warnick— do


92


5


18


4


12


To Levi Todd assee. of Jn" Napper


95


3


9


2-4


13


To Van Swerengen for 2032 lb. Beef


96


18


6




H


To W">. M^Connel for— 100 lb— Beef




I


12




'5


To David Wm. Mitchels for Beef
Carried over to Page 271


100


«7


12


2






88


2


3


16


To William Stafford others for












provisions as pr. Vouch. Bundle E.


I02


7


10


6


'7


To John Saunders for Beef Sund.












as pr. Voucher in Bundle E.


104


2


I


6


No. 18


To M™. Svpan for Flour ditto


112


12


5


4


19


To Edw. Parker for Beef &c


"7


51


2


1 1 '/a


20


To Sergeant Elms ditto




6


II


8


21


To William Thompson ditto




18


12


6


22


To Moses Lunceford ditto3








23


To Josiah Smith ditto




I


3


2


24


To Jas. Finn ass^e. of Wm. Bush


120


15


10


4V2


25


To Mary Hinton for 166 lb. Pork


131


2


I


6


26


To John Henkston for a covf do




7


13


10


27


To Edw. Hogan for 643 lb. of Beef


r32


5


7


2


28


To Jas. Ilarrod for a yearling Bull


136




II





29


To Jn". Cowan for 11 1 lb. of pork




I


7


9


30


To John Smith for 55 lb. of Beef






8


8


31


To Henry French for Beef &c




8


10


4


32


To Benjamin Pope for Beef


147


8


>3


6


33


To Peter Young for a Beef cow do2


10





34


To Silas Harlan for Sundries


181


164


18


10






408


2


io!4



The State of Virginia

The Sundries for Express Spy Duty.



Dr.



Vouchers





L.


s


30


4


10


37


10






I


16


42


4


10


61


40




72


4


5


80


25





D



No.



To Sergeant Crurap for going Express as pr. Voucher in Bundle F.
To Edw. Doherty for going Express
as pr. Voucher in Bundle F
To Ditto ditto— ditto
To John Phips ditto
To Edward Parker Wm. Boush for
going Express to the Illinois
To Edw. Parker ditto Bundle F.
To Capt. Jn". Sullivan do



412



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Vouchers




Page


L.


S


D


7


To Sam. Eakin for ditto


81


8


12


6


8


To John McGarr ditto


83


21


12




9


To John McGarr for Balance of his
account with the State Bundle F.


84








lO


To James Asturgus Sc James Welsh
for services as spies p. Vouch Bundle












F.


86


3


10




II


To Peter Coleman Dav** Glenn for












service as Express p. Vouch Bundle F.


88


54






12


To Daniel Sullivan ditto




30


'3




12


To Robt. Floyd




•7


IS




13


To David Glenn ditto


89


7


16




'4


To Alex. McClain for service as a












Spy p. Voucher in Bundle F.


91




15




IS


To Samuel Johnson for services as












Express p. Vouch Bundle F.

Continued in page 274.


93




18








235


12


6




Account Kaskaskias from Page 281


13 436


I


2






To Acct. Fort Jefferson


105


8








[llinois Regiment &c added to Page












289


27 250


13


8






As pr. Ace'. Lincoln Militia No. 78


317


9


2






Genl. Clarke others in Illinois Acct
Total


13 062


14








82 658


10


2





CHAPTER XI

ALLOTMENT OF LANDS IN CLARK S GRANT TO SOLDIERS ON
THE ILLINOIS EXPEDITION, FEBRUARY i, 1783 APRIL 3, 1847

Commission Organized, February i, 1783 at Fort Nelson Lands Located
Opposite Louisville William Clark Appointed Principal Surveyor
Those Entitled to Receive Lands, August 3, 1783 Clark Empowered TO Erect a Mill in Clarksville, August 7, 1783 Sale of
Lots, May 9, 1786 Clark Present at Meeting of the Board, February I, 1813.

"Records of the Proceedings of the Illinois Officers

RESPECTING A GrANT OF LaNDS."^

[Draper MSS., 61J.— D. S.]

Proceedings of the Commissioners on the Grant of Lands to Illinois
Officers, February I, 1783

'Governor Patrick Henry submitted Clark s plan for the conquest of
the Northwest to Thomas Jefferson, George Mason, and George Wythe.
They advised that it should be carried out and promised to use their
influence in securing from the Virginia Assembly three hundred acres of
conquered land for each common soldier enlisting in the expedition and
the officers in the usual proportion. See Clark Papers, 37 38_.

In the resolution providing for the cession by Virginia of her lands
north of the Ohio River (January 2, 1781), it was stipulated that a quantity
of land, not to exceed 150 000 acres, should be granted to the officers and
soldiers of the Illinois Regiment. Hening s Statutes at Large, 10:565.

During the October, 1783, session of the legislature, a supplementary
act was passed which provided for locating and surveying these lands
and naming a Board of Commissioners, composed of William Fleming,
John Edwards, John Campbell, Walker Daniel, George Rogers Clark, John
Montgomery, Abraham Chapline, John Bailey, Robert Todd and William
Clark. This board was to consider all claims to land under the resolution
and appoint a principal surveyor who was to assist them in locating and surveying the remainder of the 150 000 acres on the northwest side of the
Ohio, after first laying out 1000 acres for a town. The land selected was
opposite Louisville, and constitutes a portion of Clark, Floyd and Scott
counties, Indiana, but the greater part of the "Illinois Grant" was in the
first named countv.

William Clark, the cousin of George Rogers Clark, was appoinled a
commissioner and the surveyor for the Indiana land grant to Clark s
regiment. He was commissioned a lieutenant before he came to Kentucky,
probably in the company of Captain John Rogers, and was first stationed
at Fort Jefferson, then at Fort Nelson. He served in the Wabash campaign.
Kellogg, Frontier Retreat, 230, note i.

For Colonel William Fleming, see ante, 32, note i.

For Colonel John Campbell, see ante, 145, note i.

For Walter Daniel, see ante, 192, note i.

For John Montgomery, see ante, 21, note i.

For Captain Abraham Chapline, see Clark Papers, 23, note i.

For Captain John Bailey, ibid., index.

For General Robert Todd, see ante, 14, note i.



414 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Agreable to advertisement for the Officers of the Illinois
Regiment, to meet and adopt some mode of having the Land promised
them in the Illinois Country ascertained and laid off
Brigadier General Geo. Rogers Clark,

Col" Montgomery, Majf Quirk (by Col' Montgomery his Atto.)
Cap' George, Cap' Bailey, Cap' Brashear, (by Cap' Bailey his Atto)
Cap' Chapline, Cap' Girault (by M^ William Clark his Atto.) Cap'
L' Harrison, (by Cap^ Barbour his Atto.) Lieu' Calvit, (by his
ditto) Lieu' Montgomery, (by his ditto) Lieu' Rich* Clark, Lieu'
William Clark, and Lieu' Perrault (by his ditto) met at the Falls
of Ohio, Fort Nelson February i" 1783.

There being a Majority of the Officers belonging to the said
Regiment, they proceeded to the Election of a president when General Clark was unanimously Voted in to the Chair. And after
mature debate and consideration upon the Resolution of the second
of January one thousand seven hundred and eighty one, relative to
a Grant of one hundred and fifty thousand Acres to the said Illinois
Regiment, they came to the following Resolutions.

That an Agent be appointed to transact the business of the
Regiment who shall be considered as having the Rank of Major,
and be intitled to the same Quoto of Land as a Major belonging
to the said Regiment.That five Deputies from the Regiment, three of whom to do
business, be appointed to represent the Officers during their absence,
as in all probability a general meeting cannot be again had with conveniency.'

The Deputies are invested with all the powers and Authority which the Officers of the Regiment have, but these powers are to
cease whenever a Majority of the Officers shall Personally meet.
The Agent is to receive instructions from the Deputies in the recess

'This board continued to hold meetings for sixty-three years, but
during the years 1790, 1793, 1794, 1795, 1796, 1800, 1807, 1812, and 1814
no meetings are indicated. The last meeting at which George Rogers
Clark was present was in February, 1813. In all, there were some eighty
meetings of the Board while he was a member and Clark was present in
forty-seven sessions. He served thirty-three times as chairman.

For the official plat of Clark s Grant, see William H. English, Conguest of the Northiuest, 2:852-853.

The proceedings of the Board are printed, in part, in Conquest of the
Northiuest, 2:1068-1116.



LAIRDS ORDERED EXPLORED. 1783 415

of the Board of Officers.From the Agents representation of the
necessity of a meeting of the Deputies, the President shall forthwith
call them together for a Consultation.The Agent is to make report
of the progress of the Business from time to time to the President
of the Deputies. The Deputies shall have power to hire Men to
Explore what Tract of Country they may find necessary, and to defray their Charges in Land out of the said Grant: And also to
direct the Agent to Petition the Assembly to establish a Town on
such place and plan as they shall approve of.

The Board proceeded to nominate an Agent, when M'
Walker Daniel was unanimously elected.

They then made Choice of Gen' Clark Col' Montgomery,
Cap* Shannon William Clark and Cap' Bailey to act as Deputies
to the Regiment.

Ordered that these proceedings be recorded in the District
Court.

Signed by order of the Officers of the Regiment
G R Clark
At a meeting of the Board of Deputies for the Illinois Regiment at New Holland on Monday the 10''' of feb!' 1783

Present
Brig'' Gen' Geo. Rogers Clark
Cap' Shannon
Mr W° Clark
Cap' Bailey.
The Board proceeds to the appointment of proper Persons
to Explore that Tract of Country opposite to the Falls of Ohio,
and accordingly made Choice of Col' Montgomery, Cap' Bailey,
Cap' Barbour Mf W" Clark for that purpose, who are recommended to proceed as soon as possible, make memorandums of the
Quality and extent of the Lands and report them forthwith to the
Board that further proceedings may be had thereupon.

G R Clark

March 25th i783. At a meeting of the Deputies for the
Illinois Regiment.



41 6 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Present
General Clark

Col' Montgomery Four of the
Cap' Shannon [five Deputies

Lieu' Clark
The Board taking into Consideration the difficulties and
danger of further exploring the Country North West of the Ohio,
and the information they have received both from hunters and others,
and the report of the Party sent to examine that Tract of Land
which lies opposite to Louisville, came to the following Resolution.
Resolved that the Lands opposite to the Town of Louisville
on the Indian side of the River Ohio, beginning where the Silver
Hills bind close on the River below the mouth of Silver Creek, Running thence up the River and back for the quantity which the Regiment may be intitled to; be made choice of, and tliat the Agent draw
a Petition to tlic Assembly praying an Explination of the resolution
of January the 2* 1 78 1 relative to the Lands designed for the Illinois
Regiment and that the Land so described may be granted to the
Officers and Soldiers belonging thereto.

Resolved that the Agent be directed to draw a Plan for a
Town Petition the Assembly to have it established in such Convenient place within the Grant as the Trustees shall choose, who
ought to be impowered to perpetuate their Succession in case of
Vacancies, and also to reserve some Convenient place proper for a
Landing above the great Point to have Ware-Houses erected for
the reception of Hemp, Tobacco, and other Purposes.

Resolved that some Tribunal ought to be established by law
to discriminate between those who are, and who are not entitled to
Lands under the Law, and that the Agent petition the Assembly to
declare what office and what service intitled any Claimant to a Share
in the said grant, and what proportion each Clamant shall have

Resolved that a Surveyor to run the lines including the Quantity the Regiment are intitled to ought to be appointed by the Assembly, but that the Trustees for laying ofT the Town should be
impowered to procure one or more Surveyors on the best terms they
can to divide the lands among the different Claimants, and when the
Situation and Value of the Lands is better known that the Trustees



I



ADVERTISE FOR LAND CLAIMANTS 417

should fall on sudi Plan for the equally dividing the Lands as they
shall find most expedient and Equitable.

Resolved tliat as the Assembly in several Acts which they
have passed relative to the Bounty of Lands given the Officers and
Soldiers of their Regiments, shew a willingness that they should all
have Valuable Lands; That the Agent petition the Assembly not
to include Mountains Knobs or Hills which shall be unfit for Cultivation, which may fall within the Limits of the Tract they have
petitioned for, in the Quantity the Assembly may think proper to
allow them, as in that case no division could be made but that Lands
of No Value would fall to the Share of some Officer or Soldier.

Resolved that the Agent use all diligence to have the business expedited, the Grant confirmed, and that when the Lands shall
be divided among the Claimants that the Trustees be impowered
to Convey Titles to them.



Signed



G. R. Clark
Jn» Montgomery
W" Shannon
W. Clark



Louisville Ap' 22* 1784.

Board of Commissioners met agreable to Act of Assembly,
intitled "An Act for Surveying apportioning the Lands granted
to the Illinois Regiment, establishing a Town within the said

Grant"

Present, Gen' George R. Clark, John Montgomery Abraham Chapline, John Bailey William Clark Walker Daniel Gen' Commissioners.

Ordered that Public notice be given by advertising at the
different Court Houses in the District, That the Claimants of the
Illinois Regiment bring in their Claims and lay them before the
next Board, and that Robert Todd Gen< be appointed to receive
tiiose for Fayette, Walker Daniel for Lincoln Col' Campbell,
Col' Montgomery, Cap* Bailey or either of them for Jefferson;
to whom the Claimants are desired to give in their respective Claims,
the Deputies are requested to advertise their appointments Office,
and make report to the next meeting.

Ordered that a Board meet on the first Monday in August



Signed



418 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

next or sooner if it shall be judged necessary by a Majority of the
Commissioners, if it shall be so adjudged, a meeting shall be advertised by the Senior Commissioner Present

Ordered that William Clark be appointed Principal Surveyor,
be intitled to the same Fees as are by Law given to the Surveyors
of the Continental State lines, deducting however the sixth that
is there paid to the College. The said Surveyor is hereby directed
to proceed forthwith to run the inclusive lines, to employ one
or more Hunters to explore the Country before him to find the
Men in provisions &c. The Surveyor is directed to Survey the
Lands on the Northwest Side of the Ohio opposite to the Falls, running up the River back for Quantity, so as to take in the best
Land that the Conditions of the Grant will admit of.

Walker Daniel
Geo. R Clark
John Montgomery
John Baileys
Abraham Chapline
W. Clark
Copy of the proceedings of the Comm^ for adjusting the
claims of the Officers Soldiers of the Illinois Regiment to the
Lands given them under a resolution of Jan? 2^ 1781 agreable to Act
of Assembly passed October Session 1783.

Louisville August 2* 1784. Commr'
met according to adjournment; Present, Walker Daniel, Geo. R.
Clark, John Montgomery, John Bailey, Robert Todd William
Clark, Gen'" Comm"^

Ordered that the Board adjourn 'till tomorrow morning.

Sign d W. Daniel Ch'
August 3* The Board met according to adjournment Present
the same Members as yestarday, also Abraham Chapline Gen"

On motion, the Board came to the following Resolution;
That all Officers Soldiers who marched and continued in service
till the Reduction of the British Posts on the North West side of y*
Ohio, that all who engaged, enlisted in the Illinois Regiment afterwards served during the War, or three Years, are intitled to a
share of the Grant under the Resolution Act of Assembly. But



LAND CLAIMS ALLOJVED



41



that those soldiers who have enlisted in the said Regm' since the
2* day of January 1781. either for three Years or during the War
are not entitled, as there seems to be no provision made under tiie
Resolution for those who should thereafter be incorporated in the
said Regiment. That the Officers of the Regm* are intitled to a
Share of the Land in proportion to the Commissions they respectively
held on tiie s^ 2* day of January 1781, not in proportion to the
Commissions tiiey have since held in consequence of Promotions;
and that therefore, Officers Commissioned since that Period are not
intitled at all; And that those Soldiers who inlisted to serve 12
Months after their arrival at Kaskaskias agreeable to an Act of
Assembly of the fall Session 1778 for the protection defence of
the Illinois Country who did not reinlist in the Regiment are not included in said Resolution. That those Officers who were Commissioned under s^ act Resigned before the expiration of the 12 Months
are not intitled, but that those who continued during the year, then
retired not having a Command, are intitled.
Adj*"
August. 4th; The same Members as Yesterday. The
following claims were taken up allowed, disallow d as they
are marked, To wit,



Geo. R. Clark, Brig. Gen'
John Montgomery, L* Col.
Joseph Bowman Maj''
Tho' Quirke Majr
Walker Daniel Majr
Jesse Evans (not allow d)
Ja' Shelby, Cap*
John Bailey, Cap'
Rich^' Brashear, Cap*
Robert George Cap*
Rich^ MCarty Cap*
Abraham Kcllar Cap*
Edw*" Worthington Cap*
W-P Harrod Cap*
W^ Lynn, (not all*)

allowed on reconsidering July

17 1785



Joim Williams Cap*
Geo. Walls, not allow d,
Robert Todd Cap*
Leon* Helm Cap*
Isaac Taylor, same
Lewis Gagnia, Soldier
John Lemon D'
(Tho' Gaskins D'
Moses Lunsford D'
W" Smith D'
Mich. Millar (not all-")
Robert Witt, Sold"Nich. Burk D'
W-P Bush D'
Micajah Mafield D»



420



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS



Isaac Ruddle (not all*')
Levi Todd, Lieutenant
James Davies L^
John Swan L'
Henry Floyd L*
Rich'' Harrison L<
Ja' Robertson L'
Abraham Chapline L'
John Girault U
Michael Perrault L'
Joseph Calvit L'
J a' Montgomery L'
Isaac Bowman L'
Jarret Williams L'
Rich'' Clark L'
VV" Clark Lt
Tho» Wilson U
Valentine T. Dalton, L«
Jacob Vanmeter Ens'
Laurence Slaughter Ens'
Isaac Kellar, Serj'
John Rogers Cap'
Ja" Meriwether L*
John Thruston, Cornet
John Joines, Soldier
Ja' Baxter SoW
John Johnston D'
W^ Bell D"
Rich« Lovell D'
Sam. Watkins D'
Edw^ Mauray Sold^
Ja' Jarratt (not all^)
Francis Hardin, same
Larkin Balenger D'
WP Kerr D»
Henry Dewitt Serj'
W^ Crump D9



Tho' Hooper D'

John Montgomery D'

Francis M^Dermit D'

Edw. Parker Serj'

Peter Shepperd, Soldier

W" Thompson D'

George Shepperd D'

Randall White D'

Geo. Lunsford D'

Mason Lunsford D'

Andrew Clark D'

Wm Whitehead D'

Rob' Whitehead D'

Boston Damewood (notallow d)

W™ Crossley, (same)
Peter Newton Soldf
Nich. Tuttle (not all")
Jn' Grimes Sold''
Francis Grolet (not all^)
Francis Grolet jr. same
Hugh Logan, same
John Dodge, same
Israel Dodge, same
John Vaughan, Serj'
Bev. Trent D»
John Tewell (not all'')
Levi Theel, Soldier
Francis Godfrey D'
Mat. Brock (not all^)
Val. T. Dalton not all"^
as an adjutant C

Ja' Sherlock, not all*
Jn' Doherty, same
Cha' M^Locklin D'
Jesse Finer, Soldier
Ja' Brown Serj'






LAND CLAIMS ALLOfVED



421



John Moore U»
Edw'' Johnston Sold''
Cha' Evans D'
Isaac Yeates D'
George Livingston D'
Reuben Camp D'
John Pulford D'
Ja' Bryant D'
Page Sartine D'
John Nelson (not all")
Enoch Nelson Sold^
Jonathan Swordon D'
W^ Ruleson D'
Chrisf Hatten D'
Ja' Dean, not all^
George Gilmore Soldr
Lewis Brown, not all^
Joseph Thornton, Sold^
Dan. Williams D'
David Allen D'
Moses Nelson, not all^

Aug< 5th
Dennis Cochran Sold''
David Jones, D' substitute)
for Jn' Nelson C

(^Commissaries of Military

Stores, Provision, not

Allowed



ALnrtiii Carney, not all^ as a L'

nor as a Qi" ALister
[Allowed grant of Lieutenant,
August 7, 1784.]
Geo. Hart, not all^
And. Ray, same



W^ Elms D»
Joseph Ross Sold''
Cha' Ownsley D'
Ja» Hillebrant)D'

or Dawson C
Ja' Elms D"
Dan' Tigart D»
Rich* Bredin, not all*
John Cowan Sold''
W-P Pritchard Serjt
W" Pursley Sold^
Peter Priest D'
Geo. Venshioner D'
And. Canore D^>
Josiah Prewit D'
Buckner Pitman Serj'
Ab. Miller Sold^
Mat. Jones D'
Christo'' Coontes, not all*
Isham Floyd Sold^
John M«Garr D»
John Oakley D»
John Hacker D'
Ja' Ramsay D'
Jn' Leveridge, not all*
Arm* Dudley Sold""
Edw* Mathews, not all*

Cha. Morgan, same
Wi> Freeman Sold''
Joiin Ash D»



Those Continentals who came
up with Cap' George, and never
reinlisted in the Illinois Regiment are not allowed



422



ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Dan. Durst, not allow d
W-P Rubey, Serj'
Pat. Doran, Sold''
W^ Greathouse D'
Cha' Bitterbaclc D»
Rob* Patterson Serj'
Ja' January Sold''
Ja» M^Nut D'
Geo. Grey D'
Elisha Bethey D»
Rich^ Rue, not all*
Arthur Lindsay Sold""
Sam. M Mullin D'
EdW Wilson D»
Sam Stroud Serj'
Barney Waters Sold^
Henry Funk D'
Jacob Coger D'
Peter Coger D»
Ja' Bentlcy D"
John Bently D'
Edm* Fear d»
W^ Slack d»
Asael Davies d'
John Boyles d'
Jos: Ramsay d'
Tho' Clifton d'
Rich* Lutterell d»
W P Crosbey d"
Ja' Wood d»
Ja' Holmes d'
Joseph Anderson d'
Moses Camper d'
Tilman Camper d'
Ja' Monrow d'
Charles Jones d'
Benj Kendall d"



John Williams Serj<

Tho' Moore Sold'

John Moore D»

WP Tyler D'

Jos. Lynes D»

John Green D'

Wp Myres D»

John Paul D'

John Hughes D»
Isaac Vanmeter D'

Andrew House D'
Ebenezer Osbourne D'
Tho' Batten D'
Stephen Frost D'
Van: Swearingen D'
John Linen D'
Sam Blackford D'
Laten White D'
Abraham Luzader D»
WP Ray D'
Ja' Harris D»
Herman Consuly D'
John Duff D'
Ja' Curry D"
Steph Stephens D'
Ebenf Bowen, not all*
Wp Swann Sold^
Simon Kenton W
John Saunders D'
Geo Clark D'
WP Whitley D»
David Glenn D»
Silas Harlin D'
John Severns D'



11



LAND CLAIMS ALLOWED



423



Ebenezer Severns D'
W-P Oreer D»
Ja' Irby Scrj'
Jesse Oreer Soldr
Sam Humphries d'
Eben'' Mead, not all^
Dom: Flanagan Sold''
Jonas Manifee d'
John Tally d'
Dan. Tally, not all"
W-P Zecklege Sold""
Jas. Kincade not al*
John Sartine Soldf
Henry French, not al"
Peter Locklin, same
John M"=Guire, same
John Lesley same
Lough Brown same
Hugh Logan, same
David Bailey Sold^
Sam Butcher not aK
Isaac Henry SoW
Henry Hatton Not al*
John Isaacs Sold""
Isaac Farris Sold''
John Henry d'
Hugh Henry d'
David Henry d'
EdW Bulger d'
Abraham James d'
Henry Prather d'
Jacob Spears d'
Abi' Taylor d'
Sam Bell, A"
Moses Nelson, not al"
Edw*" Taylor same
Ja' Whitecotton Sold""



Rob' Garrett d»

John Oreer Serj'

Dan. Oreer Sold''

John Reed not all*

Cha' Morgan, same

W-" Rubey jr Sold^

Corn: Ruddle d"

Pleas* Lockert d'

Josiali Phelps d'

W"Beckley d'

W-P B. Smith, not all"

Ja' Finn Sold'^

W-P Chapman d»

David Rogers, not al*

Sam. Byrd same

Ja' Biggar Soldf

Ja' M Kinn, not al"

Gasper Butcher, same

Steph Ray same

Turner Oliver, same

Dan Whitten same

Cap< Rogers has the list of his"]

Serj" Sold'^ will give aj

Copy

^Soldiers, during the War, not
intitled to a double share

Aug' the 6th

Jos: Hunter s pet' rejected

Cornelius Copland Soldier

W™ Shannon s pet'

rejected
Benj Lynn, not all"
Sam Moore same
Henry Honaker Soldf



424 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Christo Horn, not al^ P. Honaker d'

Rich'' Sennett same Handley Vance d'

Noah Craize Sold'



Geo: Campbell, not al*"
Sam Pickens Sold''
John Peartree d'



The comm''' direct Certificates
to Issue, in the following
mode



To wit: To a Brig: Gen' 7500 to a L' Col' 4500, to a Maj^ 4000,
To a Cap' 3000, to a Subaltern 2000, to a Serjeant 200 to a
Private 1 00 Acres of Land which on a calculation is supposed to leave
19500 Acres as a residium subject to be granted to future Claimants
that shall appear intitled to have laboured under legal disability
to have bro' in their Claims, to the further directions of the
Comm'''; in case of a future division among the Claimants, the
Lands are to be apportioned according to the preceding Regulation:

The Agent is ordered to make out Certificates &c, to be
Signed by the Chairman, delivered to the Surveyor; who is to advertise distribute them among those intitled, taking a rec' therefor
receiving a Dollar T' hundred Acres.

Aug' 7th

The Surveyor is directed to deliver the Cert' of Claims to
the Persons intitled, but if a purchaser produces an Assignment or
obligation for the conveyance he is directed to deliver the Cert, to
such purchaser taking his rec' therefor.

Ordered that John Campbell, Geo. R. Clark John Bailey
or any two with the Surveyor, fix on the most convenient place in the
Grant for the Town, lay off the looo Acres apportioned for that
purpose, also draw up and report a Plan for the Town.

Leave is given Gen' Clark to erect the Mill he is now Building on a Branch above the Lots already laid off in Clarksville, if
compleated of public utility, the right of the Soil to so much Land
sliali he deemed sufHcient for the Works shall be confirmed to him.

The 12 Lots already occupied shall be confirmed to the Claimants upon their Building Houses, actually residing themselves on tiie
Lots for 12 Months or settlcing others thereon complying with
the directions of the Act for saving the Lots in Clarksville agreeable
to a promise of a Majority of the Comm''' heretofore made. And



COMMISSIONER ELECTED, 17S4 425

12 other Lots to be laid off adjoining Back of tliosc already laid
off shall be appropriated in the same manner; provided they arc
Settled in 2 Months from this date.

On reconsidering Martin Carneys Claim, it is the opinion
of the Board that he is intitled to a Lieutenant s Quota in the Illinois Grant.

Pat: Kennedy s Pet' rejected.

Adj* to the first monday in October Next.

Signed by order of the Board.

Walker Daniel Ch :man.
Louisville Aug' 7th 1784.

A Copy, but not examined

Test VV Daniel
Louisville Aug' i6th 1784. At a meeting of the Comm"' in con.-iquence of the death of AP Walker Daniel Gen', present John Campbell, Geo R. Clark, John Montgomery, John Bailey, Abraham Chapline William Clark Gen' Comm

Ordered, that whereas the original Proceedings of the Board
being lost when M'' W Daniel was killed, the foregoing Copy be
ratified confirmed but if the originals should be obtain d then
they are to be in force.

Ordered that Gen' Clark make out sign Certificates
deliver them to the surveyor, who is to distribute them according to
the former resolution.

The Board proceeded to the Election of an other Commissioner in the room of RP Walker Daniel When William Croghan
Gen' was elected.

Resolved that Gen' Clark take into his care the proceedings
and other Papers belonging to the Commissioners, them safely
keep, for tiie use of the Parties concerned.

Adj'' 'till the first Monday in Ocf next unless the Cli:maii
shall find it necessary to call a meeting sooner.

Signed John Campbell Ch:man

At a meeting of a Board of Comm''' for apportioning the
Lands granted to the Illinois Regiment &c. at Louisville, July 6th,
1785. Present, John Edwards John Campbell, Abraham Chapline;
John Bailey Robert Todd and William Clark Comm'"'



426 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Cap' Rogers produced a list of his Company, which had before been allowed their Claims by a Board that sat in August last
but their names had been lost or misslaid which said Claims are
Confirmed by the present Board to wit, William Meriwether Serj*
The' Key d' George Key, George Snow, David Pagan, Henry
Blankenship, Dominique Welch, Gasper Gayler, Robert Barnet,
Frank Spelman, James Spelman, Travis Booton, William Booton,
William Leare,

William Kendall, William Frogget, William Givin, William Goodwin, John Campbell, Charles Martin, Barney Higgans, Frederick
Doherty, Nathaniel Mershon, David M'^Donald, James Hammit,
John Jones, John Murphy Michael Glass, Michael Oharow, Rice
Curtis, George Smith, Soldiers.

On motion made in behalf of Thomas Hays, the Board think
him intitled to a Soldiers part of Land in the Illinois Grant, also
Francis Hardin; also Patrick Marr; also Charles Morgan as a.
Serjeant; also John Setzer Michael Setzer as Soldiers

Adj*" till tomorrow morning.

(Signed) John Edwards Ch'

July 17th, 1785.

The Board met according to adjournment. Members
the same as yestarday.

The Board entered into the following resolution. That a majority of the Surviving Commissioners mentioned in the Act, sliould,
at any time compose a Board do Business.

On motion made in behalf of Michael Miles, are of opinion
that he is intitled to a Serjeants Quota of Land in the Illinois Grant.

On motion made the Board came to the following resolution

That the Lots be drawn in the name of the Assignee, as far as they
can be known and made appear but where doubt arises they may
be classed according to the request of those who claim by Assignment,
and drawn in the name of the original proprietor.

On motion made in behalf of the Heirs of Maj'' William
Lynn Dec*" who marched to the Illinois under Col' Geo. R. Clark,
and acted as a Major at the Reduction of the Posts therein. Resolved
that the Heirs of the s^ William Lynn Dec'' be intitled to receive a



LAND CLAIMS ALLOWED, 1785 427

Major s Quota of Land in the Illinois Grant.

Adj* 'till tommorrow morning

(Signed) John Edwards Ch"

July 8th 1785.

The Board met according to adjournment, Members the same
as yestarday.

On motion made the Board came to the following resolution,
That they have no power to decide in any matter of controversy
between Claimants, claiming as Heirs at Law.

Resolved, this Board have a right to judge determine to
whom they shall Grant a Deed, when two or more Persons Claim
the same by assignment or conveyance from the original proprietor.

Resolved that this Board will not proceed in such Judgment
determination in the absence of the Parties, unless it is proved,
to them, they have been summoned do not appear.

Resolved that when any dispute between Claimants shoud lie
before the Board, unfit for Issue for want of Necessary Vouchers;
That the preference in classing the said disputed claim should be
Determined by lot

Resolved that Tho' Walker be allowed a Soldiers Claim
in the Illinois Grant.

Resolved that the Commissioner s Certificates now produced
to the Board by Assignees be returned to them, but first marked in
whose name they were classed and in case the Assignment, or
Assignments are on the back of the Certificates, then to be retained
by the Board, and another given to the last Assignee, Expressing
therein the original owner, and every Assignee named, and tiuanlity
of Land.

Adjourned 'till tomorrow.

(Signed) John Edwards, Ch'
July 9th. 1785.

The Board met according to Adjournment, Members present
the same as yestarday.

A Memorial of John Rogers Cap' of Cavalry, representing
a grant made to Walker Daniel by a former Board as a Major
to the Illinois Regiment, to which he objects, affirms, he the said



428 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Daniel had no right or pretentions having never served in that Regiment.

Resolved the consideration of the said memorial be postponed
till the next meeting of this Board that a Summon issue citing
Rob' Daniel, Heir at Law, to the said Walker to appear at that time.

Resolved that the Plat of the 1 49000 Acres of Land granted
to the Illinois Regiment be proved by the Oath of M'' William
Clark the Surveyor, and that it be transmitted to the Registers Office
in Richmond by Col' Rich'' C. Anderson.

A draught of a petition to the Assembly from tlu s Board
agreed upon and ordered to be signed by the Chairman.

Adjourned 'till the first Wednesday in August.

(Signed) John Edwards Ch"

At a meeting of the Board of Comm" for apportioning the
Lands granted to the Illinois Regiment at Louisville the 9th Dec'

1785.

Present, G. R. Clark Ab: Chapline, Robert Todd, John Bailey

William Clark Comm"^

Resolved that the further consideration of Cap' Rogers s memorial respecting the Claim of Walker Daniel Dec* be postponed
'till the next siting of this Board and that the Board now proceed
to draw the Lottery for all claims that appear reasonable and are
allowed.

Adj* till tomorrow morning.
Decf 10th 1785

The Board met according to adjournment. Members same
as yestarday.

A number of Assignments and Conveyances being produced,
the Board proceeded to class them in the name of the Assignees;
and direct that title papers be kept with the Board.

Adj* 'till monday next.
Dec"" the 1 2th.

The Board met according to adjournment; Members same
as yestarday.

The Surveyor produced a general plat of the Surveys contained in the Illinois Grant which was approved of by the Commissioners. Cap' Abraham Hite M' E. Rogers at the request of the



Grant


&c.




Adj<'


Louisville




At a


present Gen'


Clark





CLARKSVILLE SURVEY. 1785 429

Board attended and drew the Classes Numbers; and Mess'*
Walter Davies W" Croghan acted as Clerks in taking down the
names of the respective Claimants Numbers they drew.

Resolved that the Surveyor be directed to Issue plats Certificates of Surveys to the different Claimants on their paying the
fees Expence due thereon; as also the Dollar p'' hundred Acres
directed to be paid by Law, to be appropriated towards defraying the
Expence of adjusting the Claims, Surveying, apportioning the

till the first Wednesday in march next.

(Signed) G. R. Clark
13th Deer i73^_

meeting of the Trustees for the Town of Clarksville,
Clark, Cap* Chapline, Cap^ Bailey, Cap' Todd VV""

Resolved that the Surveyor be directed to lay off forty Lots
in the Town of Clarksville above Mill-Creek adjacent to those
already laid off below, to be sold the first Wednesday in march next,
and that they be advertised in the Adjacent Counties as directed
by Law.

Resolved that all the Lots now occupied be confirmed to the
Claimants, on their complying with the terms proposed by the Trustees to those who took possession of settled on the first Lots.

Resolved that the Lots to be laid off be sold for Cash,
that W^ Clark G. R. Clark, Cap' Chapline, or any two of them
be appointed to superintend the Sales, and that the money arising
from such sales be lodged in the Hands of W™ Clark who shall be
liable for the same when called for by the Board.

The Board proceeded to the Election of Trustees in the room
of Walker Daniel Dec'' John Montgomery removed When
William Croghan and Richard Terrell Gen' were elected

Adj^ 'till tile first Wednesday in march next.
(Signed) G. R. Clark

At a meeting of the Trustees for the Town of Clarksville, on
tuesday the 9th of May 1786. Present George R. Clark, Ab. Chapline, William Clark, W"" Croghan Richard Terrell Gen'



430 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Resolved that a further sale of Lots in the Town of Clarksville be held in the said Town, the first tuesday in August next for
Cash; and that the Sale be immediately advertised in the Adjacent
Counties by the Chairman.

Adjourned 'till the first tuesday in August next.

(Signed) G. R. Clark

At a meeting of the Comm"^ for apportioning the Lands granted to the Illinois Regiment &c. at Louisville the 5th day of September 1787. Present John Campbell, George Rogers Clark, Richard
Taylor, Alexander Breckenridge, W^ Croghan, Andrew Heth
William Clark Gen' Comm"^

Resolved that two meetings of the Board be held at this place,
for the purpose of receiving determineing on such claims as have
not yet been given in agreable to the directions of an Act of last
Session of Assembly: The first of said meetings to be the second
Monday in Ocf next the other the 31" day of december following, being the last day fixt by Law for receiving claims; that a
Copy of this resolution be advertised in the Kentucky Gazette for
three weeks successively.

Adj'' 'till the 2" Monday in Ocf next.

(Signed) John Campbell, Chairm"

Monday 8th of October 1787. The following members of
the Comm"^ met according to adjournment. VizGeo. R. Clark, W"
Clark, W™ Croghan, and Adjourned till tomorrow morning.

(Signed) G. R. Clark.
Louisville 9th Ocf 1787. The following members of the
Comm"^ met according to adjournment: Viz' John Campbell, W""
Clark, Rich^ Taylor W" Croghan and Adjourned 'till tomorow
12 OClock

(signed) John Campbell

Wednesday Oct' loth, The Board met according to adjournment, present John Campbell, George R. Clark, Richard Taylor,
James F. Moore, Alexander Breckenridge, William Croghan, Robert
Breckenridge, W"^ Clark Gen' Comm"'

Resolved that the Officer Soldiers who were left at the
Falls, by order of Col' Clark when the detachment were going against
the Illinois, be allow d Quotas of Land in the Grant.



LAND CLAIMS ALLOIVED. 17SS 431

James Sherlock s claim disallow d. Alexander M^ntire allow d
as a private. Isaac RuddcU allowed as a Captain. William Foster
Samuel Finley allow d as privates; also James Patten, Richard
Chenoweth Neal Doherty Isaac IM Bride.

Adjourned 'till the 31" of December next

(Signed) John Campbiill.

At a meeting of the Board of Comm^' for apportionin}; the
Lands granted to the Illinois Regiment &c at Louisville the 31'' of
Deer 787. Present Geo. R. Clark, Ab: Chapline, Ricli^ Taylor,
W" Croghan, Rich" Terrell, Alexi" Breckenridge W^ Clark Gen'
Comm''''

Resolved that Florence Maliony Eben. Bowen, priv'» John
Brand Serj', Angus Cameron private, (absent R. Taylor, present
J. F. Moore) W™ Guthrie d^ also Samuel Harris jr John
Peters be allowed Quotas of Land. Present John Campbell Gen*
Sam. Harris Senf all^" as a priv.

Resolved that such claims as may be offered to any of the
members of the Board this evening be received, and determined on
at a future meeting.

Adj" 'till 9 oClock tomorrow.

(Signed) John Campbell

Jans' i^t 1788. The Board met according to Adjournment.
Present Geo. R. Clark, Ab. Chapline, Alex'' Breckenridge, Rich*
Terrell, W" Croghan, Rich* Taylor W'^' Clark.

The following claims given in yesterday were taken up and
determined on as follows.

George M^^Maness, John M Maness jr John M Maiiess
Sen'' allow d as privates also James Jarrald, Sam. Stephenson, John
Mahue Harris, W™ Cofer, W™ Asher, Richard Cox, privates, John
Walker Serj' (absent A. Breckenridge, present J. F. Moore Gen')
Thomas Simpson allow d as a Soldier.-also John Elms Robert
Davie as Soldiers William Shannon Not allowed.

Resolved unanimously, that all claims heretofore adjusted and
allowed by a former Board, be confirmed as they stand drawn in tlie
Lottery; except the Claim of Walker Daniel which is rejected, and
the claim of Martin Carney, which is to be reconsidered.

Adj* 'till tomorrow 9 oClock

(Signed) G. R. Clark



432 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Wednesday 2" Jan^ The following members met: Viz' Geo:
R. Clark, Ab. Chapline, Rich* Terrell, W^ Croghan, W"' Clark
Comm" and Adjourned 'till tomorrow 9 oClock.

(Signed) G. R. Clark.

Friday 4th Jan? At a meeting of the Board of Comm"' at
Louisville present; Jn» Campbell, G. R. Clark, Ab: Chapline,
Ricli* Terrell, Alex"" Breckenridge And^ Heth, W" Croghan W"
Clark Gen' Comm"

The Board proceeded to reconsider the Claim of Martin
Carney, determined that the said claim be confirmed (absent John
Campbell)

The Board then proceeded, drew the Lottery for such
claims as have been lately allowed, were not in the Lottery drawn
by a former Board.

Resolved, whereas there appears to be a residium of 10 900
Acres of Lands, that a future division take place, the s* residiuni
be apportioned agreable to the former regulation of the Board.

Resolved that the Dollar pf 100 Acres paid for Certificates,
be appropriated, towards defraying the Expence of the original Survey, provisions, paying Chain Carriers Choppers Hunters &c &c, the
balance, if any, applied as part of the Surveyors fee.

Resolved that three meetings of the Board be held at this
place for the purpose of Executing Deeds: the first meeting to be the
20th of Feb!' next, the second, the first tuesday in April the third
meeting, the 17th of July. And that public notice be given of those
meetings, in order that the Claimants may take out their plats,
apply for Deeds.

Adjourned 'till the 20th of Feb" next

(Signed) G. R. Clark

At a meeting of the Board of Trustees for the Town of
Clarksville, at Louisville the 5th of Jan? 1788 present Geo R. Clark
Ab: Chapline, Richard Terrell, W^ Croghan W^ Clark.

Resolved that a number of Lots in Clarksville, be sold at
public Auction, at this place on the first tuesday in March next,
being Jefferson Court Day; that the time place of sale be advertised at the Court Houses of the adjacent Counties.

Adjourned

(Signed) G. R. Clark






DEEDS EXECUTED. 1788 433

At a meeting of the Comm'^ for apportioning the Lands
granted to the Illinois Regiment, at Louisville the 20th of Feb'
1788: Present G. R. Clark, Ja' F. Moore, Richard Taylor, W»
Croghan, Alexander Breckenridge, And^ Heth W™ Clark Gen'
Comm"

Resolved, whereas satisfactory proof is made to this Board,
of Jacob Bowman s being Heir at Law to Joseph Bowman Dec^
that Deeds for the Lands allow d said Joseph, be Issued in the name
of said Jacob.

Resolved that Claimants of choices of Lots in the Illinois
Grant, be notified by advertisement, to apply make their respective
choices in rotation, on or before the 17th of July next: in case of
failure the Comm''' will proceed to ballot for them, in order that the
Subsequent choices may be made by such as are intitled apply.

Adj^ (Signed) G. R. Clarri

At a meeting of the Comm"^' for apportioning the Lands
granted to tiie Illinois Regiment &c at Louisville 4"" April 1788
present W" Clark, Alexander Breckenridge Rob' Breckenridge, Rich?
Taylor, W''' Croghan, James F. Moore, Rich* Terrell Gentlemen
Commiss'''

Adjourned untill Tuesday next 9 oClock

W. Clark Ch'

Louisville, Tuesday the 8"" April 1788 The Board of Commiss''' met according to adjournment, present Geo. R. Clark William Clark Rich? Taylor Alexander Breckenridge Rob' Breckenridge,
William Croghan Richard Terrell, Gentlemen

Resolved that William Clark be appointed to receive the
money payable to the Registers of the Land Office, as may arrise
from the Execution of Deeds.

The following Deeds were present to the Board and Executed, Viz' To John Mayland, Adam Hoops, and Abiier Martin
Dunn N9 27. 132. 151. 217. 218. 105. 253. 265. 287. 284. 291.
500 Acres each To Adam Hoops N' 242. To Isaac Bowman
his four Surveys of 500 acres N» I. 158. 213. 289.

"The minutes from this point are in the handwriting of Colonel
William Croghan, instead of Lieutenant William Clark.



434 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Resolved whereas sufficient proof is produced to the Board
that William Croghan hath purchased the several Claims in 500 acres
N? four, the Surveyor be therefore directed to make out a platt of
said Tract in Croghans name.

Aj^ till tomorrow 3 oClock

G. R. Clark

Wednesday the 9'^ April 1788. the Board, met according
to adjournment, present same as yesterday.

The Board proceeded to apportion by lottery, a Number of
Claims in the residuum of Lands and then ajourned, till Friday the
i8"> Inst

G. R. Clark

Friday iS!"" April 1788 The Board met according to appointment: Members same as before also James Francis Moore Gent''

The Board proceeded drew the Lottery for the balance of
the Residuum of Lands.

Resolved, whereas James F. Moore, hath produced to the
Board, a sufficient Assignment from David Glenn for his Claim in
500 Acres N' 20 the balance being already vested in the said Moore;
that the Surveyor be directed to make out the platt in Moore s name.

The following Deeds were presented and Executed by the
Board. Viz* To William Croghan N' 4 N* 113. 500 acres
each. To William Vanlear Ass" of Montgomery N' 167. 202. 239.
270 283 500 acres each.

Aj? till the 17"" of July next

G. R. Clark

At a Meeting of the Trustees for the Town of Clarksville
at Louisville the 5"" of June 1788. Present, John Campbell, Geo:
R. Clark: William Clark, Richard Terrell, William Croghan
Gent>«

On motion made by M'' Terrell to appoint a Trustee in the
room of Col' Robert Todd, who had authorised him to inform the
Board he could not attend and requested another to be appointed in
his stead.

Resolved that M'' Andrew Heth be appointed a Trustee for
the Town of Clarks Ville in the room of Col' Rob* Todd.



SALE OF TRACTS. 1788 435

Resolved tliat the Clerks directed to write to Col' Flcininiiif;
Col? Edwards. M' John Bayley AbrT Chapline, requesting them
to inform the Board wheather they can attend the business or not
as Trustees for the Town of Clarks Ville if not, to signify their
Resignation in order tiiat others may be appointed in tlicir stead

Resolved that the Lots laid out above the mouth of Mill
Creek in the Town of Clarks Ville, be sold in said Town agreeable
to Law. for Cash on Saturday the 9'^ of August next: that the same
be advertised at the Ct. Houses of the Adjacent Counties. And
that Wiltram, W" Clark. Rich? Terrell, and Andrew Heth or any
two of them Superintend the Sails in case the Board should not meet
at that time.

Resolved that M^ William Clark be appointed Clerk to the
Board of Trustees; that he be directed to provide Book and transcribe
therein the proceedings of the Board which have hitherto been
kept on detached papers and that the proceedings so transcribed, be
Examined by the Board at their next Setting.

Adj* till monday next

John Campbell

At a meeting of the Commiss''' for apportioning the Lands
granted to the Illinois Regiment, on thursday the 17'*" July 1788.
present Geo. R. Clark Rich? Terrell Rich? Taylor James F. Moore
And Heth, W^ Croghan Ab Chapline Alexander Breckenridge.

John Campbell Gent'' produced to the Board a Conveyance
from John Bailey in favour of Michael Hilligas and John Dunlap
for five hundred Acres of land the Choice of three Tracts of that
size, and claimed Number Sixteen as the Choice: the question being
put it was determined that said Hilligas Dunlap are intitled to
said Tract of Land and that a Deed Issued accordingly.

Present Jn? Campbell W^ Clark

The following Deeds were presented to the Board and Executed. Viz' To Rich^ Terrell N' 6. To Hector M. Wright ass"
James F. Moore N' 20

Resolved that further time be allowed the different Claimants to apply and take out their Deeds till the first tuesday in april
next.



436 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Resolved that Richard Taylor Abraham Chapline Gen'«
be appointed to examine the Deeds to be presented to the Board, and
sign such as are found truly made out.

Adj* till 9 OCIock tomorrow

Jn' Campbell

Friday 1 8'* July 1788. The Board met according to adjournment, present Ab: Chapline, Will: Clark, Rich^ Taylor,
James Francis Moore Will Croghan, Andrew Heth Alexander
Breckenridge R:Terrell.

The following Deeds were presented and Executed Viz! To
Abm: Chapline N' 222. To William Croghan Ass"'' N' 145
180 in one Deed. To Rich" Terrell ass"' N' 9. To Terrell
Elie Williams N' 157. To Rich'' Terrell ass?* N' 1 15. To Terrell
Elie Williams ass"" N' 8 58. To Rich" Terrell Ass"? N' 262.
To Rich" Terrell Elie Williams ass«« N" 221. To John Mayland
Adam Hoops Abner Martin Dunn ass N' loi To Jacob
Bowman Heir at Law 125. 49: 237. 5. 97. To Isaac Ruddell
N" no. 153. 34. 14. 77. 179. To William Croghan and Gab:
Madison Ass"' N' 267.

Present Gen' Clark To Rich" Terrell Ass"" N» 83. 127. 252.

38. To John Shelby Heir at Law for James Shelby N'' 42. 43.
249. 95. 88. 89. To Rob' George N' 17. 159. 137. 146. 275.
To William Leas Ass"' of Rob» George N' 172. To William Clark
N» 96. 272. To Pat: Joyes Ass»' N* 75. 109. Present John
Campbell Gen' Absent Geo. R. Clark.

Adjourned till 5 OCIock tomorrow morning

Jn' Campbell

Saturday 19'^" July 1788. The Board met according to adjournment, present John Campbell, Ab: Chapline, Will: Clark
Richard Taylor, And: Heth, James F. Moore Alex'' Breckenridge
and Rich^ Terrell Gen'

The following Deeds were presented to the board and Executed Viz' To Nathi Parker Ass^« N' 225 33.

Rich^ Jones Watters appeared before the Board and Claimed
a Title to the Land allowed William Smith, which was drawn for

in the name of Dan' Brodhead a» ass''« of Smith on Motion the

Board determined that the matter should be taken up and revised.







DEEDS ISSUED. 1788 437

M'' Mich: Campbell produced to the Board two ODnveyances
from John Montgomery for five hundred Acres each one in favour
of said Campbell the other in the name of James Watt, and Claimed
the Land accordingly the Claim being contested by M/ Rrcclcenridge on ace' of his having sold three Thousand six liundrcd Acres
of such Land as Atto^ of said Montgomery: the Papers being produced the Board determined that the Conveyance of Breckenridge
take preference.

John Harrison and William Sullivan applied to the Board for
the third and fourth Choice Tracts of Majf Quirks Claim by Virtue
of Assigments for such Choices, said Harrison chose N? 21 and
Sullivan N' 70. those Choices were contested by Geo: R. Claik
the question being put the Board determined in favour of the
Claimants and order that Deeds Issue accordingly A Deed Issued
to Michael Hilligas John Dunlap Ass"" of John Bailey for N' 16.

The title of 500 Acres of Land being contested between
Mich' Campbell and William Croghan, both haveing Assignments
from Col' John Montgomery, the Board determined that Croghan s
Assignm'' take preference.

Deed Issued to Benjamin Sebastian, Alex: S. Bullett and Elie
Williams Ass"' for N' 23. 78. 277. 40. 122. 36. in one Deed.
To Midi' Campbell ass=« of Montgomery N? 35.Absent John
Campbell Gen?

an order omitted to be entered yesterday is ordered to be
entered here. Viz' William Croghan applying for Chaplins third
Choice and no person appearing to make the second the Board
produced to Ballots therefor when N' 222. was drawn this Choice
as appears ought to have been made by Joel Rease.

Two Deeds Issued to William Vanlear Ass''' of Montgomery
by Alex^ Breckenridge his Att' one for N' I43the other for N' 51.

Resolved in the devision of 500 acres Survey among Serjts
Soldiers that the plats be divided into five equal parts: and any
Claimants applying to the Surveyor after the first day of November
next, may ballott with him for his part and have the same laid off.
but in the case of a Claim or Claims for more than 100 Acres, the
greatest Claim shall have preference of Choices in order that he may
be able to obtain his proportion together in one Tract and his Choices



438 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

shall be so made, and in such manner as to leave other Claims entire
and undivided.

Resolved that the foregoing resolution be advertised by the
Surveyor immediately, in order that those concerned may attend at
the proper times to fix their Claims.

Adj'' till the first Tuesday in Nov'' next.

Ab: Chapline

Tuesday 4'* November 1788 the Board met according to
adjournment, present John Campbell, Geo: R Clark, William Clark,
William Croghan Rich^ Terrell, Andrew Heth, James F. Moore,
Gent'

The Board proceeded to apportion by Lot the Claims of the
Serjeants Soldiers determined in what manner the 500 Acre
Tract Should be devided among them.

Adjourned till to morrow 9 oClock

John Campbell

Wednesday 5''' November 1788. The Board met according
to adjournment. Present Geo: R Clark, William Clark Rich? Terrell, And" Heth, William Croghan, James F. Moor Alexander
Breckenridge Gen'

On motion made, the Board preceded to point out and determine in what manner the 500 Acre Lots are to be devided among
those who hold unequal Quantities in such Tracts: agreable to a
plan produced by the Surveyor and approved by the Board.

The following Deeds being presented Executed by the
Board Viz« To Nath' Parker Ass=? N? 233. To Levi Todd N?
29. 46. 87.& 290. To William Vanlear Ass"' N'' 247.

Ajourned till the first Tuesday in January next.

Geo: R. Clark.

At a meeting of the Commissioners agreable to adjournment
at lyouisville the 7'" April 1789. Present John Campbell Geo R
Clark, Rich? Terrell, William Clark, William Croghan, Andrew
Heth, Alex'' Breckenridge Gent''

Adjourned till tomorrow 8 oClock

John Campbell

April S'*" 1789 The Board met according to adjournment
present John Campbell Geo: R. Clark William Croghan, Rich?



DEEDS EXECUTED. 1789 439

Terrell, William Clark, Andrew Heth, Alexander Breckenridge
John Bailey James F. Moore Gen*

Resolved, whereas William Clark produced to this Board
assignments for the Claims of William Orear, John Orear, Dan'
Orear, Jesse Orear, that plats Certificates of said Land Issue
in the name of s^ Clark. That plats for the Claims of W'" Cosby.
Moses Camperin N' 52. Issue in the name of Rich'' Terrell, he
appearing to be Assignee of Ben Pope who was Ass"' of the original
Claiments, also for the Claims of Rich"" Lutrell Charles Jones upon
the same principal. Richf Terrell Geo: R Clark each produced
an assignment for the Claim of David Henry that in favour of Terrell being eldest to have preference: Deeds Executed in favour William Croghan Ass*« for N' 69. 15. Absent Jn° Campbell Rich'?
Terrell, Gen'

Mr W^ Eastin produced assignments for the several claims
for N' 170. ordered tiicrcforc that a plat Issue in the name of said
assignee.

A Deed Executed in favour of L. Protzman. F. Rohreur
and N. Morgan Ass~' of V. T. Dalton for N» 76. To William
Harrod for N? 91: 99:164: 234: 261: 264: To Midi' Lacassignee Ass"? of Linn for N' 12. To John Holker Ass?" for N''
22. 188. 191. 197. 204. 212. 215 219. 226. 227. 229. 241. 297.
To Moore Rhea ass«"" for N' 258. 268. 274. 285. 288., To
Geo. R Clark, Ass"'' of J. Holker for N" 18. to same for N" 62.
84. in his own right and to same as Ass"' of Quirk for N» lU^
To Rich^ Terrell ass" for N' 129. 203. 206. 104. 184. 144To
James Overton Jr ass?« of Lynn for N' 93To R. J. Waters a>
of Smith for 100 acres part of N' 2. present R. Terrell who signca
the before mentioned Deeds in fv^ Geo: R Clark Viz! for N» 223
56 in his own right for 1 00 Acres part of N" 28. as ass"« of
Roberts Ass"' of Harris, also three others lOO acres each part of
N' 30 as Ass" for the Claims of Patten Doherty Chenowith.
Adj^ till 3 OClock

Geo: R Clark

At a meeting of the Board on Thursday the 9''' April 1789.
present John Campbell, William Clark, Alexanr Breckenridge, James
F. Moore, William Croghan, Rich'? Terrell And' Heth Gen«



440 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

The foUowng Deeds, Executed by the Board Viz' John
Holker Ass"' for N' 45. 298. 181. To Mich' Lacassagnee for
N" f.). for 100 Acres p' of N? 13. A. To R. J. Waters Ass'«
for 400 acres p? of N? 19. B. C. D. E. present George R Clark

Deeds Executed for W" Clark ass'« of John Bailey for N»
24 and as ass°« of Sundries for 400 acres p! of N' 31. A. B. C.
D. James F. Moore produced to the Board an assignment for the
Claim of Mason Lunsford, ordered therefore that a plat, Certificate of Survey Issue in the name of said Moore; notwithstanding
any former order of the Board: Resolved that the timejor takeing
out Deeds be prolonged to the first day of Septemb''

Adj^ to the 3'* Monday in May: but in case a Board should
not meet at that time, then to the 4'^ of July.

John Campbell.

At a meeting of the Commissioners for apportioning the
Lands granted to the Illinois Regiment &c at Louisville the 2nd
of June 1789. present Geo: R Clark. Alex'' Breckenridge, James F.
Moore Rich'? Terrell. RkW Taylor, William Croghan William
Clark Gen*

Deeds Executed for Jacob Bowman, Heir of Joseph Bowman
dec^ for N? 140. 186. 193.

Mr William Croghan produced to the Board assignments for
the Claims of Sam! Harris. Sam' Harris yJohn M. Harris John
Sertain Page Sertain and one hundred and fifty six acres p* of
James Meriweathers claim ordered therefore that the Surveyor be
directed to Issue plats Certificates for the s^ Lands in the name
of s'' Croghan.

Adj^ till the 4"" of July

G. R. Clark

At a meeting of the Commissioners at Louisville the 7''' July
1789 present G. R. Clark Alex'' Breckenridge. Rich'.' Taylor, James
F. Moore. William Croghan, Rich« Terrell William Clark.

Deeds executed in iav^ John Rogers for 1234. acres N? u.
72. 234. acres p? of N? 248. present Alexf Breckenridge.

Deeds Issued in fav^ Christo: Crump for 100 acres part of
N' 54. B. and 100 acres p' of NV 73. A. To Isaac Ruddel for 234
ti^-res p» of N» 190. To Nat' Parker for 300 acres p' of N» 123,



I



DEEDS EXECUTED, 1789 441

To William Croghan a Deed for 844. acres Viz' 200 acres in N'
116. and 300 in N? 128. 344. in N' 106. another Deed for
300 acres p' of N? 195. C. D. E. To William Clark for 200
acres the Claim of John Brand p' of N' 130. one other Deed
for 500 acres N' 160. Present John Campbell Gen' Deed to Rich*
Terrell ass"' of Harland for 100 acres p' of N' 13. also as ass*'
for Lutrell lOO acres p' of 79. also for 2CX) ac^ p' of N' 52. the
Claims of Campen Cosby, also for 200 ac' p' of N' 124 the Claim
of Prichard. Deeds to John Thruston for all he Claims another
Deed to John Rogers for N' 235. 282. 296. Absent John Campbell. Deeds to Mich' Lacassagnee ass'^' for lOO acres p' of N' 60.
Copelands claim To John Holker ass''' for N' 103. To B. Tardaviu for N? 152. 240 for 100 acres p' of N' 94. Isaac Farris
claim. To Rich'? Terrell three Deeds 100 acres each Viz' A N'
57. E N' 118. C. N? 142. To William Beckley 200 acres p' of
N? 162. including his own and Zeckledges claim. Deed Issued to
the Heirs of Rich? M Carty for the whole of s'? M-^Cartys claim. To
Ab'' Hite ass*' for 312 acres p' of N? 32. To Isaac Bowman for
his balance of 156 acres p' of N' 32. a Deed Issued to Thomas Thornberry Ass'' for the Claim of Sam' Humphries for 100 a' C. of 13.
the assignments containing other matters of Consequence to Thornberry licirs permitted to retain the same in his Hands.

Adj J till 5 oClock

G. R. Clark.

The Board met according to adjournment, present John
Campbell, Geo: R. Clark William Clark. William Croghan Rich?
Terrell, Rich? Taylor James F. Moore.

Deed Executed in favf of William Sullivan ass*' for N? To
Geo Wilson ass""' for N' 207. To Baisel Prather ass" for N' 68.
112. 114.

Adj? till 10 OClock toMorrow

John Campbell

At a Meeting of the following Members of the Board of
Commis" at Louisville the 31" Aug' 1789. Viz' Geo: R. Clark.
Alexf Breckenridge Rob' Breckenridge. Rich* Terrell. William
Croghan, William Clark John Campbell.



442 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Deeds signed in fav^ Tardiview Brothers ass" for 200
acres James Irby s claim also to B. Tardiveau for Lemons claim,
120 acres p* of N' 196. To John Hollcer ass'' for 400 acres p'
of N" 181: 400 ac^ p* of N" 178 200 the right of M. Miles in
N' 85. one other Deed to same for N? 136. 187. To John Lewis
Ass' for N' 47. 257. 100 acres Watkins claim in N' 243. 100
Geo: Shepherd claim in N' 116. 100 ditto William Taylors Claim
in N? 142. all in one Deed. To Robert Todd for N' 3. To Francis
Spelman lOO ac'' D. in N? 2. To Serj* John Moor for 200 acres in
N:" 126. his own Claim. To Mosses Lunsford his own Claim 100
Acres. To John Swan Heirs for his four Surveys 500 acres each
and one other Deed for his balance of 156 acres. To Rich'* Terrell
Ass«' for N» 39. To Rob< K. Moore ass«« a Deed for 312. ac^ p.' of
N? 216. 100 acres Orears right in N? 211: Cha: Jones s right in
N» 198: 100 acres the right of William Guthrie in N? 281. lOO
acres the right of John Peters in N' 281. in all 712 acres. To
William Croghan 200 acres the right of Jonas Manifee, Florence
Mahoney To Pat: Doran for his Claim 100 acres. To Phil Walker
ass°« of John Walker Serj« for 200 Acres p' of 130 To James F.
Moore, Ass"' of Mason Lunsford for 100 acres p' of N' 44 To
Roliert George for 234 acres p' of N' 149. To Jacob Reagar ass°'
of Ew* Worthington for Nv 67. To John Rogers ass"" for 300
acres, Viz! the Claim of John Campbell in N? 60 the Claim of William Booton ICX3 acres in N' 44 and the claim of John Jones 100
acres in N' 198. and one other Deed for 2CX) teres Viz', 100 acres
the Claim of Fred. Doherty in N' 220 100 acres the right of
William Gwyn in N' 224. one other Deed for 300 acres Viz.' 200
Acres the right of Thomas Key in N' 245 and 100 acres the right
of Mich' Oharrow in N' 211. To Geo: Rogers 100 Acres the right
of Dominic Welch in N' 255. To David McDonald 100 acres
in N? 211. To Travis Booton 100 acres his own right in N? 85.
To Adam Hoops ass'' for 500 acres N? 121. To Walter C. Davis
500 acres N' 86. To John Lewis ass'' for 500 acres N? 263. To
Rich*" Terrell ass'' for lOO acres the right of Rob' Garrot in N' 224.
same for 100 acres the right of James Monroe in N' 254. one other
Deed to same for 100 acres the right of James Wood in N' 255. To
John Mayland for 500 acres N' 168. John Mayland Pat: Joyes



DEEDS EXECUTED, 1789 443

500 acres Viz' 140 to Mayland. the balance to Joyes N? 288To
John Mayland: ass°? for 500 acres N? 185. To Pat: Joyes ass":
500 acres N:" 165. and one other Deed for 234 acres the balance
of Baileys Claim, also one other Deed for 500 acres N? 256. To
Jacob Regar 156. acres Carneys balance in N' 154. To John Gerault 5 Deeds for his whole Claim, William Harrod for his balance
234. acres. John Shelby for his balance 234. To William Eastin ass*-'
for 500 acres N?i70

Adj* till to morrow 10 OClock

John Campbell

Tuesday the first of September 1789. The Board met pursuant to adjournment, members same as Yesterday.

The following Deeds presented to the Board and Executed.
Viz' To James Davies for balance of his Claim 156 acres. To
Isaac Anderson ass'? for 500 acres N' 192. To John Harrison ass^'
for 500 acres N' 21. To Robert Todd for 500 acres N? 55. To
Geo: Shepherd ass°° for 100 acres, the Claim of D. Bailey in N? 195.
To Rich? Terrell Benjamin Sebastian for 400 acres p' of N? 108.
surveyed in the name of A. S. Bullett Viz' two thirds to Terrell,
the balance to Sebastian. To Rich? Terrell for ICX) acres in N? 13
the Claim of J. Holms. To Geo: R. Clark for 100 acres p' of N'
57. the Claim of Hugh Henry. To John Harrison ass°' for 351.
acres the bal. of Montgomerys Claim. To John Mayland, Adam
Hoops Abn^ M. Dunn^ Ass»^ a Deed for 1500 acres N? 131. 250.
293: To Adam Hoops Ass"? for 500 acres N? 166. To Basil
Prather ass'=°: four Deeds for balance of Brashears Claim, Viz' N?
III. 134. 236. 500 acres each 234 acres p' of N? 194. To Adam
Hoops William M Pherson Ass"" Jointly 500 acres N' 48.

Adj* John Campbell

At a Meeting of the following Members of the Board of
Comm"^' at Louisville the 7'" December 1791. Viz! James F. Moore.
Rich* Taylor. Alexander Breckenridge and Rich? Terrell

Ordered that Richard Terrell be appointed Clerk Surveyor to the Board in Room of William Clark dec'' that he take
possession of the Records, Books Papers.

Deeds Issued to Mich! Lacassagnee Ass'« of Mich' Setzer
John Setzer for 200 Acres in N' 2. bring Board

Adjourned James F. Moore



444 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

At a Meeting of the Commissioners for apportioning the
Lands granted to the Illinois Regiment at the Falls of Ohio the
6'^ July 1 79 1. Present John Campbell, William Clark James F.
Moore Gen'

M'' Joseph Calvet produced to the Board a Deed for his
proportion of Land in the Illinois Grant amounting to 2156 acres
Viz' 41. 50. 61. 161. 156. acres part of N' 216. The Board having Examined the Deed Executed the same

Adjourned John Campbell

At a Meeting of the Commissioners for apportioning the
Lands granted to the Illinois Regim' at the Falls of Ohio the S'""
day of February 1792. present Alex'' Breckenridge, Rich^ Taylor,
Rob' Breckenridge Richard Terrell Gen'

Deeds Issued to James Meriweather for N° 26. 92. 150
214. for 500 acres each, also to Levi Todd one hundred and fifty
six Acres part of N? 271. To Edw'? Dowze ass*' Dan' Brodheads s
ass"' Buckner Pitman for 200 acres part of N' 171. D. E. also to
Thomas Wilson Land for 156. acres part of N? 169. A also to John
Moore for 100 acres C part of N' 126.

Adjourned

Alex' Breckenridge

At a Meeting of the Commissioners for apportioning the
Lands granted to the Illinois Regiment at Louisville the 6"" March
1792 present John Campbell, Rich^ Taylor Alex^ Breckenridge
and Rich** Terrell, Gen' Deeds Issued to Sam' Oldham ass"^ of
Jacob Vanmeter for N? 7 500 acres. Deeds Issued to Jacob Vanmeter for N? 64. 182. 232. 500 acres each amounting to 1500 acres.
Deed Issued to Jacob Vanmeter for 156. acres being B part of N?

155Adjourned

John Campbell
At a meeting of a Board of Commissioners at Louisville the
3'^" day of April 1792. present G. R Clark Rich" Terrell William Croghan Gen'

Deed Issued to William Vanlear ass"' of Edw? Worthington
for N? 176. containing 500 acres.

G. R Clark






DEEDS EXECUTED. 1797 445

At a Meeting of the board of Commissioners at Louisville
the 17'" day of May J 792. present George R. Clark. Robert Breckenridgc, Alex^ Brcckenridge William Croghan Gen*

Deeds Issued to Richard Terrell ass^° of Pleasant Lockliart
for One hundred acres part of N? 54 Peter Priest for One hundred acres part of Lot N? 171.

Geo: R Clark
At a meeting of the board of Commissioners for apportioning the Lands granted to the Illinois Regim^ at Louisville May 23''
1792. present John Campbell Alex'' Brcckenridge William Croghan Gen'

Deeds Issued to Henry Floyed Y Ass" of Henry Floid for
N» 65. &.107. in one Deed, and to Henry Floid for N"" 230 280
also in one Deed.

John Campbell
At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners for apportioning the Lands granted to the Illinois Regiment at Louisville May
28"" 1792 present John Campbell Geo: R Clark. Alex^ Breckenridge Rich^ Taylor. Gent" a Deed Issued to William Croghan
ass'' of Henry Floyds for one hundred fifty six acres of Land part

of a 500 acre Survey N' 154

John Campbell
At a meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Louisville the 7th day of March 1797 present Geo. R
Clark, Alex'' Breckenridge, Rich*" Taylor, Robert Brcckenridge
William Croghan Gen' Deeds Issued to the Heir at Law of Ab"
Keller dec^ for the following Six Tracts of 500 acres each Viz'
N» 71. N:" 120: N? 156. N» 173. N? 238. N? 295., and for two
hundred thirty four Acres part of a 500 acre Survey N? 148. being
the Letter B

Geo. R Clark

At a meeting of the Board of Commissioners for the Illinois

Grant at Louisville the 12'^ day of May 1797. Present. Rich'?

Taylor, Alex^ Brcckenridge, William Croghan Rich^' Terrell Gen'

Deed Issued to John Armstrong for 100 acres N' 57. letter

D allowed Barney Higgins and Convey 'd by assignments produced



446 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Deed issued to Sam' Applegate for lOO acres allowed Stepen Frost
part of N? 73. letter B. conveyed by assignm" produced

Rich? Terrell

At a meeting of the board of Commissioners for the Illinois
Grant at Louisville the 4th day of July 1797. Present Rich* Terrell,
Rob.' Breckenridge William Croghan, James F. Moore Rich.*
Terrell Gen'

Deed Issued to Ab"" Chaplin for 500 acres N' 199. allowred
Edw* Worthington, Conveyed by assignmts produced

Deed Issued to Elizabeth Morgan Devisee of David Morgan
dec'' for 100 acres part of N;" 220 Letter D. allowed James Elm.
Conveyed by assignments

Deed Issued to Thomas Malloy for lOO acres part of N» 286.
Letter D. allowed John M Mannassee sen"^ conveyed by assignments
produced

Rich' Taylor

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners for the Illinois
Grant at Captain Richard Terrell s office the 14'* day of October
1797. present Richard Taylor, William Croghan and Richard Terrell Gentlemen, Deed Issued to James Ramsey for 100 acres part
of N' 119. Letter D.

Deed Issued to William Swan assignee of Abraham Lusader
for 100 acres part of N" 79. Letter A. Conveyed by assignment produced.

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners for the Illinois
Grant at Major William Croghans the 15'" day of Novemr 1797,
present Richard Taylor, William Croghan and Richard Terrell
Gentlemen.

Deed Issued to Tilman Camper for lOO acres Letter C part
of N° 52.

a Deed Issued to Robert George Assignee of Abraham Chapline for 156 Acres part of N° 276. Letter A. Conveyd by assignment produced.

a Deed Issued to Abraham Lucas assignee of Henry Funk
for 100 acres part of N" 73. Letter D. Conveyed by assignment
produced.

a Deed Issued to Jesse Rowland assignee of Layton White



DEEDS EXECUTED, 1798 447

for icx) Acres part of N" 255 Letter D. Conveyed by assignment
produced.

a Deed Issued to John Isaacs for 100 acres part of N° 123
Letter B

Richard Taylor

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Louisville
the 5'^ day of December 1797. present Richard Taylor, Alexander
Breckenridge, William Croghan and Richard Terrell Gentlemen,

Deed Issued to William Croghan assignee for the Following Claims to Wit

of Samuel Finley 100 acres Letter D. part of N' 30.

John Boyles 100 acres Letter C, part of N° 60.

Armstead Dudley 100 Acres Letter E, part of N" 60.

Van Sweringin 100 Acres Letter B. part of N" 116.

George Venshioner 100 acres Letter B, part of N° 119.

Ebenezer Bowen 100 acres Letter A. part of N' 128 of
James Jerrald 100 Acres Letter B. part of N° 128

Richard Taylor

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Louisville
the 9'^ day of December 1797. present James F. Moore, Richard
Taylor, Alexander Breckenridge and Richard Terrell Gentlemen,
Deed Issued to Richard Terrell assignee for 234 acres part of N"
246 Letter Afor 100 acres part of N° 81. Letter B: for 100 acres
part of N" 162 Letter B: for 100. acres part of N° 79; Letter C:
for 100 acres part of N" 174. Letter A. for 100 acres part of N°
286 Letter Cand for lOO acres part of N° 286 Letter A. a Deed
also Issued to James Guthrie ass" for 100 Acres part N" 211
Letter E.

James F. Moore

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Louisville
the 2°'' day of January 1798 present Alexander Breckenridge, Robert
Breckenridge, William Croghan and Richard Terrell Gentlemen.

Deed Issued to George Huckelberry assignee of Richard
Harrison for 500 acres N" 135, by assignment produced.

Alexander Breckenridge

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners at Louisville
the i" June 1798. present George R. Clark Richard Taylor, William
Croghan Richard Terrell Gentlemen,



448 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Deed Issued to Adam Brenton ass°« of Isaac Vanmetre for
lOO acres part of N° 243. Letter C.

Deed Issued to Robert Biggs assignee of Jehu Baldwin assignee of William Montgomery heir of James for 156 acres part of
N° 133 Letter C.

Deed Issued to the heirs of Isaac Hite assignee of Isaac Kellar for 200 acres part of N" 245 Letter C, D.

Deed Issued to Richard Terrell assignee for lOO acres part
of N" 59 Letter B. for 152 acres part of N° 196. Letter A

George R. Clark

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners at Louisville the
6'*' day of August 1798 present Alexander Breckenridge, Robert
Breckenridge, Richard Taylor, Richard Terrell William Croghan
Gentlemen

Deed Issued to James Gordon Heron for 3 Tracts of 500
acres Each to Wit N° 102. 139 183. as assignee of Richard Harrisson.

200 acre Deed to William Croghan ass'' of Cox Fenwick
assignee of Daniel Brodhead assignee &c Letters C D

A. Breckenridge

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at at Louisville the 6'^ Novem"" 1798 present, Alexander Breckenridge, William
Croghan Richard Terrell, Gen'

Deed Issued to Martin Adams ass'' of James Meriwether
assignee of Rice Curtis for 100 acres part of N" 60. Letter B.

A Breckenridge

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Major William Croghans the 27'^ day of February 1799. present Richard
Taylor, William Croghan and Richard Terrell Gentlemen.

Deed Issued to Aquilla Rogers ass'' for 200 acres part of
N" 231. Letters D E, by assignment produced.

Deed Issued to Daniel Covert for 100 part of N" 177. Letter
B. by assignment produced.

Richard Taylor

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Louisville
the 4'* day of June 1799. present Alexander Breckenridge, Robert
Breckenridge, William Croghan Richard Terrell, Gen'



DEEDS EXECUTED, 1802 449

Deed Issued to James Hughes assignee of Joseph Anderson
for 100 acres Letter C part of N° 178

A. Breckenridge

at a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Louisville
the 21°' February 1801. present Richard Taylor James F. Moore
Richard Terrell William Croghan Gentlemen

Colonel James F. Moore made oath before the board that he
knew William Myers knew of no other heir he had but Catherine
his sister married to Henry Thomas believed her to be his only
heir, Adam Brenton also made oath before the board that he long
knew W''' Myers and his family, he knew not of any other heir
he had except his Sister Catherine Wife of Henry Thomas and
believed her to be his only heir.

Deed Issued to Adam Brenton for 100 Acres Letter C, N"
220, and also for 100 acres Letter C N" 171. by assignment.

Deed Issued to Francis M'^Guire for 100 acres Letter B,
N" 171. by assignment.

Deed Issued to Isiah Lacy for 100 acres Letter D. N° 1 j.
by assignment.

Richard Taylor.

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Jacob Owens
on Bear Grass the 2^^. day of February 1801. present Ricliard
Terrell [sic] James F. Moore Richard Terrell, Gent",

Deed Issued to Jacob Crump assignee of Peter alias Frederick
Honaker for 100 acres of Land part of N" 57. known by the Letter
E.

Richard Taylor.

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Major William Croglians on Beargrass the 7" day of January 1802, present
Richard Taylor, William Croghan Richard Terrell Gentlemen.

a Deed Issued to Christopher M Cullough ass°' of Patrick
Joyes assignee of John Williams for 200 acres of Land part of N°

124. U E.

Richard Taylor
At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners at Louisville
the 2°'' of August 1802, present Richard Taylor, Robert Breckenridge, William Croghan Richard Terrell Gent"



450 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Deed Issued to Adam Steel for lOO acres part of N" 273
Letter B, assignee of Thomas Gaskins Deed to Jacob Keykendall
for 100 acres part of N" 116. Letter E. assignee of Quenten Swordin
heir of Jonathan Swordin.

Richard Taylor

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners at Richard Terrells the 12'^ of August 1802. present Richard Taylor, William
Croghan and Richard Terrell Gent'

On the application of John Thornton and producing proof
that he is heir at Law to Joseph Thornton a Deed Issued to him
for 100 acres part of N" 2. letter C. the Original plat being lost or
Mislaid by Michael Lacassagne to whom it was delivered.

Richard Taylor

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners for the Illinois
Grant at the House of Major John Harrison in Louisville on Thursday the 28'^ day of October 1802. present George R. Clark, Richard
Taylor and William Croghan.

Resolved that Marston Green Clark be appointed Surveyor
of the Illinois Grant in the Room of Cap' Richard Terrell Deceased.

Resolved that Captain William Clark be appointed Clerk
of the Commissioners in the Room of Richard Terrell Deceased.

Resolved that Major William Croghan be authorized to
apply to and receive from the administrators of Captain Terrell Deceased, all the papers belonging to the Board of Commissioners, and
that he deliver to the Surveyor the record book of the Surveys, and
the remainder of the papers to Deliver to Captain W" Clark Clerk
of the Commissioners

Resolved that the Board do adjourn.

G R Clark

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant in Louisville the 22"" April 1803 present George Rogers
Clark, Richard Taylor and William Croghan Gentlemen. The
following Deeds were Issued for Lands within the said Grant 100
acres to Philip Fulkeson Ass"* of John Cowen designated by Letter
A, in N" 231.

100 acres to Val, Stoner ass*' of John Brenton ass*' of John



,.i»:



DEEDS EXECUTED. 1804 45i

Harrison ass'' of James Brooks ass" of Charles Ounsley as Designated by Letter D, N° 2ii.

lOO acres to the heirs of Richard Terrell ass^' of Daniel
Brodhead ass" of Edward Mathews as att? in fact for Charles Bilderbaclc, Designated by letter D. N° 85.

100 acres to George Shake ass" of Richard Terrell ass" of
John Ray heir at law to William Ray as Designated by letter be
B in N118.

100 acres to Aaron Moore heir of W'^ Moore Deceased ass"
of James Murry heir at law to Lawrance Murry as Designated by
letter E. N" 54.

100 acres to John Harrison ass" of George Lewis ass" of
George Clark Letter E, part of N" 205.

100 acres to John Harrison ass" of George Lewis ass" of
Simon Kenton, Letter E. part of N" 198

adjourned G R Clark, Chair"

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Major William Croghans the 20'^ of July 1803. present
George Rogers Clark Richard Taylor William Croghan Gentlemen, the following Deeds were Issued for Land within the said
Grant, 100 acres to Elizabeth Tally heir at law to John Tally
Deceased, Designated by letter D part of N° 142. 100 acres to
John Blackburn ass" of David Morgan ass" attorney in fact for
of Peter Coger. Designated by letter B. part of N" 205. also to s«
Blackburn for 100 acres as ass Jacob Coger letter B. part of N° 52.
adjourned G R Clark

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Louisville the 6'* day of June 1804 James F. Moore, William Croghan and Richard Taylor,

Deed Issued to Abraham Meresham heir at Law to Nathaniel
Meresham for letter C of lOO acres in the Illinois Grant in N"

254.—

Board adjourned James F. Moore

At a meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant the 2°^ day of July 1804.

Robert Breckenridge, James F. Moore Rich* Taylor a Deed
Issued to John Bottorff ass" of John McDonald ass" of Simpson



452 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Gray who was "ass"' of Francis Godfrey, for loo acres Letter A in
N' 94. in the Illinois Grant

James F. Moore

At a Meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Louisville the ii"" of October 1805.

a Deed Issued to Fulton Lindsey ass" of Robert paterson
who was ass'' of James Gray heir at law to George Gray for 100
acres letter E. in N° 224. in said Grant.

Deed Issued to Hugh Espy as assignee of William Griffin
who is ass'' of Sam' Henry heir at law to John Henry Dec d for
100 acres in the said Grant being letter B. in N' 13.

adjourned Rich" Taylor

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on Saturday the 23"^ Nov'' 1805.

George Rogers Clark, Richard Taylor and William Croghan.

a Deed Issued to James Gilmore ass'' of Noah Craize for

100 acres of Land in the Illinois Grant Letter A. in N" 52.

Also to John Berry ass'' of Solomon Walker who was assignee of
Robert Davies for 100 acres of land letter E. in N° 59 (59)

Adjourned G R Clark

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Louisville on the 20'* of March 1806. George R. Clark
William Croghan Richard Taylor.

a Deed Issued to William Ruby assignee of William Ruby
John Ruby Heirs at law to William Ruby Deceased for lOO acres
known by letter A. in lot N° 118.

also a Deed Issued to the same as heir at law to William
Ruby Deceased for 200 acres letter C D. in Lot N" 118.

adjourned G R Clark

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on the 4''' of May 1806.

George R Clark, Richard Taylor and William Croghan

a Deed Issued to John Berry assignee of John Harris who
was assignee of George Gilmore for lOO acres being letter C. in
Number Ninety four

adjourned G R Clark



DEEDS EXECUTED, 1808 453

At a Meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Louisville on the 28"" June 1806.

George R. Clark, W" Croghan Richard Taylor

a Deed Issued to ^y■P Brenton ass°« of W'^ Clark for 45
acres land letter A in N° 141. in Illinois Grant.

a Deed Issued to John M'^Loney ass^' for 200 acres of land
letters A B. the Claim of Beverly Trent N° 142.

a Deed Issued to Adam Brenton ass"' for 100 acres letter
E. in N° 79

adjourned G R Clark

At a Meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Louisville on the 29'^ Sepf 1806

Present George R. Clark. William Croghan Robert Breckenridge Richard Taylor

William Ferguson John Berry laid before the Board an
assignment from James Robertson to Daniel Frazer and from said
Frazcr to the said Ferguson Berry, and prayed the Board to Grant
them a Deed for the said Robertsons Claim in the said Grant, and
Robert A. New as Agent for the Heirs Representatives of the
said Robertson prayd the Board to suspend the Issuing of the Deeds
for the said Claim Sugesting that Fraud had been Committed on
the part of the said Berry and Ferguson in procuring and authenticating said assignment. It is Ordered that a further time untill
the first Monday in April next be given the parties to Establish their
Claim at which time the board will determine on the same.

adjourned G R Clark

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on Thursday the 30"" of June 1808.

Present. Robert Breckenridge 1

William Croghan I Commiss"^
Richard Taylor J

a Deed Issued to Robert Whitehill Jun'' for 100 acres of
Land letter C. N° 28. Granted to John Hughs Deceased and assigned by James Hughs as heir at law to said John Hughes Dec* to
said Robert Whitehill.

Signed Ro, Brickenridge



454 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on the i'* day of August i8o8.

Present James F. Moore

William Croghan Comm''»

Robert Breckenridge

a Deed Issued to William Cornell Assignee of Josepli Phelps
for lOO acres of land in the Illinois Grant Latter A. in N' 577

Ro^ Breckinridge

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at the House of John Gwathmey agreeable to publick notice,
on Thursday the i^' day of Sep'' 1808.

Present Richard Taylor

William Croghan y Comm'''
Rob' Breckinridge J

a Deed Issued to Benjamin Brewer assignee of Stith Daniel
ass"' of Jerry Harrison assignee of Michael Spairs who was ass*' of
James Brown for 200 acres of land being letters D E. in N° 273.
the Claim of the said James Brown.

a Deed Issued to William Asher Jissignee of Bartlett Asher
who is heir at law to William Asher Dece ised for 100 acres Letter
C in N" 59.

The Commissioners having examined the papers laid before
them by the representatives of Richard Terrell and those laid before
them by Jacob Peck, It appears from said papers that on the Original
plat of the Survey there is an assignment made by Henry Thomas
assignee to Andrew Crockett to which assignment there is no date,
and on the said plat of Survey is an assignment from Frederick
Edwards as Agent of Andrew Crockett to Richard Terrell bearing
date the 21°' day of April 1798. That on the part of Jacob Peck
is an assignment of the said Henry Thomas to said Jacob Peck on
the Certificate of George R Clark to John Lines who, served for
the Claim now in question dated the 24'^ day of November 1794.

The Commissioners having Considered said Claim are of
Opinion that the Claim of Jacob Peck is better than that of the
representatives of Richard Terrell in as much as the date of the
assignment to Peck is prior to the date of that from Edwards as
Agent for Crockett to Richard Terrell. It is Ordered that a Deed






DEEDS EXECUTED, 1808 455

Issue to the said Jacob Peck for the said Claim of Henry Thomas
as assignee of John Lyne which Claim is lOO acres of Land Letter
C. in N" 119.

Resolved tiiat the board adjourn untill Saturday the aQ'"" day
of October Next.

At a Meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant agreeable to adjournment at the Last Meeting on the 29'"
day of Octor 1808.

Present George R. Clark "1

William Croghan I Gent.
Richard Taylor J

a Deed Issued to John Crim assignee of William King assignee of Henry Honaker for lOO acres of Land Letter C in N° 57.
a Deed Issued to William Goodwin assignee of David Jones
for 100 acres Letter C in N° 138.

a Deed Issued to James M"^Kinney assignee of Jolm Lang
assignee of Isaac Yates for 100 acres Letter B. in N" 210.

adjourned G R Clark

At a Meeting of the Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Louisville on the 3'day of Decem^ 1808. present George
R. Clark Robert Breckcnridge, Richard Taylor James F. Moore and
William Croghan, The Board having Met on this day for the purpose of Determining on the Contest between the heirs of James
Robertson John Berry Ferguson Philip Barbour heir representative of Philip Barbour Deceased But no person appearing
on the part of said Berry Ferguson to advocate their Claim the
Board think it most proper to Suspend the Investigation of said
Claim untill Tuesday Morning Next for which purpose a board will
be formed on said day at the Schoolhouse Near Colonel Taylors.

Adjourned Signed G R Clark
At a Meeting of the Commissioners of the Illinois Grant
agreeable to the adjournment of the 3^^ Instant, present George
R. Clark James F. Moore, William Croghan, Richard Taylor
Robert Breckcnridge.

The Commissioners having Examined the the papers adduced
by Mess'-' John Berry and William Ferguson and the heirs of James
Robertson Deceased, and of Philip Barbour heir at Law to Philip



456 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Harbour Deceased (and having Examined Aaron Prather touching
•he Claim of the above named Berry Ferguson) all of whom have
prayed the Commissioners to Grant them Deeds for the Lands in the
Illinois Grant allowed to James Robertson for military services are
of opinion that it is proved by the Testimony of the said Prather
that the assignment of the said Berry Ferguson from said James
Robertson was Fraudulently procured as appears from the Deposition of Aaron Prather, It is Ordered that Deeds Issue to the legal
Heirs, Representatives Devisee or Devisees of the said James Robertson for all the Lands in the said Grant allowed to him by the board
of Commissioners.

Adjourned signd G R Clark

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant at Louisville on the ii'^ day of May 1809. William Croghan, Rob' Breckenridge, Richard Taylor, James F. Moore, a Deed
Issued to Lucy SuUevan Daniel SuUevan, William Sullevan Rebecca Sullevan Sophea Sullevan heirs of William Sullevan Dec^
as assignee of Marston G. Clark assignee of John Pulford for 100
acres being letter E, in N° 31.

A deed Issued to Adam Brenton assignee of David Millbank
Ann his Wife for letter E. in N° "^l [sic] of 100 acres.
Adjourned RonT Breckenridge

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on Friday 22°'' Sep"" 1809.

present George R. Clark

William Croghan
Richard Taylor.

A Deed Issued to John Cockey Owings assignee of Robert
Patterson for 200 acres of Land being Letters D E, in N° 177.

Signed Rich" Taylor

At a Meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on the 27'day of Novemf 1809, present George R. Clark,
James F. Moore William Croghan, Richard Taylor Robert Breckenridge, Philip Barbour Jun^ petitioned this board to grant him a
Deed for the land lying in the Illinois Grant of which James Robinson [sici Deceased Lieu' in the Illinois Reg' Died possessed and
produced to the Board an authentick Copy of the Last will and



SURVEY OF LOTS, ISIO 4S7

Testament of tlic said James Robertson and otlier testmoneals to
Establish his Claim and Robert A. New as attorney for Jerrcmcl
Turpin who intermarried with Ann Robertson Daughter of
John Robertson heir at law to said. James Robertson and who is
assignee of Wallball Robertson, Henry Turpin, Elizabeth Turpin,
Eleazer Cheatham, Mich! Cheatam, John Robertson, Rich^
Robertson, William Robertson Jun^ and others who Claim to be the
heirs and Representatives of said James Robertson Deceas"" which
being considered of by the Board it is ordered that Deeds do Issue
to the said Philip Barbour Jun^ heir at law to Philip Barbour Deceased who was Devisee of said James Robertson for Lots N° 25 of
500 Acres, N° 200, of 500 acres N" 206 of 500 acres, and N° 294
of 500 acres, and for letter B, of 156 acres part of N° 106, which
land was Granted to said Robertson as Lieu' in said Regiment, The
said Deeds to be made with the following Conditions to Wit saving
to the said Jeremel Turpin such title as he may be able to
Establish in a Court of Equity or Law to said lands as representative
aforesaid. It is also Ordered that the Order made for Granting the
before mentioned Land to the Legal heir. Representative Devise or
Devisees of said Robertson in the month of Decern^ last be rescinded

Adjourned G. R. Clark

At a meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illenois
Grant on tiie 23 day of January 1810

Present Geo R. Clark William Croghan and Richard Taylor
A Deed issued to John R. Nugent assignee of Thomas Consuls heir at law to Harman Consuls for lOO Acres being letter C.

in N° 205

Adjourned G. R. Clark

At a meeting of a Board of Commissioners of the Ilcnois
Grant on the 14 day of March 1810.

Present Geo. R. Clark. Rich^ Taylor William Crogiian
Resolved that the 500 acre Survey N° 74 be laid off into
one hundred Acre Lots and that the said One hundred acres be each
of tiicm distinguished on the Map by letters A B C D E in tiie
same manner as is distinguished in Lots N' 73 and that the surveyor
of Clark County be requested to lay off said lots accordingly and
return a platt of Survey to the next Meeting of this board. Resolved



458 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

also that on the application of any Individual to this board and producing assignments from persons owning 8 acre lotts in s^ N° 74,
to the amount one hundred acres the board will procede to ballet
and make a deed for the Letter drawn accordingly.

G. R. Clark.

At a meeting of the board of Commissioners of the Ilenois
Grant at Louisville on the 17 day of May 1810. Present William
Croghan Robert Breckenridge Richard Taylor. Commiss

A Deed issued to James Cruther assigne of Nathaniel Gains
and Ingery his Wife, formly Ingerey House Heiress of Andrew
House, for 100 Acres being letter E in N" 48

Adjourned W. Croguan

At a meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Ilinois
Grant on the 12 of Nov. 18 10.

Present Robert Breckenridge, William Croghan Richard
Taylor

Evan Shelby Surveyor of Clark County Indiana Territory pursuant
to a former resolution of this board, has surveyed lot N" 74 in the
Ilinois Grant and laid the same out into five equal Lots distinguished
by letters A. B. C. D. E Ordered that the same be recorded.

George Huckleberry Iiaving produced assignments to this
board for 20, Claims of eight Acres in said number which the board
consider sufficiently authenticated the s^ Huckleberry by Evan
Shelby having proceeded to ballot for the same, drew the said one
hundred and sixty acre out of letters C. D. Resolved that the
Commissioners make a Deed of Conveyance to the s'' Huckleberry
his heirs or Assigns, for the s* one hundred sixty acres to include
letter C the remainder of letter D Adjoing the or that the Commissioners will convey the whole of the s*" two letters when the s*
Huckleberry shall produce assignments for the 40 Acres which shall
be considered sufficiently Authenticated by the Commissioners.

Ordered that the said Huckleberry be authorized to take
possession of the s'' One hundred sixty acres whereon he shall
proper so to do Ordered that the board do adjourn

Ro, Breckenridge

At a meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Ilinois
Grant on the 22 day of January 181 1 Present, Robert BreckenDEEDS EXECUTED. 1815 459

ridge, Will. Croghan Rd Taylor

George Huckleberry Jun'' having produced to the Board 5
other assignments for 8 acre lots in lot N" 74. a Deed Issued to the
said George Huckleberry for 200, acres of land being letters C D.
in said N" 74. heretofore drawn by said Huckleberry and being each
of tlic residuary Claims of Van Sweringin, Florence Mahoney John
Tally, Peter Priest, Jacob Spears, Nathaniel Marshon, William
Whitley, James Whitecotton, Eleazer Osbon, William Ray, George
Vensconer, Michael John Sitzer, John Page Sartain, Charles
Ousley, Isaac Vanmeter, Josiah Philps, Isaac Yates, Henry Vance,
John Paul, William Thompson, Barney Waters, George Shepherd
and Samuel Watkins

Adjourned Ro. Breckenridge

At a Meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on the i" day of February 1813. present George R. Clark,
Rich^ Taylor William Croghan, a Deed Issued to Isaac RPBride
for 100 Acres letter D. in N° 281.

Adjourned Rich' Taylor

At a Meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on the 4'^ day of August 1813.

present Robert Breckenridge, Rich^ Taylor and William

Croghan.

Ordered that a Deed Issue to William Wilson assignee of
James Biggs assignee of Hanley Vance for 100 acres in the Illinois
Grant letter D. in N" 243.

Ordered that a Deed Issue to James Biggs assignee of Fulton
Lindsey assignee of the heirs of Arthur Lindsey for 100 acres letter

D in N" 79.

Adjourned Ro Breckenridge

At a Meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant the g'" day of August 18 1 5.

Present Richard Taylor, William Croghan and Robert

Breckenridge.

a Deed Issued to Robert Cornell assignee of Thomas Key
assignee of Gasper Gaylor for 100 acres letter D N° 224.

Ordered that a Deed Issued to William Goodwin assignee
of John Jackson assignee of Mary Jane Vaughan assignee of



46o ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Garrard Enoch Nelson by power of Attorney (or letter to James
Patten) for two undivided third parts of lOO acre tract Letter E.
N85.

a Deed Issued to Philip Daily assignee of Original Young
assignee of Aaron Moore assignee of Christopher Greenup ass"' of
Elisha Freeman heir at law to William Freeman for 100 Acres
letter E N° 73.

Adjourned Rich" Taylor

At a Meeting of a board of Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant on the 2'"> day of Sepf i8i5present Richard Taylor, William Croghan and Robert Breckenridge. a Deed Issued to Abram appler ass" of W"^ Caunifax, ass"'
of Rich^ Cox for 100 acres of land in the Illinois Grant part of a
tract of 500. acres N° 59. Letter D, which Deed bears date August
the 14'^ last

Rich" Taylor

On the 14'* of December 18 16. William Croghan Richard
Taylor and Robert Breckenridge Commissioners of the Illinois
Grant, made a Deed to Aaron Prather assignee of Edmund Fear,
for 100 acres of Land in the Illinois Grant Letter C. part of the
500 acre Survey N' 73.

W Croghan

On the 20"" of December 1816, William Croghan Richard
Taylor Robert Breckenridge Commissioners of the Illinois Grant
made a Deed to Absalom Parker assignee of Thomas Allen who
was assignee of William Hack for 100 acres of Land in the Illinois
Grant Letter E. part of the 500 acre Survey N" 174.^

W. Croghan

On the 19th of February, 1818, Mr. John Sullivan, guardian of the heir of William Sullivan, deceased, produced to the commissioners of the Illinois Grant, viz. Robert Breckenridge, William
Croghan and Richard Taylor, an assignment from Samuel Stephenson, formerly a soldier in the Illinois regiment, to the said William
Sullivan for the land which he is entitled to for his services in the

'The Draper MS. ends at this point. The entries from February 19,
1818 to April 3, 1847 are taken from English, Conquest of the North<west,
2:1112-1116.







I



DEEDS EXECUTED, 1820 461

said regiment, upon which assignment the said commissioners granted
a deed for 100 acres of land lying in the said grant lettered E, No.
286, to Daniel P. Sullivan, William, Sophia and Rebecca, heirs of
the said Wm. Sullivan, deceased.

W. Croghan.

At a meeting of a board of the commissioners of the Illinois
Grant, on the 3d day of June, 18 10, present, William Croghan,
Richard Taylor, Robert Breckenridge, Gent. A deed from the said
commissioners to Thomas Joyes, for 156 acres of land in the Grant,
assignee of the heirs and devisees of Valentine T. Dalton, which is
known in the plan of said grant by the number, 155, letter C.

A deed from the commissioners to James Ross, assignee of
James Scott, who was assignee of James January, the original claimants for 100 acres of land in the Illinois Grant, part of No. 198,
letter C, granted the 7th day of July, 1819, by Richard Taylor,
William Croghan and Robert Breckenridge, Esquires.

November 25, 1819. A deed from Richard Taylor, Robert
Breckenridge and William Croghan, commissioners, etc., to Aaron
Moore, assignee of Jacob Miller, heir at law of Abraham Miller,
deceased, for 100 acres of land in the Illinois Grant, part of No. 54,
letter C; also a deed to the said Moore for 100 acres as assignee of
William Lear, part of No. 54. letter A.

March 21, 1820. The commissioners of the Illinois Grant
(to wit, William Croghan, Richard Taylor and Robert Breckenridge, Gents.), on the application of Thomas Joyes, who produced
satisfactory papers in evidence of his right, granted a deed for two
tracts of land of 500 acres each, and distinguished on the map of said
grant by their numbers, 168 and 185, to the said Joyes as the grantee
of Robert Walsh and Anna Maria Walsh, his wife, the sole heir of
Jasper Moyland, deceased, and Samuel Fox and Maria Fox, his wife,
and William Lansdale and Elizabeth Lansdale, his wife; the said
Maria Fox and Elizabeth Lansdale being the only heirs of Stephen
Moyland, deceased, and the said Jasper and Stephen Moyland being
the only heirs of John Moyland, deceased, to whom a deed had been
executed by a former board of commissioners for the said two tracts
of 500 acres of land each, as assignee of General G. R. Clark, which
deed is represented to be lost or mislaid, and therefore the said heirs



462 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

and leRal representatives of the said John Moyland have conveyed
the said land to said Thomas Joyes, and by their attorney, Robert
Wickliffe, have authorized and requested the renevi^al of the deed
accordingly. Robert Breckenridge.

Louisville, June i, 1820.

The undersigned, one of the commissioners for settling the
claims to lands in the Illinois Grant and granting deeds for the
same, having examined the following residuary soldiers' claims and
the assignments thereof to George Huckleberry, which are found to
be correct, viz. Daniel Williams, James Ramsey, Jesse Finer, Isaac
McHride, G. E. Nelson, Ebenezer Severns, Jonathan Sworden Will
Ruby, Robert Witt, Francis Spilman, Henry Prather, John McManness, Sen., for eight acres each, and John Thompson, heir at law
to Joseph Thornton, deceased, for eight acres, four acres of which
are appropriated to make the quantity of 100 acres; and the said
George Huckleberry, by Evan Shelby, proceeded to ballot for one
of the unappropriated lots of the survey for 500 acres, which is distinguished in the map of said grant by its number, 74. When he
drew the lot, letter E, for which a deed may issue upon his procuring an additional claim regularly assigned, for so much as will complete the 100 acres, and in the meantime the said Huckleberry may
enter upon and take possession of the same.

March 1821, the said Huckleberry produced the above
claim of John Thornton, heir, etc. Deed issued accordingly.

Robert Breckenridge.

Deed signed by R. Breckenridge in favor of William Goodwin for one-third of letter E, No. 85, and delivered to Evan Shelby
for the signatures of the other commissioners, William Croghan and
Richard Taylor, Esquires.

Also, a deed in favor of William Morgan, assignee of R.
Witt, for 100 acres, letter B, part of No. 243, and a deed to Reece
Williams, heir at law of Daniel Williams, for 100 acres, letter E,
part of No. 243, which deeds were signed by R. Breckenridge and
delivered by him to Evan Shelby to obtain the signatures of the other
commissioners, William Croghan and Richard Taylor, Esquires.

At a meeting of the board of commissioners of the Illinois
Grant, at Charlestown, on the 20th day of August, 1825, for the






DEEDS EXECUTED. 1825 463

purpose of creating deeds, etc., present, Joseph Bartholomew, James
Beggs, Andrew P. Hay, Benjamin Ferguson and Stephen Hutcliings,
Gent. Joseph Bartholomew was appointed chairman of the board
and John Douthatt the clerk of the same.

Ordered that the board of commissioners adjourn until the
15th day of October.

Joseph Bartholomew, Chairman.

At a meeting of the commissioners of the Illinois Grant,
according to adjournment, in Charlestown, on the 15th day of October, 1825, present, Joseph Bartholomew, James Beggs, Benjamin
Ferguson, Orlando Raymond and Stephen Hutchings, Gent. Andrew P. Hay present.

Ordered, that a deed issue to Henry Renacking, assignee
of Shadrach G. Moore, assignee of William Coil, assignee of Benjamin Brown, assignee of Alexander Mclntire, for 100 acres of
land in No. 130, letter C.

Ordered, that deed issue to Joseph Coombs, assignee of Isaac
Grcatiiouse, assignee of H. Greathouse and Isaac Greathousc, Iicir
at law of William Greathouse, deceased, 100 acres of land in No.
224 and letter B.

Ordered tiiat deed issue to Sliem Hostcdler, assignee of Daniel Bower, assignee of Elizabeth Alexander, heir at law of James
Alexander, deceased, assignee of Andrew Spear, assignee of Isaac
Sampson, assignee of Thomas Short, who was assignee of Robert
Barnett for 100 acres of land in No. 162 and letter C.

Ordered, that the clerk of this board receive two dollars for
each deed which is executed by the board of commissioners of the
Illinois Grant.

Ordered, that deed issue to James Curry, assignee of Jacob
Teeple, assignee of James Drake, assignee of Robert A. New, assignee of James Ferguson, assignee of Evan Shelby, assignee of
Jacob Spear, for 100 acres of land in No. 174 and letter B.

The board adjourned. Joseph Bartholomew.

At a meeting of the board of commissioners of the Illinois
regiment, according to adjournment, in Charlestown, the 27th day
of November, A. D. 1846, prc'-nt, Andrew P. Hay, Alexander
Mars, Samuel McCampbell, David W. Dailey and Christopher



464 ILLINOIS HISTORICAL COLLECTIONS

Cole, Gent., the board unanimously appointed Andrew P. Hay
president of the board of commissioners, and also unanimously appointed Joseph Bower clerk of said board, in place of John Douthitt,
Esq., former clerk, who has heretofore resigned his said office as
clerk aforesaid.

The board proceeded to investigate the claims of the heirs
of John Hacker, and the heirs of Christopher Hatten. After due
consideration, was continued until the next meeting of the board
on the 1st Monday in December next, 1846, to which time the
board adjourned. Andrew P. Hay, Pres. B.

On the 7th day of December, 1846, the following gentlemen,
commissioners, met pursuant to adjournment, to wit: A. P. Hay,
president, John D. Shryer, Samuel McCampbell, and not being a
majority sufficient to act, the board adjourned until convened at
some future day.

Then on the 3d day of April, 1847, the board met pursuant
to adjournment. Present, Hon. A. P. Hay, president, Samuel McCampbell, David W. Dailey, Alexander Mars and Christopher Cole.

Ordered that a deed issue to George A. Hatten and Ann
E. Hatten, sole heirs at law of Christopher Hatten, for 100 acres
of land in No. 28, letter A, of the Illinois Grant.

The board adjourned until convened at some future day.

Examined. Andrew P. Hay, P. B. C.



I

i






