THE FIRST MAP AND DESCRIPTION OF OHIO

All the maps separately published in the United States previous to 1800 are of great rarity; especially so are those published to accompany some printed explanatory text. Such maps have either been issued after the text, or are so large that they have been made a “separate.” This is exemplified by reference to Bernard Romans’ “Chart of East and West Florida. 1 774”; Thomas Hutchins’ “A new map of the western parts of Virginia .	.	.	1778’’; John Filson’s “Map

of Kentucke. 1 784”, and many others. While these maps are well known to the historian, cartographer and bibliographer as being of great interest and rarity, the map here reproduced is even less familiar, as only two copies of the original have come to light, one in the Library of Congress, and the other in the Library of the Massachusetts Historical Society, described in its “Proceedings, 1901”, 2d series, v. 34, p. 167:

“Rev. Dr. Edward J. Young said:

‘I desire to present to the Library an old map of the Federal Territory drawn in conformity with an Ordinance of Congress passed in May, 1785. It belonged to Thomas Blake, of Dorchester, who was an officer in the Revolution and served through the war, was in the battle of Saratoga, and died in Boston sixty years ago, at the age of eighty-seven years. This map represents the country extending from the western boundary of Pennsylvania to the Scioto River; and on it are marked the Connecticut lands, lands granted to the army, lands reserved by Virginia for her military officers; and the territory “allotted to the Wyandot and Delaware Nations to live and to hunt on”; and in the portion purchased by the Ohio Company are designated the lots appropriated for schools and religious purposes.’

“Mr. Henry W. Haynes spoke of the great value of this map, and referred to a small tract, presumably written by Manasseh Cutler and published in Salem in 1789 (7), which gave an explanation of it, the statements of which are vouched for as ‘just and true’ by Thomas Hutchins, of New York, Geographer of the United States. Mr. Haynes read from Justin Winsor’s ‘Narrative and critical history of America’ (Vol. vn, p. 536 n. col. 2) statements which showed that both the map and the explanation of it are extremely rare.

“Mr. Edward Channing confirmed what had been said, and added that he was very familiar with the subject, as he had assisted Mr. Winsor in preparing this part of his history, and considered the discovery of this map as a remarkable ‘find.’

“Mr. Albert B. Hart indorsed the views of the other speakers, and regarded it as a matter of much interest that this map had been brought to light.’’

It is to be regretted that the copy in the Society’s collection is not in perfect condition.

Peter G. Thomson, in his exhaustive work entitled: “A bibliography of the state of Ohio,” gives the title of the text, and in an attached note states:

“Excessively rare. This pamphlet was reprinted in Nahum Ward’s ‘Brief sketch of the state of Ohio’, Glasgow, 1822, and London, 1 823; and a French translation was issued in Paris in 1 789. It is mentioned in Caleb Emerson’s article on Ohio in the 53d volume of the N. A. Rev. p. 358, in Morse’s Geography, and by Wm. F. Poole in the N. A. Rev. vol. 122, page 261. It has the prediction that the western rivers will be navigable chiefly by steamboats.

“Doubts have been expressed as to Dr. Manasseh Cutler being the author of this rare tract. In this connection I will say that among the papers of Dr. Cutler may be seen the original receipt of Dabney and Cushing of Salem, for money paid them for printing in 1787 a pamphlet on the Western Territory. Ludewig says ‘with map’, but I have never seen a copy with the map, and could never ascertain what map it explained.”

The reference to the pamphlet being reprinted in Ward’s Ohio is somewhat misleading, as only some few extracts are printed in that work. Also a few extracts are found in the first edition of Jedidiah Morse’s "American geography, 1 789”, pp. 460-462, in which it is spoken of as an “anonymous pamphlet”.

This reference to Ludewig is from his “The Literature of American local history, 1846”. There is no reason to suppose that he ever saw the "Explanation” or the “Map”.

In the weekly published in Salem, Mass., entitled "The Salem Mercury,” of date Tuesday, Nov. 27, 1787, is the first announcement of the publication of the text:

“JUST PUBLISHED,

"(By the Printers hereof, and for sale at this Office—Price 9 d.)

"A description of the Federal Lands, purchased by the Ohio and Sioto Companies, confirmed to the United States by sundry Tribes of Indians, in the Treaties of 1784 and 1786, and now ready for settlement.—

“A pamphlet highly entertaining, well worthy the perusal of every excursive reader, who wishes to enlarge his views, and cultivate an acquaintance with ‘a paradise of pleasure, opening in the wild’.

The title was somewhat amplified in the issue of Tuesday, Dec. 4, 1787:

“Just published, and to be sold, at the Printing-office in Salem, A PAMPHLET, descriptive of a very considerable part of the Western Country; particularly that Tract of Land lately purchased by the Ohio Company.

"To which are added,—Some elegant Extracts from the Writings of Mr. St. John De Crevecoeur, on the Passage of the Ohio River, and the Beauties of the Federal Territory. [Price, 9 d.]

"[Sold also by Mess. William and Stephen Cleveland, at Chapmen’s Corner, Salem.]

“Subscriptions for a New Map of the Territory described in this pamphlet are taken in by the Printers hereof; who expect to receive a small number, in about two weeks.”

And further enlarged in the issue of Tuesday, Dec. 11, 1 787:

“Just published, and to be Sold, at the Printing-office in Salem, A PAMPHLET, Descriptive of a very considerable part of the WESTERN COUNTRY; particularly that Tract of Land lately purchased by the OHIO COMPANY.

“To Which are added,—Some elegant Extracts from the Writings of Mr. St. John De Crevecoeur, on the Passage of the Ohio River, and the Beauties of the Federal Territory. [Price, 9

“[Sold also by Mess. Stephen and William Cleveland, at Chapmen’s Corner, Salem.]

“Subscriptions for a New Map, of the Territory described in this pamphlet are taken in by the Printers hereof; who expect to receive a small number, in about two weeks.

“The pamphlet advertised above, concludes with the following paragraph:

‘Although it is an object of importance, that Congress should soon fix on a seat of government—yet, in the present state of the country, it is presumed, it will not be thought best that such seat be considered as immovably fixed. To take the range of the Alleghany mountains from the north to south, it is probable 20 years will not elapse, before there will be more people on the western than on the eastern waters of the United States. The settlers ought, even now, to have it in view, that government will forever accommodate them, as much as their brethren on the east: This may be necessary, to prevent their forming schemes of independence, seeking other connexions, and providing for their separate convenience. As it is the most exalted and benevolent object of legislation that ever was aimed at, to unite such an amazingly extensive people, make them happy, under one jurisdiction, every act of Congress under the new constitution, by looking forward to this object, will, we trust, inculcate and familiarize the idea. They will, no doubt, at an early period, make a reservation or purchase of a suitable tract of land for a federal town, that will be central to the whole; and give some publick intimation of such intention to transfer the seat of government, on the occurrence of certain events—such as, comparative population, &c. This would render such transfer easily practicable, by preventing the occasion of uneasiness in the old States; while it would not appear to be the result of danger, or the prospect of revolt, in the new’.”

The only direct reference to the map is found in the issue of Tuesday, May 27, 1788:

“To be Sold at the Printing-office in Salem, {Price, 6s. 8d.)

“A MAP of the Federal Territory, From the Western boundary of Pennsylvania to the Scioto River—Laid down from the latest informations, and divided into Townships and Fractional Parts of Townships, agreeably to the Ordinance of the Hon. Congress, passed in May, 1 785—and A PAMPHLET, explanatory of the above Map, {Price, 9d.)”

Should some fortunate person find in his collection a stray map with the above title, this advertisement would satisfy his mind as to its history. The copy in the Library of Congress was found without the text, and it was a long time before the author of this paper was able to identify it.	.

That there was a map made to accompany the “Explanation of the map” is evidenced by references made in page 1 2 of the “Explanation”, which speaks “of the tract of country comprehended in the map which accompanies this”; page 13: “such is the state of facts relative to the natural advantages of the territory described in the annexed map”.

In an extensive research through Ohio history, bibliography and other sources, the above information is all that can be found relating to the map. Even in the exhaustive work entitled: “Life, journal and correspondence of Rev. Manasseh Cutler, LL D. By his grandchildren, William Parker Cutler and Julia Perkins Cutler”, while there is an occasional reference to the text there is no mention of the map.

As the author of this monograph has before stated in various papers on rare maps, it can not absolutely be stated of a rare map that it is the only copy in existence; the most that may be said is that it is the only copy known.

This map by Manasseh Cutler, within the border measures, up and down, 25% inches, and from side to side, 18% inches. The following is the title and description on the map:

“A map of the Federal Territory from the Western Boundary of Pennsylvania to the Scioto River laid down from the latest informations and divided into Townships and fractional parts of Townships agreeably to the Ordinance of the Honle. Congress passed in May 1785.

“N. B. The small blank squares in each Township shew the Lots reserved by the United States for after Sales those which are shaded Congress have been pleased to give for Schools and Religious Purposes.

"Scale of English miles [70 to 6% inches]”.

The map shows all land north of the Ohio River in the territory of Ohio divided into townships from the Pennsylvania line, which is marked "A true Meridian Line—the Western Boundary of Pennsylvania which runs into Lake Erie 1 /l mile’’, west as far as the Scioto River, and north to the geographer’s line due west from Little Beaver River, on this map marked, "A Continuation of the East and West Line commencing at the Little Beaver where is 1 15' Easterly Variation."

Along the geographer’s line, the townships are laid out to the extent of one township beyond the "Great Miami River", and north of the line one and one half townships at the western end decreasing toward the east until it reaches the geographer’s line at the 9th range, and widening out at the 9th range to four townships further north.

North of this, between the Pennsylvania line and the Cuyahoga River, the territory is not surveyed and is marked, "Connecticut lands, extending from the 41 to the 42°. of latitude, and bounded on the East by the Western Boundary of Pennsylvania”.

The country west from the Cuyahoga River to Omie [Maumee] River, and south of Lake Erie to the township line is marked, "This particular Tract of Country and to the Westward by the dotted lines as far as the portage from the big Miami (which runs into the Ohio) to the Omie River and so down the said River, was allotted to the Wyandot and Delaware Nations to live and to hunt on and to such of the Ottowas as lived thereon in 1785, by the Commissioners for holding a Treaty with the Sundry Tribes of Indians in that Year; Reserving for the establishment of trading posts six miles square at the mouth of the Omie River, and the same at the Portage on the Branch of the big Miami which runs into the Ohio, and the same on the lake of Sandusky where the Fort formerly stood, and also two Miles square on each side of the lower rapids of Sandusky River for the use of the United States”.

The unsurveyed section west of the Scioto river is marked, ’‘Great plains of the Scioto”, also, ‘‘Lands reserved by Virginia, for her Military Officers, in the cession made to, and accepted by the United States”.

North of the Ohio River between the Muskingum and Hockhock-ing rivers and to the line north from the mouth of the Great Kanawha River to the twelfth township is marked ‘‘Tract of land purchased by the Ohio Company”. Upon this Tract, ‘‘Ft. Harmr.” and ‘‘Ancient Ruins” are marked on opposite sides of the Muskingum river at its mouth. Southwest of the Hockhocking River, two townships are marked ‘‘Free stone”, and one “Coals”.

Between White Woman’s Rivulet, a branch of the Muskingum, and the Muskingum proper, the district is marked, “Lands granted to the Army”. On this tract “Three legs” is marked.

The streams emptying into the Ohio River on the Ohio side southwest from Pennsylvania line to the mouth of the Muskingum are, “Little Beaver”, “Yellow Rivulet”, “Cross Rivulets”, above which stands “Ft. Steuben”, “Indian Wheeling”, opposite the mouth of which is “Leans Fort”, “McMahans Rivulet”, "Capteena Rivulet”, and “Sun Fish Rivulet”.

The streams emptying into Lake Erie from the Pennsylvania line to the west, which are named, are, “Grand River”, “Coyaboga [Cuyahoga] River”, “River Huron”, “Sandusky River”, emptying into Lake Sandusky thence to Lake Erie, “River Portage”, “Omie [Maumee] River”.

The lots reserved by the United States in the townships shown by blank squares, which are spoken of in the note to the title, number five in each township.

The country shown on this map embraces all included within the boundaries of the first county formed in the Ohio territory by Governor St. Clair in 1788 and called Washington county, which has been many times subdivided into other counties, and which comprised a large part of the eastern and northern portions of the present state of Ohio,—at a rough guess probably about half the state.

There is a small inset on the map entitled, “A plan of the city to be built on the Muskingum River”. Scale of feet [4000 to 1 inch] being the present city of Marietta, named after Marie Antoinette.

Although the Library of Congress has three copies of the “Explanation”, this does not show that the work is not extremely rare. It was translated into French with title: “Description du sol, des productions, &c., &c. de cette portion des Etats-Unis situee entre la Pennsylvanie, les rivieres de l’Ohio du Scioto, le lac Erie. Tra-duite d’une Brochure imprimee a Salem en Amerique, en 1787”. 30 pp. 8°. Paris, 1789. Two paragraphs are omitted, one in p. 13, commencing “Such”, and ending “Consideration”; the other in p. 21, from “Many” to “Settlement”. No map is known to have accompanied their translation.

In an article entitled “Manasseh Cutler”, by Andrew P. Peabody, published in the “New Englander” for April, 1888, and also in the “Essex institute historical collections, 1888”. v. 25, pp. 223-225, although of considerable interest, an error is made in stating that Cutler wrote two pamphlets the same year and in quoting two distinct titles. He has given a literal translation of the French title of the English “Explanation” under the idea that they are different works. This extract is of interest as a criticism of the work:

“Arrangements were at once made for colonizing the Ohio Company’s purchase under the superintendence of General Putnam, and the first party, forty-seven in number, reached its destination in April of the following year (1788). Meanwhile, Dr. Cutler’s next work was to prepare a pamphlet designed to encourage emigration, which was printed at Salem in the latter part of 1787, and was shortly afterward translated into French to stimulate French immigration into our western territory. 1 cannot find an English copy of this pamphlet; but 1 have on my table, as 1 write, a copy of the translation, printed in Paris. It has the unqualified endorsement of Thomas Hutchins, the official geographer of the United States, who says: ‘The statements correspond perfectly to my own observations during ten years’ residence in that country’. The pamphlet is entitled: ‘Description of the Soil, Productions, etc., of that portion of the United States lying between Pennsylvania, the rivers Ohio and Scioto, and Lake Erie’. The description is remarkable for its geographical accuracy and precision, and its literally authentic and unexaggerated statement of the capacity of the soil and of the advantages offered for access to markets. There is but one word of promise in the pamphlet, which has not been more than fulfilled, and that one word, 1 am inclined to think, was substituted by the French translator for another more sober and reasonable. It is said: ‘It will not be twenty years before there will be more inhabitants about the western than about the eastern rivers of the United States’. 1 find this statement repeatedly quoted with the word fifty instead of twenty. It is added: ‘The government will undoubtedly sooner or later reserve or purchase a place suitable for a national capital, which will be in the centre of population’.

“Dr. Cutler published, also, in the same year a ten-page pamphlet entitled: ‘Explanation of the map which delineates that part of the Federal Lands, comprised between Pennsylvania westline, the rivers Ohio and Scioto, and Lake Erie’. In this occurred the prophetic words, as strange as true, bearing concurrent date with the first pre-Fulton experiments of Fitch and Rumsey, which were generally regarded as chimerical and of no hopeful issue: ‘It is worthy of observation that in all probability steamboats will be found to do infinite service in all our extensive river navigation’. In 1788 Dr. Cutler went out with a second party of emigrants. He started in his sulky, and somewhere on the eastern acclivity of the Alleghanies, finding the road too rough and steep for wheels, took to the saddle, and rode till he came to the Ohio, about eighteen miles above Wheeling. The rest of the way was by water, and Dr. Cutler having had a hint of the possibility of substituting a screw for oars, though I can find no evidence that the experiment had ever been made, ordered and superintended, during his halt on the banks of the Ohio, the construction, as he says, of a ‘screw, with short blades, placed in the stern of a boat, which we turned with a crank’, the first screw propellor ever made. He adds: ‘It succeeded to admiration, and 1 think it a very useful discovery’. He and his companions landed at the site where the previous party had erected their log-huts, and gave to the embryo city the name of Marietta. This was the earliest settlement in what is now the State of Ohio. The name was in honor of Marie Antoinette, and though I find no documentary evidence to the point, putting together this name and the translation into French of Dr. Cutler’s pamphlet, I am disposed to think that the name was designed as an additional attraction to French immigrants”.

As stated, the first notice of the publication of the text was made in ‘‘The Salem Mercury, Nov. 27, 1787 The map was not noticed in the same issue, as it was not published until May 27, 1788; that is five months after the publication of the text.

The author acknowledges in various letters his obligation to Thomas Hutchins, the geographer of the United States, and accompanying the Explanation’’ is Hutchins’ endorsement, dated “New York, 28th October, 1787”. To this distinguished geographer, who did more to exploit the western country than any other writer of his time, the country has rendered but slow justice. His merits are, however, being slowly recognized and the country, especially the West, which he has greatly helped to build up, will no doubt in time render him full appreciation.

The “Explanation”, which was originally published anonymously, has been proved without doubt to have been written by Manasseh Cutler, as agent for the “Ohio Land Company of Associates”, to encourage emigration and subscriptions to the fund in their western venture. As the pamphlet was published in 1787, and as Cutler did not journey to the settlement until 1 788, the inference is that he was indebted for the comprehensive description to Washington, Jefferson, Thomas Hutchins, Rufus Putnam, John Matthews, Winthrop Sargent, and Benjamin Tupper, all of whom either had already been to the country, or had learned about it from extensive reading. The only reference to a map is in a post-script to a letter to Sargent from Cutler, dated March 24, 1786, in which he says: “I have this moment received a map from Mr. Williams, and shall now have it in my power to point out to inquirers the situation of the Country.”

The only reprints of the original text are found as Appendix C in v. 2 of the exhaustive and comprehensive work entitled: “Life and correspondence of Rev. Manasseh Cutler. By his grandchildren and in No. 40 of “Old South leaflets”. In both of these the Extracts from the letters of M. St. John de Crevecoeur, are omitted. The French edition is more comprehensive about the “Extracts”, which is entitled: “Extrait des Lettres d’un Cultivateur Americain, par M. S. John de Crevecoeur, consul de France en Amerique. Seconde edition, vol. iii, p. 394 suiv.” A very curious reprint, translated from the French translation, has the following title: “Ohio in 1 788. A description of the soil, productions, etc., of that portion of the United States situated between Pennsylvania, the rivers Ohio and Scioto and Lake Erie. Translated from the French with notes and introduction, by John Henry James.” 1 04 pp. 1 8°. Columbus, O., A. H. Smythe, 1888. Why this translation was made, since the translator had knowledge of the original English edition, makes it a curious question difficult to solve. The “Extracts” are also omitted here. The French translation is reprinted in “The centennial anniversary of the city of Gallipolis, Ohio. October 16-19, 1890”. Publication vol. 3 of the “Ohio state archaeological and historical society”, pp. 81-196. At the end of this is this note: “The pamphlet from which the foregoing description and notes is taken is now out of print and quite rare.”

William B. Sprague in his “Annals of the American pulpit”, v. 2, has a life of Cutler, and on page 1 7 says:

“In 1787, Dr. Cutler published an anonymous pamphlet, which seems now to have been prophetic, to a degree truly surprising. He hazards the prediction that many then living would see our great Western waters navigated by the power of steam, and that, within fifty years, the North Western Territory would contain more inhabitants than all New England. What seemed at the time a random and most improbable conjecture, has since risen to the dignity of a prophecy, the fulfilment of which has astonished the world”.

Manasseh Cutler was regarded in the highest esteem by his contemporaries, and still is by writers of the present day. McMaster in his ‘‘History of the people of the United States”, says of him: ‘‘He had been bred first to the bar and then to the ministry, but his true calling was politics. He was clear of head, sound of judgment, of great push and energy, and in the pursuit of his aim not over careful of the means used. He was chosen, therefore, to go before Congress and purchase the land, and the choice could not have fallen on a better man.” Senator Hoar, in his speech at the Marietta centennial, has most eloquently in the following words, expressed his appreciation: ‘‘Manasseh Cutler was probably the fittest man on the continent, except Franklin, for a mission of delicate diplomacy. Putnam was a man after Washington’s pattern and after Washington’s own heart. Cutler was a man after Franklin’s pattern and after Franklin’s own heart. He was the most learned naturalist in America, as Franklin was the greatest master in physical science. He was a man of consummate prudence, in speech and conduct; of courtly manners; a favorite in the drawingroom and in the camp, with a wide circle of friends and correspondents among the most famous men of his time. During his brief service in Congress he made a speech on the judicial system, in 1803, which shows his profound mastery of constitutional principles. It fell to his lot in 1787 to conduct a negotiation second only in importance in the history of his country to that which Franklin conducted with France in 1778. Never was ambassador crowned with success more rapid or more complete”.

There has been considerable discussion between the admirers of Thomas Jefferson and Cutler, as to who was the author of the epochal Ordinance of 1 787. The question is still in abeyance and the reasons for and against are numerous. That both were instrumental in its accomplishment is a fact without doubt.

While there were numerous efforts made towards the settling the “Northwest Territory”, it is reasonably sure that the “Ohio Company of Associates" can claim merit for the great movement which opened the vast expanse of territory, now the richest portion of the United States. The history of this company and the preceding one is cleverly condensed in the new 1 1 th edition of the “Encyclopedia Britannica”:

“OHIO COMPANY, a name of two 18th century companies organized for the colonization of the Ohio Valley. The first Ohio Company was organized in 1749, partly to aid in securing for the English control of the valley, then in dispute between England and France, and partly as a commercial project for trade with the Indians. The company was composed of Virginians, including Thomas Lee (d. 1750) and the two brothers of George Washington, Lawrence (who succeeded to the management upon the death of Lee) and Augustine; and of Englishmen, including John Hanbury, a wealthy London merchant. George 11 sanctioned a grant to the company of 500 000 acres generally N W. of the Ohio, and to the eastward, between the Monongahela and the Kanawha rivers, but the grant was never actually issued. In 1750-1751 Christopher Gist, a skilful woodsman and surveyor, explored for the company the Ohio Valley as far as the mouth of the Scioto river. In 1752 the company had a pathway blazed between the small fortified posts at Will’s Creek (Cumberland), M aryland, and at Redstone Creek (Brownsville), Pennsylvania, which it had established in 1750; but it was finally merged in the Walpole Company (an organization in which Benjamin Franklin was interested), which in 1 772 had received from the British government a grant of a large tract lying along the southern bank of the Ohio as far west as the mouth of the Scioto river. The War of Independence interrupted colonization and nothing was accomplished.

The second company, the Ohio Company of Associates, was formed at Boston on the 3rd of March, 1786. The leaders in the movement were General Rufus Putnam, Benjamin Tupper (17381792), Samuel Holden Parsons (1737-1789) and Manasseh Cutler. Dr. Cutler was selected to negotiate with Congress, and seems to have helped to secure the incorporation in the Ordinance for the government of the North-West Territory of the paragraphs which prohibited slavery and provided for public education and for the support of the ministry. Cutler’s original intention was to buy for the Ohio Company only about 1 500,000 acres, but on the 27th of July Congress authorized a grant of about 5 000,000 acres of land for $3 500,000; a reduction of one-third was allowed for bad tracts, and it was also provided that the lands could be paid for in United States securities. On the 27th of October, 1787, Cutler and Major Winthrop Sargent (1753-1820), who had joined him in the negotiations, signed two contracts; one was for the absolute purchase for the Ohio Company, at 66 2/3 cents an acre, of 1 500,000 acres of land lying along the north bank of the Ohio river, from a point near the site of the present Marietta, to a point nearly opposite the site of the present Huntington, Kentucky; the other was for an option to buy all the land between the Ohio and the Scioto rivers and the western boundary line of the Ohio Company’s tract, extending north of the tenth township from the Ohio, this tract being pre-empted by ‘Manasseh Cutler and Winthrop Sargent for themselves and others’—actually for the Scioto Company (see Gallipolis). On the same day Cutler and Sargent ‘for themselves and associates’ transferred to William Duer, then Secretary of the Treasury Board, and his associates ‘one equal moiety of the Scioto tract of land mentioned in the second contract’, it being provided that both parties were to be equally interested in the sale of the land, and were to share equally any profit or loss. Colonists were sent out by the Ohio Company from New England, and Marietta, the first permanent settlement in the present state of Ohio, was founded in April, 1788.”

Several references have been made to the exhaustive life of Cutler, by his grandchildren; there is, however, a notice of him by Joseph B. Felt, almost forgotten, in his ‘‘History of Ipswich, Essex, and Hamilton, 1 834”, which embraces in condensed form the principal events of Cutler’s life, and is here copied in full:

MANASSEH CUTLER, LL D.

‘‘His father was named Hezekiah, who was a respectable farmer and member of the Church in Killingly, Conn. He was b. 1 744, and graduated at Yale College, 1 765. Soon after he took his first degree, he engaged in business, kept a store, and was concerned in commerce and whaling at Edgartown, on Martha’s Vineyard. While so employed in an active and enterprising manner, he neither lost his taste for study nor threw aside his books. He acquainted himself with law, was admitted to the bar, and pleaded a few cases in the Court of Common Pleas 1 767. Still he cherished a preference to the ministry, and was determined to prepare for the discharge of its sacred offices. His diary for Nov., 1768, says,—‘Prosecuted my study,— began to make sermons. May God grant me his blessing in so important an undertaking, and make me serviceable to the cause of religion, and the souls of my fellow men. 1 never engaged in this study with so firm resolution before; yet 1 have, for many years, had serious thoughts of entering on the ministry.’ Thus determined, he settled up his business and removed with his family to Dedham, Nov., 1 769, for the purpose of pursuing his theological studies under his father-inlaw, Mr. Balch. In order to comply with the clerical costume of that period, he soon, but reluctantly, suffered his hair to be shorn, and its place to be supplied with a dark-colored wig. Being licensed, he preached for the Hamlet parish six months, and was ordained here Sept. Nth, 1771. This solemn occasion, however, did not pass over without a trial to his feelings. Three persons objected to his becoming their pastor. But the Council, after considering their charges against him, decided that they were insufficient to prevent his settlement. At the time of his being set over this people, the difficulties between our country and Great Britain were assuming a dark and fearful aspect. He watched, with emotions of deep interest, the approach of the Revolution. When news came of Lexington battle, he made a short address to the minute company here, then mustered to march thither, and, with Mr. Willard of Beverly, afterwards President of Harvard College, he rode on horseback to Cambridge, and came in sight of the enemy, as they were retreating into Boston.—1776, Sept. 5th. Desirous to serve his country in deed, as well as word, he receives a commission, as chaplain, in the regiment under Col. Ebenezer Francis. In this capacity, Dr. Cutler served six months; and, for the same time subsequently, in the regiment commanded by Col. Titcomb, at Long Island and other stations. Towards the close of the war, as the physician of his people was employed in the army, and they were destitute of his aid, Dr. Cutler applied himself to the study and practice of medicine. At this crisis of public affairs, and of great distress, his salary had nearly ceased, he suffered loss by the depreciation of paper currency, and his family were straightened for the comforts of life. For several years he administered to the bodily, as well as the spiritual ills of his flock. For his former services he received little or no compensation. While he sought an increasing acquaintance with the revealed wonders of Deity, he did not fail to be interested in those works, which he had made in the heavens, and upon the earth. The plants of his own neighbourhood and elsewhere early attracted his attention, and he became one of the pioneers of botanical science in America. He was induced, at first, to pursue this branch of knowledge by casually meeting with an English work on Botany. He soon became noted for his scientific taste and attainments.— 1 781, Jan. 1st. He was elected a member of the American Academy. He furnished their volumes with the following pieces. On the Transit of Mercury over the Sun, Nov. 12th, 1782. On an Eclipse of the Moon, March 29th, 1 782, and of the Sun on the 1 2th of the next April. Meteorological Observations, 1781, 1 782, 1 783. An Account of some of the Vegetable Productions, naturally growing in this part of America. Remarks on a Vegetable and Animal Insect.—1785, June 1st. He was chosen a member of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

“Owing to the uncertain and difficult state of things in his own and other parishes, at the close of the Revolutionary struggle, he had serious thoughts of removing to the West, as the means of providing more effectually for his young and growing family. He still cherished this inclination in 1786, when a number of officers in the late army met to form the Ohio Company, as they had contemplated in 1783, for the sake of having their bounty lands located together. At the meeting just mentioned, the company agreed to raise one million of dollars, by their certificates for military service and otherwise, and purchase territory northwest of the Ohio River for a permanent settlement. They then invited, by public notice, other persons in various parts of the United States, to engage with them in this enterprise. They anticipated success, and held out a fair prospect to those who would unite with them. Major Winthrop Sargent, one of the most intelligent and efficient of their number, was acquainted with Dr. Cutler, and these two consulted together on the proposed colony. The result was, that the latter became a member of the Company, and was appointed by its directors an agent in connexion with Major Sargent. In this unexpected capacity, Dr. Cutler and the Major visited the seat of Government, and made a contract with the proper authorities for one million acres of land, at a dollar an acre. They also obtained a grant of half a million more acres, as an allowance for bad lands and incidental charges. They transacted this business, which was to be followed with important consequences as to our Western territories, Oct. 27th, 1787. On his return home, Dr. Cutler made immediate preparations, by order from the Directors of the Company, to fit out an expedition for the intended settlement. He had a large wagon built and covered with black canvass, which had on its sides, in white letters,—‘Ohio, for Marietta on the Muskingum.’ He engaged forty-five men from various towns, among whom was his son, Jervis, to accompany this wagon, and to help settle and defend the new country against the Indians, for three years. These emigrants and the wagon started from Dr. Cutler’s house, Dec., 1787. They were armed and fired a volley, as a salute, on their departure from his door. They, having been increased to sixty, commenced the settlement of Marietta April 7th, 1788, under General Rufus Putnam. The use to which the wagon, already spoken of, was appropriated,—the circumstances under which it left New England, and reached an uncultivated wilderness, where political power is soon likely to wield the destinies of our republic,—have made this exploring vehicle an object of much interest among some of our literati, who have mentioned it; so that it is beginning to wake in the mind, associations somewhat similar to those produced by the suggestion of the May-Flower, which landed the Pilgrims on the shore of Plymouth. In the further discharge of his agency, Dr. Cutler set out in a sulky, accompanied by a few others, for Ohio, July 21st, 1 788. He reached Marietta, Aug. 1 9th, by a route of seven hundred and fifty-one miles from his home. The succeeding Sabbath, being the 24th, he preached in the hall of Campus Martius. Considering the object and hopes of himself and his audience, the hardships they endured, their perils from wild beasts, disease, and jealous and plotting savages, the scene of such a sacred occasion must have appeared with lights and shadows, novel to their perception, romantic to their imagination, attractive to their attention, impressive to their minds, and affecting to their hearts. He continued worship the succeeding Sabbaths while he remained. On the 27th, he performed the burial service for a child of Major Cushing. This was the first funeral, which had occurred among the whites of Marietta. While here, Dr. Cutler examined the forts and mounds, which he thought were a thousand years old, and were the works of some nation, more civilized and powerful than any Indians of America now known to exist. Having been much honored, and treated with great kindness, he took his leave of the people in Marietta, Sept. 9th. Soon after his departure he was introduced to Corn-Planter, a noted Indian chief. He returned to his family Oct. 1 5th, and, from what he saw and experienced while absent, he concluded that it would be best for them and him to remain in happy New England.

“1791. He received a degree of LL D. from his Alma Mater. Finding that the Ohio settlement, as is generally incident to such undertakings, had given more blossoms of hope than fruits of participation, he stated, that ‘in the fall of 1791, the affairs of the Company became so serious and critical, that it was absolutely necessary to bring the business to a close.’—1 792, March 2d. As one of the three Directors of this Company, he petitioned Congress in their behalf, so that some reduction might be made from the sum, due to the Government for the land bought of them; because the settlement was under great embarrassments from Indian hostilities. This application for relief did not avail.

“1792. He is chosen a Member of the Massachusetts Society for promoting agriculture, and of the Massachusetts Historical Society.

“1 793. At his own expense, he made a considerable exertion to get the Hamlet incorporated. He continued the commendable custom, which had been practised in Ipswich, of opening the annual townmeeting with prayer.—Soon after the peace, made by General Wayne with the Western Indians in 1 795, President Washington tendered to Dr. Cutler a commission, as Judge of the Supreme Court in the Ohio territory, which he concluded it best to decline.

“1798, May 16th. A letter of this date, written by General Putnam, a principal inhabitant of Marietta, was received by Dr. Cutler, empowering him to act, as agent of the Church and Trustees there, in effecting the Ordination of Daniel Story here, as their pastor. The writer of this letter remarked to Dr. Cutler, ‘The substance of your letters to me was communicated to the meeting; and the people as well as the brethren of the Church, expressed their sensibility of the obligation they are under to you, for the interest you take in their welfare.’

“In the spring of 1800, Dr. Cutler was elected by his people, as their Representative to the General Court. From the fall of this year, to 1804, he served two terms as a Member of the House of Congress. 1 803. He obtained the grant for a Post-office in Hamilton.— 1 809. He became an Honorary Member of the Philadelphia Linnsean Society. —1813. He was elected a Member of the American Antiquarian Society.

“About 1819, the Trustees of the Ohio University, in Athens, had his portrait taken in Salem, Mass., by Mr. Frothingham, for the purpose of having it placed in the hall of that Institution. This was done, as an expression of gratitude to Dr. Cutler, for his judicious and benevolent efforts to obtain two townships of land for the support of such a seminary.—His correspondence was extensive with European literati. He did much to promote the agricultural interests of his parishioners. He took a principal part in obtaining the act of incorporation for the proprietors of meadows, on Miles’ River. He efficiently sought the welfare of schools among his people. Having commenced a private boarding-school at the close of the Revolutionary war, he continued it with extensive usefulness, for many years. Till near the close of his life, he had scholars to learn Navigation, with Lunar Observations.—Of his printed clerical performances are the following:

“1798. Charge at the Ordination of Daniel Story.

"1799. A National Fast Sermon.

"1813. A Sermon before the Bible Society of Salem and the vicinity.

"1814. A Century Discourse, giving an account of his Church from its commencement.

“As to his family, it would afford us satisfaction to speak of them more fully than we do, if our limits allowed. He m. Mary, daughter of the Rev. Thomas Balch, of Dedham, Sept. 7th, 1 766. She d. Nov. 3d, 1815, /E. 73. His children were Ephraim, Jervis, Mary, Charles, Lavinia, Temple, Elizabeth, and Temple.

“In person, Dr. Cutler was of a light complexion, above the common stature, erect and dignified in his appearance. His manners were gentlemanly; his conversation easy and intelligent. As an adviser, he was discerning and discreet. His voice, in preaching, was not loud; but it was distinct and audible to his Congregation. His style of writing was pure, perspicuous, and strong. His mental endowments were high. He industriously and perseveringly employed them in the attainment of scientific and theological knowledge, as all proceeding from the same fountain of Infinite Wisdom, and, when properly applied, as conducive to the declarative glory of the Creator. For the last twenty-two years of his life, he was afflicted with the asthma. But amid his growing infirmities he strove, and was enabled, to perform his parochial duties, till within four years of his decease. Even during this period, he for the most part preached and visited his flock. He knew that his end approached. No longer able to comply with his wish to be publicly useful, he had assistance several months previously to his death. Shortly before this, he relinquished the most of his salary, though it was legally his due. As his dissolution drew nigh, he realized more and more fully his dependence on Divine aid, and on the Redeemer, as his only justifying righteousness. He closed his earthly existence, July 28th, 1 823, in his eightieth year, having entered on the fifty-third year of his ministry. Thus one, who had enjoyed in an eminent degree the confidence and honor of many intelligent and worthy characters, and who had moved in a circle of various and extensive usefulness, was removed from this world, in the hope of receiving the merciful approbation of God, and of being perpetually and blissfully dedicated to his services.”

As the “Explanation” was made to accompany the “Map”, it seems well to reprint the text in full, and to join together for the first time, these interesting and rare literary attempts to further the Westward Movement.

The “Extracts” printed at the end of the “Explanation” carry the name of Crevecoeur as author. In the extensive and welcome life entitled: “St. Jean de Crevecoeur. By Julia Post Mitchell” there is a reference of interest:

“Among the many details, with which his letters of the summer and autumn of 1787 are crowded, are those which deal with the newly opened territories on the Ohio. It may be mere coincidence that a pamphlet which appeared in July, entitled Articles of the Association by the name of the Ohio Company, contained extracts from Creve-coeur’s description of that region. The ‘elegant extracts’ from the writings of Mr. St. John de Crevecoeur, which appear in another pamphlet descriptive of the Western Country, particularly of the recently purchased tract by the Ohio Company, probably were borrowings from the first. The sending of the pamphlet to Crevecoeur by the Ohio Company may only have been a recognition of his interest in that region, or an acknowledgment of what they had owed to his description.”

New-York, 28th October, 1 787.

Having attentively perused the following pamphlet, describing part of the western territory of the United States, 1 do certify, that the facts therein related, respecting the fertility of the soil, productions, and general advantages of settlement, &c. are judicious, just and true, and correspond with observations made by me during my residence of upwards of ten years in that country.

THOMAS HUTCHINS, Geographer of the United States.

AN EXPLANATION, &c.

The great river Ohio is formed by the confluence of Monongahela and the Alleghany, in the State of Pennsylvania, about 290 miles west of the city of Philadelphia, and about 20 miles east of the western line of that State. In the common travelling road, the former distance is computed at 320 miles; and, by the windings and oblique direction of the Ohio, the latter is reckoned about 42. These two sources of the Ohio are large navigable streams; the former, flowing from the southeast, leaves but 30 miles portage from the navigable waters of the Potowmac, in Virginia; the latter opens a passage from the northeast, and rises not far from the head waters of the Susquehanna.

The State of Pennsylvania have already adopted the plan of opening a navigation from the Alleghany river to the city of Philadelphia, through the Susquehanna and the Delaware. In this route there will be a portage of only 24 miles.

On the junction of these rivers, or at the head of the Ohio, stands Fort Pitt, which gives name to the town of Pittsburgh, a flourishing settlement in the vicinity of the fortress. From this place the Ohio takes a southwestern course of 1188 miles, including its various windings, and discharges itself into the Missisippi; having passed a prodigious length of delightful and fertile country, and received the tribute of a large number of navigable streams. The Muskingum, the Hockhocking, the Sioto, the Miami, and the Wabash, from the northwest; the Kenhawa, the Kentucky, the Buffaloe, the Shawanee, and the Cherokee, from the southeast, all navigable from 100 to 900 miles, discharge themselves into the Ohio; and yet the Ohio itself forms but an inconsiderable part of that vast variety of congregated streams which visit the ocean through the channel of the Missisippi.

The Ohio, from Pennsylvania to the Missisippi, divides the State of Virginia from the federal lands, or the lands which do not fall within the limits of any particular State. These extend westward to the Missisippi, and northward to the boundary of the United States, excepting only the Connecticut reserve, which is a narrow strip of land, bordering on the south of Lake Erie, and stretching 1 20 miles west of the western limit of Pennsylvania. But a small proportion of these lands is as yet purchased of the natives, and to be disposed of by Congress. Beginning on the meridian line, which forms the western boundary of Pennsylvania, they have surveyed and laid off seven ranges of townships. As a north and south line strikes the Ohio in a very oblique direction, the termination of the seventh range falls upon that river 9 miles above the Muskingum, which is the first large river that falls into the Ohio. It forms this junction at 172 miles below Fort Pitt, including the windings of the Ohio, though in a direct line it is but 90 miles.

The lands in which the Indian title is extinguished and which are now purchasing under the United States, are bounded as before described on the east, by the great Miami on the west, by the Ohio on the south, and extend near to the head waters of the Muskingum and Sioto on the north.

The Muskingum is a gentle river, confined by banks so high as to prevent its overflowing. It is 250 yards wide at its confluence with the Ohio, and navigable by large batteaux and barges to the Three Legs; and, by small ones, to the lake at its head. From thence, by a portage of about one mile, a communication is opened to Lake Erie, through the Cayahoga, which is a stream of great utility, navigable the whole length, without any obstruction from falls. From Lake Erie, the avenue is well known to the Hudson in the State of New-York. The most considerable portage in this route is at the fall of Niagara, which interrupts the communications between the lakes Erie and Ontario. From the latter you pass through the river Oswego, the Oneyda lake, Wood’s creek, and find a short portage into the Mohawk, and another occasioned by a fall near the confluence of the Mohawk and the Hudson, at Albany.

The Hockhocking resembles the Muskingum, though somewhat inferior in size. It is navigable for large boats about 70 miles, and for small ones much farther. On the banks of this very useful stream are found inexhaustible quarries of free-stone, large beds of iron ore, and some rich mines of lead. Coal mines and salt springs are frequent in the neighbourhood of this stream, as they are in every part of the western territory. The salt that may be obtained from these springs will afford an inexhaustible store of that necessary article. Beds of white and blue clay, of an excellent quality, are likewise found here, suitable for the manufacture of glass, crockery and other earthen wares. Red bole and many other useful fossils have been observed on the branches of this river.

The Sioto is a larger river than either of the preceding, and opens a more extensive navigation. It is passable for large barges for 200 miles, with a portage of only 4 miles to the Sandusky, a good navigable stream that falls into the lake Erie. Through the Sandusky and Sioto lies the common pass from Canada to the Ohio and Missisippi; one of the most extensive and useful communications that are to be found in any country. Prodigious extensions of territory are here connected; and, from the rapidity with which the western parts of Canada, lake Erie and the Kentucky counties are settling, we may anticipate an immense intercourse between them. The lands on the borders of these middle streams, from this circumstance alone, aside from their natural fertility, must be rendered vastly valuable. There is no doubt, but flour, corn, flax, hemp, &c. raised for exportation in that great country between the lakes Huron and Ontario, will find an easier outlet through lake Erie and these rivers, than in any other direction. The Ohio merchant can give a higher price than those of Quebec, for these commodities; as they may be transported from the former to Florida and the West-India islands, with less expence, risk and insurance, than from the latter; while the expence from the place of growth to the Ohio will not be one fourth of what it would be to Quebec, and much less than even to the Oneyda lake. The stream of Sioto is gentle, no where broken by falls: At some places, in the spring of the year, it overflows its banks, providing for large natural rice plantations. Salt springs, coal mines, white and blue clay, and free-stone, abound in the country adjoining this river.

The undistinguishing terms of admiration, that are commonly used in speaking of the natural fertility of the country on the western waters of the United States, would render it difficult, without accurate attention in the surveys, to ascribe a preference to any particular part; or to give a just description of the territory under consideration, without the hazard of being suspected of exaggeration: But in this we have the united opinion of the Geographer, the Surveyors, and every traveller that has been intimately acquainted with the country, and marked every natural object with the most scrupulous exactness— That no part of the federal territory unites so many advantages, in point of health, fertility, variety of production, and foreign intercourse, as that tract which stretches from the Muskingum to the Scioto and the Great Miami rivers.

Col. Gordon, in his journal, speaking of a much larger range of country, in which this is included, and makes unquestionably the finest part, has the following observation:—“The country on the Ohio is every where pleasant, with large level spots of rich land; and remarkably healthy. One general remark of this nature will serve for the whole tract of the globe comprehended between the western skirts of the Alleghany mountains; thence running southwesterly to the distance of 500 miles to the Ohio falls; then crossing them northerly to the heads of the rivers that empty themselves into the Ohio; thence east along the ridge that separates the lakes and Ohio’s streams, to French Creek— This country may, from a proper knowledge, be affirmed to be the most healthy, the most pleasant, the most commodious and most fertile spot of earth, known to the European people.”

The lands that feed the various streams above-mentioned, which fall into the Ohio, are now more accurately known, and may be described with confidence and precision. They are interspersed with all the variety of soil which conduces to pleasantness of situation, and lays the foundation for the wealth of an agricultural and manufacturing people. Large level bottoms, or natural meadows, from 20 to 50 miles in circuit, are every where found bordering the rivers, and variegating the country in the interior parts. These afford as rich a soil as can be imgained, and may be reduced to proper cultivation with very little labour. It is said, that in many of these bottoms a man may clear an acre a day, fit for planting with Indian corn; there being no under wood; and the trees, growing very high and large, but not thick together, need nothing but girdling.

The prevailing growth of timber and the more useful trees are, maple or sugar tree—sycamore—black and white mulberry—black and white walnut—butternut—chesnut—white, black, Spanish and chesnut oaks—hickory—cherry—buckwood—honey locust—elm— horse chesnut—cucumber tree—lynn tree—gum tree—iron wood— ash—aspin—sassafrass—crab apple tree—paupaw or custard apple— a variety of plumb trees—nine bark spice, and leather wood bushes. General Parsons measured a black walnut tree near the Muskingum, whose circumference, at 5 feet from the ground, was 22 feet. A sycamore, near the same place, measures 44 feet in circumference, at some distance from the ground. White and black oak, and chesnut, with most of the above-mentioned timbers, grow large and plenty upon the high grounds. Both the high and low lands produce vast quantities of natural grapes of various kinds, of which the settlers universally make a sufficiency for their own consumption of rich red wine. It is asserted in the old settlement of St. Vincent’s, where they have had opportunity to try it, that age will render this wine preferable to most of the European wines. Cotton is the natural production of this country, and grows in great perfection.

The sugar maple is a most valuable tree for an inland country. Any number of inhabitants may be forever supplied with a sufficiency of sugar, by preserving a few trees for the use of each family. A tree will yield about ten pounds of sugar a year, and the labour is very trifling: The sap is extracted in the months of February and March, and granulated, by the simple operation of boiling, to a sugar equal in flavour and whiteness to the best Muscovado.

Springs of excellent water abound in every part of this territory; and small and large streams, for mills, and other purposes, are actually interspersed, as if by art, that there be no deficiency in any of the conveniences of life.

Very little waste land is to be found in any part of the tract of country comprehended in the map which accompanies this. There are no swamps; and though the hills are frequent, they are gentle and swelling, no where high nor incapable of tillage. They are of a deep, rich soil, covered with a heavy growth of timber, and well adapted to the production of wheat, rye, indigo, tobacco, &c.

The communications between this country and the sea will be principally in the four following directions.

1.	The route through the Sioto and Muskingum to lake Erie, and so to the river Hudson; which has been already described.

2.	The passage up the Ohio and Monongahela, to the portage above-mentioned, which leads to the navigable waters of the Potowmac. This portage is 30 miles, and will probably be rendered much less by the execution of the plans now on foot for opening the navigation of those waters.

3.	The great Kenhawa, which falls into the Ohio from the Virginia shore, between the Hockhocking and the Sioto, opens an extensive navigation from the southeast, and leaves but 18 miles portage from the navigable waters of James river, in Virginia. This communication, for the country between Muskingum and Sioto, will probably be more used than any other, for the exportation of manufactures, and other light and valuable articles; and, especially, for the importation of foreign commodities, which may be brought from the Chesapeak to the Ohio much cheaper than they are now carried from Philadelphia to Carlisle and the other thick settled back counties of Pennsylvania.

4.	But the current down the Ohio and the Missisippi, for heavy articles that suit the Florida and West-lndia markets, such as corn, flour, beef, lumber, &c. will be more frequently loaded than any streams on earth. The distance from the Sioto to the Missisippi is 800 miles; from thence to the sea is 900. This whole course is easily run in 1 5 days; and the passage up those rivers is not so difficult as has usually been represented. It is found, by late experiments, that sails are used to great advantage against the current of the Ohio: And it is worthy of observation, that in all probability steam-boats will be found to do infinite service in all our extensive river navigation.

Such is the state of facts relative to the natural advantages of the territory described in the annexed map. As far as observations in passing the rivers, and the transitory remarks of travellers, will justify an opinion, the lands farther down, and in other parts of the unappropriated country, are not equal, in point of soil and other local advantages, to the tract which is here described. This, however, cannot be accurately determined, as the present situation of these countries will not admit of that minute inspection which has been bestowed on the one under consideration.

It is a happy circumstance, that the Ohio Company are about to commence the settlement of this country in so regular and judicious a manner. It will serve as a wise model for the future settlement of all the federal lands; at the same time that, by beginning so near the western limit of Pennsylvania, it will be a continuation of the old settlements, leaving no vacant lands exposed to be seized by such lawless banditti as usually infest the frontiers of countries distant from the seat of government.

The design of Congress and of the settlers is, that the settlements shall proceed regularly down the Ohio; and northward to lake Erie. And it is probable that not many years will elapse, before the whole country above Miami will be brought to that degree of cultivation, which will exhibit all its latent beauties, and justify those descriptions of travellers which have so often made it the garden of the world, the seat of wealth, and the centre of a great empire.

To the philosopher and the politician, on viewing this delightful part of the federal territory, under the prospect of an immediate and systematic settlement, the following observations will naturally occur.

First. The toils of agriculture will here be rewarded with a greater variety of valuable productions, than in any part of America. The advantages of almost every climate are here blended together; every considerable commodity, that is cultivated in any part of the United States, is here produced in the greatest plenty and perfection. The high and dry lands are of a deep, rich soil—producing, in abundance, wheat, rye, Indian corn, buck wheat, oats, barley, flax, hemp, tobacco, indigo, silk, urine and cotton. The tobacco is of a quality superior to that of Virginia; and the crops of wheat are larger than in any other part of America. The common growth of Indian corn is from 60 to 80 bushels to the acre.* [♦General Parsons, one of the Commissioners of the treaty at Miami, in 1786, has made in his journal the following note:—“Mr. Dawson has lived two summers at this place [Little Beaver t neat Pennsylvania west line]t He says, his corn is from 80 to 100 bushels per acre: Last year, he planted 7 acres—plowed twicebefore planting, and hoed once only—and had 600 bushels.**] The low lands are well suited to the production of nearly all the above articles, except wheat. Where the large bottoms are interspersed with small streams, they are well adapted to the growth of rice; which may be produced in any quantities. The borders of the large streams do not generally admit of this crop, as very few of them overflow their banks. But the scarcity of natural rice swamps is amply compensated by the remarkable healthfulness of the whole country; it being entirely free from stagnant waters. It is found, in this country, that stagnant waters are by no means necessary to the growth of rice; the common rich bottoms produce this crop in as great perfection as the best rice swamps of the southern States. Hops are the natural production of this country; as are peaches, plumbs, pears, apples, melons, and almost every fruit of the temperate zone.

No country is better stocked with wild game of every kind: Innumerable herds of deer, elk, buffaloe, and bear, are sheltered in the groves, and fed in the extensive bottoms that every where abound; and unquestionable proof of the great fertility of the soil: Turkies, geese, ducks, swans, teal, pheasants, partridges, &c. are, from observation, believed to be in greater plenty here, than the tame poultry are in any part of the old settlements in America.

The rivers are well stored with fish of various kinds, and many of them of an excellent quality. They are generally large, though of different sizes: The cat-fish, which is the largest, and of a delicious flavour, weighs from 30 to 80 pounds.

Provisions will, for many years, find a ready market on any of these rivers; as settlers are constantly coming in from all parts of the world, and must be supplied by purchase, for one year at least, with many articles.

Second. From its situation and productions, no country is so well calculated for the establishment of manufactures of various kinds. Provisions will be forever plenty and cheap. The raw materials for fabricating most of the articles of clothing and dress, are and will be the luxuriant production of this country. Though silk, cotton and flax are valuable in themselves, yet, by being wrought into the various articles of use and ornament, the expence of transportation is pro-portionably lessened. The United States, and, perhaps, other countries, will be supplied from these interior parts of America.

Shipbuilding will be a capital branch of business on the Ohio and its confluent streams. The Ohio, when at the lowest, admits of four fathom of water, from the mouth of the Muskingum to its confluence with the Missisippi, except at the rapids, which, at such times, interrupt the navigation for about one mile. The descent, in that distance, is only 15 feet; and the channel, which is 250 yards wide, has, at no time, less than 5 feet of water. In freshes, the water rises 30 feet; and boats are not only rowed against the stream, but ascend the rapids by means of their sails only. It is the opinion of the Geographer, and others, who have viewed the spot, that, by cutting a canal a little more than half a mile on the south side of the river, which is low meadow ground, the rapids may be avoided, and the navigation made free at all seasons of the year. Hemp, timber and iron will be plenty and good; and the high freshes, from February to April, and frequently in October and November, will bear a vessel of any burden over the rapids, in their present state, and out to sea.

The following observations, by an English engineer, who had explored the western country, were addressed to the Earl of Hillsborough, in the year 1 770, when Secretary of State for the North American department—at a time when we were British colonies, and our country considered only as the handmaid to Great Britain, in furnishing raw material for their manufactures.

“No part of North America will require less encouragement for the production of naval stores and raw materials for manufactories in Europe; and for supplying the West-lndia islands with lumber, provisions, &c. than the country of the Ohio—and for the following reasons:

1. The lands are excellent—the climate, temperature; the native grapes, silk-worms, and mulberry trees, abound everywhere; hemp, hops and rye grow spontaneously in the vallies low lands; lead iron ore are plenty in the hills; salt springs are innumerable; and no soil is better adapted to the culture of tobacco, flax and cotton, than that of the Ohio.

“2. The country is well watered by several navigable rivers, communicating with each other; by which, and a short land carriage, the produce of the lands of the Ohio can, even now, be sent cheaper to the seaport town of Alexandria, on the river Potowmac, where General Braddock’s transports landed his troops, than any kind of merchandise is sent from Northampton to London.

“3. The river Ohio is, at all seasons of the year, navigable with large boats; and, from the months of February to April, large ships may be built on the Ohio, and sent to sea, laden with hemp, iron, flax, silk, tobacco, cotton, potash, &c.

“4. Flour, corn, beef, ship-plank, and other useful articles, can be sent down the stream of Ohio to West Florida, and from thence to the West India islands, much cheaper, and in better order, than from New York or Philadelphia to those islands.

“5. Hemp, tobacco, iron, and such bulky articles, may be sent down the stream of Ohio to the sea, at least 50 per cent, cheaper than these articles were ever carried by a land carriage of only 60 miles in Pennsylvania, where waggonage is cheaper than in any other part of North-America.

“6. The expence of transporting European manufactures from the sea to the Ohio will not be so much as is now paid, and ever must be paid, to a great part of the counties of Pennsylvania, Virginia and Maryland. Whenever the farmers or merchants of Ohio shall properly understand the business of transportation, they will build schooners, sloops, &c. on the Ohio, suitable for the West India or European markets; or, by having black walnut, cherry tree, oak, &c. properly sawed for foreign markets, and formed into rafts, in the manner that is now done by the settlers near the upper parts of the Delaware, in Pennsylvania, and thereon stow their hemp, iron, tobacco, &c. and proceed with them to New Orleans.

“It may not, perhaps, be amiss to observe, that large quantities of flour are made in the western counties of Pennsylvania, and sent, by an expensive land carriage, to the city of Philadelphia; and from thence shipped to South Carolina, and East and West Florida—there being little or no wheat raised in these provinces. The river Ohio seems kindly designed, by nature, as the channel, through which the two Floridas may be supplied with flour, not only for their own consumption, but also for carrying on an extensive commerce with Jamaica, and the Spanish settlements in the Bay of Mexico. Millstones, in abundance, are to be obtained in the hills near the Ohio; and the country is every where well watered with large and constant streams and springs for grist and other mills. The passage from Philadelphia to Pensacola is seldom made in less than a month; and 60 shillings sterling per ton freight (consisting of 16 barrels) is usually paid for flour, &c. thither. Boats, carrying 500 or 1000 barrels of flour, may go in about the same time from Pittsburgh, as from Philadelphia, to Pensacola, and for half the above freight. The Ohio merchants could deliver flour, &c. there, in much better order than from Philadelphia, and without incurring the damage and delay of the sea, and charges of insurance, &c. as from thence to Pensacola. This is not mere speculation; for it is a fact, that about the year 1746 there was a scarcity of provisions at New Orleans; and the French settlements at the Illinois, small as they then were, sent thither, in one winter, upwards of eight hundred thousand weight of flour.”

If, instead of furnishing other nations with raw materials, companies of manufacturers from Europe could be introduced and established in this inviting situation, under the superintendence of men of property, it would occasion an immense addition of men and wealth to these new settlements, and serve as a beneficial example of economy to many parts of the United States.

Third. In the late ordinance of Congress, for disposing of the western lands as far down as the river Sioto, the provision that is made for schools and the endowment of an university, looks with a most favourable aspect upon the settlement, and furnishes the presentiment, that, by a proper attention to the subject of education, under these advantages, the field of science may be greatly enlarged, and the acquisition of useful knowledge placed upon a more respectable footing here, than in any other part of the world. Besides the opportunity of opening a new and unexplored region for the range of natural history, botany and the medical science, there will be one advantage which no other part of the earth can boast, and which probably will never again occur—that, in order to begin right, there will be no wrong habits to combat, and no inveterate systems to overturn—there is no rubbish to remove, before you can lay the foundation. The first settlement will embosom many men of the most liberal minds—well versed in the world, in business and every useful science. Could the necessary apparatus be procured, and funds immediately established, for founding a university on a liberal plan, that porfessors might be active in their various researches and employments—even now, in the infancy of the settlement, a proper use might be made of an advantage which will never be repeated.

Many political benefits would immediately result to the United States from such an early institution in that part of the country. The people in the Kentucky and Illinois countries are rapidly increasing. Their distance from the old States will prevent their sending their children thither for instruction; from the want of which they are in danger of losing all their habits of government, and allegiance to the United States: But, on seeing examples of government, science, and regular industry, follow them into the neighbourhood of their own country, they would favour their children with these advantages, and revive the ideas of order, citizenship, and the useful sciences. This attention, from these neighbouring people, would increase the wealth and population of the new proposed settlement.

Fourth. In the ordinance of Congress, for the government of the territory northwest of the Ohio, it is provided, that, after the said territory acquires a certain degree of population, it shall be divided into States. The eastern State, that is thus provided to be made, is bounded on the Great Miami on the west, and by the Pennsylvania line on the east. The centre of this State will fall between the Sioto and the Hockhocking. At the mouth of one of these rivers, will probably be the seat of government for this State: And, if we may indulge the sublime contemplation of beholding the whole territory of the United States settled by an enlightened people, and continued under one extended government—on the river Ohio, and not far from this spot, will be the seat of empire for the whole dominion. This is central to the whole; it will best accomodate every part; it is the most pleasant, and probably the most healthful.

Altho’ it is an object of importance, that Congress should soon fix on a seat of government—yet, in the present state of the country, it is presumed, it will not be thought best that such seat be considered as immovably fixed. To take the range of the Alleghany mountains from north to south, it is probable 20 years will not elapse, before there will be more people on the western than on the eastern waters of the United States. The settlers ought even now to have it in view, that government will forever accommodate them as much as their brethren on the east: This may be necessary, to prevent their forming schemes of independence, seeking other connexions, and providing for their separate convenience. As it is the most exalted and benevolent object of legislation that ever was aimed at, to unite such an amazingly extensive people, and make them happy, under one jurisdiction, every act of Congress under the new constitution, by looking forward to this object, will, we trust, inculcate and familiarize the idea. They will, no doubt, at an early period, make a reservation or purchase of a suitable tract of land for a federal town, that will be central to the whole; and give some public intimation of such intention to transfer the seat of government on the occurrence of certain events—such as, comparative population, &c. This would render such transfer easily practicable, by preventing the occasion of uneasiness in the old States; while it would not appear to be the result of danger, or the prospect of revolt, in the new.

EXTRACTS

From the Letters of M. St. John de Crevecoeur, Consul of France for the Middle States in America—lately published in Europe.

“The Ohio is the grand Artery of that part of America beyond the mountains; it is the centre where all the waters meet, which on one side run from the Alleghany mountains, and on the other come from the high land in the vicinity of the lakes Erie and Michigan.

“It has been calculated, that the region watered by those rivers, &c. comprised between Pittsburgh and the Missisippi, contains at least 260 000 square miles, equal to 166 920,000 acres. It is, without a doubt, the most fertile country—the most diversified and best watered soil, and that which offers to agriculture and commerce the most abundant and easy resources, of all those that the Europeans have heretofore discovered and peopled.

“It was on the 1 Oth of April, at eight o’clock in the morning, that we quitted the key of Pittsburgh, and gave ourselves up to the current of the Ohio.

“This sweet and tranquil navigation appeared to me like an agreeable dream: Every moment presented to me new perspectives, which were incessantly diversified by the appearance of the islands, points, and the windings of the river, without intermission—changed by this singular mixture of shores more or less woody; whence the eye escaped, from time to time, to observe the great natural meadows which presented themselves, incessantly, embellished by promontories of different heights, which for a moment seemed to hide, and then gradually unfolded to the eyes of the navigator, the bays and inlets, more or less extensive, formed by the creeks and rivulets which fall into the Ohio. What majesty in the mouths of the great rivers which we passed! Their waters seemed to be as vast and as profound as those of the river upon which we floated! 1 never before felt myself so much disposed for meditation. My imagination involuntarily leaped into futurity; the absence of which was not afflicting, because it appeared to me nigh—1 saw those beautiful shores ornamented with decent houses, covered with harvests and well cultivated fields; on the hills exposed to the north, 1 saw orchards regularly laid out in squares; on the others, vineyard plats, plantations of mulberry trees, locust, &c.	1 saw there, also, in the inferior lands, the cotton tree, and the

sugar maple, the sap of which had become an object of commerce. 1 agree, however, that all those banks did not appear to me equally proper for culture; but, as they will probably remain covered by their native forests, it must add to the beauty, to the variety, of this future spectacle.—What an immense chain of plantations! What a long succession of activity, industry, culture, and commerce, is here offered to the Americans!—1 consider, then, the settling of the lands, which are watered by this*river, as one of the finest conquests that could ever be presented to man; it will be so much the more glorious, as it will be legally acquired of the ancient proprietors, and will not exact a single drop of blood—It is destined to become the source of force, riches, and the future glory of the United States.

“Towards noon, on the third day, we anchored at the mouth of the Muskingum, in two fathoms and an half of water. In order to give you a weak idea of what I call the Anatomy of the Ohio, 1 will speak to you of this river, and let you have a glimpse of what will one day be the utility of all its branches. It falls into the Ohio 1 72 miles from Pittsburgh, and is 120 fathoms wide; it is deep, and navigable for large vessels to 1 47 miles in the inner part of the lands; its current is moderate, and never overflows the banks, which are elevated, without being steep; one of its branches approaches all at once the greatest of the sources of the Sioto, called the Seccaium, and the river Sandusky this last falls, as you know, into the great bay of the same name, at the bottom of the lake Erie. It is towards one of the principal branches of the Muskingum, that the great savage village of Tuscarawa is built; whence a carriage of two miles leads to the river Cayahoga, deep and rather rapid, the mouth of which, in lake, Erie, forms an excellent harbour for ships of 200 tons. This place seems to be designed for a spot for a town; and many persons of my acquaintance have already thought of it. All the travellers and hunters have spoken to me with admiration of the fertility of the plans and hills watered by the Muskingum; also, of the excellent fountains, salt pits, coal mines (particularly that of Lamenchicola), of free stones, &c. that they find throughout.

“It was on the fourth morning, at day-break, we weighed anchor; and, in the space of three days of sweet and tranquil navigation, anchored before the Sioto, 218 miles from the Muskingum, and 390 from Pittsburgh, in order to receive on board General Richard Butler, who came from finishing some negotiations with the Shawanese: It is to him I am indebted for the following particulars of that fine river, upon the banks of which he had resided during five years of the war.

“The Sioto is almost as large as the Ohio; its current is navigable, for vessels of a middle size, to the village of Seccaium, 1 1 1 miles from its mouth. At this village commences the grand portage of Sandusky, which is but four miles—a communication much frequented by whites and savages, and consequently of the greatest importance. This river waters a champaign country, very luxuriant and extensive.

“Those vast lands, so well known under the name of the plains of Sioto, begin some miles above the river Kuskinkas, and continue almost to Seccaium: They are watered by the pretty rivulets of Alaman, Deer, Kispoko, &c. and by a great number of more considerable streams: It is towards their sources, that you have a view of the fine villages of the Shawanese nation. Many of them are from 25 to 30 miles in circumference; and, as if nature had been willing to render them still more useful to man, she has covered them with gentle risings, upon which she has planted the finest trees. These plains are never overflowed, and their fertility is most admirable. If a poor man, who has nothing but his arms to support him, should ask of me, where shall 1 go to establish myself in order to live more at my ease, without the aid of oxen or horses? 1 would say to him, go upon the banks of some rivulet on the plains of Sioto; there you will obtain permission of the savages of the neighbouring villages to scratch the surface of the earth, and deposit your rye, your corn, your potatoes, your cabbages, your tobacco, &c. leave the rest to nature; and, during her operations, amuse yourself with fishing and hunting.”

“Every spring a prodigious number of storks come to inhabit these plains; they are at least six feet high; while feeding, they have their centinels to watch, and announce the approach of danger; some time before their departure they assemble in large flocks, and upon a certain day, all together, raise themselves slowly, and, by a kind of circular ascent, describe large spiral paths in their flight.

“Finally, on the 10th day after our departure from Pittsburgh, we anchored before Louisville, having made 705 miles of navigation, in 21 2 hours and thirty minutes of time.”