No. I.

Contents of this Number.—Information needed—Great interests at stake—The character of our country involved—The world will judge in the case—Value of national character—* Apprehensions of the divine displeasure—Statement of the controversy.

Every careful observer of public affairs must have seen, that a crisis has been rapidly approaching, for several years past, in reference to the condition, relations, and prospects, of the Indian tribes, in the southwestern parts of the United States. The attention of many of our most intelligent citizens has been fixed upon the subject with great interest. Many others are beginning to inquire. Several public documents, which have recently appeared in the newspapers, serve to awaken curiosity, and to provoke investigation.

Still, however, the mass of the community possess but very little information on the subject; and, even among the best informed, scarcely a man can be found, who is thoroughly acquainted with the questions at issue. Vague and inconsistent opinions are abroad and however desirous the people may be of coming at the truth, the sources of knowledge are not generally accessible. Some persons think, that the Indians have a perfect right to the lands which they occupy, except so far as their original right has been modified by treaties fairly made, and fully understood at the time of. signing. But how far such a modification may have taken place, or whether it has taken place at all, these persons admit themselves to be ignorant. Others pretend, that Indians have no other right to their lands, than that of a tenant at will; that is, the right of remaining where they are, till the owners of the land shall require them to remove. It is needless to say, that, in the estimation of such persons, the white neighbors of the Indians are the real owners of the land. Some people are puzzled by what is supposed to be a collision between the powers of the general government and the claims of particular States. Others do not see that there is any hardship in bringing the Indians under the laws of the States,’in the neighborhood of which they live or, as the phrase is, within ‘the limits of which they live. Some consider it the greatest kindness that can be done to the Indians to remove them, even without their consent and against their will, to a country where, as is supposed, they will be in a condition more favorable to their happiness. Others think, that if they are compelled to remove, their circumstances will be in all respects worse than at present; and that, suffering under a deep sense of injury, and considering themselves trodden down by the march of inexorable oppression, they will become utterly dispirited, and sink rapidly to the lowest degradation and to final extinction.

So great a diversity of opinion is principally owing to want of correct information. It is my design, Messrs. Editors, to furnish, in a few numbers of moderate length, such materials, as will enable every dispassionate and disinterested man to determine where the right of the case is.

In the mean time, I would observe, that the people of the United States owe it to themselves, and to mankind, to form a correct judgment in this matter. The questions have forced themselves upon us, as a nation :—What is to become of the Indians Have they any rights If they have, What are these rights and how are they to be secured These questions must receive a practical answer and that very soon. What the answer shall be, is a subject of the deepest concern to the country.

The number of individuals, who are interested in the course now to be pursued, is very great. It is computed, that there are within our national limits more than 300 000 Indians some say 500 000 and, in the southwestern States, the tribes whose immediate removal is in contemplation, have an aggregate population of more than 60 000. The interests of all these people are implicated, in any measure to be taken respecting them.

The character of our government, and of our country, may be deeply involved. Most certainly an indelible stigma will be fixed upon us, if, in the plenitude of our power, and in the pride of our superiority, we shall be guilty of manifest injustice to our weak and defenceless neighbors. There are persons among us, not ignorant, nor prejudiced, nor under the bias of private interest, who seriously apprehend, that there is danger of our national character being m#st unhappily affected, before the subject shall be fairly at rest. If these individuals are misled by an erroneous view of facts, or by the adoption of false principles, a free discussion will relieve their minds.

It should be remembered, by our rulers as well as others, that this controversy, (for it has assumed the form of a regular controversy,) will ultimately be well understood by the whole civilized world. No subject, not even war, nor slavery, nor the nature of free institutions, will be more thoroughly canvassed. The voice of mankind will be pronounced upon it;—a voice, which will not be drowned by the clamor of ephemeral parties, nor silenced by the paltry considerations of local or private interest. Such men as the Baron Humboldt and the Due de Broglie, on the continent of Europe, and a host of other statesmen, and orators, and powerful writers, there and in Great Britain, will not be greatly influenced, in deciding a grave question of public morality, by the excitements of one of our elections, or the selfish views of some little portions of the American community. Any* course of measures, in regard to the Indians, which is manifestly fair, and generous, and benevolent, will command the warm and decided approbation of intelligent men, not only in the present age, but in all succeeding times. And with equal confidence it may be said, if, in the phraseology of Mr. Jefferson, the people of the United States should feel power, and forget right—if they should resemble a man, who, abounding in wealth of every kind, and assuming the office of lawgiver and judge, first declares himself to be the owner of his poor neighbor’s little farm, and then ejects the same neighbor as a troublesome incumbrance ;—if, with land enough, now in the undisputed possession of the whites, to sustain ten times our present population, we should compel the remnants of tribes to leave the places, which, received by inheritance from their fathers and never alienated, they have long regarded as their permanent homes;—if, when asked to explain the treaties, which we first proposed, then solemnly executed, and have many times ratified, we stammer, and prevaricate, and complete our disgrace by an unsuccessful attempt to stultify, not merely ourselves, but the ablest and wisest statesmen, whom our

country has yet produced ;—and if, in pursuance of a narrow and selfish policy, we should at this day, in a time of profound peace and great national prosperity, amidst all our professions of magnanimity and benevolence, and in the blazing light of “the nineteenth century, drive away these remnants of tribes, in such a manner, and under such auspices, as to insure their destruction ;—if all this should hereafter appear to be a fair statement of the case ;—then the sentence of an indignant world will be uttered in thunders, which will roll and reverberate for ages after the present actors in human affairs shall have passed away. If the people of the United States will imitate the ruler who coveted Naboth’s vineyard, the world will assuredly place them by the side of Naboth’s oppressor. Impartial history will not ask them, whether they will feel gratified and honored by such an association. Their consent to the arrangement will not be necessary. The revolution of the earth in its orbit is not more certain.

It may be truly said, that the character»which a nation sustains, in its intercourse with the great community of nations, is of more value than any other of its public possessions. Our diplomatic agents have uniformly declared, during the whole period of our national history, in their discussions with the agents of foreign powers, that we offer to others the same justice which we ask from them. And though, in times of national animosity, or when the interests of different communities clash with each other, there will be mutual reproaches and recriminations, and every nation will, in its turn, be charged with unfairness or injustice, still, among nations, as among individuals, there is a difference between the precious and the vile; and that nation will undoubtedly, in the long course of years, be most prosperous and most respected, which most sedulously cherishes a character for fair dealing, and even generosity, in all its transactions.

There is a higher consideration still. The Great Arbiter of Nations never fails to take cognizance of national delinquencies. No sophistry can elude his scrutiny no array of plausible arguments, or of smooth but hollow professions, can bias his judgment; and he has

at his disposal most abundant means of executing his decisions. In many forms, and with awful solemnity, he has declared his abhorrence of oppression in every shape and especially of injustice perpetrated against the weak by the strong, when strength is in fact made the only rule of action. The people of the United States are not altogether guiltless, in regard to their treatment of the aborigines of this continent but they cannot as yet be charged with any systematic legislation on this subject, inconsistent with the plainest principles of moral honesty. At least, I am not aware of any proof, by which such a charge could be sustained.

Nor do I, in these preliminary remarks, attempt to characterize measures now in contemplation. But it is very clear, that our government and our people should be extremely cautious, lest, in judging between ourselves and the Indians, and carrying our own judgment into execution with a strong hand, we incur the displeasure of the Most High. Some very judicious and considerate men in our country think, that our public functionaries should stop where they are; that, in the first place, we should humble ourselves before God and. the world, that we have done so much to destroy the Indians, and so little to save them and that, before another step is taken, there should be the most thorough deliberation, on the part of all our constituted authorities, lest we act in such a manner as to expose ourselves to the judgments of Heaven1.

I would have omitted this topic, if I thought that a majority of readers would regard its introduction as a matter of course, or as a piece of affectation, designed for rhetorical embellishment. In my deliberate opinion, it is more important, and should be more heeded, than all other considerations relating to the subject; and the people of the United States will find it so, if they should unhappily suppose themselves above the obligation to do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with their God.

I close this introductory number, by stating what seems to be the present controversy between the whites and the Indian tribes of the southwestern States I say the whites, (that is our country generally,) because certain positions arQ taken by the government of the United States, and certain claims are made by the State of Georgia, and certain other claims by the States of Alabama and Mississippi. The Indians do not admit the validity of any of these positions or claims; and if they have a perfect original title to the lands they occupy, which title they have never forfeited nor alienated, their rights cannot be affected by the charters of kings, nor by the acts of provincial legislatures, nor by the compacts of neighboring States, nor by the mandates of the executive branch of our national government.

The simple question is.:. Have the Indian tribes, 'residing as separate communities in the neighborhood of the whites, a permanent title to the territory, which they inherited from their fathers, which they have neither forfeited nor sold, and which they now occupy I

For the examination of this question, let the case of a single tribe or nation be considered for nearly the same principles are involved in the claims of all the Indian nations. say, God gave this country to our ancestors. We have never been in bondage to any man. Though we have sold much land to our white neighbors, we have never bought any from them. We own the land which we now occupy, by the right of the original possessors a right which is allowed in all countries to be of incoutestible validity. We assert, therefore, that no human power can lawfully compel us to leave our lands.”

If the Cherokees are correct in their statement of facts, who can resist their conclusion? We might as well ask the Chinese, what right they have to the territory which they occupy. To such a question they would answer, God gave this land to our ancestors. Our nation has always been in possession of it, so far as history and tradition go back. The nations of Europe are comparatively of recent origin the commencement of ours is lost in remote antiquity.”

What can be said to such a statement as this Who can argue so plain a case ?	>

It has been alleged, that the savage of the wilderness can acquire no title to the forests, through which he pursues his game. Without admitting this doctrine, it is sufficient to reply here, that it has no application to the case of the Cherokees. They are at present neither savages nor hunters. It does not appear that they ever were mere wanderers, without a stationary residence. At the earliest period of our becoming acquainted with their condition, they had fixed habitations, and were in undisputed possession of a widely extended country. They were then in the habit of cultivating some land near their houses, where they planted Indian corn, and other vegetables. From about the commencement of the present century, they have addicted themselves more and morfe to agriculture, till they now derive their support from the soil, as truly and entirely as do the inhabitants of Pennsylvania or Virginia. For many years they have had their herds, I and their large cultivated fields. They now have, in addition, their schools, a regular civil government, and places of regular Christian worship. They, earn their bread by the labor of their own hands, applied to the tillage of their own farms and they clothe themselves with fabrics made at their own looms, from cotton grown in their own fields.

The Cherokees did not show themselves unwilling to sell their lands, so long as an adequate motive was presented to their minds. During every administration of our national government, applications were made to them for the purpose of obtaining additional portions of their territory. These applications were urged, not only, nor principally, by the consideration of the money or presents which they were to receive in exchange, but often, and strongly, by the consideration that they would become an agricultural people, like the whites—that it was for their interest to have their limits circumscribed, so that their young men could not have a great extent of country to hunt in and that, when they became attached to the soil, and engaged in its cultivation, the United States would not ask them to sell any more land. Yielding to these arguments, and to the importunities of the whites, the Cherokees sold, at different times, between the close of the revolutionary war and the year 1820, more than three quarters of their original inheritance. That the reader may have some definite idea of the territory in question, he should pursue the following delineation by the aid of a good map.

It would seem that the Cherokees possessed land extending to the following limits, if not beyond them, viz From the mouth of Duck river, in Tennessee, on the west, to the waters of French Broad, in North Carolina, on the east; and from the head waters of the Hol-ston, in Virginia, on the north, to some distance down the Oconee, in Georgia, on the south; comprising, beside what is now the Cherokee country, more than half of the State of Tennessee, the southern part of Kentucky, the southwest corner of Virginia, a considerable portion of both the Carolinas, a small portion of Georgia, and the northern part of Alabama. 'Phis tract probably contained more than 35 000,000 acres, of which a large proportion is extremely fertile, and some of it not inferior to any land in North America, or perhaps in the world. The country is also generally healthy, and the climate delightful. Of all this vast and beautiful tract, watered by numerous rivers, which find their way to the ocean, some of them circuitously by the Mississippi, and others more directly to the gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic, the Cherokees now retain Jess than 8 000,000 acres, of a quality far below the average quality of that which they have sold. Georgia claims 5 000,000 acres of this remnant, as falling within the map of that State. Alabama claims nearly 1 000,000 of the residue. The portions which, in the general division, will fall to Tennessee and North Carolina, seem hardly worth inquiring about; for, if the other portions are given up, or taken by force, there will be no motive for retaining these.

To every application made for their lands within the last ten years, the Cherokees have said, We are not disposed to sell any more. We have betaken ourselves to an agricultural life. We are making progress in civilization. We are attached to our schools and our Christian teachers to our farms; to our native rivers and mountains. We have not too much land for our own comfort, and for affording us a fair chance in the experiment we are making.” This language has been repeated in many forms, and with every indication of sincerity and earnestness.

The assertion of the Cherokees, that their present country is not too large for a fair experiment in the work of civilization, is undoubtedly correct. The wisest men, who have thought and written on this subject, agree in the opinion, that no tribe of Indians can rise to real civilization, and to the full enjoyment of Christian society, unless they can have a community of their own and can be so much separated from the whites, as to form and cherish something of a national character. If the limits of the Cherokee country were much smaller than they are, this would be impracticable.

Thus stands the case and it is now my intention to inquire how the government of the United States has regarded the Indian title, and how it has been regarded by the several States in the vicinity of the Cherokees.

Before this inquiry is commenced, however, it is proper to say, that the title of one party cannot be safely decided by the mere claims of another party. If those claims are founded in justice, they ought to prevail; if not, they should be set aside. Now whatever doctrines the government of the United States may have held and promulgated on this subject, they cannot be binding upon the Indians, unless acknowledged by them to be binding, or unless founded in the immutable principles of justice.

Let us suppose the kings of Great Britain had issued an annual proclamation, from the time of the discovery of America to the peace of 1783, claiming all the lands in North America between 30 and 50 north latitude, and declaring that all the nations, tribes, and communities, then residing on said lands, were subject to the laws of Great Britain, and that the title to all these lands was vested in, and of right belonged to, the crown of that realm and let us further suppose, that the government of the United States had issued an annual proclamation, from the date of the declaration of independence to the present day, applying the same doctrine to our. advantage, and declaring, that all the Indian nations within the limits prescribed by the peace of 1783, were subject to the laws of the United States, and that the lands, of which they were in possession, belonged of right to the United States so long as the Indians did not acknowledge the binding nature of these claims, the mere claims would have amounted to nothing. It was the practice of the king of England, during several centuries, to declare himself, (as often as he issued a proclamation on any subject whatever,) king of Great Britain, France and Ireland. Was he therefore king of France What if he were now to declare himself king of Great Britain and China It would be a cheap way, indeed, of acquiring a title, if merely setting up a claim would answer the purpose.

By what right do the people of the United States hold the lands which they occupy the people of Ohio, for instance, or of Connecticut 2 By the right of occupancy only, commenced by purchase from the aboriginal possessors. It would be folly to plead the charters of kings, or the mere drawing of lines of latitude and longitude. The powers of Europe have indeed acknowledged our right to our country. But what if they had not 2 Our right is not at all affected by their claims, or acknowledgments. The same doctrine is applicable to the condition of the Cherokees. They have a perfect right to their country,—the right of peaceable, continued, immemorial occupancy and although their country may be claimed by others, it may lawfully be held by the possessors against all the world.*

The Cherokees need not fear, however, that their rights are in danger, as a consequence of any principles sanctioned by the national legislature of the United States. The co-ordinate branches of our government have not yet declared, that Indians are tenants at will. On the other hand, the whole history of our negotiations with them, from the peace of 1783 to the last treaty to which they are a party, and of all our legislation concerning them, shows,

Some shallow writers on this subject have said, that the Cherokees have only the title of occupancy just as though the title of occupancy were not the best title in the world, and the only original foundation of every other title. Every reader of Blackstone knows this to be the fact. As to the past, the Cherokees have immemorial occupancy as to the future, they have a perfect right to occupy their country indefinitely. What can they desire more garded as a separate community from ours, having a national existence, and possessing a territory, which they are to hold in full possession, till they voluntarily surrender it.

I now proceed to the examination of treaties, between the United States and the Cherokee nation. And here I would apprize the reader, that the case can never be fairly and fully understood, without a reference to every material article, in every treaty which has been made between these parties. Unless such a reference is had, no reader can be sure that he has a view of the whole ground and a caviller might object, that there had been omissions, in order to conceal a weak part of the case. This is a subject, too, which the people of the United States must have patience to investigate. When measures are in progress, which have a bearing on the permanent rights and interests of all the Indians, it must not be thought tedious to read an abstract of the solemn engagements, by which we have become bound to one of these aboriginal nations.

In the revolutionary contest, the Cherokees took part with the king of Great Britain, under whose protection they then considered themselves, just as they now consider themselves under the protection of the United States. After the peace of 1783, it does not appear that any definite arrangement was made with this tribe till the year 1785. In the course of that year, the Old Congress appointed four commissioners plenipotentiary, men of distinction at the south, to meet the head men and warriors of the Cherokees, and negociate a treaty of peace.

The parties met at Hopewell, now in Pendleton District, S. C. and, on the 28th of November, executed an instrument, which is usually cited as the treaty of Hopewell. The abstract of this instrument, with some remarks upon it, will be given in my next number.

No. III.

First compact between the United States and the Cherokees; viz. the treaty of Hopewell— Abstract of this treaty—Reasons for thinking it still in force—The Old Congress had the power to make treaties—Argument of the Secretary of War—Meaning of the phrases to give peace, and to allot.

The title of the treaty to which I referred in my last number, is in these words:

Articles concluded at Hopewell, on the Keowee, between Benjamin Hawkins,

Andrew Pickens, Joseph Martin, and Lachlan McIntosh, commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States of America, of the one part, and the head men and warriors of all the Cherokees, of the other

The preface to the articles is thus expressed

<c The commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States in Congress assembled, give peace to all the Cherokees, and receive them into the favor and protection of the United States of America, on the following conditions

Before I proceed to make an abstract of the articles, it is proper to say, that in regard to this and all subsequent treaties, I shall be as brief as appears to be consistent with putting the reader in full possession of the case. The more material parts of treaties I shall cite literally and these will be distinguished by double inverted commas. Other parts will be abridged but where the principal words of any abridgment are taken from the treaties, such passages will be marked by single inverted commas. The less material parts will be expressed as briefly as possible in my own language but in all these cases I pledge myself to the strictest fidelity. At least the subject of every article shall be mentioned, that the reader may judge of the general aspect of the whole, as well as of the meaning of the most important parts. The treaty of Hopewell, then, reads as follows

Art. 1. The head men and warriors of all the Cherokees shall' restore all the prisoners, citizens of the United States, or subjects of their allies, to their entire liberty they shall also restore all the negroes, and all other property taken during the late war, from the citizens, to such person, and at such time and place, as the commissioners shall appoint.

Art. 2. The commissioners of the United States in Congress assembled, shall restore all the prisoners taken from the Indians during the late war, to the head men and warriors of the Cherokees, as early as is practicable.

Art. 3. The said Indians, for themselves, and their respective tribes and towns, do acknowledge all the Cherokees to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whatsoever.

Art. 4. The boundary allotted to the Cherokees for their hunting grounds, between the said Indians and the citizens of the United States, within the limits of the United States of America, is, and shall be the following:” This boundary defines the northern and eastern limits of the Cherokee country.

“Art. 5. If any citizen of the United States, or other person, not being an Indian, shall attempt to settle on any. of the lands westward and southward of the said boundary, which are hereby allotted to the Indians for their hunting grounds, or having already settled and will not remove from the same within six months after the ratification of this treaty, such person shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the Indians may punish him, or not, as they please.” Then follows a proviso, as to settlers between the fork of French Broad and Holston,” whose case is to be referred to Congress.

Art. 6. If any Indian; or Indians, or persons residing among them, or who shall take refuge in their nation, shall commit a robbery, or murder, or other capital crime, on any citizen of the United States, or person under their protection, the nation, or the tribb. to which such offender or offenders may belong, shall be bound to deliver him or them up, to be punished according to the ordinances of the United States;” provided that the punishment shall not be greater, than if the crime had been committed by a citizen on a citizen.’

Art. 7. If any citizen of the United States, or person under their protection, shall commit a robbery or murder, or other capital crime, on any Indian,” he shall be punished in the same manner as if the crime had been committed on a citizen and the punishment shall be in the presence of some of the Cherokees, who shall have due notice of the time and place.

Art. 8. No punishment of the innocent for the guilty, on either side, except where there is a manifest violation of this treaty and then it shall be preceded first by a demand of justice and if refused, then by a declaration of hostilities.”

“Art. 9. For the benefit and comfort of. the Indians, and for the prevention of injuries or oppressions on the part of the citizens or Indians, the United States in Congress assembled shall have the sole and exclusive right of regulating the trade with the Indians, and managing all their affairs, in such manner as they think proper.

Art. 10. Until the pleasure of Congress be known respecting the 9th article,” a temporary provision is made for the security of traders.

“Art. 11. The said Indians shall give notice” of any designs “formed in any neighboring tribe, or by any person whomsoever, against the peace, trade, or interests of the United States.”

Art. 12. That the Indians may have full confidence in the justice of the United States, respecting their interests, they shall have a right to send a deputy of their choice, whenever they think fit, to Congress.

Art. 13. The hatchet shall be forever buried, and the peace given by the United States, and friendship re-established between the said States on the one part, and all the Cherokees on the other, shall be universal; and the contracting parties shall use their utmost endeavors to maintain the peace given as aforesaid, and friendship re-established.”

These articles were signed by the four commissioners of (be United States, and by thirty-seven head men and warriors of the Cherokees, in the presence of William Blount, afterwards Governor of Tennessee, and eight other witnesses. In the formulary, which precedes the signatures, the articles are called a Definitive Treaty.”

Among the documents of Congress, published during the last session, is a letter from the lion. Hugh L. White, now' senator in Congress, to Mr. John Ross, at present the chief magistrate of the Cherokee nation, in which the writer argues at some length, that the treaty of Hopewell is not now in force, on account of its having been abrogated by a subsequent war, and its not being expressly recognized in any subsequent treaty.

Mr. White admits that treaties are not, as a matter of course, abrogated by war but he thinks that, in the case before us, such is the natural conclusion to be formed, after attending to subsequent treaties. I must be permitted to question, whether he would have come to this conclusion, if he had seen all the subsequent treaties, and duly considered them.

The following reasons, which have become apparent in the course of this investigation, satisfy me that the treaty of Hopewell is still in force.

1.	In all the subsequent treaties, there is no intimation, not even the most obscure, that this treaty, or any other, had been abrogated, annulled, or superseded.

2.	In the second treaty of Philadelphia, 1794, the United States give money “to evince their justice” to the Cherokees, ‘for relinquishments of land by the treaty of Hopewell and the treaty of Holston.’ Here both treaties are mentioned in precisely the same manner which would hardly have been the case, if one of them had been abrogated.

3.	The first article of the third treaty of Tellico, 1805, is in these words All former treaties, which provide for the maintenance of peace and preventing of crimes, are, on this occasion, recognized and continued in force.” The treaty of Hopewell was a former treaty, which was directed almost wholly to </re maintenance of peace and the preventing of crimes.

4.	In the second treaty negotiated by Gen. Jackson, 1817, it is stipulated, that the treaties heretofore [made] between the Cherokee nation and the United States are to continue in full force.” The phrase “the treaties” means the same as all treaties*

This is the first treaty made by the United States with either of the south-western tribes, or nations. The State of Georgia had, previously to the revolutionary war, entered into jompacts with the Cherokees, of which notice will be taken, at the proper time. After the peace of 1783, and before the adoption of the federal constitution, the Congress made treaties with the Indians, in precisely the same manner as with European nations. If the power to do this was doubted,

These reasons were not inserted in the number as originally published. They were discovered, as the examination of treaties proceeded. The reader will probably think them unanswerable. or denied, the doubt, or denial, has never come to my knowledge, The treaty of Hopewell was negotiated by commissioners, all ol whom, if I mistake not, resided at the south and I have never heard that any remonstrance was offered by either of the States in the neigh borhood of the Cherokees, on the ground that the Old Congress had no power to agree upon a line of demarkation with the Indians. A line was fixed, in the 4th article, securing to the Indians the undisturbed possession of a territory, which appeared on the map to be a part of Virginia, the two Carolinas, and Georgia; the States of Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama and Mississippi not having then been formed. If this treaty now stood alone, and the relations of the parties had not been changed by subsequent events, no white man could have attempted to settle on any of the lands within the Cherokee boundary,’ even down to the present day, however he might have been sustained in his attempt by the constituted authorities of any or all of the States situated in the neighborhood of the Cherokees. Against such an attempt, the Indians would have been protected by the faith of the Confederated RepublicThis remark is made simply for the sake of drawing the attention of the reader to the inviolability of the Indian territory, as strongly implied in the fifth article.

From the phraseology adopted in two or three passages of the treaty, the conclusion seems to be drawn by the present Secretary ol of War, that treaties with the Cherokees are not binding upon the whites; at least, not to the extent of their literal and proper meaning. The argument stands in this form. The Cherokees fought on the side of the British, in the war of independence. The British were beaten; and therefore the Cherokees were a conquered people. To a conquered people the United States gave peace; and therefore the United States are not bound by the very articles which they dictated. They allotted a boundary to the Cherokees; and therefore the United States are not under obligation to respect the boundary, which they themselves allotted. To refute such conclusions, established by such a process of reasoning, is unnecessary. The very statement of the argument is enough.

It is true, that the commissioners of the United States, in several treaties made about the same time, express themselves rather haughtily, when they declare that they give peace to the Indians. The fact is well known, however, that the whites were much more desirous of peace than the Cherokees were. The inhabitants of our frontier settlements were in constant dread of incursions from the natives of the forest. Impoverished as our country was by a seven years’ war, it would have been impossible to have scoured the vast wilderness from the settled country to the Mississippi. Any force which could then have been sent, would have fared worse than the army of St. Clair did, in a far less dangerous field, nine years afterwards.

The Cherokees could not have set up for nice verbal critics of the English language, as they did not understand a word of it. It is questionable whether one Indian interpreter in ten would make any difference between give peace, and make peace, or agree to a peace. The Cherokees doubtless understood, that the United States were desirous that there should be an end of fighting; but it is incredible that they should have thought there was lurking, under the phrase of giving peace, any such mysterious implication of superiority on the part of the whites, as should ultimately exonerate the superior from all obligation to keep faith with his inferior. Least of all could they have supposed, that there was a latent power in this phrase, which should destroy the validity of all future compacts between the same parties, in not one of which the insidious phrase is to be found.

The phrase to give peace was a favorite one with the Romans, and was doubtless copied from them. I think Bonaparte used it also on some occasions. But neither the Romans, nor Bonaparte, so far as I know, ever soberly contended that a treaty was to be interpreted, otherwise than according to the obvious and proper meaning of the words, merely because one of the parties assumed rather a haughty air, in some few instances of the phraseology.

As to the word allot, it is said to have been commonly used in the southern States as synonymous with jfcr, or establish. To say that a boundary was allotted to the Cherokees, was no more than to say that a boundary was established, or agreed upon for the boundary is not said to have been allotted by the United States. It may have been, indeed it must have been, as the whole scope of the treaty shows, allotted by the consent of both parties*

No. IV.

Apparent inferiority of the United States to the Chickasaws—The Cherokees under the pro-tection of the United States—Hunting grounds a good designation of land—Proofs of equality of rights in the parties—Treaty of Holston, or second compact with the Cherokees, 1791—Title and preamble—The manner in which this treaty was negotiated and ratified.

If our statesmen are about to interpret treaties, on the principle of favoring the party which assumed a superiority, they must take care lest there should be some very unexpected consequences.

In a treaty formed between the United States and the Chickasaws, in the year 1801, and ratified by President Jefferson and the Senate, the first article commences thus: The Mingo, principal men, and warriors of the Chickasaw nation of Indians give leave and permission to the President of the United States of America to lay out, open, and make a convenient wagon road through their land.” After stating that the road shall be a highway for the citizens of the United States and the Chickasaws,” and that the Chickasaws shall appoint two discreet men as guides,’ who shall be paid by the United States for their services, the article closes thus: Provided always, That the necessary ferries over the water-courses, crossed by the said road, shall be held and deemed to be the property of the Chickasaw nation.”

The second article makes a pecuniary compensation to the Chickasaws for their respectful and friendly attention to the President of
The correctness of this criticism on the word aZZoi is abundantly proved, by a passage of an act of Congress, which was discovered after this number was written. The passage makes the meaning of lands allotted to the Indians to be synonymous with lands secured to the Indians. the United States of America, and to the request made to them in hit name, to permit the opening of the road.”

Who is the superior here? Translate these passages faithfully,; and send them to the Emperor of China, and let him lay the inattei before his counsellors, who never heard of the United States. They will say, in a moment, that the Mingo of the Chickasaws is a monarch, who, in his great condescension, has granted the humble request ol the President, on the condition that the petitioner shall make a pecuniary compensation, and pay tribute, under the name of ferriage, to the Chickasaws, as often as any of the President’s people pass througl the territory of the king of the Chickasaws.

According to the recent code of national morality, what is to be the operation of this Chickasaw treaty? Most undoubtedly, in the first place, the Chickasaws may close up the road, the stipulations of the treaty to the contrary notwithstanding. Indeed, they must have exercised great forbearance already, as they have permitted the road to be open twenty-seven years, solely out of regard to this treaty just as Georgia has waited twenty-seven years before taking possession ol the Cherokee territory, out of complaisance to the engagements of the United States, which it would seem, are to be discarded as of no va-J lidity.

In the second place, none of the treaties made subsequently by the Chickasaws are binding upon them and therefore they may reclaim all the lands which they have ceded to the United States. Of course, the inhabitants of West Tennessee, who now live on fertile lands, which were ceded to the whites by the Chickasaws, must immediately remove, if the Chickasaws require it. The reason is plain. No suJ perior can be bound to an inferior but that the Chickasaws are the superiors, is evident, as the Secretary of War says in the other case,! because “the emphatic language” of the treaty “cannot be mistaken.”

But it may be said that there are other indications in the treaty of Hopewell, that the United States assumed a superiority, beside the phraseology, in the instances above cited. The question is not, be it remembered, whether the United States, at the time of the treaty of Hopewell, were a more powerful nation than the Cherokees; but whether, being a more powerful nation, they are on that account exempted from the obligation of treaties.

The Cherokees did, undoubtedly, place themselves under the protection of the United States, in the. third article. They had formerly been under the protection of the king of Great Britain but his power had failed them. It was natural that they should accept proffers of protection from some other quarter. This is not a new thing in the world. From the time of Abraham to the present day, there have been alliances, offensive and defensive, confederacies, and smaller states relying for protection upon the plighted faith of larger ones. But whatl is implied in the very idea of protection? Is it not, that the party protected is to have all its rights secure, not only against others, but against the protector also If some rights are yielded as the price of protection, is it not that other rights may be preserved with the greater care and certainty

It is said that the United States were to have the sole and exclusive right of regulating trade with the Cherokees. True but this was expressly declared to be for the benefit of the Indians, and to save them from injustice and oppression. These laudable objects were gained to a considerable extent; and, if the laws of the United States on thia subject had been always carried into full execution, the condition of the Indians would have been rapidly improved, as a consequence of this very stipulation.

It is said that the lands of the Indians are called their hunting grounds and that they could not, therefore, have a permanent interest in lands thus described. Blit how does this appear The treaty has no limitation of time, nor is there the slightest intimation that it was to become weaker by the lapse of years. As the Indians gained their principal support by hunting, it was natural to designate their country by the phrase hunting grounds and this is as good a designation, in regard to the validity of a title, as any other phrase that could be chosen. It contains the idea of property, and has superadded the idea of constant use.

But to put the matter beyond all question at once, let me refer to two treaties made at the same place, by three out of four of the same American Commissioners, within six weeks of the date of the Cherokee treaty. In both these documents, lands" are allotted to the Choctaws and Chickasaws to live and hunt on.” These lands were secured to the Indians, therefore, so long as any of the race survived upon earth.

Having been occupied some time, in considering the indications of superiority, let us look a little at the proofs of equality. I leave to a future occasion some remarks upon the words treaty, peace, contracting parties, &c. which carry with them sundry most important significations.

The two first articles are strictly reciprocal. Each party is to restore prisoners of war. The articles would be proper, in a treaty between France and England.

The 6th and 7th articles provide, that crimes committed against individuals of one party, by individuals of the other, shall be punished in the same manner.

The 8th article has the remarkable provision, that no retaliatory measures shall be adopted by either party, unless Z/zZs treaty shall be violated; and even then, before such measures can be adopted, justice must have been demanded by the complaining party and refused by the other, and a declaration of hostilities" must have been made. Thus it is admitted, as well as in the two first articles, that the Cherokees have the same right to declare war, as other powers of the earth have. To declare war and make peace are enumerated, in our own declaration of independence, as among the highest attributes of national sovereignty. The other attributes there enumerated are to form alliances and to establish commerce. It is a curious fact, that every one of these attributes was exercised by the Cherokees, in the negotiation of the treaty of Hopewell.

The present doctrine is, that the Indians were regarded as a sort of non-descript tenants at will, enjoying by permission some imperfect privilege of hunting on grounds which really belonged to the United States, But who ever heard of tenants at will being solemnly admitted to have the right of declaring war upon their landlords These tenants were also strangely allowed to possess the right of punishing, according to their pleasure, any of their landlords, who should “attempt to settle” upon any lands, which, it is now contended, were then the absolute property of said landlords. But I shall have other occasion of bringing this interpretation to the test.

After the treaty of Hopewell, white settlers pushed forward into the wilderness in the neighborhood of the Indians; difficulties arose; blood was shed war was declared the new settlements in that quarter were in a state of great alarm and anxiety.

In the mean time, the new constitution had gone into operation. The treaty-making power, which had been exercised by the Old Congress, was now confided to the President and Senate of the United States. Gen. Washington, who always pursued a magnanimous policy towards the Indians, as well as towards other nations, took the proper measures to establish a peace. On the 3d of July, 1791, the treaty of Holston was made; arid it was, afterwards ratified by President Washington and the Senate, The title is in these words

A treaty of peace and friendship, made and concluded between the President of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, and tlie undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee nation, on the part and behalf of the said nation.”

PREAMBLE.

The parties 'being desirous of establishing permanent peace and friendship he-fween the United States and the said Cherokee nation, and the citizens and members thereof, and to remove the causes of war by, ascertaining their limits, and making other necessary, just, and friendly arrangements the. President of the United States, by William Blount, Governor of the territory of the United States south of the River Ohio, and superintendent of Indian affairs for the Southern District, who is vested with full powers for these purposes, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States and the Cherokee nation, by the undersigned chiefs and warriors representing the said nation, have agreed to the following articles, namely

I have thought it best to cite the whole title and preamble, that the, reader may see in what manner the parlies to this instrument saw fit to describe themselves; or, more properly, in what manner the plenipotentiary of the United States, with the President and Senate, saw fit to describe these parties for it will not be pretended that the Cherokees reduced the treaty to writing. This is the second treaty, which was made with Indians, by the government of the United States, after the adoption of the federal constitution. The first was made with the Creek nation and was executed at New York, August 7th, 1790, by Henry Knox, then Secretary of War, as the commissioner of the United States, and twenty-four Creek chiefs, in behalf of their nation. In comparing these two treaties, It is found, that the title and preamble of the Cherokee treaty are an exact transcript from the other, except that “Cherokee” is inserted instead of Creek,” and the word “kings,” before "chiefs and warriors,” is omitted.

All the principal articles of the two treaties are of the same tenor, and expressed by the same phraseology. As Governor Blount made the Cherokee treaty after the model of the Creek treaty, there can be little doubt that he was directed to do so, by the head of the War Department. It is morally certain, that the Creek treaty was drawn up, not only with great care, but with the concentrated wisdom of a cabi-•net, which is universally admitted, I believe, to have been the ablest and the wisest, which our nation has yet enjoyed. General Washington was at its head,—always a cautious man, and eminently so in laying the foundations of our Union, and entering into new relations. This treaty was made under his own eye, at the seat of government, and witnessed by distinguished men, some of whom added their official stations to their names. The two first witnesses were Richard Morris, Chief Justice of the State of New York,” and “Richard Varick, Mayor of the City of New York.”

These treaties were, in due season, ratified by the Senate of the

United States, at that time composed of men distinguished for their ability. Among them was Oliver Ellsworth, afterwards Chief Justice of the United States; William Patterson, afterwards an eminent Judge of the Supreme Court of the United States Rufus King, afterwards for many years Minister of the United States at the British Court; and William Samuel Johnson, who did not leave behind him in America a man of equal learning in the Civil Law and the Law of Nations. These four individuals, and six other senators, had been members of the convention, which formed the federal constitution though Mr. Ellsworth did not sign that instrument, having been called away before it was completed. He was a most efficient member, however, in the various preparatory discussions and did much in procuring the adoption of the constitution, by the State which he had represented.

The reader may fairly conclude, that the document in question is not a jumble of words, thrown together without meaning, havin^no object, and; easily explained away, as a pompous nullity. On the contrary, it was composed with great care, executed with uncommon solemnity, and doubtless ratified with ample consideration. It has, therefore, a solid basis, and a substantial meaning. That meaning shall be considered in a future number. _ ■	No. V.

What is a treaty?—of peace?—and friendship ?—What is a nation?—-The United Stated estopped—The five first presidents admitted the Cherokees to be a nation—First and second articles of the treaty of Holston^—Absurdity, of the recent pretensions of Georgia,

Having described the manner in which the first Indian treaty, after the; organization of our present form of government, was negotiated by the cabinet of President Washington, and shown that it was ratified by senators not inferior to any of their successors, aiid who were doubtless peculiarly cautious in the first exercise of the treaty-making power and having ascertained by a minute comparison, that the important articles of the treaty of Holston, executed less than a year afterwards, are a mere transcript of the first treaty, I proceed now to inquire, What is the meaning of the treaty of Holston J

The title and preamble were quoted in my last number. The title begins thus A treaty of peace and friendshipWhat js a treaty It is a compact between independent communities, each party acting through the medium of its government. No instrument, which does not come within this definition, can be sent to the Senate of the United States, to be acted upon as within the scope of the treaty-making power.

If the agents of the United States purchase land for a public object, such a purchase is not a treaty. If the State of Virginia, on the application of the United States, cedes a piece of land for a navy yard, or a fort, a compact of this sort is not a treaty. If the State of Georgia cedes to the United States all its claim to territory enough for two large new States, and the United States agree to make a compensation therefor, such cession and agreement are not a treaty. Accordingly, such negotiations are carried on and completed by virtue of laws of the National and State Legislatures. Of course, compacts of this kind are never called treaties and the idea of sending them to the Senate of the United States for ratification would be preposterous. One of the confederated States is not an independent community nor can it make a treaty, either with the nation at large, or with any foreign power. But the Indian tribes and nations have made treaties with the United States during the last forty years, till the whole number of treaties thus made far exceeds a hundred, every otre of which was ratified by the Senate before it became obligatory. Every instance of this kind implies that the Indian communities had governments of their own; that the Indians, thus living incotnmu-nities,’ were not subject to the laws of the United States; and that they had rights and interests distinct from the rights and interests of the people of the United States, and, in the fullest sense, public and national. All this is in accordance with facts and the whole is implied in the single word treaty.

Again the parties on the banks of the Holston signed a treaty of peace.” It is matter of history that there had been fighting and bloodshed. These acts of violence were not denominated a riot, a sedition, a rebellion; they constituted a war. The settlement of the difficulty was not called a pardon, an amnesty, a suppression of a riot, a conviction, a punishment; it was called a peace. Nor is it said here, as in the treaty of Hopewell, that the United States “give peace.” There is, in the title and preamble, every indication of perfect equality between the parties. In point of fact, the whites were, at that moment, much more desirous of peace than the Cherokees were.

This is also a treaty of “friendship;” which implies, that the Cherokees were not only a substantive power, capable of making peace and declaring war, but that, after the treaty was executed, they were expected to remain in the same state. It was not a surrendry of their national existence, but the establishment of amicable relations to remain; and, so far as this treaty could operate, the amicable relations, thus acknowledged to exist, were to continue through all future time.

Who are the parties to this treaty of peace and friendship The President acts in behalf of one of the parties, and the undersigned chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee Nation of Indians, on the part and behalf of said Nation." The Cherokees then are a nation; and the best definition of a nation is, that it is a community living under its own laws.

A nation may be a power of the„first, second, third, or tenth rate. It may be very feeble, and totally incompetent to defend its own rights. But so long as it has distinct rights and interests, and manages its own concerns, it is a substantive power arid should be respected as such. Any other rule of interpretation would make force the only arbiter. St. Marino, in Italy, is described in our best gazetteers as a small but independent republic;” and yet it has not half so many people, nor the three hundredth part so much land, as the Cherokee nation now has.

It has been said, indeed, that the Indians, being an uncivilized people, are not to be ranked among nations. But this is said gratuitously, and without the least shadow of proof. How many treaties did Julius CiBsar make with savage tribes, who wete greatly inferior, in every intellectual and moral respect, to the Cherokees of the present day There is as little reason as truth in the objection. Has not God endowed every community with some rights? and are not these rights to be regarded by every honest man and by every fair-minded and honorable ruler

But, above all, the objection comes too late. The United States are, as a lawyer would say, estopped. Gen. Washington, with his Cabinet and the Senate, pronounced the Cherokees to be a nation. It does not appear that a doubt ever crossed the mind of a single individual, for nearly forty years, whether this admission were not perfectly correct. Presidents Adams, (the elder,) Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, all admitted the Cherokees to be a nation, and treated with them as such. The Secretary of War, (now Vice President of the United States,) negotiated the last treaty with the Cherokees, and affixed his signature to it. In this treaty, as in every preceding one, the Cherokees are admitted to be a nation, and there is not a word in any of these solemn instruments, which has the most distant implication of the contrary. If the United States are not bound in this case, how is ifpossible that a party should ever be bound by its own admissions? The truth is, that if our country were bound to France, or England, by any stipulation, however mortifying to our pride, or disadvantageous to our interest, and the meaning of the obnoxious clause were supported by one fiftieth part of the evidence by which it can be proved that the United States have recognized the national character of the Cherokees, no lawyer, civilian, or politician even, would risk his reputation, by attempting to dispute or evade the meaning. We should be obliged to submit to inconveniences resulting from our own stipulations, till we could remove them by subsequent negotiations. If we have been overreached by the Cherokees in so many successive treaties if they have had the adroitness to get from us repeated acknowledgments of their possessing a character and rights, which they did not possess if General Washington, and a long line of distinguished statesmen, have made incautious admissions; and if, in this way, we have made a bargain which bears hard upon ourselves—still, our hands and seals testify against us. We must be more cautious the next time. He that sweareth to bis own hurt, and changeth not,” is declared in Holy Writ to give one proof that he is an upright man, and will receive the aprobation of God. In a word, if Washington and Knox, Hamilton and Jefferson, compromised the inte rests of this-country, by indiscreet and thoughtless stipulations, wi must gain wisdom by experience, and appoint more faithful and mori considerate public agents hereafter.

Having) inquired into the meaning of the title and preamble of thi treaty of Holston, let me now, direct the attention of the, reader to it provisions:	.	>	j

Art. 1. There sfiali be perpetual peace and friendship between alt the citizen: of thet United States of America, and all the individuals composing tile whole Chero

kee nation of Indians.”	.

If the f‘ peace and friendship” were, to be, perpetual,” the futuri continuance of the Cherokee nation of Indians’-’ for an indefinitt period, was taken to be a matter beyond all question., It appears frotr this article, as well as from the preamble, that Indians” may constitute a nation.” The word tribe, when used to denote a community living. under its own laws, is of equal force, with the word nation and in this sense it is to be taken, wherever it occurs in the course of nij remarks. But the Cherokee nation had been divided, from time immemorial, into seven elansj sometimes called tribes, and the Choctaw nation into two sjach tribes. This fact occasioned some of the peculiar phraseology in the treaty of Hopewell. As the seven clans, ot tribes, of the Cherokees were united under one government, they were all comprehended under the phrase of the whole Cherokee, nation oj Indians and the word tribe is not found in the treaty of Holston. The word nation is applied to the Cherokees, in this single instrument, no less than twenty-seven times and always in its large and proper sense.

Art. 2. The un dersigred chiefs and warriors, for themselves and all parts of the Cherokee nation, do acknowledge themselves and thesaid Cherokee nation, to be under the protection of the United States of America, and of no other sovereign whatsoever and they also stipulate; that-the said Cherokee nation will not hold any treaty with any foreign power, individual State, or with individuals of any State.”

I remarked upon the treaty of Hopewell, that it has always been a common thing for weak states to rely upon the protection of stronger ones. When a weak state acknowledges a superior, it is bound in good faith to act in accordance with that acknowledgment; but it is, in all other respects, independent of the superior, In other words, it retains all the rights, which it has not surrendered. This is the dictate of common sense, and is decisively stated by Vattel.

What is to be understood by the Cherokees being under the protection of the United States, will very fully appear in the course of this investigation. In the very article just quoted, the Cherokees bind themselves not to hold any treaty “with any foreign power-,” nor with any “individual State.” This was a very material relinquishment of their natural rights but it was. supposed to be counterbalanced by various advantages secured to them by the treaty, particularly by the solemn guaranty in the seventh article, which will be considered in its order.

It is now contended by the politicians of Georgia, that the United States had no power to make treaties with Indians “living,” as they express it, within the limits of a sovereign and independent State.” Thus, according to the present doctrine, General Washington and his advisers made a solemn compact, which they called a treaty, with certain Indians, whom they called the Cherokee nation. In this compact, the United States bound the Uherokees not to treat with Georgia. Forty years have elapsed without any complaint on the part of Georgia, in regard to this exercise of the treaty-making power; but it is now found that the Cherokees are tenants at will of Georgia that Georgia is theonly community on earth that could treat with the Cherokees; and that they must now be delivered over to her discretion. The United States then, at the very commencement of our federal government, bound the' ChetokCes hand and foot, and have held them bound nearly forty years, and have thus prevented their making terms with Georgia, which might doubtless have been easily done at the time of the treaty of Holston. Now it is discovered, forsooth, that the United States, had no poicer to bind them at all.

If such an interpretation is to be endured by an enlightened people in the nineteenth century, and if, in consequence of it, the Cherokees are to be delivered over, bound and manacled if this is to be done in the face of day, and before the eyes of all mankind, it must be expected that shouts and hisses of shame and opprobrium will be heard in every part of the civilized world. Pettifogging is’no very honorable business, when practised in a twenty shilling court; but what sort of pettifogging would this' be The Cherokees have fully and honorably fulfilledtheir engagements. They have sold us, at a moderate price, three quarters, of their country, comprising all the best parts of it. They have submitted to a qualified dependence. They have abstained from ‘holding any treaty with any foreign power, or individual State.’ And now, when the United States; are called upon to fulfil their part of the contract, and defend the Cherokees from Georgia, it is gravely proposed to say to these oppressed Indians, “We have no power to defend you. It is true we promised to do it; and you confided in our promise; and, in that confidence, made valuable concessions to us. But, really, we never Fad the power to make such a promise.”

Has fraud of this barefaced and most disgraceful character been perpetrated in the sanctuary of our dignified Senate, and by means of solemn treaties ratified in mockery? the effect of which is to dispossess a “nation” of its hereditary lands and government, and to drive the individuals of which it was composed, (who are called in the preamble already cited, “the citizens and members, thereof—to drive away these “citizens” as outcasts and vagabonds?

But such an interpretation, so insulting to, the Cherokees and to the common sense of mankind, and so cruel in its operation, cannot be admitted. Washington was neither a usurper, nor an oppressor nor were Ellsworth and his fellow senators, either novices or cheats.
