INTRODUCTION.
Much has been published already about the West,— the Great West,—the Valley of the Mississippi —but no portion of this immense and interesting region is so much the subject of inquiry, and so particularly excites the attention of the emigrant, as the States of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri and Michigan, with the adjacent territorial regions. All these States have come into existence, as such, with the exception of Ohio, within the last twenty years; and much of the territory, now adorned by the hand of civiliza tion, and spread over with an enter prising, industrious and intelligent people,—the field of public improvements in ca nals and railways,—of colleges, churches, and other institu tions,—was the hunting ground of the aborigines, and the scene of border warfare. These States have been unparal leled in their growth, both in the increase of population and property, and in the advance of intellectual and moral improvement. Such an extent of forest was never before cleared,—such a vast field of prairie was never before sub dued and cultivated by the hand of man, in the same short period of time. Cities, and towns, and villages, and coun ties, and States, never before rushed into existence and made such giant strides, as upon this field. Who hath heard such a thing? Who hath seen such things? Shall the earth be made to bring forth in one day? or shall a nation be born at onccV*
Isaiah 661 8
Viii INTRODUCTION.
The rapid increase of population will be exhibited in a tabular form, in the following pages, and other parts, show ing that the general improvement of the country, and the development of its physical, intellectual and moral resources have kept pare with the extension of settlements. And such are its admirable facilities for commerce, by its nu merous navigable rivers, and its lines of canals, some of which are finished, and many others commenced or pro jected,—such the richness of its soil and the variety of its productions,—such the genial nature of its climate,—the enterprise of its population, and the influence it must soon wield in directing the destinies of the whole United States, —as to render the Great West an object of the deepest interest to the American patriot. To the philanthropist and Christian, the character and manners, the institutions, lit erature and religion of so wide a portion of our country, whose mighty energies are soon to exert a controlling in fluence over the character of the whole nation, and in some measure of the world,—are not less matters of mo mentous concern. The West is a young empire of mind, and power, and wealth, and free institutions, rushing up to a giant manhood with a rapidity and power never before witnessed below the sun. And if she carries with her the elements of her preservation, the experiment will be glorious,—the joy of the nation,—the joy of the whole earth, as she rise3 in the majesty of her intelligence, and benevolence, and enterprise, for the emancipation of the world."* Amongst the causes that have awakened the attention of the community in the Atlantic States to this great Valley, and excited the desires of multitudes to remove hither, may be reckoned the efforts of the liberal and benevolent to aid the West in the immediate supply of her population with the Bible, with Sunday schools, with religious tracts, with the gospel ministry, and to lay the foundation for colleges and other literary institutions. Hundreds of families, who might otherwise have remained in the crowded cities and densely populated neighborhoods of their ancestors, have
Beecher.
INTRODUCTION. i t
had their attention directed to these States as a permanent borne. And thousands more, of virtuous and industrious families, would follow, and fix their future residence on our praiiies, and in our western forests, cultivate our wild lands, aid in building up our towns and cities, and diffuse a healthful, moral and intellectual influence through the mass of our present population, could they feel assured that they can reach some portion of the Western Valley without great risk and expense, provide for their families comfortably, and not be swept off by sickness, or over whelmed by suffering beyond what is incident to any new country. The author s first book, A Guide for Emigrants,' &c., was written in the winter and spring of 1831, to an swer the pressing call then made for information of these Western States, but more especially that of Illinois;—but many of its particulars, as to the character and usages of the people, manners and customs, modes of erecting build ings, general characteristics and qualities of soil, produc tions, &c, were applicable to the West generally. Since that period, brief as it has been, wide and rapid changes have been made, population has rapidly augment ed, beyond that of any former period of the same extent; millions of acres of the public domain, then wild and hardly explored, have been brought into market; settlements and counties have been formed, and populous town3 have sprung up, where, at that time, the Indian and wild beast had possession; facilities for intercommunication have been greatly extended, and distant places have been brought comparatively near; the desire to emigrate to the West has increased, and every body in the Atlantic States has become interested, and inquires about the great Valley. That re spectable place, so much the theme of declamation and in quiry abroad, the Far West," has gone from this region towards the setting sun. Its exact locality has not yet been settled, but probably it may soon be found along the' Gulf of California, or near Nootka Sound. And, ifdistance to be measured by time and the facility of intercourse, we are now several hundred miles nearer the Atlantic coast than twenty years since. Ten years more, and the facilities
X INTRODUCTION.
of railways and improved machinery will place the Mis sissippi within seven days' travel of Boston, six days of Washington city, and five days of Charleston, S. C. To give a brief, and yet correct account of a portion of this great Valley, its resources, the manners and customs of its inhabitants, its political subdivisions, cities, commercial and other important towns, colleges and other literary in stitutions, religious condition, public lands, qualities of soil and general features of each State and Territory named in the title page, together with such information as may form a kind of manual for the emigrant and man of business, or which may aid him on his journey hither, and enable him to surmount, successfully, the difficulties of a new country, is the object of this new work. In accomplishing this task the author has aimed at correctness and brevity. To con dense the particular kind of information called for by the public mind, in a small space, has been no easy task. Nor has it been a small matter to collect from so wide a range as five large States, and two extenive Territories, with other large districts, the facts and statistical information often found in the compass of less than a page. It is an easy task to a belles-lettres scholar, sitting at his desk, in an easy chair, and by a pleasant fire, to write Histories," and Geographies," and Sketches," and "Recollections," and "Views," and "Tours," of the Western Valley,—but it is quite another concern to ex plore these regions, examine public documents, reconcile contradictory statements, correspond with hundreds of per sons in public and private life, read all the histories, geog raphies, tours, sketches and recollections, that have been published, and correct their numerous errors,—then col late, arrange, digest, and condense the facts of the country. Those who have read his former Guide for Emigrants," will find upon perusal, that this is radically a new work— rather than a new edition. Its whole plan is changed; and though some whole pages of the former work are retained, and many of its facts and particulars given in a more con densed form much of that work being before the public in other forms, he has been directed, both by his own judg ment, and the solicitude of the public mind in the Atlantic States, to give to the work its present form and features.
INTRODUCTION. xi
There are three classes of persons in particular, who may derive advantage from this Guide. 1. All those who intend to remove to the States and Territories described. Such persons, whether citizens of the Atlantic States, or natives of Europe, will find in this small volume much of that species of information for which they are solicitous. It has been a primary object of the author throughout this work, to furnish the outline of facts necessary for this class. He is aware also, that much in detail will be desired and eagerly sought after, which the portable and limited size of this little work could not contain but such information may be found in the larger works of Hall, Flint, Darby, School craft, Long, and other authors and travelers. Those who desire more specific and detailed descriptions ofIllinois, will be satisfied, probably, with the author s Gazetteer of that State, published in 1834, and which can be had on application to the author, or to the publishers of this work. 2. This Guide is also designed for those, who, for either pleasure, health or business, intend to travel through the Western States. Such are now the facilities of intercom munication between the Eastern and Western States, and to most points in the Valley of the Mississippi, that thousands are visiting some portions of this interesting region every month. Some knowledge of the routes that lead to differ ent parts of this Valley, the lines of steam-boats and stages, cities, towns, public institutions, manners and customs of the people, &c., is certainly desirable to all who travel. Such persons may expect a correct, and it is hoped a pleas ant Guide in this book. 3. There is a numerous class of persona in the Atlantic
States, who desire to know more about the Great West, and to have a book for reference, who do not expect to emigrate here. Many are deeply interested in its moral welfare. They have cheerfully contributed to establish and build up its literary and religious institutions, and yet from want of access to those facts which exist amongst us, their information is but partial and limited. The author, in his travels in the Allantic States, has met with many persons, who, though well informed on other subjects, are
INTRODUCTION.
surprisingly ignorant of the actual condition, resources, so ciety, manners of the people, and even the geography of these States and Territories. The author is aware of the difficulty of conveying entirely correct ideas of this region, to a person who has never traveled heyond the borders of his native State. The laws and habits of associating ideas in the human mind forbid it. The chief source of information for those States that lie on the Mississippi, has been the personal observation of the author,—having explored most of the settlements in Mis souri and Illinois, and a portion of Indiana and Ohio,— having spent more than eighteen years here, and seen the two former States, from an incipient Territorial form of government, and a few scattered and detached settlements, arise to their present state of improvement, population, wealth and national importance. His next source of in formation has been from personal acquaintance and corres pondence with many intelligent citizens of the States and Territories he describes. Reference has also been had to the works of Hall, Flint, Darby, Breckenridge, Beck, Long, Schoolcraft, Lewis and Clarke, Mitchell s and Tanner s Maps, Farmer s Map of Michigan, Turnbull s Map of Ohio, Ohio Gazetteer, Indiana Gazetteer, Dr. Drake s writings, MToy s Annual Register of Indian Affairs, Ellicott s Sur veys, and several periodicals. J. M. P.
Rock Spring, Illinois, January, 1886.
ADVERTISEMENT
FOR THE SECOND EDITION.
The Author has reviewed this work, corrected typo
graphical and verbal errors, that unavoidably crept into
the first edition, without opportunity to examine and
correct the proof sheets; but has not found occasion to
make any essential alterations.
J. M. P.
Rock Spring, Illinois, January 1, 1837.

GUIDE TO EMIGRANTS.
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL VIEW OF THE VALLEY OF THE MISSISSIPPI.
Its Extent—Subdivisions—Population—Physical Features —Rivers.
The Valley of the Mississippi, in its proper
geographical extent, embraces all that portion
of the United States, lying between the Alleg
hany and Rocky Mountains, the waters of
which are discharged into the gulf of Mexico,
through the mouths of the Mississippi. I have
embraced, however, under that general term,
a portion of the country bordering on the
northern lakes, including the north part of
Ohio, the north-eastern portions of Indiana
and Illinois, the whole of Michigan, with a
considerable territorial district on the west
side of lake Michigan, and around lake Su
perior.
Extent. This great Valley is one of the
16 peck s guide.
largest divisions of the globe, the waters oi
which pass one estuary.
To suppose the United States and its terri
tory to be divided into three portions, the ar
rangement would be, the Atlantic slope,—the
Mississippi basin, or valley, —and the Pacific
slope.
A glance on any map of North America,
will show that this Valley includes about two
thirds of the territory of the United States.
The Atlantic slope contains about 390 000;
the Pacific slope, about 300 000; which, com
bined, are 690 000 square miles; while the
Valley of the Mississippi contains, at least,
1 300,000 square miles, or 833 000,000 acres.
This Valley extends from the 29° to the 49°
of north latitude, or about 1400 miles from south
to north; and from the 3° to the 35° of longi
tude west from Washington, or about 1470
miles from east to west. From the source of
the Alleghany river to the sources of the
Missouri, following the meanderings of the
streams, is not less than 5000 miles.
Subdivisions. The States and Territories
included, are a small section of New York,
watered by the heads of the Alleghany river,
Western Pennsylvania, Western Virginia,
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Michigan,
Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi, Louisiana,
Arkansas, Indian Territory, the vast unsettled
regions lying to the west and north of this
Territory, the Wisconsin Territory, including
an extensive country west of the Mississip
pi, and north of the State of Missouri, with
GENERAL VIEW. 17
the vast regions that lie towards the heads
of the Mississippi, and around lake Superior.*
Population. Probably, there is no portion
of the globe, of equal extent, that contains as
much of soil fit for cultivation, and which is
capable of sustaining and supplying with all
the necessaries and conveniences, and most
of the luxuries of life, so dense a population
as this great Valley. Deducting one third of
its surface, for water and desert, which is a
very liberal allowance, and there remains
866 667 square miles, or 554 666,880 acres
of arable land.
The following table, gives a comparative
view of the population of the Valley of the
Mississippi, and shows the proportional in
crease of the several States, parts of States,
and Territories, from 1790 to the close of
1835, a period of forty-five years. The col
umn for 1835, is made up, partly, from the
census, taken in several States and Territo
ries, and partly by estimation. It is sufficient
ly accurate, for general purposes:
Why the names, Huron, Mandan, Sioux, Osage, and Ozark have been applied by Darby, and other authors, to the extensive regions on the Upper Mississippi, the Upper Missouri, and the Arkansas rivers, I am not able to solve. Os ige is a French corruption of Wos-tosh-e, and Ozark is an awkward, illiterate corruption of Au Kauzau. Sioux is another French corruption, the origin of which is not now easily ascertained. Carver, and other travellers, call this nation of Indians, Nau-do-wes-sees. Chiefs of this nation have repeatedly disclaimed the name of Sioux (pro nounced Soos) They sometimes call themselves I)a-co-tah.
2
oa M 5 o w a
siimiiququi OOO OI inoqs auimuug mou gggj ulsg 'sump
ul M««S O ll P3P33 s-m 'finomjm jo ajuig ai|j jo quou pu-) 'iddiisrssij^ eqj jo )sa.« Xjjunoo oqj,
"0C8I J° ensuoo aqi ui 'uBSiqaipj qjiM popnpuj *p
•TjmnqB(V 3uip[l|3UJ 3SBSUBqiy Suipnjauj fl
•unSiqDij^ puB 6;oul[[j 'BUB-puj 3uipD[3U{
0S0 s.S S 00»'tS0 sltn'0sg s|8I88H''llItfr S00 |00S 0Es
ss*s.
0'
ss OiS
0s*s0
OOO SSAits'Otiss 00
0s OIS
Lst sLs
s0*s0
ooo eis'ooo osz
000*0 P
0s0*s.
S00 m
:00 0SI
38 *00
*f0 080
0s*00
uo on
SiS iSls8S'Il S
I 0i0*A00
0s 00* 0s*s00S88I
068(
slz hAO^'SfilSft 0L
000 sSl'
s. 0
002*00
2 GS
s 8
,'i,
02X 20s*s0K
0SS 0i
z,',LsL'.tlfi 0?'sOL f
2* s2 q
s-*SIss0 fss0A*0Ss
0s*s0
ss*s*8
sS 0 3s00 S,
0fi0 0SK
ss*S*»ss fiiss*s 0
I00 SS
2A0*S2
ss*£*OOO Si
PUB
*P«°X
'XiOjurax uieaoosi^v,
si^m:>|j\,"'Busieinoq 'iddiSBiesin
o.-sauu;<x
'jfojonjufljl
'aBSiqaijq
'uaossipj
sionifix eaBipnj
oiqo
'BiniSjtjV uiajsa^Y
i 'y\io& Majij jo aoiioEjj b
pus 'BiuBAijfsnnaj umynfa
13 0, P"" JQ si-iBd '»ei»ig
GENERAL VIEW. lit
Let this Valley become as populous as Mas
sachusetts, which contains 6 10 0 1 4 inhabitants,
on an area of 7800 square miles, or seventy
eight to every 640 acres, and the population of
this immense region will amount to 67 600,000.
The child is now born which will live to see
this result. Suppose its population to become
equally dense with England, including Wales,
which contains 207 to the square mile, and its
numbers will amount to 179 400,000. But let
it become equal to the Netherlands, the most
populous country on the globe, containing 230
to the square mile, and the Valley of the Mis
sissippi teems with a population of two hun
dred millions,—a result which may be had in
the same time that New England has been
gathering its two millions. What reflections
ought this view to present to the patriot, the
philanthropist, and the Christian!
Physical Features. The physical features
of this Valley are peculiar.
1. It includes two great inclined planes,
one on its eastern, and the other on its west
ern border, terminating with the Mississippi.
2. This river receives all the waters pro
duced on these slopes, which are discharged
by its mouths into the gulf of Mexico.
3. Every part of this vast region can be
penetrated by steam-boats, or other water
craft nor is there a spot in all this wide re
gion, excepting a small district in the vast
plains of Upper Missouri, that is more than
one hundred miles from some navigable water.
20 peck s guide.
A boat may take in its lading on the banks of
the Chatauque lake in the State of New York
another may receive its cargo in the interior
of Virginia; a third may start from the rice
lakes, at the head of the Mississippi; and a
fourth may come, laden with furs, from the
Chippewan mountains, 2800 miles up the
Missouri, and all meet at the mouth of the
Ohio, and proceed in company to the ocean.
4. With the exception of its eastern and
western borders, there are no mountains.
Some portions are level a large part is gently
undulating, or what in the West is called
"rolling;" and the remainder is made up of
abrupt hills, flint and limestone ridges, bluffs
and ravines.
5. It is divided into two great portions,—the
Upper and Lower Valley, according to its
general features, climate, staple productions,
and habits of its population. The parallel of
latitude that cuts the mouth of the Ohio river,
will designate these portions with sufficient
accuracy.
North of this line, the seasons are regularly
divided into spring, summer, autumn, and
winter. In the winter there is usually more
or less snow: ice forms, and frequently blocks
up the rivers, and navigation is obstructed.
Cotton is not produced in sufficient quantity
or quality to make it a staple for exportation.
It is the region of furs, minerals, tobacco,
hemp, live stock, and every description of
grain and fruit that grows in New England.
GENERAL VIEW. 21
Its white population are mostly accustomed
to labor.
South of this line, cotton, tobacco, indigo,
and sugar, are staples. It has little winter;
snow seldom covers the earth; ice never ob
structs the rivers; and most of the labor is
done by slaves.
Rivers. The rivers are the Mississippi and
its tributaries; or, more correctly, the Mis
souri, and its tributaries. If we except the
Amazon, no river can compare with this,
for length of its course, the number and ex
tent of its tributaries, the vast country they
drain, and their capabilities for navigation.
Its tributaries generally issue either from the
eastern or western mountains, and flow over
this immense region, diffusing not only fertili
ty to the soil, but affording facilities for com
merce a great part of the year.
The Missouri is unquestionably the main
stream, for it is not only longer, and dis
charges a larger volume of water, than
the Mississippi, above its mouth, but it has
branches, which, for the extent of country
they drain, their length, and the volume of
water they discharge, far exceed the Upper
Mississippi.
The characteristics of these two rivers are
each distinctly marked. The Missouri is tur
hid, violent in its motions, changing its cur
rents; its navigation is interrupted, or made
difficult, by snags, sawyers, and planters; and
it has many islands and sand-bars. Such is
peck s guide.
the character of the Mississippi, below the
mouth of the Missouri. But above its mouth,
its waters are clear, its current gentle, while
it is comparatively free from snags and sand
bars.
The Missouri, which we have shown to be
the principal stream, rises in the Chippewan,
or Rocky mountains, in latitude 44° north,
and longitude about 35° west from Washing
ton city. It runs a north-east course, till after
it receives the Yellow Stone, when it reaches
past the 48th degree of latitude thence
an east, then a south, and, finally, a south
eastern course, until it meets the current of
the Mississippi, twenty miles above St. Louis,
and in latitude 38° 45' north. Besides nu
merous smaller streams, the Missouri receives
the Yellow Stone and Platte, which of them
selves, in any other part of the world, would
be called large rivers, together with the
Sioux, Kausau, Grand, Chariton, Osage, and
Gasconade, all large and navigable rivers.
Its length, uponan entire comparative
course, is 1870 miles, and, upon a particular
course, about 3000 miles. Lewis and Clark
make the distance from the Mississippi to the
great falls, 2530 miles.
There are several things in some respects
peculiar to this river, which deserve notice:
1. Its current is very rapid, usually at the
rate of four or five miles an hour, when at its
height and it requires a strong wind to pro
pel a boat, with a sail, against it. Steam over
GENERAL VIEW. 23
comes its force, for boats ply regularly from
St. Louis to the towns and landings on its
banks, within the borders of the State, and
return with the produce of the country. Small
steam-boats have gone to the Yellow Stone
for furs.
Owing to the shifting of its current, and its
snags and sand-bars, its navigation is less safe
and pleasant than any other western river, but
these difficulties are every year lessened by
genius and enterprise.
2. Its water is always turbid, being of a
muddy ash color, though more so at its peri
odical rise than at other times. This is caused
by extremely fine sand, received from the
neighborhood of the Yellow Stone. During
the summer flood, a tumbler of water taken
from the Missouri, and precipitated, will pro
duce about one fourth of its bulk in sediment.
This sediment does not prevent its habitual
use by hundreds who live on its banks, or
move in boats over its surface. Some filtrate
it, but many more drink it, and use it for
culinary purposes, in its natural state.
When entirely filtrated, it is the most lim
pid and agreeable river water I ever saw.
Its specific gravity is then about equal to
rain water; but, in its turbid state, it is much
heavier than ordinary river water; for a boat
will draw three or four inches less in it than
in other rivers, with the same lading; and the
human body will swim in it with but very little
effort.
24 peck s guide.
It possesses some medicinal properties.
Placed in an open vessel, and exposed to the
summer s sun, it remains pare for weeks.
Eruptions on the skin and ulcerous sores are
cured by wading or frequent bathings; and
it commonly produces slight cathartic effects
upon strangers, upon its first use.
The width of the Missouri river, at St.
Charles, is 550 yards. Its alluvial banks,
however, are insecure, and are not unfre
quently washed away, for many yards, at its
annual floods. The bed of its channel is also
precarious, and is elevated, or depressed, by
the deposition or removal of its sandy founda
tion. Hence, the elevation or depression of
the surface of this river affords no criterion
of its depth, or of the volume of water it dis
charges at any one period.
Undulatory motions, like the boiling of a
pot, are frequently seen on its surface, caused
by the shifting of the sand that forms its bed.
The volume of water it ordinarily discharges
into the Mississippi, is vastly disproportionate
to its length, or the number and size of its
tributaries. I have seen less than six feet
depth of water at St. Charles, at a low stage,
and it was once forded by a soldier, at Belle
Fontaine, four miles above its junction with
the Mississippi.
Evaporation takes up large quantities, but
absorption, throughout the porous soil of its
wide bottoms, consumes much more. In all
the wells dug in the bottom lands of the Mis
GENERAL VIEW. 25
souri, water is always found at the depth of
the surface of the river, and invariably rises
or sinks with the floods and ebbings of the
stream. Sand frequently enters these wells
as the river rises.
Its periodical floods deserve notice. Ordi
narily, this river has three periods of rising
and falling, each year. The first rise is
caused by the breaking up of winter on the
Gasconade, Osage, Kausau, Chariton, Grand,
and other branches of the Lower Missouri, and
occurs the latter part of February, or early
in March. Its second rise is usually in April,
when the Platte, Yellow Stone, and other
streams pour into it their spring floods. But
the flood, that more usually attracts attention,
takes place from the 10th to the 25th of June,
when the melting snows on the Chippewan
mountains pour their contents into the Mis
souri. This flood is scarcely ever less than
live, nor more than twenty feet, at St. Louis,
above the ordinary height of the river. On
two occasions, however, since the country
was known to the French, it has risen to
that height in the Mississippi, as to flow over
the American bottom, in Illinois, and drive
the inhabitants of Cahokia and Kaskaskia
from their villages to the bluffs. Rain, in
greater or less quantities, usually falls during
the rise of the river, and ceases when the
waters subside. So uniform is this the case
IB Upper Missouri, the region beyond the
boundary of the State, that the seasons are
divided into wet and dry.
26 peck s guide.
Pumice stone, and other volcanic produc
tions, occasionally float down its waters.
Mississippi River. The extreme head of
the longest branch of the Mississippi river
has been found in lake Itaska, or Lac la
Biche, by Mr. Schoolcraft, who states it to
be elevated 1500 feet above the Atlantic
ocean, and distant 3160 miles from the ex
treme outlet of the river, at the gulf of Mexico.
The outlet of Itaska lake, which is connected
with a string of small lakes, is ten or twelve
feet broad, and twelve or fifteen inches deep.
This is in latitude about 48° north. From
this, it passes Cedar, and several smaller
lakes, and runs a winding course, 700 miles,
to the falls of St. Anthony, where its waters
are precipitated over a cataract of sixteen or
seventeen feet, perpendicular. It then con
tinues a south-eastern course, to the Missouri,
in latitude 38° 38' north, receiving the St.
Croix, Chippewa, Wisconsin, Rock, and Il
linois rivers, with many smaller streams from
the east, and the St. Peter s Iowa, Des Moines
and Salt rivers, besides a number of smaller
ones from the west. The current of the Mis
souri strikes that of the Mississippi, at right
angles, and throws it upon the eastern shore.
When at a low stage, the waters of the tv/o
rivers are distinct till they pass St. Louis.
The principal branch of the Upper Missis
sippi is the St. Peter s, which rises in the
great prairies in the north-west, and enters
the parent stream ten miles below the fulls of
GENERAL VIEW. 1 27
r
St. Anthony. Towards the sources of this
river the quarries exist from which are made
the red stone pipes of the Indians. This is
sacred ground: hostile tribes meet here, and
part unmolested.
Rock river drains the waters from the north
ern part of Illinois and Wisconsin, and enters
the parent stream, at latitude 41° 30* north.
In latitude 39° comes in the Illinois (signify
ing the River of Men and, eighteen miles
below this, it unites with, and is lost in the
Missouri.
Custom has fixed, unalterably, the name
Mississippi to this united body of waters, that
rolls its turbid waves towards the Mexican
gulf; though, as has been intimated, it is but
a continuation of the Missouri.
Sixty miles below St. Louis, the Kaskaskia
joins it, after a devious course of 400 miles.
In latitude 37° north, the Ohio pours in its
tribute (called by the early French explorers,
La Belle Riviere,"—the beautiful river). A
little below 34° the White river enters, after
a course of more than 1000 miles. Thirty
miles below that, the Arkansas, bringing its
tribute from the confines of Mexico, pours in
its waters. Above Natchez, the Yazoo, from
the east, and, eighty miles below, the Red
river, from the west, unite their waters with
the Mississippi. Red river takes its rise in
the Mexican dominions, and runs a course of
more than 2000 miles.
Hitherto, the waters in the wide regions
28 peck s guide.
of the West have been congregating to one
point. The Father of Waters is now up
wards of a mile in width, and several fathoms
deep. During its annual floods, it overflows
its banks, below the mouth of the Ohio, and
penetrates the numerous bayous, lakes and
swamps, and especially on Ma western side.
In many places, these floods extend thirty or
forty miles into the interior. But after it re
ceives the Red river, it begins to throw off its
surplus waters, which flow in separate chan
nels to the gulf, and never again unite with
the parent stream. Several of these commu
nications are held with the ocean, at different
and distant points.
Ohio River. The Ohio river is formed by
the junction of the Alleghany and Mononga
hela, at Pittsburgh. The Alleghany river
rises not far from the head of the western
branch of the Susquehannah, in the highlands
of McKean county, Pennsylvania. It runs
north, till it penetrates Cataraugus county,
New York; then turns west, then south-west,
and finally takes a southern course, to Pitts
burgh. It receives a branch from the Cha
tauque lake, Chatauque county, New York.
The Monongahela rises near the sources of
the Kenawha, in Western Virginia, and runs
north till it meets the Alleghany.
The general course of the Ohio is south
west. Its current is gentle, and it receives a
number of tributaries, which ane noticed in
the States where they run.
GENERAL VIEW. 29
The Valley of the Mississippi has been ar
ranged, by Mr. Darby, into four great subdi
visions
1. The Ohio Valley,—length, 750 miles, and
mean width, 261; containing 196 000 square
miles.
2. Mississippi Valley, above Ohio, includ
ing the minor valley of Illinois, but exclusive
of Missouri, 650 miles long, and 277 mean
width, and containing 180 000 square miles.
3. Lower Valley of the Mississippi, includ
ing White, Arkansas, and Red river valleys,
1000 miles long, and 200 wide, containing
200 000 square miles.
4. Missouri Proper, including Osage, Kau
sau, Platte rivers, &c, 1200" miles long, and
437 wide, containing 523 000 square miles.
The Valley of the Ohio is better known
than any of the others; has much fertile land,
and much that is sterile, or unfit for cultiva
tion, on account of its unevenness. It is di
vided into two unequal portions, by the Ohio
river; leaving on the right, or north-west side,
80 000, and on the left, or south-east side,
116 000 square miles. The eastern part of
this valley is hilly, and rapidly acclivous to
wards the Appalachian mountains. Indeed, its
high hills, as you approach these mountains,
are of a strongly marked mountainous char
acter. Of course, the rivers which flow into
the Ohio,—the Monongahela, Kenawha, Lick
ing, Sandy, Kentucky, Green, Cumberland
and Tennessee,—are rapid, and abounding
30 peck s guide.
in cataracts and falls, which, towards their
sources, greatly impede navigation. The
western side of this Valley is also hilly, for
a considerable distance from the Ohio, but,
towards its western limit, it subsides to a
remarkably level region; so that, whilst the
eastern line of this Valley lies along the high
table land, on which the Appalachian moun
tains rest, and where the rivers of the eastern
section of this Valley rise (which is at least
2000 miles, generally, above the ocean level),
the western line has not an elevation of much
more than half ofthat amount on the north, and
which greatly subsides towards the Kaskaskia.
The rivers of the western section are Beaver,
Muskingum, Hockhocking, Scioto, Miama,
and Wabash. Along the Ohio, on each side,
are high hills, often intersected with deep ra
vines, and sometimes openings of considerable
extent, and well known Joy the appellation of
'Ohio Hills.' Towards the mouth of the
Ohio, these hills almost wholly disappear,
and extensive level bottoms, covered with
heavy forests of oak, sycamore, elm, poplar
and cotton-wood, stretch along each side of
the river. On the lower section of the river,
the water, at the time of the spring floods,
often overflows these bottoms to a great ex
tent. This fine Valley embraces considerably
more than one half of the whole population of
the entire Valley of the West. The western
parts of Pennsylvania and Virginia, the entire
States of Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky, the
GENERAL VIEW. 31
larger part of Tennessee, and a smaller part
of Illinois, are in the Valley of the Ohio."
The Upper Valley of the Mississippi pos
sesses a surface far less diversified than the
Valley of the Ohio. The country, where its
most northern branches take their rise, is
elevated table land, abounding with marshes
and lakes, that are filled with a graniferous
vegetable, called wild rice. It is a slim,
shriveled grain, of a brownish hue, and
gathered by the Indians, in large quantities,
for food. There are tracts of arable land,
covered with elm, linden, pine, hemlock,
cherry, maple, birch, and other timber com
mon to a northern climate. From the same
plateau flow the numerous branches of Red
river, and other streams that flow into lake
Winnipec, and thence into Hudson s bay.
Here, too, are found some of the head
branches of the waters of St. Lawrence, that
enter the Lake of the Woods and Superior.
In the whole country of which we are speak
ing, there is nothing that deserves the name
of mountain. Below the falls of St. Anthony
the river bluffs are often abrupt, wild and
romantic; and at their base and along the
streams are thousands of quartz crystals, cor
nelians, and other precious stones.
But a short distance in the rear, you en
ter upon table land of extensive prairies,
with clumps of trees, and groves, along the
streams. Further down, abrupt cliffs, and
overhanging precipices, are frequently seen
at the termination of the river alluvion.
32 peck s guide.
The whole country north-west of the Ohio,
and east of the Mississippi, as far north as the
falls of St. Anthony, exhibit striking marks of
a diluvial formation, by a gradual retiring of
the waters. From the summit level that di
vides the waters of the lakes from those of
the Mississippi, through Ohio, Indiana, Illi
nois, and Wisconsin, which is scarcely a per
ceptible ridge, to the south point of Illinois,
at the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi,
appears to have once been a plane, with an
inclination equal to twelve or fifteen inches
per mile. The ravines and valleys appear to
have been gradually scooped out by the abra
sion of the waters.
The Loiver Mississippi Valley has a
length of 1200 miles, from north-west to
south-east, considering the source of the Ar
kansas and the mouth of the Mississippi river
as extreme points; reaching from latitude 29°
to 42° north, and, without estimating moun
tains, ridges or peaks, differs in relative ele
vation at least 500 feet.
The Arkansas river rises near latitude 42°
north, and longitude 32° west from Washing
ton, and falls into the Mississippi at 33° 56',
passing over eight degrees of latitude.
Red river rises in the mountainous coun
try of Mexico, north of Texas, in latiude 34°
north, and longitude 29° west from Washing
ton, and falls into the Mississippi in latitude
31°. They are both remarkable rivers, for
their extent, the number of their branches,
GENERAL VIEW. 33
the volume of their waters, the quantity of al
luvion they carry down to the parent stream,
and the color of their waters. Impregnated
by saline particles, and colored with ocherous
earth, the waters of these two rivers are at
once brackish and nauseous to the taste, par
ticularly near their mouths: that of Red river
is so much so at Natchitoches, at low water,
that it cannot be used for culinary purposes.
"At a short distance below the mouth of
the Red river, a large bayou (as it is called),
or outlet, breaks from the Mississippi, on the
west; by which, it is believed, as large a
volume of water as the Red river brings to
the parent river, is drained off, and runs to
the gulf of Mexico, fifty miles from the mouth
of the Mississippi. The name of this bayou
is Atchafalaya, or, as it is commonly called,
Chaffalio. Below this bayou, another of large
dimensions breaks forth on the same side, and
finally falls into the Atchafalaya. This is the
Placquemine. Still lower, at Donaldsonville,
ninety miles above New Orleans, on the same
side, the Lafourche bayou breaks out, and
pursues a course parallel to the Mississippi,
fifty miles west of the mouth of that river.
On the east side, the Ibberville bayou drains
off a portion of the waters of the Mississippi,
into lakes Maurepas, Ponchartrain, Borgnes,
and the gulf of Mexico, and thus forms the
long and narrow island of Orleans.
In. the Lower Valley of the Mississippi
there is a great extent of land of the very
2*
34 peck s guide.
richest kind. There is also much that is al
most always overflown with waters, and is
a perpetual swamp. There are extensive
prairies in this Valley; and towards the Rocky
mountains, on the upper waters of the Arkan
sas and Red rivers, there are vast barren
steppes, or plains of sand, dreary and barren,
like the central steppes of Asia. On the east
of the Mississippi are extensive regions of
the densest forests, which form a striking
contrast with the prairies which stretch on
the west of that great river.
"The Valley of the Missouri extends 1200
miles in length, and 700 in width, and em
braces 253 000 square miles. The Missouri
river rises in the Chippewan mountains,
through eight degrees, or nearly 600 miles.
The Yellow Stone is its longest branch.
The course of the Missouri, after leaving the
Rocky mountains, is generally south-east, un
til it unites with the Mississippi. The princi
pal branches flow from the south-west. They
are the Osage, Kausau, Platte, &c. The
three most striking features of this Valley
are, 1st. The turbid character of its waters.
2d. The very unequal volumes of the right
and left confluences. 3d. The immense pre
dominance of the open prairies, over the
forests which line the rivers. The western
part of this Valley rises to an elevation to
wards the Chippewan mountains, equal to ten
degrees of temperature. Ascending from the
lower verge of this widely extended plain,
 
GENERAL VIEW. 35
wood becomes more and more scarce, until
one naked surface spreads on all sides. Even
the ridges and chains of the Chippewan par
take of these traits of desolation. The trav
eler, who has read the descriptions of Central
Asia, by Tooke or Pallas, will feel on the
higher branches of the Missouri, a resem
blance, at once striking and appalling; and
he will acknowledge, if near to the Chippe
wan mountains, in winter, that the utmost in
tensity of frost over Siberia and Mongolia
has its full counterpart in North America, on
similar, if not on lower latitudes. There is
much fertile land in the Valley of the Mis
souri, though much of it must be for ever the
abode of the buffalo and the elk, the wolf and
the deer
Darby.
CHAPTER II.
GENERAL VIEW OF THE VALLEY OF THE MISSISSIPPI.
(continued.)
Productions.
Minerals. But few mines exist in the Low
er Valley of the Mississippi. Louisiana being
chiefly alluvion, furnishes only two specimens,
sulphuret of antimony, and meteoric iron ore.
It is supposed that the pine barrens towards
Texas, if explored, would add to the number.
The only minerals in Mississippi are,—ame
thyst, of which one crystal has been found;
potter s clay, at the Chickasaw bluffs, and
near Natchez; sulphuret of lead, in small
quantities, about Port Gibson; and sulphate
of iron. Petrified trunks of trees are found in
the bed of the Mississippi, opposite Natchez.
In Arkansas, are various species. Here may
be found the native magnet, or magnetic
oxide of iron, possessing strong magnetic
power. Iron ores are very abundant. Sul
phate of copper, sulphuret of zinc, alum, and
GENERAL VIEW. 37
aluminous slate are found about the cove of
Washitau and the hot springs. Buhr stone,
of a superior quality, exists in the surrounding
hills. The hot springs are interesting, on ac
count of the minerals around them, the heat
of their waters, and as furnishing a retreat
to valetudinarians from the sickly regions of
the South. They are situated on the Washi
tau, a large stream that empties into Red
river.
The lead mines of Missouri have been
worked for more than a century. They are
distributed through the country, from thirty
to one hundred miles south-west from St.
Louis, and probably extend through the Gas
conade country. Immense quantities of iron
ore exist in this region. Lead is found in
vast quantities, in the northern part of Illinois,
the south part of Wisconsin Territory, and
the country on the west side of the Mississip
pi. These mines are worked extensively.
Native copper, in large quantities, is found
in the same region. Large quantities of iron
ore is found in the mountainous parts of Ten
nessee and Kentucky, where furnaces and
forges have been erected; also, in the hilly
parts of Ohio, particularly at the falls of Lick
ing, four miles west of Zanesville and in
Adams and Lawrence counties, near the Ohio
river. With iron ore the West is profusely
supplied.
Bituminous coal exists, in great profusion,
in various parts of the Western Valley. The
38 peck s guide.
hills, around Pittsburgh, are inexhaustible.
It extends through many portions of Ohio and
Indiana. Nearly every county in Illinois is
supplied with this valuable article. Missouri,
Kentucky, and Tennessee have their share.
Immense quantities are found in the moun
tains along the Kenawha, in Western Vir
ginia, and it is now employed in the manufac
ture of salt. The Cumberland mountains, in
Tennessee, contain immense deposits.
Muriate of soda, or common salt, exists in
most of the States and Territories of this
Valley. Near the sources of the Arkansas,
incrustations are formed by evaporation, dur
ing the dry season, in the depressed' portions
of the immense prairies of that region. The
celebrated salt rock is on the red fork of the
Canadian, a branch of the Arkansas river.
Jefferson lake has its water strongly impreg
nated with salt, and is of a bright red color.
Beds of rock salt are in the mountains of this
region. Several counties of Missouri have
abundant salt springs. Considerable quan
tities of salt are manufactured in Jackson,
Gallatin, and Vermilion counties, Illinois.
Saline springs, and "licks," as they are
called, abound through Kentucky, Tennes
see, Indiana, Ohio, Western Pennsylvania,
and Western Virginia. Salt is manufactured,
in great abundance, at the Kenawha salines,
sixteen miles above Charlestown, Va., and
brought down the Kenawha river, and carried
to all the Western States. Much salt is made
GENERAL VIEW. 39
also on the Kiskiminitas, a branch of the
Alleghany river, at the Yellow creek, above
Steubenville, and in the Scioto country, in
Ohio. The water is frequently obtained by
boring through rock, of different strata, sev
eral hundred feet deep.
Copper, antimony, manganese, and several
other minerals, are found in different parts of
the West, but are not yet worked. JVUratg
of potash is found in great abundance, in the
caverns of Kentucky and Tennessee, also in
Missouri, from which large quantities of salt
petre are manufactured. Sulphate of magnesia
is found in Kentucky, Indiana, and perhaps
other States. Sulphur, and other mineral
springs, are very common in the Western
States.
Vegetable Productions, Trees, (Sfc. Almost
every species of timber and shrub, common
to the Atlantic States, is found in some part
of the Western Valley. The cotton-wood and
sycamore are found along all the rivers below
the 41st deg. of north latitude. The cypress
begins near the mouth ofthe Ohio, and spreads
through the alluvion portions of the Lower
Valley. The magnolia, with its large, beau
tiful flower, grows in Louisiana, and the long
leaf pine flourishes in the uplands of the same
region. The sugar-maple abounds in the
northern and middle portions. The chestnut
is found in the eastern portion of the Valley,
as far as Indiana, but not a tree is known to
exist in a natural state, west of the Wabash
40 peck s guide.
river. Yellow or pitch pine grows in sev
eral counties of Missouri, especially on the
Gasconade, from whence large quantities of
lumber are brought to St. Louis. White
pine, from the Alleghany river, is annually
sent to all the towns on the Ohio, and further
down. Considerable quantities of white pine
grow on the Upper Mississippi, along the
western shore of Michigan, about Green Bay,
and along the shores of lake Superior. The
yellow poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera) is a
majestic tree, valuable for light boards, and
may be found in some parts of most of the
Western States. The beech tree is frequently
found in company. The live-oak, so valuable
in ship-building, is found south of the 31st de
gree, and along the Louisiana coast. The
orange, fig, olive, pine-apple, &c, find a genial
climate about NewOrleans. High in the north,
we have the birch, hemlock, fir, and other
trees peculiar to a cold region. Amongst our
fruit-bearing trees, we may enumerate the
walnut, hickory, or shag-bark, persimmon,
pecaun, mulberry, crab-apple, paupau, wild
plum, and wild cherry. The vine grows
every where. Of the various species of oak,
elm, ash, linden, hackberry, &c, it is un
necessary to speak. Where forests abound,
the trees are tall and majestic. In the prairie
country, the timber is usually found on the
streams, or in detached groves.
In the early settlement of Kentucky, there
were found, south of Green river, large
GENERAL VIEW. 41
tracts, with stunted, scattering trees, inter
mixed with hazel and brushwood. From this
appearance it was inferred that the soil was
of inferior quality, and these tracts were de
nominated "barrens." Subsequently, it was
found that this land was of prime quality.
The term "barrens is now applied, exten
sively, in the West, to the same description
of country. It distinguishes an intermediate
grade, from forest and prairie. A common
error has prevailed abroad, that our prairie
land is wet. Prairie is a French word, sig
nifying meadow, and is applied to any descrip
tion of surface, that is destitute of timber and
brushwood, and clothed with grass. Wet,
dry, level, and undulating, are terms of de
scription, merely, and apply to prairies in
the same sense as they do to forests. The
prairies, in summer, are clothed with grass,
herbage and flowers exhibit a delightful
prospect, and furnish most abundant and
luxuriant pasturage for stock. Much of the
forest land, in the Western Valley produces
a fine range for domestic animals and swine.
Thousands are raised, and the emigrant
grows wealthy, from the bounties of nature,
with but little labor.
Of animals, birds, and reptiles, little need
be said. The buffalo was in Illinois the be
ginning of the present century. They are
not found now, within three hundred miles of
Missouri and Arkansas, and they are fast re
ceding. Deer are found still in all frontier
3
42 peck s guide.
settlements. Wolves, foxes, racoons, wild
cats, opossums and squirrels are plenty.
The brown bear is still hunted in some parts
of the Western States. Col. Crockett was a
famous bear-hunter, in Western Tennessee.
The white bear, mountain sheep, antelope
and beaver, are found in the defiles of the
Rocky mountains. The elk is still found by
the hunter contiguous to newly formed settle
ments. All the domestic animals of the
United States flourish here.
Nearly all the feathered tribe of the Atlan
tic slope are to be found in the Valley. Peli
cans, wild geese, swans, cranes, ducks, paro
quets, wild turkies, prairie hens, &c, are
found in different States, especially on the
Mississippi.
Reptiles. The rattlesnake, copperhead
snake, moccasin snake, bull snake, and the
various snakes usually found in the Atlantic
States, are here. Of the venomous kinds, mul
titudes are destroyed by the deer and swine.
Chameleons and scorpions exist in the Lower
Valley, and lizards, every where. The al
ligator, an unwieldy and bulky animal, is
found in the rivers and lakes south of latitude
34° north. He sometimes destroys calves
and pigs, and, very rarely, even young chil
dren.
History. The honor of the discovery of this
country is disputed by the Spanish, English
and French. It is probable that Sebastian
Cabot sailed along the shores of what was
GENERAL VIEW. 43
r
 
aft afterwards called Florida, but a few years after Columbus discovered America. Span
ish authors claim that Juan Ponce de Leon
discovered and named Florida, in 1512. Nar
vaez, another Spanish commander, having
obtained a grant of Florida, in 1528, landed
four or five hundred men, but was lost by
shipwreck, near the mouth of the Mississippi.
Ferdinand de Soto was probably the first
white man who saw the Mississippi river.
He is said to have marched 1000 men from
Florida, through the Chickasaw country, to
the Mississippi, near the mouth of Red river,
where he took sick and died. His men re
turned. Some writers suppose De Soto trav
elled as far north as Kentucky, or the Ohio
river. This is not probable.
The French were the first to explore and
settle the West, and they held jurisdiction
over the country of Illinois for eighty years,
when it fell into the hands of the British upon
the conquest of Canada. In 1564, Florida was settled by a colony
of Huguenots, under Admiral Coligny, who
were afterwards massacred by the Spaniards,
because they were Protestant heretics!
In 1608, Admiral Champlaine founded Que
bec, from which, French settlements spread
through the Canadas. About 1670, the notion prevailed amongst
the French that visited Canada, that a west
ern passage to the Pacific ocean existed.
the Indians, that far in
44 peck s guide.
the west there was a great river, but of its
course or termination they could learn noth
ing. They supposed that this river com
municated with the Western ocean.
To investigate this question, P. Marquette,
a Jesuit, and Joliet, were appointed by M.
Talon, the Intendant of New France. Mar
quette was well acquainted with the Canadas,
and had great influence with the Indian tribes.
They conducted an expedition through the
lakes, up Green bay and Fox river, to the
Portage, where it approaches the Wisconsin,
to which they passed, and descended that
river to the Mississippi, which they reached
the 17h of June, 1673. They found a river
much larger and deeper than it had been
represented by the Indians. Their regular
journal was lost on their return to Canada; but
from the account afterwards given by Joliet,
they found the natives friendly, and that a tra
dition existed amongst them of the residence of
a "Mon-e-to," or spirit, near the mouth of the
Missouri, which they could not pass. They
turned their course up the Illinois, and were
highly delighted with the placid stream, and
the woodlands and prairies through which it
flowed. They were hospitably received, and
kindly treated, by the Illinois, a numerous
nation of Indians, who were destitute of the
cruelty of savages. The word Illinois," or
Illini," is said by Hennepin, to signify a
"full grown man." This nation appears to
have originally possessed the Illinois country,
 
GENERAL VIEW. 45
and also a portion west of the Mississippi.
The nation was made up of eight tribes;—
the Miamies, Michigamies, Mascotins, Kas
kaskias Kahokias, Peorias, Piankeshaws, and
Tau-mar-waus.
Marquette continued among these Indians,
with a view to christianize them but Joliet
returned to Canada, and reported the discov
eries he had made.
Several years elapsed before any one at
tempted to follow up the discoveries of Mar
quette and Joliet. M. de La Salle, a native
of Normandy, but who had resided many
years in Canada, was the first to extend these
early discoveries. He was a man of intelli
gence, talents, enterprise, and perseverance.
After obtaining the sanction of the king of
France, he set out on his projected expedi
tion in 1678, from Frontenac, with Chevalier
Tonti, his lieutenant, and Father Hennepin, a
Jesuit missionary, and thirty or forty men.
He spent about one year in exploring the
country bordering on the lakes, and in select
ing positions for forts and trading posts, to
secure the Indian trade to the French. After
he had built a fort at Niagara, and fitted out
a small vessel, he sailed through the lakes to
Green bay, then called the "Bay of Puants."
From thence he proceeded with his men in
canoes towards the south end of lake Michi
gan, and arrived at the mouth of the "river
of the Miamis" in November, 1679. This is
thought to be the Milwaukee, in Wisconsin
46 peck s guide.
Territory. Here he built a fort, left eight or
ten men, and passed with the rest of his com
pany across the country, to the waters of the
Illinois river, and descended that river a
considerable distance, when he was stopped
for want of supplies. This was occasioned
by the loss of a boat, which had been sent
from his post on Green bay. He was now
compelled by necessity to build a fort, which,
on account of the anxiety of mind he expe
rienced, was called Creve-cmur, or broken
heart.
The position of this fort cannot now be as
certained, but from some appearances, it is
thought to have been near Spring bay, in the
north-east part of Tazewell county.
At this period, the Illinois were engaged in
a war with the Iroquois, a numerous, warlike,
and cruel nation, with whom La Salle had
traded, while on the borders of Canada. The
former, according to Indian notions of friend
ship, expected assistance from the French;
but the interests and safety of La Salle de
pended upon terminating this warfare, and to
this object he directed his strenuous efforts.
The suspicious Illinois construed this into
treachery, which was strengthened by the
malicious and perfidious conduct of some ofhis
own men, and pronounced upon him the sen
tence of death. Immediately he formed and
executed the bold and hazardous project of
going alone and unarmed to the camp of the
Illinois, and vindicating his conduct. He de
GENERAL VIEW. 47
clared his innocence of the charges, and de
manded the author. He urged that the war
should be terminated, and that the hostile na
tions should live in peace.
The coolness, bravery, and eloquence of
La Salle filled the Indians with astonishment,
and entirely changed their purposes. The
calumet was smoked, presents mutually ex
changed, and a treaty of amity concluded.
The original project of discovery was now
pursued. Father Hennepin started on the
23th of February, 1680, and, having passed
down the Illinois, ascended the Mississippi,
to the falls of St. Anthony. Here he was
taken prisoner, robbed, and carried to the
Indian villages, from which he made his es
cape, returned to Canada, by the way of the
Wisconsin, and from thence to France, where
he published an account of his travels.*
La Salle visited Canada to obtain sup
plies, returned to Creve-coeur, and shortly
after descended the Illinois and then the Mis
sissippi, where he built one or two forts on its
banks, and took possession of the country in
the name of the king of France, and in honor
of him called it Louisiana.
One of these forts is thought to have been
built on the west side of the river, between
St. Louis and Carondalet.
After descending the Mississippi, to its
It is difficult to determine when Hennepin writes truth or fiction. Some of his statements must be received with
considerable drawback.
48 peck s guide.
mouth, he returned to the Illinois, and. on his
way back, left some of his companions to oc
cupy the country. This is supposed to have
been the commencement of the villages of
Kaskaskia and Cahokia, in 1683. La Salle
went to France, fitted out an expedition to
form a colony at the mouth of the Mississippi,
sailed to the gulf of Mexico, but not being
able to find the mouths of that river, he com
menced an overland journey to his fort on the
Illinois. On this journey, he was basely as
sassinated by two of his own men.*
After the death of La Salle, no attempts to
discover the mouth of the Mississippi were
made till about 1699, but the settlements in
the Illinois country were gradually increased
by emigrants from Canada.
In 1712, the king of France, by letters pa
tent, gave the whole country of Louisiana to
M. Crosat, with the commerce of the country,
with the profits of all the mines, reserving for
his own use, one fifth of the gold and silver.
After expending large sums, in digging and
exploring for the precious metals, without
success, Crosat gave up his privilege to the
king, in 1717. Soon after, the colony was
granted to the Mississippi company, projected
by Mr. Law, which took possession of Louis
La Salle appears to have discovered the bay of St. Bernard, and formed a settlement on the western side of the Colorado, in 1685.—See J. Q. Adams s Correspon dence with Don Onis. Pub. Doc, first session, fifteenth Congress, 1818.
GENERAL VIEW. 49
iana, and appointed M. Bienville, governor.
In 1719, La Harpe commanded a fort, with
French troops, not far from the mouth of the
Missouri river.
Shortly after, several forts were built with
in the present limit of Illinois, of which, Fort
Chartres was the most considerable. By
these means, a chain of communication was
formed from Canada, to the mouth of the
Mississippi.
In 1699, M. Ibberville arrived in the gulf
of Mexico, with two frigates, and, in March,
ascended the river, in a felucca, one hundred
leagues, and returned by the bayou or outlet
that bears his name, through lake Ponchar
train to the gulf. He planted his colony at
Biloxi, a healthy but sterile spot, between the
Mobile and Mississippi rivers, and built a for
tification. During several succeeding years,
much exploring was done, and considerable
trade carried on with the Indians, for peltries,
yet these expeditions were a source of much
expense to France.
In January, 1702, the colony at Mobile was
planted; several other settlements were soon
after formed. The Catholics also commenced
several missions amongst the Indians. Diffi
culties frequently occurred with their Spanish
neighbors in Florida and Mexico.
M. Ibberville died in 1706, and M. Bienville
succeeded him in the government of Louisiana
for many years. The city of New Orleans
was founded, during his administration, in
50 peck s guide.
1719. It is situated on the east bank of the
Mississippi, one hundred and five miles from
its mouth. From 1723 to 1730, the French
had exterminating wars with the Natchez, a
powerful nation of Indians. They had killed
700 French in 1723, and about 1730 the
French exterminated the nation. Various
wars took place subsequently with the Span
ish and English. But over most of the In
dians along the Mississippi, these French
colonists gained extraordinary influence. Du
ring this period, emigrants continued to arrive
from France, so that the colonists rapidly in
creased in numbers.
The Mississippi land scheme, or "bubble,"
as it was called, originated with the celebra
ted John Law, in 1717, which soon burst, and
spread ruin throughout the moneyed interests
of France. The amount of stock created,
was said to equal 310 000,000 of dollars.
The whole proved an entire failure, but it
served to increase greatly the population of
Louisiana, so that, from 1736, the colonies in
the Lower Valley prospered.
In 1754, the war commenced between
France and England relative to the bounda
ries of the Canadas. At that period, France
claimed all the countries west of the Alle
ghany mountains, while England, on the other
hand, had granted to Virginia, Connecticut
and other colonies, charters which extended
across the continent to the "South sea," as
the Pacific ocean was then called. A grant
GENERAL VIEW. 51
also was made by Virginia, and the crown of
Great Britain, of 600 000 acres, to a company
called "The Ohio Company." The governor
of New France, as Canada and Louisiana
was then called, protested, erected forts on
lake Erie, and at the present site of Pittsburgh,
and enlisted the Indians against the English
and Americans. Pittsburgh was then called
Fort du Quesne. Then followed Braddock s
war, as this contest is called, in the West,—
the mission of Major (afterward General)
Washington,—the defeat of Braddock; and,
finally, by the memorable victory of Wolfe at
Quebec, and the lesser ones at Niagara and
Ticonderoga, and by victories of the English
fleet on the ocean, the French were humbled,
and, at the treaty of Paris, in 1763, surren
dered all their claims to the country east of
the Mississippi. Towards the close of the
war, however, France, by a secret treaty,
ceded all the country west of the Mississippi,
and including New Orleans, to Spain, who
held possession till 1803, when it was deliver
ed to the French government under Napoleon,
and by him ceded to the United States for
15 000,000 of dollars.
The English held possession of the military
posts, and exercised jurisdiction over the
country of Illinois, and the adjacent regions,
till 1778, during the revolutionary war; when,
by a secret expedition, without direct legisla
tive sanction, but by a most enterprising,
skilful, and hazardous military manoeuvre, the
peck s GtrrDK.
posts of Kaskaskia, Cahokia, Fort Chartres
and Vincennes were captured by Gen. George
Rogers Clark, with a small force of volun
teer Americans, and that portion of the Valley
fell under the jurisdiction of Virginia.
The legislature of Virginia sanctioned the
expedition of Clark, which the Executive-,
Patrick Henry and his council, with Thomas
Jefferson, George Wythe, and George Ma
son, by written instructions, had agreed
should be done, and a county called Illi
nois was organized the same year4.
In 1784, Virginia, in conjunction with other
States, ceded all claims to the Great West to
the United States, reserving certain tracts for
the payment of revolutionary claims. This
cession laid the foundation for five new States
north-west of Ohio, when each district should
have 60 000 inhabitants, and even a less
number, by consent of Congress. Two re
strictions were peremptorily enjoined,—that
each State should adopt a constitution with a
republican form of government, and that slave
ry or involuntary servitude should be for
ever prohibited.
It is unnecessary here to enter into details
of the settlement of each particular State,—
the incessant attacks from the Indians,—the
border wars that ensued,—the adventures
of Boone and his associates in settling Ken
tucky,—the unfortunate campaigns of Har
mar and St. Clair,—the victorious one of
Wayne,—or the reminiscences and events of
GENERAL VIEW. 53
the war of 1812, and its termination in 1815.
Some historical notices of each State may be
found in their proper place,
Prospective Increase of Population. For a
long period, in the States of the West, the in
crease of population was slow, and retarded
by several causes. Difficulties of a formida
ble character had to be surmounted. The
footsteps of the American emigrants were
every where drenched in blood, shed by infu
riated savage foes, and before 1790, more
than 5000 persons had been murdered, or
taken captive and lost to the settlements.
"It has been estimated, that, in the short
space of seven years, from 1783 to 1790,
more than fifteen hundred of the inhabitants
of Kentucky were either massacred or carried
away into a captivity worse than death, by
the Indians and an equal number from
Western Pennsylvania and Virginia, in the
same period, met with a similar fate. The
settlers on the frontiers were almost constant
ly, for a period of forty years, harassed
either by actual attacks of the savages, or the
daily expectation of them. The tomahawk
and the scalping-knife were the objects of
their fears by day and by night."*
Hence, in suggesting reasons showing why
the population of this Valley must increase in
future in a far greater ratio than in the past,
it will appear,
1. That the most perfect security is now
Baird.
54 peck s guide.
enjoyed by all emigrants, both for their fami
lies and property.
By the wise and beneficent arrangement of
government, the Indian tribes have nearly all
removed to the Territory specially allotted
for their occupancy west of Missouri and Ar
kansas. The grand error committed in past
times in relation to the Indians, and which
Jias been the source of incalculable evils to
both races, has, been the want of definite,
fixed and permanent lines of demarcation be
twixt them. It will be seen, under the proper
head, that a system of measures is now in
operation that will not only preserve peace
between the frontier settlements and the In
dian tribes, but that, to a great extent, they
are becoming initiated into the habits of civil
ized life. There is now no more danger to
the population of these States and Territories
from Indian depredations, than to the people
of the Atlantic States.
2. The increased facilities of emigration,
and the advantage of sure and certain mar
V kets for every species of production, furnish
a second reason why population will increase
in the Western Valley beyond any former pe
riod.
Before the purchase of Louisiana, the west
ern people had no outlet for their produce,
and the chief mode of obtaining every de
scription of merchandise,—even salt and iron,
—was by the slow and expensive method of
GENERAL VIEW. 55
transportation by wagons and pack-horses,
across almost impassable mountains and ex
tremely difficult roads. Now, every conven
ience and luxury of life is carried, with com
parative ease, to every town and settlement
throughout the Valley, and every species of
produce is sent off, in various directions, to
every port on earth, if necessary. And these
facilities are multiplying and increasing every
hour. Turnpike roads, rail-roads, canals,
and steam-boat navigation have already pro
vided such facilities for removing from the
Atlantic to the Western States, that no family
desirous of removing, need hesitate or make
a single inquiry as to facilities of getting to
this country.
3. The facilities of trade and intercourse
between the different sections of the Valley,
are now superior to most countries, and are
increasing every year. And no country on
earth admits of such indefinite improvement,
either by land or water. More than twenty
thousand miles of actual steam-boat naviga
tion, with several hundred miles of canal nav
igation, constructed or commenced, attest the
truth of this statement. The first steam-boat
on the western waters was built at Pittsburgh
in 1811, and not more than seven or eight
had been built, when the writer emigrated to
this country in 1817. At this period (Janu
ary, 1836), there are several hundred boats
on the western waters, and some of the larg
est size. In 1817, about twenty barges,
56 peck s guide.
averaging about one hundred tons each, per
formed the whole commercial business of
transporting merchandise from New Orleans
to Louisville and Cincinnati. Each perform
ed one trip, going and returning within the
year. About 150 keel-boats performed the
business on the Upper Ohio to Pittsburgh.
These averaged about 30 tons each, and were
employed one month in making the voyage
from Louisville to Pittsburgh. Three days, or
three days and a half, is now the usual time
occupied by the steam-packets between the
two places, and from seven to twelve days
between Louisville and New Orleans. Four
days is the time of passing from the former
place to St. Louis.
4. A fourth reason why population will in
crease in future in a greater ratio than the
past, is derived from the increase of popula
tion in the Atlantic States, and the greater
desire for removal to the West., At the close
of the revolutionary war, the population of
the whole Union but little exceeded two mil
lions. Vast tracts of wilderness then existed
in the old States, which have since been sub
dued, and from whence thousands of enter
prising citizens are pressing their way into
the Great Valley. Two thirds of the territo
ry of New York, large portions of New
Hampshire, Vermont and Maine, an exten
sive district in Middle Pennsylvania, to say
nothing of wide regions in the Southern States,
were comprised in this wilderness. These
GENERAL VIEW.^ 57
extensive regions have become populous, and
are sending out vast numbers of emigrants to
the West. Europe is in commotion, and the
emigration to North America, in 1832, reach
ed 200 000, a due proportion of which settle
in the Western Valley.
5. A fifth reason will be founded upon the
immense amount of land for the occupancy of
an indefinite number of emigrants, much of
which will not cost the purchaser over one
dollar and twenly-Jive cents per acre. Without
giving the extravagant estimates that have
been made by many writers, of the wide and
uninhabitable desert between the Indian Ter
ritory west of Missouri and Arkansas and the
Rocky mountains, nor swampy and frozen
regions at the heads of the Mississippi river
and around lake Superior, I will merely ex
hibit the amount of lands admitting of imme
diate settlement and cultivation, within the
boundaries of the new States and organized
Territories.
According to the report of the Secretary of
the Treasury up to the 30th day of Septem
ber, 1831, the estimated amount of unsold
lands, on which the foreign and Indian titles
had been extinguished, within the limits of the
new States and Territories, was 227 293,884
acres; —and that the Indian title remain
ed on 113 577,869 acres* within the same
See Mr. Clay s Report on the Public Lands, April 26,
1832, U. S. Papers.
3*
58 peck s guide.
limits. The Commissioner of the General
Land Office, in December, 1827, estimated
the public domain, beyond the boundaries
of the new States and Territories, to be
750 000,000 of acres. Much of this, how
ever, is uninhabitable.
According to the Report of 1831, there
had been granted to Ohio, Indiana, Illinois,
and Alabama, for internal improvements,
2 187,665 acres;—for colleges, academies,
and universities, in the new States and Ter
ritories, 508 009; —for education, being the
thirty-sixth part of the public lands appro
priated to common schools, 7 952,538 acres;
—and for seats of government to some of the
new States and Territories, 21 589 acres.
Up to January, 1326, there had been sold,
from the commencement of the land system,
only 19 239,412 acres. Since that period, to
the close of 1835, there have been sold, about
33 000,000 of acres, making in all sold, a
little more than 52 000,000. This statement
includes Alabama and Florida, which we have
not considered as strictly within the Valley.
After a hasty and somewhat imperfect esti
mate of the public lands, that are now in
market, or will be brought into market within
a few years, within the limits of Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois, Missouri, Mississippi, Louisiana, Ar
kansas, Michigan, and the Territory of Wis
consin, the amount may be put at 130 000,000
of acres. This amount admits of immediate
settlement and cultivation, and much of it may
GENERAL VIEW. 59
be put under cultivation without the immense
labor of clearing and subduing forest lands.
The comparison between the amount of
sales of public lands within the last ten years,
and the preceding forty years, shows that
emigration to the West is increasing at a
ratio beyond what is ordinarily supposed, and
that the next ten years will find a majority of
the population of the United States within this
Great Valley.
Sales of Land,
From 1786 to 1826, (forty years) 19 239,412 acres. 1826 1835, (ten years) 33 000,000
Three millions of families may find farms in
the West.
The extensive prairie lands of Illinois and
Missouri present no obstacle to the settle
ment of the country. Already, prairies, for
many miles in extent, have been turned into
farms.
6. A sixth reason why the increase of the
future population of the Valley will greatly
exceed the past, is derived from the increased
confidence of the community in the general
health of the country. The most unreason
able notions have prevailed abroad relative
to the health of the Western States. All new
settlements are more or less unfavorable to
health, which, when cultivated and settled,
become healthy. As a separate chapter will
be devoted to this subject, I only advert to
the fact now, of the increased confidence of
the people in the Atlantic States, in the salu
60 peck s guide.
brity of our western climate, which, already,
has tended to increase emigration; but which,
from facts becoming more generally known,
will operate to a much greater extent in future.
7. I will only add, that there is already a
great amount of intelligence, and of excellent
society, in all the settled portions of the West
ern Valley.
The idea is no longer entertained by east
ern people, that going to the West, or the
'backwoods,' as it was formerly called, is to
remove to a heathen land, to a land of igno
rance and barbarism, where the people do
nothing but rob, and fight, and gouge! Some
parts of the West have obtained this charac
ter, but most undeservedly, from the Fearons,
the [Basil] Halls, the Trollopes, and other ig
norant and insolent travelers from England,
who, because they were not allowed to insult
and outrage as they pleased, with Parthian
spirit, hurled back upon us their poisoned
javelins and darts, as they left us. There is,
indeed, much destitution of moral influence
and means of instruction in many, very many,
neighborhoods of the West. But there is, in
all the principal towns, a state of society,
with which the most refined, I was going to
say the most fastidious, of the eastern cities,
need not be ashamed to mingle."*
The eastern emigrant will lind, that whole
some legislation, and much of the influence
Faird.
GENERAL VIEW. 61
of religion, are enjoyed in the Valley of the
Mississippi; extending to him all he can ask
in the enjoyment of his rights, and the protec
tion of his property.
Common school systems have been com
menced in some of the States; others are
following their example, and the subject of
general education is receiving increasing at
tention every year. Colleges, and other lit
erary institutions, are planted and religious
institutions, and means of religious instruc
tion, are rapidly increasing. Noble and suc
cessful efforts are making by the Bible, mis
sionary, tract, Sabbath school, temperance,
and other societies, in the West. Great and
rapid changes are taking place, if not to the
extent we desire, yet corresponding in a de
gree with the gigantic march of emigration
and population. Many other reasons might
be urged to show that its prospective increase
of population will vastly exceed the ratio of its
retrospective increase, but these are sufficient.
CHAPTER III.
CLIMATE.
Comparative View of the Climate with the Atlantic States —Diseases—Means of preserving Health.
In a country of such vast extent, through
fifteen degrees of latitude, the climate must
necessarily be various. Louisiana, Mississip
pi, and the lower half of Arkansas, lie between
the latitudes of 30° and 35°, and correspond
with Georgia and South Carolina. Their
difference of climate is not material. The
northern half of Arkansas, Tennessee, and
Kentucky, lie west from North Carolina and
the southern portion of Virginia. The cli
mate varies from those States only as they are
less elevated than the mountainous parts of
Virginia and Carolina. Hence, the emigrant
from the southern Atlantic States, unless he
comes from a mountainous region, will ex
perience no great change of climate, by
emigrating to the Lower Mississippi Valley.
Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio, lie par
CLIMATE. 63
allel with the northern half of Virginia, Mary
land, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey,
and so much of New York and New England
as lies south of latitude 42° north. But seve
ral circumstances combine to produce varia
tions in the climate:
1. Much of those Atlantic States are hilly,
and, in many parts, mountainous, some of
which are two and three thousand feet above
the level of the ocean. The parallel Western
States have no mountains, and are not propor
tionably hilly.
2. The Atlantic States border on the
ocean, on the east, and feel the influence of
the cold, damp winds, from the north-east and
east. Their rains are more copious, and
their snows deeper. The northern portions
of the West, equally with New York and
Vermont, are affected with the influence of
the lakes, though not to the same extent.
3. The courses of rivers, by changing, in
some degree, the direction of the winds, ex
ert an influence on the climate. In the At
lantic States, from New England to North
Carolina, the rivers run more or less to the
south-east, and increase the winds which blow
from the north-west, while the great bed of
the Mississippi exerts an equal influence in
augmenting the number and steadiness of the
winds which blow over it from the south-west;
and there is another cause of difference in
climate, chiefly perceptible, first, in the tem
perature, which, if no counteracting cause
64 peck s guide.
existed, they would raise in the West, consid
erably above that of corresponding latitudes
in the East; and, secondly, in the moisture of
the two regions, which is generally greater
west than east of the mountains, when the
south-west wind prevails; as much of the wa
ter, with which it comes charged from the
gulf of Mexico, is deposited, before it reaches
the country east of the Alleghanies."*
It is an error, that our climate is more va
riable, or the summers materially hotter, than
in a corresponding' latitude in the Atlantic
States. "The New Englandcr and New
Yorker, north of the mountains of West
Point, should bear in mind, that his migra
tion is not to the west, but south-west; and as
necessarily brings him into a warmer climate,
as when he geeks the shores of the Delaware,
Pbtomac, or James river."
The settlers from Virginia to Kentucky, or
those from Maryland and Pennsylvania to
Ohio, or farther west, have never complained
of hotter summers than they had found in the
land from whence they came.
To institute a comparative estimate of tem
perature, between the East and the West, we
must observe,—first, the thermometer; and,
secondly, the flowering of trees, the putting
forth of vegetation, and the ripening of fruits
and grain, in correspondent latitudes. This
has not usually been done. Philadelphia and
Dr. Drake.
CLIMATE. 65
Cincinnati approach nearer to the same par
allel, than any other places where such ob
servations have been made. Cincinnati, how
ever, is about 50' south of Philadelphia. The
following remarks are from Dr. Daniel Drake,
of Cincinnati, to whose pen the West is much
indebted:
From a series of daily observations in
Cincinnati, or its vicinity, for eight consecu
tive years, the mean annual temperature has
been ascertained to be 54 degrees and a quar
ter. Dr. Rush states the mean temperature
of Philadelphia at 52 degrees and a half; Dr.
Coxe, from six years' observations, at 54 de
grees and a sixth; and Mr. Legaux, from sev
enteen years' observations, at Spring Mill, a
lew miles out of the city, at 53 degrees and a
third; the mean term of which results, 53 de
grees and a third, is but the fraction of a de
gree lower than the mean heat of Cincinnati,
and actually less than should be afforded by
the difference of latitude.
A reference to the temperatures of sum
mer and winter, will give nearly the same re
sults. From nine years' observations (three
at Spring Mill, by Mr. Legaux, and six in
Philadelphia, by Dr. Coxe), the mean sum
mer heat of that part of Pennsylvania appears
to be 76 degrees and six tenths. The mean
summer heat at Cincinnati, for an equal num
ber of years, was 74 degrees and four tenths.
The average number of days in which the
thermometer rose to 90 degrees or upwards,
4
66 peck s guide.
during the same period, was fourteen eaclj
summer; and the greatest elevation observed,
was 98 degrees; all of which would bear an
almost exact comparison with similar obser
vations in Pennsylvania. Mr. Legaux states
the most intense cold, at Spring Mill, from
1787 to 1806, to have been 17 degrees and
five tenths below cipher; while, within the
same period, it was 18 degrees at Cincinnati.
The average of extreme cold, for several
years, as observed by Mr. Legaux, was one
degree and eight tenths below cipher: the
same average at Cincinnati, was two degrees
below. From all which, we may conclude
that the banks of the Delaware and Ohio, in
the same latitudes, have nearly the same
temperature."
The State of Illinois, extending, as it does,
through five and a half degrees of latitude,
has considerable variation in its climate. It
has no mountains, and, though undulating, it
cannot be called hilly. Its extensive prairies
and level surface, give greater scope to the
winds, especially in winter. In the southern
part of the State, during the three winter
months, snow frequently falls, but seldom lies
long. In the northern part, the winters are
as cold, but not so much snow falls, as in the
same latitudes in the Atlantic States.
The Mississippi, at St. Louis, is frequently
frozen over, and is crossed on the ice, and,
occasionally, for several weeks. The hot
season is longer, though not more intense,
CLIMATE. 67
than occasionally, for a day or two, in New
England.
During the years 1817, '18, '19, the Rev.
Mr. Giddings, at St. Louis, made a series of
observations upon Fahrenheit s thermometer:
Deg. Hund. Mean temperature for 1817, 55 52 Mean temperature from the beginning of May, 1818, to the end of April, 1819,. 56 98 Mean temperature for 1820, 50 18
The mean of these results is about fifty-six
degrees and a quarter.
The mean temperature of each month, du
ring the above years, is as follows:
Deg. Hund. January 30 62 February, 38 65 March, 43 13 April, 58 47 May, 62 66 June, 74 47 July 78 66 August 72 88 September 70 10 October, 59 00 November, 53 13 December, 34 33
The mean temperature of the different sea
sons is as follows:
Dog. Hund. Winter 34 53 Spring, 54 74 Summer 74 34 Autumn, 60 77
68 peck s guide.
The greatest extremes of heat and cold du
ring my residence of eighteen years, in the
vicinity of St. Louis, is as follows:
Greatest heat in July, 1820, and July, 1833,
100 degrees. Greatest cold, Jan. 3d, 1834,
18 degrees below zero; Feb. 8th, 1835, 22
degrees below zero.
The foregoing facts will doubtless apply to
about one half of Illinois. This climate, also,
is subject to sudden changes, from heat to
cold, from wet to dry, especially from Novem
ber to May. The heat of the summer, below
the fortieth degree of latitude, is more ener
vating, and the system becomes more easily
debilitated, than in the bracing atmosphere of
a more northerly region.
At Marietta, Ohio, in latitude 39° 25' north,
and at the junction of the Muskingum river
with the Ohio, the mean temperature, for
1834, was 52 degrees and four tenths; high
est, in August, 95 degrees; lowest, January,
at zero. Fair days, 225; cloudy days, 110.
At Nashville, Tenn., 1834, the mean tem
perature was 59 degrees and seventy-six hun
dredths; maximum 97, minimum four above
zero. The summer temperature of this place
never reaches 100 degrees. January 26th,
1832, 18 degrees below zero; February 8th,
1835, 10 degrees below zero.
The putting forth of vegetation in the spring,
furnishes some evidence of the character of
the climate of any country, though by no
CLIMATE. 69
means entirely accurate. Other causes com
bine to advance or retard vegetation. A wet
or dry season, or a few days of heat or cold,
at a particular crisis, will produce material
changes.
The following table is constructed from
memoranda, made at the various dates given,
near the latitude of St. Louis, which is com
puted at 38° 3V. The observations of 1819,
were made at St. Charles, and vicinity, in
the State of Missouri. Those of 1820, in St.
Louis county, 17 miles north-west from the
city of St. Louis. The remainder, at Rock
Spring, Illinois, 18 miles east from St. Louis.
It will be perceived, the years are not con
secutive. In 1826, the writer was absent to
the Eastern States, and, for 1828, his notes
were too imperfect to answer the purpose.
In the column showing the times of the first
snows, and the first and last frosts in the sea
son, a little explanation may be necessary.
A light snow means merely enough to
whiten the earth, and which usually disap
pears in a few hours.
Many of the frosts recorded "light," were
not severe enough to kill ordinary vege
tation.
70 peck s guide.
uuininy in
Sept. 1. Sept. 10.
Oct. 8, ice.
Oct. 8. Oct. 11.
i
Oct. 11.
hard frost.
Sept. 1 light. Sept. 17 lsojj jailj n 31
Suudg ui isoaj isbi
May 18,
very light.
June 1,
very light.
Ap l8,severe May 1, light.
April 16,
severe, ice.
April 14.
Si z
May 7, light.
not noted.
May 4.
si
'19)OIM JO
Oct. 8,
few flakes.
Oct d4.few fl ka Nov. 11, 1 inch. Nov. 16, light. Nor. 1, light.
si.
Nov. 14, light.
Nov. 11, four
inches sleet.
qoBOJddw
o
Dec. 11,
1 inches UO J&OUX IBJIJ 00 j: o Nov. 7.>.s
'B9AB9)
April 11. full
size, May 7.
I!
A p 11. f size,
May 14.
April 10. full
size, April 10 quoj jrul S99J) IBS Half size,
May 11.
April 1. April 10. April 1.
s
C d
joj jaqjo 2 SPUB S^BO <n D. ci. 
'BOIJIBjd
>ril 18. >ril 10.!
to
iril 10. ml 10. iril 14.
O

ui uaoiS SSBJ J)
s
UIOrjPO|f]
i j April 14.
j May1.
April 11. 'April 18. April 11. April 4.
pa
April 16.
OS
ui sgnji 9[ddy a a. a, qiJOJ April 14. Mar. 14. April 14. April 18. April 14. April 10. Mar. 10. April 4. April 10. April 1. Oq B9AB9[ olddy
'mocco|q
May 11.
s£
May 11.
O
May 10. May 18. May 8. May 14. May 10. May 1 01 891J o id-JaqH9B|'y id s-5 not noted 
April 10. April 14. April 16. April 18.
Ap1 ripe
May 17.
April 10. April 14.
April 4. j
'UJOBBOJC, UI S9tJ April 1.
mosso|ti ui pnq pay April 4.
Ap 14.no
peach B.
Ap 16.no
peach B.
April 4. April 11. April 10.
Mar. 14.
April 4. April 10 1
April 1. J
pus qOB9J
o 1811 1811
181
1814 1814 1817 1811 1-JB9A So 8
CLIMATE. 71
These observations, upon a comparison
with the same parallels of latitude in the
Eastern States, show that there is no material
difference of climate between the two sections
of our country, except that produced by local
causes, as mountainous districts, contiguity
to the ocean, &c.
A similar error has existed in relation to
sudden and extreme changes of weather in
the West. People who emigrate to a new
country, have their curiosity awakened, and,
perhaps, for the first time in their lives,
become quite observing of such changes.
From habitually observing the weather, the
impression is produced on their minds that
there is a marked difference in this climate.
Dr. Rush declares that there is but one steady
trait in the character of the climate of Penn
sylvania, and that is, it is uniformly variable;
and he asserts that he has known the ther
mometer to fall 20 degrees in one hour and a
half. March 26-27, 1818,. the thermometer,
in St. Louis, fell 41 degrees in thirty hours,—
from 83 degrees to 42 degrees. I have no
record or recollection of a more sudden
change, in eighteen years. Mr. Legaux saw
it fall, in the vicinity qf Philadelphia, 47 de
grees in twenty-four hours; and Dr. Drake
states that this is five degrees more than any
impression ever observed in Cincinnati, in the
same length of time. Emigrants from New
England and the northern part of New York
72 peck s guide.
State must not expect to find the same climate
in the West, at 38 or 40 degrees; but let
them remove to the same parallel of latitude
in the West, to Wisconsin, or the northern
part of Illinois, and they will probably find a
climate far more uniform than the land of
their birth.
Prevailing winds modify and affect the cli
mate of every country. South-westwardly
winds prevail along the Mississippi Valley.
The following tabular view of observations
made at Cincinnati, by Dr. D. Drake, for six
succeeding years, with so few omissions, that
they amount to 4200, will give further illus
trations of this subject. They have been
brought from eight points of the compass:
Observations.
Months. It. w. CALM.
January, 6 p 13 8 1 21 3 6 6 February, 5 1 13 8 1 14 0 5 8 10 1 16 11 1 10 6 6 4 7 1 24 10 1 8 1 3 S May 7 1 19 10 0 10 1 4 6 9 1 23 12 6 7 1 2 3 July, 6 1 19 11 2 11 1 4 4 August, 6 1 23 10 1 12 1 1 6 September, 6 1 23 9 0 8 2 3 3 9 1 24 6 I 10 2 4 3 November, December, 9 S 13 6 *1 10 2 7 S 7 1 11 5 0 15 2 6 9
Total, 87 M 221 106 14 736 16 50 62
CLIMATE.
The results of my own observations, made
for twelve years, with the exception of 1826,
and with some irregularity, from traveling in
different parts of Missouri and Illinois, during
the time, do not vary in any material degree
from the above table, excepting fewer east
and north-east winds.
Dr. Drake has given a table, setting forth
the results of 4268 observations on the state
of the weather at Cincinnati, from which it
will be perceived that of the 365 days in a
year, about 176 will be fair, 105 cloudy, and
34 variable.
Dr. L. C. Beck made similar observations
at St. Louis, during the year 1820, which
produced the result of 245 clear days, and
cloudy, including variable days, 110.
Years. Clear days. Clouily days. Variable days.
1 180 107 68 2 158 112 91 3 187 78 85 4 152 106 107 5 185 111 68 6 172 112 74
Total, 6 1034 626 493
Mean terms, 172. 33 104. 33 82. 16
The following table shows the condition of
the weather, in each month of a mean year,
for the above period:
74 peck s guide.
Months. Clear days. Cloudy days. Variable days.
January 9. 8 13. 1 7. 8 February, 10. 3 12. 0 6. 5 March 13. 5 9. 1 4 3 April 13. 1 10. 8 7. 6 May 15. 0 8. 5 7. 5 June, 15. 5 5. 0 9. 6 July, 19. 0 6. 5 6. 0 August, 19. 6 4. 6 6. 5 September, 19. 5 5. 3 6. 1 October, 16. 1 6. 0 8. 1 November, 9. 5 13. 5 5. 5 December, 9. 6 14. 1 5. 8
There would be some variations from the
foregoing table, in a series of observations in
the country bordering upon the Upper Mis
sissippi and Missouri. The weather in the
States of Ohio and Kentucky, is, doubtless,
more or less affected in autumn, by the rains
that fall on the Alleghany mountains, and the
rise of the Ohio and its tributaries. So the
weather in the months of April, May and
June, in Missouri, is affected by the spring
floods of the Missouri and Mississippi rivers.
The following table is constructed from a
series of observations made at the military
posts in the West, by the surgeons of the
United States army, for four years,— 1822,
1823, 1824 and 1825. (See American Almanac for 1834, p. 81.)
jo S H a
Pos8s.
Fort Brady, $Fort Snelling' \Fort Howard FortCrawford, jCouncil Bluffs Cantonment )Baton Rouge,
Si8ua8ions.
Sault de St. Mary, outlet
of Lake Superior,
Mouth of St. Peters, 0s ro.
below St. Anthony falls,
Green Bay, Wisconsin TPrairie du Chein Wiscon
9in Territory,
Upper Missouri On Red River, La.,. Louisiana,
00 200 80
05 s
5 05
02 25 5 00
2 00 0 s
0s 22
0 00 0 00
50 02 05 52
00 5s 05 s
2 00 S<2 ;an Temp, four years.
2
00 0 s0
s. 0 s s. 0
tximum.
00
0 —2 —2
80
—8
—80
S 0 uininiu
o oc 5
—330 20
0 250 2
Wea8her.
MONTHLY AVERAGE.
Fair (t PdyjRani. 8n*wdays. |days. days, days.
00 2s 2 20
00 00^5 5000 00 0 00
0 20J00 00 0 8
00 0 0 50
0 8
0
00
I
00 00 0 00
2s 00 0 s0
0 831
0 02
5 00 2 20 50 2 02
I
0 00 0 022 05 0 250 250 001
2
signifies below zero.
The times of observation at the above posts, were and 2 and 0, 0 The mean of each month was de
duced from ninety observations, and of each year from one thousand and ninety-five observations. The render, whois desirous of following up this comparative view of the clima-e between the Atlan-ic States and the Valley of he
Mississippi, can compare the observations recorded in these tables, with similar observations made in he same parallels of latitude. He will find the olimate of the West quite as uniform, and the weather as lit-le variable, as inthe A-lan-io States.
76 peck s guide.
Diseases, means of preserving Health, Sfc.
Of the Lower Valley, I shalL say but very
little. Dr. Drake observes: "The diseases
of this portion of the great Valley are few,
and prevail chiefly in summer and autumn.
They are the offspring of the combined ac
tion of intense heat and marsh exhalation."
They are, generally, remittent and inter
mittent bilious fevers. Emigrants most gen
erally undergo a seasoning, or become accli
mated. Many persons, however, from the
Northern and Middle States and from Europe,
enjoy health. In sickly situations, these fe
vers are apt to return, and often prove fatal.
They frequently enfeeble the constitution,
and produce chronic inflammation of the
liver, enlargement of the spleen, or terminate
in jaundice or dropsy, and disorder the diges
tive organs. When persons find themselves
subject to repeated attacks, the only safe
resource is an annual migration to a more
northern climate, during the summer. Many
families from New Orleans, and other ex
posed situations, retire to the pine barrens
of Louisiana, in the hot and sickly season,
where limpid streams, flowing over a pebbly
bed, and a terebinthine atmosphere, are en
joyed. Eight months of the year are pleasant
and healthy in the Lower Mississippi Valley.
The advice of Dr. Drake is, that Those
who migrate from a colder climate to the
southern Mississippi States, should observe
the following directions: 1st. To arrive there
DISEASES. 77
in autumn, instead of spring or summer. 2d.
If practicable, to spend the hottest part of the
first two or three years in a higher latitude.
3d. To select the healthiest situations. 4th.
To live temperately. 5th. To preserve a reg
ular habit. Lastly, to avoid the heat of the
sun, from ten in the morning till four in the
afternoon; and, above all, the night air. By
a strict attention to these rules, many would
escape the diseases of the climate, who an
nually sink under its baleful influence."
Those States and Territories to which this
work is intended more immediately as a
Guide, do not differ very materially in salu
brity. The same general features are found
in each. There is but little diversity in cli
mate their geological and physical structure
coincide, and the experience of many years
shows that there is no great difference. Where
autumnal fevers are common, they are usually
of similar character. The same causes for dis
ease, exist in Ohio as in Missouri in Michigan
as in Illinois; in Kentucky and Tennessee as
in Indiana. All these States are much more
infested with the maladies which depend on
variations of temperature, than the States
farther south. All have localities where in
termittents and agues are found, and all
possess extensive districts of country where
health is enjoyed by a very large proportion
of emigrants. There is some difference be
tween a heavily timbered and a prairie coun
try, in favor of the latter, other circumstances
78 peck s guide.
being equal. Changes, favorable to continu
ed health, are produced by the settlement
and cultivation of any particular portion of
country. Of one fact, I have long since sat
isfied my mind,—that ordinary fevers are not
caused by the use of the water of the West.
Exceptions may be made in some few cases,
where a vein of water is impregnated with
some deleterious mineral substance. The
use of a well, dug in the vicinity of a coal-bed
in Illinois, was supposed to have caused sick
ness in a family, for two seasons. Any offen
sive property in water is readily detected by
the taste. Cool, refreshing water is a great
preservative of health. It is common for
families, who aro too indifferent to their com
fort to dig a well, to use the tepid, muddy
water of the small streams, in the frontier
States, during the summer, or to dig a shallow
well, and wall it with timber, which soon im
parts an offensive taste to the water. Water
of excellent quality, may be found in springs,
or by digging from twenty to thirty feet,
throughout the Western States. Most of the
water, thus obtained, is hard water, from its
limestone qualities, but it is most unquestion
ably healthy. Those persons who emigrate
from a region of sandstone, or primitive rock,
where water is soft, will find our limestone
water to produce a slight affection of the
bowels, which will prove more advantageous
to health, than otherwise, and which will last
but a few weeks. Whenever disease prevails
DISEASES. 79
in the Western States, it may, generally, be
attributed to one or more of the following
causes:
1. Variations of temperature. This cause,
we have already shown, exists to as great
extent in the same latitude east of the moun
tains.
2. The rapid decomposition of vegetable
matter. In all our rich lands, there are vast
quantities of vegetable matter mixed with the
soil, or spread over the surface. Extreme
hot weather, following especially a season of
much rain, before the middle of July, will
produce sickness. If the early part of sum
mer be tolerably dry, although a hot season
follows, sickness does not generally prevail.
The year 1820 was an exception to this rule.
It was a very dry, hot, sickly year through
the West, indeed, throughout the world. A
wet season, with a moderately cool atmos
phere, has proved healthy.
3. Marsh exhalations. These, combined
with heat, will always generate fevers. In
deed, there is probably very little difference
in the miasm thrown off from decomposed
vegetable matter, and that produced from
sluggish streams, standing waters and marsh
es. These, in the great Valley, abound with
decayed vegetable matter. Hence, along the
streams which have alluvial bottoms (as low
lands, upon streams, are called in the West),
some of which are annually overflowed, and
where the timber and luxuriant vegetable
80 peck s guide.
growth are but partially subdued, the inhabi
tants are liable to fevers, dysenteries and
agues. Situations directly under the bluffs,
adjacent to the bottom lands, that lie upon
our large rivers, especially when the vege
tation is unsubdued, have proved unhealthy.
So have situations at the heads or in the slope
of the ravines that put down from the bluffs
towards the rivers.
The principal diseases that prevail, may be
stated as follows: In the winter, and early in
the spring, severe colds, inflammation of the
lungs and pleurisies are most common. The
genuine hereditary consumption of New Eng
land is rare, and families and individuals pre
disposed to that disease, might often be pre
served, by migration to this Valley. Acute
inflammation of the brain, and inflammatory
rheumatism are not unusual at that season.
During the summer and autumn, cholera
infantum with children in large towns, diar
rhoea, cholera morbus, dysentery, intermittent
and remittent bilious fevers prevail. The in
termittent assumes various forms, and has
acquired several names amongst the country
people, where it prevails more generally than
in large towns. It is called the "chill and
fever,"— "ague,"—"dumb ague," &c, ac
cording to its form of attack.
The remittent fever is the most formidable
of our autumnal diseases, especially when of
a highly bilious type. In most seasons, these
diseases are easily managed, and yield to a
DISEASES. 81
dose or two of medicine. Sore eyes, espe
cially in autumn, is a common complaint in
the frontier settlements, and when neglected
or improperly managed, have terminated in
total blindness.
The "milk sickness," as it is called, occa
sionally prevails in some localities, some par
ticulars of which will be found in another place.
There is a disease that afflicts many frontier
people, called by some "sick stomach," by
others, "water brash," from its symptoms of
suddefi nausea, with vomiting, especially after
meals.
In 1832, the cholera made its appearance
in the West. In many places, its first ap
proach was attended with great mortality, but
its second visit to a place has been in a milder
and more manageable form. It has visited
various parts of the West, on each returning
season since, especially along the great rivers
and about the steam-boats.* It appears to
have changed somewhat the characteristics of
our western diseases, and will probably be
come a modified and manageable disease.
Since its visit, our fevers are more conges
tive, less bile is secreted, and the stomach
more affected. The subject will doubtless be
noticed by our physicians, and observations
made, how far this new disease will become
assimilated to the ordinary diseases of the
country.
Not a case of cholera has occurred this season,—Aug.
12, 1836.
4*
82 peck s guide.
We are satisfied, after a long course of
observations, much traveling, and conversing
with many hundreds of families, with the view
of arriving at correct conclusions on these
subjects, that there is no such operation as that
of emigrants undergoing a seasoning, or be
coming acclimated, in the States of Ohio, In
diana, Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennes
see, Michigan, or the Wisconsin Territory.
JVor does it make the least difference from what
part of the United States or Europe, they come,
nor whether they arrive here in the spring or au
tumn. There is an erroneous notion prevailing
in some of the Atlantic States, on this sub
ject, that should be corrected. When sick
ness prevails, there is just as much, and it is
equally severe, amongst the old settlers, those
born in the country, or who migrate from the
Carolinas or Georgia, as those who come from
the Northern States. Families are just as
liable to sickness, and are as often attacked
for the first time, after residing several years
in the country, as at any other time. A large
proportion of the families and individuals, who
remove from New England, to the various
parts of the Valley, north of the 37th degree
of latitude, have no sickness the first year.
The impression has formerly existed abroad,
that Illinois is less healthy than other Western
States. This is entirely erroneous. As in all
countries, there are some localities, where the
causes that produce sickness exist more than
in others. This is not the fact with Illinois in
general.
DISEASES. 83
That this State is as healthy as any other
Western State, can be abundantly supported
by facts. Let a candid observer compare the
health of the early settlers of New England,
with that of the early settlers of the West,
and he will find the scale to preponderate in
favor of the latter. Unless there is some
strange fatality attending Illinois, its popula
tion must be more healthy than the early set
tlers of a timbered region. But in no period of
its history have sickness and death triumphed,
in any respect, equal to what they did two or
three years since, in the lake country of New
York.
The year 1811, is recorded in the memoirs
of the early settlers, as a season of unusual
sickness, near the banks of the Mississippi
and Missouri rivers. The latter rose to an
unusual height, in June; the waters of the
small creeks were backed up, and a large
surface of luxuriant vegetation was covered
and deadened. This was succeeded by hot
and dry weather. Bilious and intermittent
fevers prevailed extensively. The seasons of
1819, '20, and '21, were unusually sickly in
Illinois and Missouri. Emigrants, in shoals,
had spread over a wide range of country,
within a year or two preceding. Multitudes
were placed under circumstances the most
unfavorable to the preservation of health, in
new and open cabin3 of green timber, offen
using the stagnant water of creeks and prn ls,
with a luxuriant vegetation around them un
84 peck s guide.
dergoing decomposition, and all the other evils
attendant on the settlement of a new and un
broken country. Under such circumstances,
can it be surprising that many were sick, and
that many died? The summer of 1820 was
the hottest and driest ever known in this
country. For weeks, in succession, the ther
mometer, in the shade, at St. Louis, was up
to 96 degrees for hours in the day. Not a
cloud came over the sun, to afford a partial
relief from its burning influence. The fevers
of that season were unusually rapid, malignant
aad umanageable. Almost every mark of the
yellow fever, as laid down in the books, was
exhibited in many cases, both in town and
country. The bilious fever put on its most
malignant type. Black, foetid matter was dis
charged from the stomach and by stools. The
writer and all his family suffered severely that
season. He lived seventeen miles from St.
Louis, on the road to St. Charles, in Missouri,
on a farm; the settlement had been called
healthy. The Missouri bottom was one mile
distant. Three miles west-south-west, was the
Oreve-cceur lake, a body of water several miles
in length and half a mile in width, connected by
ah outlet, with the Missouri river. The wa
ter of this lake was entirely stagnant, covered
with a thick scum, and sent forth a noisome
smell: fish in it died. My oldest son, a robust
youth, ten years of age, and my brother-in
law, a hale and stout young man, sickened
aad died the first week in October. I was
DISEASES. 85
attacked the fifth of July, and came as near
dying as a person could and recover. All my
children were sick. While convalescent, in
September, I took a long journey to Cape
Girardeau country, one hundred and twenty
miles south, and back through the lead-mine
country, to the Missouri river, sixty miles
west of St. Louis, and in all the route found
that sickness had prevailed to the same extent.
At Vincennes, and other parts of Indiana,
disease triumphed. The country around Vin
cennes, on the east side of the Wabash, is a
sandy plain. A gentleman who escaped the
ravages of fever in that place, and who was
much engaged in nursing the sick and con
soling the dying, stated to me that nothing
was so disheartening as the cloudless sky and
burning sun, that continued unchanged, for
weeks in succession. Mortality prevailed to
a great extent along the banks of the Wabash.
Hindostan, a town on the east fork of White
river, thirty-eight miles from Vincennes, on
the road to Louisville, was begun the pre
ceding year. Seventy or eighty families had
crowded in, at the commencement of the year
1820. The heavy timber of poplar (white
wood), oak and beech, had been cut down, the
brush burned, and the logs left on the ground.
By June, the bark was loosened, an intolera
ble stench proceeded from the timber; sick
ness followed, and about two thirds of the
population died. And yet, to look about the
place, there is no local cause that would in
86 peck s guide.
dicate sickness. In the summer of 1821 sick
ness prevailed very extensively, but in a much
milder form: its type was intermittent, and
usually yielded to ordinary remedies. During
that year, the number of deaths in St. Louis,
was 136,—the population 5000. At least one
third of that number were strangers and tran
sient persons, who either arrived sick, or
were taken sick within two or three days after
arrival. St. Louis had then no police regula
tions, the streets were filthy in the extreme,
and the population were crowded into every
hole and corner. This was the most sickly
and dying season St. Louis ever knew, except
when the cholera prevailed, in October, 1832.
The same years (1820-21) were noted for
unusual sickness throughout the United States,
and indeed the whole world. The bilious fe
ver prevailed in the hilly and mountainous
districts of Virginia and Pennsylvania, and
even among the Green mountains of Vermont.
Very little general sickness (except cholera,
in 1832-33) prevailed in 1830, '31, '32, or
'33. In 1834, congestive fever, and dysen
tery, with some of the symptoms of cholera,
existed in many places in the West, though
not extensively fatal. In the month of June,
were frequent sudden showers in Illinois and
Missouri, with intervals of extreme heat; July
and August very hot and dry. The disease
began early in July, and continued till Sep
tember.
The year 1835, was the most sickly year,
DISEASES. 87
for common intermittents, which prevailed more
amongst the old settlers, than the newly arrived
emigrants. In Illinois, and generally through
out the West, below the 40th degree of lati
tude, it was sickly, though not fatal. Early
in the spring, till the month of May, it was
unusually dry, and vegetation was two weeks
later than usual. May, and a part of June,
were very wet, followed by a few days of ex
tremely hot weather. Vegetation grew with
great luxuriance. Newly ploughed ground
sent forth a noxious effluvium, with a most
offensive odor, and after a few days would be
covered with a greenish coat, like the scum
on stagnant water. Town situations, even
along the banks of rivers, were comparatively
healthy.
In case of sickness, physicians are to be
found in almost every county, and every
season adds to their number. Charges are
somewhat higher than in the Northern States.
Many families keep a few simple articles of
medicine, and administer for themselves.
Calomel is a specific, and is taken by multi
tudes, without hesitation or fear of danger.
From fifteen to twenty grains are an ordinary
dose for a cathartic. Whenever nausea of
the stomach, pains in the limbs, and yawning,
or a chill, indicate the approach of disease, a
dose of calomel is taken at night in a little apple,
honey, or other suitable substance, and fol
lowed up in the morning with a dose of castor
oil, or salts, to produce a brisk purge. Some
88 peck s guide.
times an emetic is preferred: either a cathar
tic or an emetic will leave the system under
some debility. The mistake frequently made
is, in not following up the evacuating medi
cine with tonics. This should be done, in
variably, unless the paroxysm of fever has
commenced. A few doses of sulphate of
quinine, or Peruvian bark in its crude state,
will restore the system to its natural tone. To
prevent an attack of fever, medicine should
be taken on the very first symptoms of a dis
eased stomach; it should not be tampered
with, but taken in sufficient doses to relieve
the system from morbid effects, and then fol
lowed up by tonics, to restore its vigor and
prevent relapse.
New comers will find it advantageous for
protecting themselves from the damp atmos
phere at night, to provide close dwellings;
yet when the air is clear, to leave open doors
and windows at night for free circulation, but
not to sleep directly in the current of air;
and invariably to wear thin clothing in the
heat of the day, and put on thicker garments
at night, and in wet and cloudy weather.
I have observed that those families are sel
dom sick who live in comfortable houses, with
tight floors, and well ventilated rooms, and
who, upon change of weather, and especially
in time of rains, make a little fire in the chim
ney, although the thermometer might not in
dicate the necessity.
In fine, I am prepared to give my opinion,
DISEASES. 89
decidedly, in favor of the general health of
this country and climate. I would not cer
tainly be answerable for all the bad locations,
the imprudences and whims of all classes of
emigrants, which may operate unfavorably to
health. I only speak for myself and family.
I decidedly prefer this climate, with all its
miasm, to New England, with its north-east
winds, and damp, 'raw,' and pulmonary at
mosphere. We very seldom have fogs in Il
linois and Missouri. My memoranda, kept
with considerable accuracy, for twelve years,
give not more than half a dozen foggy morn
ings in a year.
The following comparisons between St.
Louis and several eastern cities, will afford
some evidence of the opinions expressed
above. I have remarked, already, that 1821
was more sickly in St. Louis than any pre
ceding year, and deaths were more numerous
in proportion to the population. Some cases
of fever were more malignant in 1820, in that
place, but deaths were more frequent the fol
lowing season. I solemnized the marriage of
a young lady of my acquaintance, who was
under the age of fourteen years. In eight
days she was a widow. At the funeral of a
gentleman, the same season, who left a widow
under twenty years, there were present thir
teen widows, all under twenty-four years of
age, and all had lost their companions that
season. Young men were victims more than
any other age or condition. And yet I am
90 peck s guide.
prepared to show, that St. Louis, that sum
mer, was not more sickly than several eastern
cities were in 1820 and 1823.
The population of St. Louis, in 1821, varied
but little from 5000; the number of deaths
during that year was 136. This account was
taken by the Rev. Salmon Giddings, who was
particular in collecting the facts. The pro
portion of the deaths to the population, was
one to thirty-five.
In 1820, Boston contained a population of
43 893; number of deaths 1103; proportion
of one to thirty-nine and three fourths.
New York. Population 123 000; deaths
3515; proportion of one to a fraction less than
thirty-five.
Philadelphia. Population 108 000; deaths
3374; proportion of one to thirty-two.
Baltimore. Population 62 000; deaths 1625
proportion of one to thirty-eight.
The aggregate population of these four
cities, in 1320, was 336 893; the aggregate
number of deaths, 9617; proportion of one to
thirty-five, the same as that of St. Louis.
In 1823, Boston contained a population es
timated at 45 000; number of deaths, by of
ficial returns, 1154; proportion of one to thir
ty-nine.
New York. Population about 130 000;
deaths 3444; proportion of one to thirty-seven
and two thirds.
Philadelphia. Population about 120 000;
DISEASES. 91
deaths 4600; proportion of one to twenty-six.
[This was an uncommonly sickly season in
Philadelphia.]
Baltimore. Population estimated at 65 000;
deaths 2108; proportion of one to thirty and
two thirds.
I have thus selected the mortality of St.
Louis during the most sickly season since my
residence in this country, and compared it
with the bills of mortality of four eastern cities
for two years (those of 1820 and 1823), and
the result is favorable to the health of St.
Louis, and, by consequence, to the adjoining
States. For ten years past, there has been
no general sickness in St. Louis, during the
summer and autumnal months, excepting the
cholera, in 1832.
Some parts of Indiana and Ohio are unques
tionably more subject to bilious attacks than
Illinois. The reason is obvious. Much of
that region is heavily timbered; and, upon
cutting it away in spots, and letting in the
rays of the sun upon vegetable matter under
going decomposition, miasmata are generated.
These regions will become comparatively
healthy, when put under general cultivation.
The story is told, that the late emperor of
France lay encamped with one of his armies
near a place reputed unhealthy, when one of
his officers requested a furlough. The reason
being asked, and given,—that the place was
unhealthy, and the applicant feared to die an
inglorious death, from fever:—Napoleon re
92 peck s guide.
plied, in his accustomed laconic style, Go to
your post; men die every where."
If a family emigrate to a new and distant
country, and any of the number sicken and
die, we are apt to indulge in unavailing regret
at the removal; whereas, had the same afflic
tive event happened before removal, it would
have been regarded in quite a different light.
Let, then, none come to the West, who do not
expect to be sick and to die, whenever divine
Providence shall see fit so to order events.
The milk sickness is a disease of a singular
character, which prevails in certain places. It
first affects animals, especially cows, and from
them is communicated to the human system by
eating the milk, or flesh. The symptoms of
the disease indicate poison; and the patient
is affected nearly in the same way, as when
poisonous ingredients have been received into
the system. Cattle, when attacked by it, usu
ally die. In many instances it proves mortal
in the human system; in others, it yields to the
skill of the physician. Much speculation has
been had upon its cause, which is still un
known. The prevailing idea is, that it is
caused by some poisonous substance eaten by
the cattle, but whether vegetable or mineral,
remainsun determined. Physicians and others
have attempted to ascertain the cause of this
disease, but hitherto without success.
It infests only particular spots, or small dis
tricts, and these are soon found out. There
are places in Ohio, Indiana, and the southern
DISEASES. 93
States, where it exists. Its effects are more
frequent in autumn than any other season;
and to guard against it, the people either keep
their cows in a pasture, or refuse to use their
milk. Some have supposed this disease to he
produced by the cattle feeding on the cicuta
virosa, or water hemlock; as a similar disease
once infested the cattle in the north of Europe,
the cause of which was traced out by the great
naturalist Linnaeus; but it is not known that
this species of plant exists amongst the botani
cal productions of Missouri and Illinois.
Anxious to furnish all the information, on
this very important subject, to persons de
sirous of emigrating to the West, I will pro
long this chapter by inserting the following
"Advice to Emigrants, recent Settlers, and to
those visiting the southern Country.
"The outlines which have already been
given, will afford some information to emi
grants from other sections of the Union, or
from Europe. We will now offer a few cau
tionary remarks, particularly intended for
such as are about to settle, or have recently
settled in this section of the United States.
Of new comers, there are two tolerably
distinct classes: the one comprising farmers,
mechanics, and indeed all those who calculate
on obtaining a subsistence by manual indus
try; the other is composed of professional
men, tradesmen, and adventurers of every
description. Towards the first class our
94 peck s guide.
attention is now directed, premising that
throughout a great portion of the western
country, except in large towns, nearly every
mechanic is almost necessarily a farmer; the
population being in but few places sufficiently
dense to support that designation of mechani
cal employments which is common in the East
ern and Middle States.
For the industrious and temperate of this
class, our country holds forth inducements,
which are not generally known or understood.
"The language of indiscriminate panegyric,
which has been bestowed on its climate and
soil, has conveyed little information, and is
the source of many fears and suspicions in the
minds of people at a distance. Other accounts
have described the western country as uni
formly sickly; but the habit of exaggeration
in its favor, has been most prevalent; neither
need we wonder, when much of the informa
tion communicated, has been afforded by in
terested landholders, or speculators, and by
travelers, whose views have been superficial,
and whose journeys have been performed gen
erally, either on the rivers, or by post roads.
The first inquiry of a substantial farmer,
from one of the old settled States is, mostly,
for good land, in the vicinity of a market; and,
afterwards, whether the situation be healthy.
It is true that there are many places in the
western country, affording the qualities ex
pressed in this description, but they are per
haps all occupied; and it would be, in several
DISEASES. 95
respects, more advisable for a farmer, pos
sessing even a considerable sum of money in
hand, to inquire first for a healthy situation,
and then good land.
The spirit of improvement throughout the
United States, especially evinced in canalling
and rail-roads, will, it is hoped, in a few years,
open modes of communication, which, as yet,
are wanting with the markets.
The same remarks will apply to the poorer
class of emigrants. If they value their own
health, and that of their families, the main ob
ject of their attention will be to secure, if pos
sible, a situation remote from the fogs that
hover over the channels of large rivers, which
become partly dry in summer, and from the
neighborhood of swamps, marshes, ponds and
small lakes.
Every person, on coming from beyond
the mountains, and especially from the Eastern
States, or Europe, will have to undergo some
degree of change in his constitution, before
it becomes naturalized to the climate; and
all who move from a cold to a considerably
warmer part of the western count ry will expe
rience the same alteration; it will, therefore,
be wisdom for the individual brought up in a
more rigorous climate, that he seek a situa
tion where the circulation of air is unimpeded
and free, and that he avoid those flat and
marshy districts, which have been already de
scribed.
"Those who settle in new countries are
96 peck s guide.
almost universally exposed to inconveniences
which have an unfavorable influence on health.
They are seldom able, for a length of time, to
erect comfortable places of residence and in
deed, many postpone this important object of
attention, even after their circumstances will
permit them to build comfortable dwelling
houses.
"Wool is mostly a scarce article in new
settlements, so that cotton and linen garments
are too frequently worn in winter. There is
another circumstance, which no doubt has
an unfavorable influence on health, especially
among the poorer class: it is the want, during
the summer season particularly, of substantial
food. This is sometimes owing to indolence,
or improvidence; but perhaps oftener to the
circumstances in which a few families are
placed, at a distance from any established or
opulent settlement.
"Erroneous views are too generally en
tertained in relation to hardening the human
system; and the analogies drawn from savage
life, are altogether inconclusive. The man
ners of the North American Indians are es
sentially different from those of the whites.
It is true, there is a portion of the latter,
especially in Illinois and Missouri, who from
infancy are educated almost in the habits of
the aborigines.
We have frequently heard the example
of savages referred to, as an argument in fa
vor of attempting to strengthen the constitu
DISEASES. 97
tion by exposure.* There is plausibility in
this; but might not the example of the negroes
in the lower parts of South Carolina and
Uniform exposure to the weather is favorable to health. I can affirm this from long experience and observation. Oar hunters and surveyors, who uniformly spend their time for weeks in the woods and prairies, who wade in the water, swim creeks, are drenched in the rains and dews, and sleep in the open air or a camp at night, very rarely are attacked with fevers. I have known repeated instances of young men brought up delicately in the eastern cities, accustomed, as clerks, to a sedentary life, with feeble constitutions,—I have known such, repeatedly, to enter upon the business of surveying the public lauds, or in the hunting and trapping business, be absentfor months, and return with robust health. It is a common thing for a frontier man, whose health is on the decline, and especially when indications of pulmonary affection appear, to engage in a huntiDg expedition to reno vate his health. I state these facts, and leave it to the medical faculty to explain the why and wherefore. One cir cumstance may deserve attention. All these men, as do the Indians, sleep with their feet towards the fire at night. And it is a common notion with this class, that if the feet are kept hot through the night, however cold the atmos phere, or however much exposed the rest of the body, no evil consequences will ensue. I have passed many a night in this position, after fatiguing rides of thirty or forty miles in the day on our extreme frontiers, and through rains, and never experienced any inconvenience to health, if I could get a pallet on the cabin floor, and my feet to the fire. Those who are exposed to these hardships but occasion ally, when compelled by necessity, and who endeavor to protect themselves at all other times, usually suffer after such exposure. I have observed that children, when left to run in the open air and weather, who go barefoot, and oftentimes with a single light garment around them, who sleep on the floor at night, are more healthy than those who are protected.
98 peck s guide.
Georgia, be also quoted as evidencing the
propriety of living on corn-meal and sweet
potatoes, and working every day in the water
of a rice-field, during the sickly season
They are, generally, more healthy than the
whites who own them, and who reside on the
plantations in the summer. The civilized man
may turn to savage life perhaps with safety, as
regards health; but then he must plunge with
the Indian into the depths of the forest, and
observe consistency in all his habits. These
pages are not written, however, for such as
are disposed to consider themselves beyond
the pale of civilized society; but for the re
flecting part of the community, who can es
timate the advantages to be derived from a
prudent care of health.
"Much disease, especially in the more re
cently settled parts of this country, is conse
quent to neglecting simple and comfortable
precautionary means: sometimes, this neglect
is owing to misdirected industry, and at others
to laziness, or evil habits.
"To have a dry house, if it be a log one,
with the openings between the logs well filled
up, so that it may be kept warm in winter; to
fill up all the holes in its vicinity which may
contain stagnant water; to have a good clean
spring or well, sufficient clothing, and a rea
sonable supply of provisions, should be the
first object of a settler s attention. But fre
quently a little, wet, smoky cabin or hovel is
erected, with the floor scarcely separated
DISEASES. 99
from the ground, and admitting the damp and
unwholesome air: all hands, that can work,
are impelled, by the father s example, to labor
beyond their strength, and more land is clear
ed and planted with corn than is well tended;
for over-exertion, change in the manner of
living, and the influence of other debilitating
causes, which have been mentioned, bring
sickness on at least a part of the family, be
fore the summer is half over.
"It is unnecessary for even the poorest
emigrant to encounter these causes of dis
tress, unless seduced by the misrepresenta
tions of some interested landholder, or by the
fantasies of his own brain, to an unhealthy
and desolate situation, where he can neither
help himself, nor be assisted by others.
Many persons, on moving into the back
woods, who have been accustomed to the de
cencies of life, think it little matter how they
live, because no one sees them. Thus we have
known a family of some opulence to reside for
years in a cabin unfit for the abode of any
human being, because they could not find time
to build a house! and whenever it rained hard,
the females were necessarily engaged in roll
ing the beds from one corner of the room to
another, in order to save them from the water
that poured in through the roof. This cabin
was intended at first as only a very temporary
residence, and was erected on the edge of a
swamp, for the convenience of being near a
spring. How unreasonable must such people
be, if they expect health!
100 peck s guide.
Clothing for winter, should be prepared
in summer. It is a common, but very incor
rect practice among many farmers, both west
and east of the Alleghany mountains, to post
pone wearing winter clothing until the we ather
has become extremely cold: this is a fruitful
source of pulmonary diseases, of rheumatisms
and of fevers.
With regard to providing a sufficiency of
nourishing food, no specific directions can be
given, further than to recommend,—what is
much neglected,—particular attention to a
good garden spot and to remark, that those
who devote undivided attention to cultivating
the soil, receive more uniform supplies of
suitable nourishment than the more indolent,
who spend a considerable portion of their time
in hunting.
"New settlers are not unfrequently troubled
with diseases of the skin, which are often sup
posed to be the itch: for these eruptions thev
generally use repellent external applications:
this plan of treatment is prejudicial.
The most proper time for the removal of
families to this country, from the Atlantic
States, is early in the spring, while the rivers
are full; or, if the journey be made by land, as
soon as the roads are sufficiently settled, and
the waters abated.
"Persons unaccustomed to the climate of
the Lower Mississippi country, are necessarily
exposed, whilst there in the summer season,
to many causes of disease. It will be advisa
DISEASES. 101
ble for such to have a prudent care of their
liealth, and yet a care distinct from that finical
timidity, which renders them liable to early
attacks of sickness.
"There is one important consideration,
which perhaps has been somewhat overlook
ed by medical men, who have written on this
subject. Natives of colder and healthier re
gions, when exposed in southern and sickly
climates, experience, if they remain any
length of time without evident and violent
disease, an alteration in the condition of the
liver, and of the secreted bile itself; when it
passes through the bowels, its color being
much darker than usual. Sometimes, indeed,
it appears to be 1 locked up in the liver,' the
stools having an ashen appearance. This
state of the biliary secretion is frequently ac
companied, although the patient is otherwise
apparently in tolerable health, by a pain over
the eye-balls, particularly when the eyes are
rolled upward.
The proper mode of treatment for such
symptoms is, to take, without delay, not less
than twenty grains of calomel, and, in eight
hours, a wine-glass full of castor oil. The
tone of the stomach should not be suffered to
sink too much after the operation of the medi
cine, which, if necessary, may be repeated in
twenty-four hours. Sulphate of quinine, or
other tonics, with nutritive food, which is easy
of digestion, should also be taken in moderate
portions at a time.
102 peck s guide.
"Where diseases are rapid in their pro
gress, and dangerous, no time is to be lost.
The practice of taking salts and other aperi
ents, when in exposed situations, and for the
purpose of preventing disease, is injurious.
It is sufficient, that the bowels be kept in a
natural and healthy state; for all cathartics,
even the mildest, have a tendency to nauseate
the stomach, create debility, and weaken the
digestive faculty. A reduction of tone in the
system, which is always advantageous, will
be more safely effected by using somewhat
less than usual of animal food, and of spiritu
ous, strong, vinous or fermented liquors. The
robust will derive benefit from losing a little
blood.
"It ought to be well understood, that as
we approximate tropical climates, the doses
of medicine, when taken, should be increased
in quantity, and repeated with less delay than
is admissible in colder countries. Exposure
to the night air is certainly prejudicial; so also
is the intense heat of the sun, in the middle
of the day. Violent exercise should also be
avoided. Bathing, daily, in water of a com
fortable temperature, is a very commendable
practice; and cotton, worn next the skin, is
preferable to linen.
"It is impossible to prevent the influence
of an atmosphere pregnant with the causes of
disease but the operation of those causes may
generally be counteracted, by attention to the
rules laid down; and it is no small consolation
DISEASES. 103
to be aware that, on recovery from the first
attack, the system is better adapted to meet
and sustain a second of a similar nature. The
reader will understand that we do not allude
to relapses, occurring while the system is en
feebled by the consequences of disease."
To the foregoing remarks, I add the follow
ing, from an address of Judge Hall, Decem
ber 10, 1827:
The climate, particularly in reference to
its influence on the human system, presents
another subject of investigation. The western
country has been considered unhealthy, and
there have been writers, whose disturbed im
aginations have misled them into a belief that
the whole land was continually exposed to the
most awful visitations of Providence, among
which have been numbered the hurricane, the
pestilence, and the earthquake. If we have
been content to smile at such exaggeration,
while few had leisure to attempt a serious re
futation, and while the facts upon which any
deliberate opinion must have been based, had
not been sufficiently tested by experience, the
time has now arrived when it is no longer ex
cusable to submit in silence to the reproaches
of ignorance or malice. It is proper, how
ever, to remark, as well in extenuation of
those who have assailed our country, as in the
support of the confidential denial, which I feel
authorized to make to their assertions, that a
vast improvement in the article of health has
taken place within a few years. Diseases
104 peck s guide.
are now mild which were once malignant, and
their occurrence is annually becoming less
frequent. This happy change affords strong
authority for the belief, that, although the mal
adies which have heretofore afflicted us were
partly imputable to the climate, other and
more powerful causes of disease must have
existed, which have vanished. We, who
came to the frontier while the axe was still
busy in the forest, and when thousands of the
acres which now yield abundance to the far
mer, were unreclaimed and tenantless, have
seen the existence of our fellow-citizens as
sailed by other than the ordinary ministers of
death. Toil, privation and exposure, have
hurried many to the grave; imprudence and
carelessness of life, have sent crowds of vic
tims prematurely to the tomb. It is not to be
denied that the margins of our great streams
in general, and many spots in the vicinity of
extensive marshes, are subject to bilious dis
eases; but it may be as confidently asserted,
that the interior country is healthy. Yet the
first settlers invariably selected the rich al
luvion lands upon the navigable rivers, in
preference to the scarcely less fertile soil of
the prairies, lying in situations less accessible
and more remote from market. They came
to a wilderness in which houses were not pre
pared for their reception, nor food, other than
that supplied by nature, provided for their
sustenance. They often encamped on the
margin ofthe river, exposed to its chilly atmos
DISEASES. 105
phere, without a tent to shelter, with scarcely
a blanket to protect them. Their first habita
tions were rude cabins, affording scarcely a
shelter from the rain, and too frail to afford
protection from the burning heat of the noon
day sun, or the chilling effects of the midnight
blast. As their families increased, another
and another cabin was added, as crazy and as
cheerless as the first, until admonished of the
increase of their own substance, the influx of
wealthier neighbors, and the general improve
ment of the country around them, they were
allured by pride to do that to which they never
would nave been impelled by suffering. The
gratuitous exposure to the climate, which the
backwoodsman seems rather to court than
avoid, is a subject of common remark. No
extremity of weather confines him to the shel
ter of his own roof. Whether the object be
business or pleasure, it is pursued with the
same composure, amid the shadows of the
night, or the howling of the tempest, as in the
most genial season. Nor is this trait of char
acter confined to woodsmen or to farmers:
examples of hardihood are contagious, and in
this country all ranks of people neglect or
despise the ordinary precautions with respect
to health. Judges and lawyers, merchants,
physicians and ministers of the gospel, set the
seasons at defiance, in the pursuit of their re
spective callings. They prosecute their jour
neys, regardless of weather; and learn at last
to feel little inconvenience from the exposure,
5*
106 peck s guide.
which is silently undermining their constitu
tions. Is it extraordinary, that people thus
exposed should be attacked by violent mala
dies? Would it not be more wonderful that
such a careless prodigality of life could pass
with impunity These remarks might be ex
tended the food of the first settler, consisting
chiefly of fresh meat, without vegetables, and
often without salt; the common use of ardent
spirits, the want of medical aid, by which dis
eases, at first simple, being neglected, become
dangerous; and other evils peculiar to a new
country, might be noticed, as fruitful sources
of disease; but I have already dwelt suffi
ciently on this subject. That this country is
decidedly healthy, I feel no hesitation in
declaring; but neither argument nor naked
assertions will convince the world. Let us
collect such facts as amount to evidence, and
establish the truth, by undeniable demonstra
tion."

 
CHAPTER IV.
CHARACTER, MANNERS, AND PURSUITS OF THE PEOPLE.
Cotton and Sugar Planters—Farmers—Population of the large Towns and Cities—Frontier Class—Hunters and Trappers—B oatmen.
There is great diversity in the character
and habits of the population of the Valley of
the Mississippi.
Those who have emigrated from the Atlantic
States, as have a very large proportion of those
persons who were not born in the Valley, of
course do not differ essentially from the re
maining population of those States. Some slight
shades of difference are perceptible in such
persons as have lived long enough in the coun
try to become assimilated to the habits, and
partake of the feelings, of western people.
Emigrants from Europe have brought the
peculiarities of the nations and countries from
whence they have originated, but are fast
losing their national manners and feelings,
and, to use a provincial term, will soon
become "westernized."
108 peck s guide.
The march of emigration from the Atlantic
border has been nearly in a line due west.
Tennessee was settled by Carolinians, and
Kentucky by Virginians. Ohio received the
basis of its population from the States in the
same parallel, and hence partakes of all the
varieties from Maryland to New England.
Michigan is substantially a child of New York.
The planters of the south have gone to Missis
sippi, Louisiana, and the southern part of Ar
kansas. Kentucky and Tennessee have spread
their sons and daughters over Indiana, Illinois
and Missouri; but the two former States are
now receiving great numbers of emigrants
from all the northern States including Ohio,
and multitudes from the south, who desire to
remove beyond the boundaries and influence
of a slave population.
Slavery in the West keeps nearly in the
same parallels as it holds in the East, and
is receding south, as it does on the Atlantic
coast.-^Many descendants of the Scotch, Irish
and Germans, have come into the frontier
States from Western Pennsylvania.
4 We have European emigrants from Great
Britain and Ireland. Those of the latter are
more generally found about our large towns,
and cities, and along the lines of canalling.
The French were the explorers and early
settlers of the Valley immediately bordering
on the Mississippi, 150 years since. They
formed the basis of population of Louisiana a
few years since, but are relatively diminishing
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 109
before the emigration from other States of the
Union. Their descendants show many of the
peculiar and distinctive traits of that people
in all countries. They possess mild vivacity,
and gayety, and are distinguished for their
quiet, inoffensive, domestic, frugal, and unen
terprising spirit and manners. The poorer
class of French are rather peculiar and
unique. Their ancestors were isolated from
the rest of the world, had no object of excite-1
ment or ambition, cared little for wealth, ori
the accumulation of property, and were ac-\
customed to hunt, make voyages in their
canoes, smoke, and traffic with the Indians. 1
But few of them knew how to read and write.
Accustomed from infancy to the life of hunts
men, trappers and boatmen, they make but
indifferent farmers. They are contented to
live in the same rude, but neatly whitewashed
cabin, cultivate the same corn-fields in the same
mode, and drive the same rudely constructed
horse-cart their fathers did. In the neatness
of their gardens, which are usually cultivated
by the females, they excel the Americans.
They are the coureurs du bois of the West.
vfhe European Germans are now coming
into the Valley by thousands, and, for a time,
will retain their manners and languages
Collon and Sugar Planters. These people,
found chiefly in Mississippi, Louisiana, and
the southern part of Arkansas, have a great
degree of similarity. They are noted for
their high-mindedness, generosity, liberality,
no peck s guide.
hospitality, sociability quick sense of honor,
resentment of injuries, indolence, and, in too
many cases, dissipation. They are much ad
dicted to the sports of the turf and the vices
of the gaming table. Still there are many
planters of strictly moral, and even religious
habits. They are excessively jealous of their
political rights, yet frank and open-hearted in
their dispositions, and carry the duties of
hospitality to a great extent. Having over
seers on most of their plantations, the labor
being performed by the slaves, they have
much leisure, and are averse to much person
al attention to business. They dislike care,
profound thinking and deep impressions. The
young men are volatile, gay, dashing and
reckless spirits, fond of excitement and high
life. There is a fatal propensity amongst the
southern planters to decide quarrels, and even
trivial disputes, by duels. But there are also
many amiable and noble traits of character
amongst this class; and if the principles of the
Bible and religion could be brought to exert a
controlling influence, there would be a noble
spirited race of peoplein the south-western
States.
It cannot be expected that I should pass in
entire silence the system of slave-holding in
the Lower Valley, or its influence on the man
ners and habits of the people. This state of
society seems unavoidable at present, though
I have no idea or expectation it will be per
petual. Opposite sentiments and feelings are
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. Ill
spreading over the whole earth, and a person
must have been a very inattentive observer of
the tendencies and effects of the diffusion of
liberal principles, not to perceive that heredi
tary, domestic servitude must have an end.
This is a subject, however, that, from our
civil compact, belongs exclusively to the citi
zens of the States concerned; and if not un
reasonably annoyed, the farming slave-holding
States, as Kentucky, Tennesse, and Missouri,
will soon provide for its eventual termination.
Doubtless, in the cotton and sugar-growing
States it will retain its hold with more tenacity
but the influence of free principles will roll
onward until the evil is annihilated.
The barbarous and unwise regulations in
some of the planting States, which prohibit the
slaves from being taught to read, are a serious
impediment to the moral and religious instruc
tion of that numerous and unfortunate class.
Such laws display, on the part of the law ma
kers, little knowledge of human nature, and
the real tendency of things. To keep slaves
entirely ignorant of the rights of man, in this
spirit-stirring age, is utterly impossible. Seek
out the remotest and darkest corner of Louis
iana, and plant every guard that is possible
around the negro quarters, and the light of
truth will penetrate. Slaves will find out, for
they already know it, that they possess rights
as men. And here is the fatal mistake now
committed in the southern slave-holding States
—legislating against the instruction of their
112 peck s guide.
slaves, to keep them from knowing their
rights. They will obtain some loose, vague,
and undefined notion of the doctrine of human
rights, and the unrighteousness of oppression
in this republican country. Being kept from
all the moral and religious instruction which
Sabbath schools, the Bible, and other good
books are calculated to impart, and with those
undefined notions of liberty, and without any
moral principle, they are prepared to enter
into the first insurrectionary movement pro
posed by some artful and talented leader.
The same notion prevailed in the West Indies
half a century since, and many of the planters
resisted and persecuted the benevolent Mora
vians, who went there to instruct the blacks
in the principles and duties of religion. A
few of the planters reasoned justly. They
invited these benevolent men on their planta
tions, and gave them full liberty on the Sab
bath, and at other suitable seasons, to instruct
'their slaves. The happiest effects followed.
On these plantations, where riot, misrule,
and threatened insurrections, had once spread
a panic through the colony, order, quietness
and submission followed. Such would be the
effects if the southern planter would invite
the minister of the gospel and the Sabbath
school teacher to visit his plantation, allow
his slaves to be instructed to read, and each
to be furnished with a copy of the Scriptures.
The southern planter hourly lives under the
'most terrific apprehensions. It is in vain to
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 113
disguise the fact. As Mr. Randolph once
significantly said in Congress, "when the
night bell rings, the mother hugs her infant
closer to her breast." Slavery, under any
circumstances; is a bitter draught—equally
bitter to him who tenders the cup, and to him
who drinks it. But in all the northern slave
holding States, it is comparatively mild. Its
condition would be much alleviated, and the
planter might sleep securely, if he would
abolish his barbarous laws, more congenial
with Asiatic despotism than American repub
licanism, and provide for his slaves the bene
fits of wholesome instruction. Philanthropy
and interest unite in their demands upon
every southern planter to provide Sunday
school instruction for his slaves.
The planting region of the Lower Valley
furnishes an immense market for the produc
tions and manufactures of the Upper Valley.
Indirectly, the Louisiana sugar business is a
source of profit to the farmer of Illinois and
Missouri. Pork, beef, corn, corn-meal, flour,
potatoes, butter, hay, &c, in vast quantities,
go to supply these plantations. In laying in
their stores, the sugar planters usually pur
chase one barrel of second or third quality of
beef or pork per annum, for each laborer.
Large drafts for sugar-mills, engines and boil
ers, are made upon the Cincinnati and Pitts
burgh iron foundries. Mules and horses are
driven from the upper country, or from the
Mexican dominions, to keep up the supply.
114 PECIf s GUIDE.
The commerce of the upper country that
concentrates at New Orleans is amazing, and.
every year is rapidly increasing. Sixteen
hundred arrivals of steam-boats took place in
1832, and the estimated number, in 1835, is
2300.
Farmers. In the northern half of the Val
ley the productions, and the modes of cultiva
tion and living are such as to characterize a
large proportion of the population as farm
ers. No country on earth has such facilities
for agriculture. The soil is abundantly fer
tile, the seasons ordinarily favorable to. the
growth and maturity of crops, and every
farmer, in a few years, with reasonable indus
try, becomes comparatively independent.
Tobacco and hemp are among the staple pro
ductions of Kentucky.
Neat cattle, horses, mules and swine are
its stock. Some stock growers have monop
olized the smaller farms till they are surround
ed with several thousand acres. Blue grass
pastures furnish summer feed, and exten
sive fields of corn, cut up near the ground,
and stacked in the fields, furnish stores for fat
tening stock in the winter.
In some counties, raising of stock has taken
place of all other business. The Scioto Val
ley, and other districts in Ohio, are famous
for fine, well-fed beef. Thousands of young
cattle are purchased by the Ohio graziers, at
the close of winter, of the farmers of Illinois
and Missouri. The Miami and White-water
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 115
sections of Ohio and Indiana, abound with
swine. Cincinnati has been the great pork
mart of the world. 150 000 head of hogs
have been frequently slaughtered there in a
season. About 75 000 is estimated to have
been the number slaughtered at that place the
past season. This apparent falling off in the
pork business, at Cincinnati, is accounted for
by the vast increase of business at other pla
ces. Since the opening of the canals in Ohio,
many provision establishments have been
made along their line. Much business of the
kind is now done at Terre Haute, and other
towns on the Wabash,—at Madison, Louis
ville, and other towns on the Ohio,—at Alton,
and other places in Illinois.
The farmers of the West are independent
in feeling, plain in dress, simple in manners,
frank and hospitable in their dwellings, and
soon acquire a competency by moderate labor.
Those from Kentucky, Tennessee, or other
States south of the Ohio river, have large
fields, well cultivated, and enclosed with
strong built rail or worm fences, but they often
neglect to provide spacious barns and other
out-houses for their grain, hay and stock.
The influence of habit is powerful. A Ken
tuckian would look with contempt upon the
low fences of a New Englander, as indicating
thriftless habits, while the latter would point
at the unsheltered stacks of wheat, and dirty
threshing-floor of the former, as proof direct
of bad economy and wastefulness.
116 peck s guide.
Population of the Cities and large Totems.
The population of western towns does not
differ essentially from the same class in the
Atlantic States, excepting there is much less
division into grades and ranks, less ignor
ance, low depravity and squalid poverty
amongst the poor, and less aristocratic feeling
amongst the rich. As there is never any
lack of employment for laborers of every de
scription, there is comparatively no suffering
from that cause. And the hospitable habits
of the people provide for the sick, infirm and
helpless. Doubtless, our circumstances, more
than any thing else, cause these shades of
difference. The common mechanic is on a
social equality with the merchant, the lawyer,
the physician, and the minister. They have
shared in the same fatigues and privations,
partook of the same homely fare, in many in
stances have fought side by side in defence of
their homes against the inroads of savages,—
are frequently elected to the same posts of
honor, and have accumulated property simul
taneously. Many mechanics in the western
cities and towns, are the owners of their own
dwellings, and of other buildings, which they
rent. I have known many a wealthy merchant,
or professional gentleman occupy on rent, a
building worth several thousand dollars, the
property of some industrious mechanic, who,
but a few years previous, was an apprentice
lad, or worked at his trade as a journeyman.
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 117
Any sober, industrious mechanic can place
/tfimself in affluent circumstances, and place
his children on an equality with the children
of the commercial and professional communi
ty, by migrating to any of our new and rising
western towns. They will find no occasion
here for combinations to sustain their interests,
nor meet with annoyance from gangs of un
principled foreigners, under the imposing
names of Trades Unions."
Manufactures of various kinds are carried
on in our western cities. Pittsburgh has
been characterized as the "Birmingham of
America." The manufactures of iron, ma
chinery, and glass, and the building of steam
boats, are carried on to a great extent.
Iron and salt are made in great quantities,
in Western Pennsylvania and Western Vir
y ginia. Steam-boats are built, to a considerable
extent, at Fulton, two miles above Cincinnati,
and occasionally, at many other places on the
Ohio and Mississippi rivers. Alton offers great
facilities for this business. Cotton bagging,
bale ropes and cordage, are manufactured in
Tennessee and Kentucky. The following ar
ticle, from the Covington Enquirer, gives a
few items of the industry and enterprise of
Kentucky,—of the manufacture of Newport
and Covington. Both of these thriving towns
lie at the mouth of the Licking river, the one
on the right bank, and the other on the left,
and both in direct view of Cincinnati.
118 peck s guide.
Manufactures in Covinglon and Newport.
Founding the calculation upon the actual
manufactures of October, and the known
power of their machinery, the company will,
the ensuing year, give employment to more
than four hundred operatives, and manufac
ture,—
Cotton bagging, 60 000 pounds. yarns, 84 000 Bale rope 274 268 Cordage 448 000 Linseys 44 592 yards, Cotton plains 63 588 Kentucky jeans, 97 344 Cotton bagging and hemp, 548 530
"Estimating bale rope and cotton bagging
at thirty-three per cent. under the price at
which the company have sold these articles
for the last six months, the manufactures of
this company, during the ensuing year, will
amount to $358 548 44. Almost all the manu
factures at Covington and Newport being ex
ported to foreign markets, it will result that
the annual exports from these points will, in
round numbers, be, from the
Interior, $750 000 Campbell county 150 000 Boone 234 000 Covington, 548 500 Newport 358 500
$2 041,000
"The Newport Manufacturing Company
has depended principally, for its supply of
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 119
hemp, on the production of Mason county, of
which Maysville is the market. This season,
they have not been able to get a supply at
Maysville; and it is a remarkable fact in the
history of the hemp manufactories in Ken
tucky, that this company, owing to the scarci
ty and high prices of hemp in Kentucky, have
imported this season, 354 201 /6s. RussyAemp."
Various manufactories are springing up in
all the new States, which will be noticed un
der their proper heads.
The number of merchants and traders is
very great in the Valley of the Mississippi,
yet mercantile business is rapidly increasing.
Thousands of the farmers of the West are
partial traders. They take their own pro
duce, in their own flat boats, down the rivers
to the market of the lower country.
Frontier Class of Population. The rough,
sturdy habits of the backwoodsmen, living in
that plenty which depends on God and na
ture, have laid the foundation of independent
thought and feeling deep in the minds of west
ern people.
Generally, in all the western settlements,
three classes, like the waves of the ocean,
have rolled one after the other. First, comes
the pioneer, who depends for the subsistence
of his family chiefly upon the natural growth
of vegetation, called the "range," and the
proceeds of hunting. His implements of ag
riculture are rude, chiefly of his own make,
and his efforts directed mainly to a crop of
1S>0 peck s guide.
corn, and a "truck patch." The last is a
rude garden for growing cabbage, beans, corn
for roasting ears, cucumbers and potatoes.
A log cabin, and, occasionally, a stable and
corn-crib, and a field of a dozen acres, the
timber girdled or "deadened," and fenced,
are enough for his occupancy. It is quite im
materBLwhether he ever becomes the owner
of the sail. He is the occupant for the time
being, pays no rent, and feels as independent
as the lord of the manor." With a horse,
cow, and one or two breeders of swine, he
strikes into the woods with 1 1 is family, and
becomes the founder of a new county, or per
haps State. He builds his cabin, gathers
around him a few other families of similar
taste and habits, and occupies till the range
is somewhat subdued, and hunting a little pre
carious, or, which is more frequently the
case, till neighbors crowd around, roads,
bridges and fields annoy him, and he lacks
elbow room. The preemption law enables
him to dispose of his cabin and corn-field, to
the next class of emigrants, and, to employ
his own figures, he breaks for the high tim
ber," clears out for the New Purchase," or
migrates to Arkansas, or Texas, to work the
same process over.
The next class of emigrants purchase the
lands, add field to field, clear out the roads,
throw rough bridges over the streams, put
up hewn log houses, with glass windows, and
brick or stone chimneys, occasionally plant
0 CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 121
orchards, build mills, school-houses, court
houses, Sic, and exhibit the picture and forms
of plain, frugal, civilized life.
Another wave rolls on. The men of capital
and enterprise come. The "settler" is ready
to sell out, and take the advantage of the rise
of property,—push farther into the interior,
and become himself, a man of capitaMpd en
terprise in turn. The small village rwes to a
spacious town or city substantial edifices of
brick, extensive fields, orchards, gardens,
colleges and churches are seen. Broadcloths,
silks, leghorns, crapes, and all the refinements
luxuries, elegancies, frivolities and fashions,
are in vogue. Thus wave after wave is roll
ing westward:—the real el dorado is still far
ther on.
A portion of the two first classes remain
stationary amidst the general movement, im
prove their habits and condition, and rise in
the scale of society.
The writer has traveled much amongst the
iirst class,—the real pioneers. He has lived
many years in connexion with the second
grade; and now the third wave is sweeping
over large districts of Indiana, Illinois and
Missouri. Migration has become almost a
habit. in the West. Hundreds of men can be
found, not fifty years of age, who have settled
for the fourth, fifth, or sixth time on a new
spot. To sell out, and remove only a few
hundred miles, makes up a portion of the va
riety of backwoods life and manners.
122 peck s guide.
But to return to the frontier class:
1. Dress. The hunting-shirt is universally
worn. This is a kind of loose, open frock,
reaching half way down the thighs, with large
sleeves, the body open in front, lapped over
and belted with a leathern girdle, held to
gether by a buckle. The cape is large, and
usualljptfringed with different colored cloth
from mat of the body. The bosom of this
dress sometimes serves as a wallet for a
"chunk" of bread, jerk or smoke-dried veni
son, and other articles. It is made either of
dressed deer->skins, linsey, coarse linen, or
cotton. The shirt, waistcoat and pantaloons
are of similar articles, and of the customary
form. Wrappers, of cloth or dressed skins,
called leggins," are tied round the legs
when traveling. Moccasins, of deer skins,
shoe-packs and rough shoes, the leather tan
ned and cobbled by the owner, are worn on
the feet.
The females dress in a coarse gown, of cot
ton, a bonnet of the same stuff, and denomi
nated in the Eastern States a sun bonnet."
The latter is constantly worn through the day,
especially when company is present. The
clothing, for both sexes, is made at home.
The wheel and loom are common articles of
furniture, in every cabin.
2. Dwellings. "Cabin" is the name for a
plain, rough log house, throughout the West.
The spot being selected, usually, in the tim
bered land, and near some spring, the first
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 123
operation of the newly arrived emigrant is to
cut about forty logs, of the proper size and
length, for a single cabin, or twice that num
ber for a double one, and haul them to the
spot. A large oak, or other suitable timber,
of staight grain and free from limbs, is selected
for clapboards for the roof: these are four feet
in length, split with a froe, six or eight inches
wide and half an inch thick. Puncheons are
used for the floor: these are made by splitting
trees, about eighteen inches in diameter, into
slabs, two or three inches in thickness, and
hewn on the upper surface. The door-way is
made by cutting out the logs, after raising, of
a suitable width, and putting upright pieces of
timber at the sides. The shutter is made of
clapboards, pinned on cross pieces, hung by
wooden hinges, and fastened by a wooden
latch. A similar aperture, but wider, is made
at one end, for the chimney. The men of the
settlement, when notified, collect and raise
the building. Four stout men, with axes, are
placed on the corners, to notch the logs to
gether, while the rest of the company lift them
up. After the roof is on, the body of the build
ing is slightly hewed down, both outside and
inside. The roof is formed by shortening each
end log, in succession, till one log forms the
comb of the roof. The clapboards are put on
so as to cover all cracks, and held down by
poles, or small logs. The chimney is built of
sticks of wood, the largest at the bottom, and
the smallest at the top, and laid up with a sup
 
124 s PECJf s GUIDE.
ply of mud or clay mortar. The interstices
between the logs are chinked with strips of
wood, and daubed with mortar, both outside
and inside. A double cabin consists of two
such buildings, with a space of ten or twelve
feet between, over which the roof extends.
A log house, in western parlance, differs
from a cabin, in the logs being hewn on two
sides, to an equal thickness, before raising; in
having a framed and shingled roof, a brick or
stone chimney, windows, tight floors, and are
frequently clapboarded on the outside, and
plastered within.
A log house thus finished, costs more than
a framed one. Cabins are often the tempora
ry dwelling of opulent and highly respectable
families.
The axe, auger, froe, drawing-knife, broad
axe, and cross-cut saw, are the only tools re
quired in constructing these rude edifices;
sometimes the axe and auger only are em
ployed. Not a nail or pane of glass is need
ed. Cabins are by no means so wretched for
residences, as their name imports. They are
often roomy, comfortable and neat. If one is
not sufficient to accommodate the family,
another is added, and another, until sufficient
room is obtained.
3. Furniture, and mode of living. The genu
ine backwoodsman makes himself and family
comfortable and contented, where those, un
accustomed to his mode of life, would live in
unavailing regret, or make a thousand awk
 
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 125
ward apologies on the visit of a neighbor or
traveler. A table is made of a split slab, and
supported by four round legs. Clapboards,
supported by pins stuck in the logs, answer
for shelves for table furniture. The bedstead
is often made in the corner of the room, by
sticks, placed in the logs, supported at the
outward corner by a post, on which clapboards
are laid, the ends of which enter the wall, be
tween the logs, and which support the bed
ding. On the arrival of travelers or visiters,
the bed clothing is shared with them, being
spread on the puncheon floor, that the feet
may project towards the fire. Many a night
has the writer passed in this manner, after a
fatiguing day s ride, and reposed more com
fortably than on a bed of down, in a spacious
mansion. All the family, of both sexes, with
all the strangers who arrive, often lodge in
the same room. In that case, the under gar
ments are never taken off, and no conscious
ness of impropriety or indelicacy of feeling is
manifested. A few pins, stuck in the wall of
the cabin, display the dresses of the women
and the hunting-shirts of the men. Two small
forks, or buck s horns, fastened to a joist, are
indispensable articles for the support of the
rifle. A loose floor of clapboards, and sup
ported by round poles, is thrown over head,
for a loft, which furnishes a place to throw
any articles not immediately wanted, and is
frequently used for a lodging place for the
younger branches of the family. A ladder
 
126 peck s guide.
planted in the corner, behind the door, an
swers the purpose of stairs.
The necessary table and kitchen furniture
are a few pewter dishes and spoons, knives
and forks (for which, however, the common
hunting-knife is often a substitute), tin cups,
for coffee or milk, a water-pail, and a small
gourd or calabash for water, with a pot, and
iron Dutch oven, constitute the chief articles.
Add to these a tray, for wetting up meal, for
corn-bread, a coffee-pot and set of cups and
saucers, a set of common plates, and the
cabin is furnished. The hominy mortar and
hand-mill, are in use in all frontier settle
ments. The first, consists of a block of wood,
with an excavation burned at one end, and
scraped out with an iron tool, wide at top and
narrow at the bottom, that the action of the
pestle may operate to the best advantage.
Sometimes a stump of a large tree is excava
ted, while in its natural position; an elastic
pole, twenty or thirty feet in length, with the
large end fastened under the ground log of
the cabin, and the other elevated ten or fifteen
feet, and supported by two forks, to which a
pestle five or six inches in diameter, and eight
or ten feet long, is fixed, on the elevated end,
by a large mortice, and a pin put through its
lower end, so that two persons can work it in
conjunction. This is much used for pounding
corn. A very simple instrument, to answer
the same purpose, is a circular piece of tin,
perforated, and attached to a piece of wood,
 
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 127
like a grater, on which the ears of corn are
rubbed, for meal. The hand-mill is in the
same form as that used in Judea, in the time
of our Savior. Two circular stones, about
eighteen inches in diameter, constructed like ordinary mill-stones, with a staff let intos the
runner or upper stone near its outer edge,
with the upper end inserted in a joist or board
over head, and turned by the hands of two
persons, while one feeds it with corn. Horse
mills follow the mortar and hand-mill, in the
scale of improvement. They are constructed
variously. A band-mill is the most simple.
A large, upright post is placed on a gudgeon,
with shafts extending horizontally, fifteen or
twenty feet; around the ends of these is a
band of raw hide, twisted, which passes round
the trundle head and turns the spindle, and
communicates motion to the stone. A cog-mill
is formed by constructing a rim, with cogs
upon the shafts, and a trundle head to corres
pond. ^Each person furnishes his own horses
to turn the mill, performs his own grinding,
and pays toll to the owner, for the use of the
mill. Mills, with the wheel on an inclined
plane, and carried by oxen standing on the
wheel, are much in use in those sections
where water-power is not convenient; but
these indicate an advance to the second grade
of society.!
Instead of bolting-cloths, the frontier people
use a sieve, or, as it is called here, a "search."
This is made from a deer-skin, prepared to
128 peck s cuide.
resemble parchment, stretched on a hoop, and
perforated full of holes, with a hot wire.
Every backwoodsman carries, on all occa
sions, the means of furnishing his meat. The
rifle, bullet-pouch, and horn, hunting-knife,
horse and dog, are his constant companions,
when from home, and wo be to the wolf, bear,
deer or turkey that comes within one hundred
and fifty yards of his trail.
With the first emigration there are few me
chanical/hence every settler becomes expert
in supplying his own necessaries. Besides
clearing land, building cabins, and making
fences, he stocks his own plough, repairs his
wagon and his harness, tans his own leather,
makes his shoes, tables, bedsteads, stools, or
seats, trays, and a hundred other articles.
These may be rudely constructed, but they
answer his purpose very well. |k
The following extracts, from the graphic
Sketches of the West," by James Hall,
Esq., completes this extended picture of back
woods manners:
The traveler, accustomed to different
modes of life, is struck with the rude and un
comfortable appearance of every thing about
this people; the rudeness of their habitations,
the carelessness of their agriculture, the un
sightly coarseness of all their implements and
furniture, the unambitious homeliness of all
their goods and chattels, except the axe, the
rifle, and the horse, these being invariably
the best and handsomest which their means
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 129
enable them to procure. But he is mistaken
in supposing them indolent or improvident
and is little aware how much ingenuity and
toil have been exerted in procuring the few
comforts which they possess, in a country
without arts, mechanics, money, or commer
cial intercourse.
"The backwoodsman has many substantial
enjoyments. After the fatigue of his journey,
and a short season of privation and danger,
he finds himself surrounded with plenty. His
cattle, hogs and poultry, supply his table with
meat; the forest abounds in game; the fertile
soil yields abundant crops; he has, of course,
bread, milk and butter; the rivers furnish fish,
and the woods honey. For these various ar
ticles, there is, at first, no market, and the
farmer acquires the generous habit of spread
ing them profusely on his table, and giving
them freely to a hungry traveler or indigent
neighbor.
Hospitality and kindness are among the
virtues of the first settlers. Exposed to com
mon dangers and toils, they become united by
the closest ties of social intercourse. Accus
tomed to arm in each other s defence, to aid in
each other s labor, to assist in the affectionate
duty of nursing the sick, and the mournful
office of burying the dead, the best affections
of the heart are kept in constant exercise; and
there is, perhaps, no class of men in our
country, who obey the calls of benevolence,
130 peck s guide.
with such cheerful promptness, or with so
liberal a sacrifice of personal convenience.
We read marvellous stories of the ferocity
of western men. The name of Kentuckian is
constantly associated with the idea of fighting,
dirking and gouging. The people of whom
we are now writing, do not deserve this char
acter. They live together in great harmony,
with little contention, and less litigation. The
backwoodsmen are a generous and placable
race. They are bold and impetuous; and,
when differences do arise among them, they
are more apt to give vent to their resentment
at once, than to brood over their wrongs, or
to seek legal redress. But this conduct is
productive of harmony; for men are always
more guarded in their deportment to each
other, and more cautious of giving offence,
when they know that the insult will be quickly felt, and instantly resented, than when the
consequences of an offensive action are doubt
ful, and the retaliation distant. We have no
evidence that the pioneers of Kentucky were
quarrelsome or cruel; and an intimate ac
quaintance with the same race, at a later
period, has led the writer to the conclusion,
that they are a humane people bold and dar
ing, when opposed to an enemy, but amiable
in their intercourse with each other and with
strangers, and habitually inclined to peace."
In morals, and the essential principles of
religion, this class of people are by no means
so defective as many imagine. The writer
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 131
has, repeatedly, been in settlements and dis
tricts beyond the pale of civil and criminal
law, where the people are a law unto them
selves," where courts, lawyers, sheriffs and
constables existed not, and yet has seen as
much quiet and order, and more honesty in
paying just debts, than where legal restraints
operated in all their force. The turpitude of
vice and the majesty of virtue, were as ap
parent as in older settlements. Industry, in
laboring or hunting, bravery in war, candor,
honesty and hospitality were rewarded with
the confidence and honor of the people.
Regulating parties would exist, and thieves,
rogues and counterfeiters were sure to re
ceive a striped jacket, "worked nineteen to
the dozen;" and by this mode of operation,
induced to "clear out:" but truth, upright
ness, honesty and sincerity are always re
spected. Many of the frontier class are il
literate, but they are, by no means, ignorant.
They are a shrewd, observing, thinking peo
ple. They may not have learned the black
marks in books, but they have studied men
and things, and have a quick insight into hu
man nature. They are not inattentive to re
ligion, though their opportunities of religious
instruction are few compared with old coun
tries. They have prejudices and fears about
many of the organized benevolent societies of
the present age, yet there are no people more
readily disposed to attend religious meetings,
and whose hearts are more readily affected
132 peck s guide.
with the gospel, than the backwoods people
and as large a proportion are orderly profes
sors of religion as in any part of the Union.
Ministers of the gospel and missionaries, who
can suit themselves to the circumstances and
habits of frontier people; who, like Paul, can
become all things to all men," find pleasant
and interesting fields of labor on all our fron
tiers. But let such persons show fastidious
ness, affect superior intelligence and virtue,
catechise the people for their plainness and
simplicity of manners, and draw invidious
comparisons, and they are sure to be used
up," or left without hearers, to deplore the
dark clouds of ignorance and prejudice in
the West.
Hunters and Trappers. Entirely beyond the
boundaries of civilization, are many hundreds
of an unique class, distinguished by the terms
hunters and trappers. They are engaged in
hunting buffalo, and other wild game, and
trapping for beaver. They are found upon
the vast prairies of the West and nortb-west;
in all the defiles, and along the streams of the
Rocky mountains, and in various parts of the
Oregon Territory, to the peninsula of Califor
nia. They are an enterprising and erratic
race, from almost every State, and are usually
in the employ of persons of capital and enter
prise, and who are concerned in the fur and
peltry business. Expeditions for one, two,
or three years, are fitted out from St. Louis,
or some commercial point, consisting of com
CHARACTER, PURSUITS, ETC. 133
panies, who ascend the rivers to the regions
of fur. The hunters and trappers receive a
proportion of the profits of the expedition.
Some become so enamored with this wander
ing and exposed life, as to lose all desire of
returning to the abodes of civilization, and
remain for the rest of their lives in the Amer
ican deserts. There are individuals, who are
graduates of colleges, and who once stood
high in the circles of refinement and taste,
that have passed more than twenty years
amongst the roaming tribes of the Rocky
mountains, or on the western slope, till they
have apparently lost all feelings towards civil
ized life. They have afforded an interesting
but melancholy example of the tendencies of
human nature towards the degraded state of
savages. The improvement of the species is
a slow and laborious process; —the deteriora
tion is rapid, and requires only to be divested
of restraint, and left to its own unaided ten
dencies. Many others have returned to the
habits of civilization, and some with fortunes
made from the woods and prairies.
Boatmen. These are the fresh-water sailors
of the West, with much of the light-hearted,
reckless character of the sons of the ocean, in
cluding peculiar shades of their own. Before
the introduction of steam-boats on the western
waters, its immense commerce was carried on
by means of keel-boats and barges. The for
mer is much in the shape of a canal-boat,
long, slim-built, sharp at each end, and pro
peck s guide.
pelled by setting-poles, and the cordelle or
long rope. The barge is longer, and has a
bow and stern. Both are calculated to as
cend streams, but by a very slow process.
Each boat would require from ten to thirty
hands, according to its size. A number of
these boats frequently sailed in company.
The boatmen were proverbially lawless, at
every town and landing, and indulged with
out restraint in every species of dissipation,
debauchery and excess. But this race has
become reformed, or nearly extinct —yes,
reformed, by the mighty power of steam. A
steam-boat, with half the crew of a barge or
keel, will carry ten times the burden, and
perform six or eight trips in the time it took
a keel-boat to make one voyage. Thousands
of flat boats, or broad horns," as they are
called, pass down the rivers, with the produce
of the country, which are managed by the
farmers of the West, but never return up
stream. They are sold for lumber, and the
owners, after disposing of the cargo, return
by steam. The number of boatmen on the
western waters is not only greatly reduced,
but those that remain are fast losing their
original character.
CHAPTER V.
PUBLIC LANDS.
System of Surveys—Meridian and Base Linos—Town ships—Diagram of a Township, surveyed into Sections —Land Districts and Offices—Preemption Rights— Military Bounty Lands—Taxes—Valuable Tracts of Country unsettled.
In all the new States and Territories, the
lands which are owned by the general gov
ernment, are surveyed and sold under one
general system. Several offices, each under
the direction of a surveyor-general, have been
established by acts of Congress, and districts,
embracing one or more States, assigned them.
The office for the surveys of all public lands
in Ohio, Indiana, Michigan and the Wiscon
sin country, is located at Cincinnati. The
one including the States of Illinois, Missouri
and Arkansas, is at St. Louis. Deputy-sur
veyors are employed to do the work at a stip
ulated rate per mile, generally from three to
four dollars, who employ chain-bearers, an
axe and flag man, and a camp-keeper. They
are exposed to great fatigue and hardships,
136 peck s guide.
spending two or three months at a time in
the woods and prairies, with slight, movable
camps for shelter.
In the surveys, meridian lines are first es
tablished, running north from the mouth of
some noted river these are intersected with
base lines.
There are five principal meridians in the
land-surveys in the West.
The first principal meridian is a line due
north from the mouth of the Miami.
The second principal meridian is a line due
north from the mouth of Little Blue river, in
Indiana.
The third principal meridian is a line due
north from the mouth of the Ohio.
The fourth principal meridian is a line due
north from the mouth of the Illinois.
The fifth principal meridian is a line due
north from the mouth of the Arkansas.
Another meridian is used for Michigan, which
passes through the central part of the State.
Its base line extends from about the middle
lake St. Clair, across the State, west, to lake
Michigan. Each of these meridians has its
own base line.
The surveys connected with the third and
fourth meridians, and a small portion of the
second, embrace the State of Illinois.
The base line for both the second and third
principal meridians commences at Diamond
Island, in Ohio, opposite Indiana, and runs
due west, till it strikes the Mississippi, a few
miles below St. Louis.
PUBLIC LANDS. 137
All the townships in Illinois, south and east
of the Illinois river, are numbered from this
base line, either north or south.
The third principal meridian terminates
with the northern boundary of the State.
The fourth principal meridian commences
in the centre of the channel, and at the mouth
of the Illinois river, but immediately crosses
to the east shore, and passes up on that side
(and at one place nearly fourteen miles dis
tant), to a point in the channel of the river,
seventy-two miles from its mouth. Here its
base line commences, and extends across the
peninsula to the Mississippi, a short distance
above Quincy. The fourth principal meridian
is continued northward through the military
tract, and across Rock river, to a curve in
the Mississippi, at the upper rapids, in town
ship eighteen north, and about twelve or fif
teen miles above Rock island. It here crosses
and passes up the west side of the Mississippi
river, fifty-three miles, and recrosses into Il
linois, and passes through the town of Galena,
to the northern boundary of the State. It is
thence continued to the Wisconsin river, and
made the principal meridian for the surveys
of the Territory, while the northern boundary
line of the State is constituted its base line for
that region.
Having formed a principal meridian, with
its corresponding base line, for a district of
country, the next operation of the surveyor is
to divide this into tracts of six miles square,
called townships.
7
138 peck s guide.
In numbering the townships east or west
from a principal meridian, they are called
ranges, meaning a range of townships; but in
numbering north or south from a base line,
they are called townships. Thus a tract of
land is said to be situated in township four
north, in range three east, from the third
principal meridian; or as the case may be.
Townships are subdivided into square miles,
or tracts of six hundred and forty acres each,
called sections. If near timber, trees are
marked and numbered with the section, town
ship and range, near each sectional corner.
If in a large prairie, a mound is raised to de
signate the corner, and a billet of charred
wood buried, if no rock is near. Sections are
divided into halves, by a line north and south,
and into quarters, by a transverse line. In
sales under certain conditions, quarters are
sold in equal subdivisions of forty acres each,
at $1 25. per acre. Any person, whether a
native-born citizen, or a foreigner, may pur
chase forty acres of the richest soil, and re
ceive an indisputable title, for fifty dollars.
Ranges are townships, counted either east
or west from meridians.
Townships are counted either north or south
from their respective base lines.
Fractions are parts of quarter sections in
tersected by streams, or confirmed claims.
The parts of townships, sections, quarters,
&c, made at the lines of either townships or
meridians, are called excesses or deficiences.
Sections, or square miles, are numbered,
PUBLIC LANDS. 139
beginning in the north-east corner of the
township, progressively west, to the range
line, and then progressively east, to the
range line, alternately, terminating at the
south-east corner of the township, from one
to thirty-six, as in the following diagram:

6 5 4 3 2 1
7 8 9 10 11 12
18 17 16* 15 14 13
19 20 21 22 23 24
30 39 28 27 26 35
31 32 33 34 35 30
I have been thus particular in this account
of the surveys of public lands, to exhibit the
simplicity of a system, that, to strangers,> un
acquainted with the method of numbering the
sections, and the various subdivisions, appears
perplexing and confused.
All the lands of Congress, owned in Ohio,
have been surveyed, and, with the excep
tion of some Indian reservations, have been
brought into market. In Indiana, all the
lands purchased of the Indians have been
surveyed, and, with the exception of about
ninety townships and fractional townships,
have been offered for sale. These, amount
ing to about two millions of acres, will be
Appropriated for schools in the township.
140 peck s guide.
offered for sale the present year. In Michi
gan, nearly all the ceded lands have been
surveyed and brought into market. The un
surveyed portion is situated in the neighbor
hood of Saginau bay; a part of which may be
ready for market within the current year.
In Wisconsin Territory, west of lake Mich
igan, all the lands in the Wisconsin district,
which lie between the State of Illinois and
the Wisconsin river, have been surveyed
and, in addition to the lands already offered for
sale in the Green Bay district, about sixty
five townships and fractional townships have
been surveyed, and are ready for market.
The surveys of the whole country west of
lake Michigan, and south of the Wisconsin
river, in Illinois and Wisconsin Territory,
will soon be surveyed and in market. Here
are many millions of the finest lands on earth,
lying along the Des Plaines, Fox and Rock
rivers, and their tributaries, well watered,
rich soil, a healthy atmosphere, and facilities
to market. A temporary scarcity of timber
in some parts of this region will retard settle
ments, for a time; but this difficulty will be
obviated, by the rapidity with which prairie
land turns to a timbered region, wherever,
by contiguous settlements, the wild grass be
comes subdued, and by the discovery of coal
beds. Much of it is a mineral region. In
Illinois, the surveys are now completed in the
Danville district, and in the southern part of
the Chicago district. They are nearly com
pleted along Rock river and the Mississippi.
PUBLIC LANDS. 141
The unsurveyed portion is along Fox river,
Des Plaines, and the shore of lake Michigan,
in the north-eastern part of the State. Emi
grants, however, do not wait for surveys and
sales. They are settling over this fine por
tion of the State, in anticipation of purchases.
In Missouri, besides the former surveys, the
exterior lines of one hundred and thirty-eight
townships, and the subdivision into sections and
quarters, of thirty townships, in the northern
part of the State, and contracts for running
the exterior lines of one hundred and eighty
nine townships, on the waters of the Osage
and Grand rivers, have been made. A large
portion of this State is now surveyed, and in
market. Surveys are progressing in Arkan
sas, and large bodies of land are proclaimed for
sale, in that district.
I have no data before me that will enable
me to show, definitely, the amount of public
lands now remaining unsold, in each land
office district. In another place, I have al
ready given an estimate of the amount of
public lands, within the organized States and
Territories, remaining unsold, compared with
the amount sold in past years.
The following tables exhibit the number of
acres sold in the districts embraced more im
mediately within the range of this Guide, for
1834, and the three first quarters of 1835,
with the name of each district in each State.
It is constructed from the report of the com
missioner of the General Land Office to the
Treasury Department, December 5th, 1835.
142 peck s guide.
The sales of the last quarter of 1835, in Illi
nois, and probably in the other States, great
ly exceeded either of the other quarters, and
which will be exhibited in the annual report
of the commissioner, in December, 1836.
Statement of the amount of Public Lands sold
at the several LandOffices in Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Missouri and
Arkansas, in 1834.
District Land Acres and Offices. hundredths. Ohio. Marietta, 11 999.52 Zanesville, 33 877.23 Steubenvillc, 4 349.19 Chilicothe, 21 309.32 Cincinnati 27 369.52 Wooster 9 448.77 Wapaghkonetta, 125 417.13 Bucyrus, 245 078.56
56 765.80 204 526.63 161 477.87 96 350.30
Total for State, 478 847.24
Indiana.
Jeffersonville, 67 826.11 Vincennes, Indianapolis, Crawfordsville, Fort Wayne, La Porte, 86 709.73]
Total for State, 673 656^44;
Illinois.
Shawneetown, 6 904.24 Kaskaskia, 15 196.52 Edwardsville, 124 302.19 Vandalia 20 207.61 Palestine 22 135.69 Springfield, 66 804.25|
Acres and hundredths.
District Land Offices.
Danville, 62 331.38
jQuincy, 36 131.59
Total for State, 354 013.47 Michigan. Detroit, 136 410.69 Monroe, 233 768.30 onPra-WhitePi rie and 128 244.47
Total for Ter., 498 423.46 Wisconsin. Mineral Point, 14 336.67
Missouri. St. Louis 43 634.68 Fayette, 71 049.74 Palmyra 76 241.35 Jackson, 18 882.11 Lexington, 43 983.80
Total for State, 2537791 70
Arkansas. Batesville, 8 051.31 Little Rock 25 799.74 Washington,. 65 145.88 Fayetteville, 24 514.94 Helena 26 244.59
Total for Ter., 149 756^46
PUBLIC LANDS. 143
Statement of the amount of Public Lands sold
at the several Land-Offices in Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Missouri and
Arkansas, from Jan. 1st, to Sept. 30th, 1835,
including nine months.
District Land Acres and Offices. hundredths.
Ohio.
Marietta 11 012.98 Zanesville, 42 978.36 Steubenville, 3 649.29 Chilicoihe 12 586.87 Cincinnati, 20 105.76 Wooster, 5 157.68 Wapaghko netl 103 020.23 taand Luna, J Bucyrus, 154 706.63
Total for State, 353 217.80
Indiana.
Jeffersonville, 44 634.81 Vincennes, Indianapolis, Crawfordsville, Fort Wayne, La Porte,
Total for State, 758 946.96
Illinois.
Shawneetown, 5 754.08 Kaskaskia, 13 814.38 Edwardsville, 123 638.07
70 903.62 158 786.68 108 055.22 148 864.28 227 702.35
Acres and hundredth?.
t262 152.73 333 405.40
District Land Offices.
Galena, Chicago,
Total for State, 1 220,838 76
Michigan.
Detroit 213 763.57 Bronson 400 722.48 Monroe 446 631.61
Total, 1 061,127 66
Wisconsin. Mineral Point, 67 052.55 Green Bay, 68 365.53
Total for Ter., 135 418.08
Missouri. St. Louis, 32 914.57 Fayette, 55 839.58 Palmyra, 101 018.00 Jackson, 28 995.19 Lexington, i. 42 801.45
Springfield 320 00
Total for State, 261 888.79
Arkansas. Batesville, 2 021.22 Vandalia, 16 253.46 Little Rock> 22 291.92 Palestine 14 088.01 Washington 43 360.81 Springfield 316 966.70 Fayetteville, 8 723.72 Danville 94 491.35 Helena, 312 169.09
Quincy, *40 274.58 Total for State, 388 566.76 Returns only tu May 31. t Returns only to July 31. fiiace those periods, the sales at these offices have been bnutenM,
144 peck s guide.
The reader will perceive that the sales of
the first three quarters of 1835 almost
doubled those of the whole year of 1834. The
inquiry was often made of the writer, while
fraveling in the Atlantic States in the summer
of 1835, whether there was still opportunity
for emigrants to purchase public lands in In
diana, Illinois, &c, where land-offices had
been opened for the sale of lands many years.
He found, almost every where, wrong notions
prevailing. The people were not aware of
the immense extent of the public domain now
in market, and ready to be sold at one dollar
and twenty-five cents per acre, and even in as
small tracts as forty acres. Take, for exam
ple, the Edwardsville district, in which the
writer resides. It extends south to the base
line, east to the third principal meridian,
north to the line that separates townships 13
and 14 north, and west to the Illinois and
Mississippi rivers, and embraces all the
counties of Madison, Clinton, Bond, Mont
gomery, Macoupen, and Greene, a tier of
townships on the south side of Morgan and
Sangamon, five and a half townships from
Fayette, and about half of St. Clair county.
The lands for a part of this district have been
in market for eighteen or twenty years. It
contains some of the oldest American settle
ments in the State, and has also a number of
confirmed claims never offered for sale. And
yet the receiver of this office informed me, in
November last, that he had just made returns
PUBLIC LANDS, 145
of all the lands sold in this district, and they
amounted to just one third of the whole quan
tity. Every man, therefore, may take it for
granted that there will be land enough in
market in all the new States, for his use,
during the present generation. These are
facts that should be known to all classes.
The mania of land speculation and of monop
olists would soon subside, were those concern
ed to sit down coolly, and, after ascertaining
the amount of public lands now in market,
with the vast additional quantity that must soon
come into market, use a few figures in com
mon arithmetic, with the probable amount of
emigration, and ascertain the probable extent
of the demand for this article at any future
period.
The following information is necessary for
those who are not acquainted with our land
system.
In each land-office there are a register and
receiver, appointed by the president and sen
ate for the term of four years, and paid by
the government.
After being surveyed, the land, by procla
mation of the president, is offered for sale at
public auction by half quarter sections, or
tracts of eighty acres. If no one bids for it at
one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, or
more, it is subject to private entry at any
time after, upon payment of $1 25 cents per
acre at the time of entry. No credit, in any
case, is allowed.
146 peck s guide.
In many cases, Congress, by special stat
ute, has granted to actual settlers, preemp
tion rights, where settlements and improve
ments have been made on public lands pre
vious to public sale.
Preemption rights confer the privilege only
of purchasing the tract containing improve
ments at one dollar and twenty-five cents per
acre, by the possessor, without the risk of a
public sale.
In Illinois, and several other Western
States, all lands purchased of the general
government, are exempted from taxation for
five years after purchase.
Military Bounty Lands. These lands were
surveyed and appropriated as bounties to the
soldiers in the war with Great Britain in
1812— '15, to encourage enlistments. The
selections were made in Illinois, Missouri,
and Arkansas. The bounty lands of Illinois
lie between the Illinois and Mississippi rivers,
in the counties of Calhoun, Pike, Adams,
Schuyler, Macdonough, Warren, Mercer,
Knox, Henry, Fulton, Peoria, and Putman.
Out of 5 000,000 of acres, 3 500,000 were
selected, including about three fifths of this
tract. The remainder is disposed of in the
manner of other public lands. The disposi
tion of this fine country for military bounties
has much retarded its settlement. It was a
short-sighted and mistaken policy of govern
ment that dictated this measure. Most of the
titles have long since departed from the
PUBLIC LANDS. 147
soldiers for whose benefit the donations were
made. Many thousand quarter sections have
been sold for taxes by the State, have fallen
into the hands of monopolists, and are now
past redemption. The bounty lands in Mis
souri lie on the waters of Chariton and
Grand rivers, north side of the Missouri river,
and in the counties of Chariton, Randolph,
Carroll, and Ray, and include half a million
of acres. The tract is generally fertile,
undulating, a mixture of timber and prairie,
but not as well watered as desirable. With
the bounty lands of Arkansas I am not well
acquainted. Their general character is good,
and some tracts are rich cotton lands.
Taxes. Lands bought of the United States
government are exempted from taxation for five
years after sale. All other lands owned by
non-residents, equally with those of residents,
are subject to taxation annually, either for
state, or county purposes, or both. The
mode and amount varies in each State. If not
paid when due, costs are added, the lands
sold, subject to redemption within a limited
period,—generally two years. Every non
resident landholder should employ an agent
within the State where his land lies, to look
after it, and pay his taxes, if he would not
suffer the loss of his land.
CHAPTER VI.
ABORIGINES.
Conjecture respecting their former Numbers and Condition —Present Number and State—Indian Territory appro priated as their permanent Residence—Plan and Opera tions of the United States Government—Missionary Ef forts and Stations—Monuments and Antiquities.
The idea is entertained, that the Valley of
the Mississippi was once densely populated by
aborigines,—that here were extensive nations,
—that the bones of many millions lie moulder
ing under our feet. It has become a common
theory, that, previous to the settlement of the
country by people of European descent, there
were two successive races of men, quite dis
tinct from each other; —that the first race, by
some singular fatality, became exterminated,
leaving no traditionary account of their exist
ence; and the second race, the ancestors of
the existing race of Indians, are supposed to
have been once far more numerous than the
present white population of the Valley.
Some parts of Mexico and South America
ABORIGINES. 149
were found to be populous upon the first visits
of the Spaniards, but I do not find satisfactory
evidence that the population was ever dense
in any part of the territory that now constitutes
our Republic. Mr. Atwater supposes, from
the mounds in Ohio, the Indian population far
exceeded seven hundred thousand, at one time,
in that district. Mr. Flint says, "If we can
infer nothing else from the mounds, we can
clearly infer, that this country once had its
millions." Hence, a principal argument as
signed for the populousness of this country is,
the millions buried in these tumuli, the bones
of which, in a tolerable state of preservation,
are supposed to be exhibited upon excavation.
The writer has witnessed the opening of many
of these mounds, and has seen the fragments
of an occasional skeleton, found near the sur
face. Without stopping here to enter upon a
disquisition on the hypothesis assumed,—that
these mounds, as they are termed, are as much
the results of natural causes, as any other
prominences on the surface of the globe,—I
will only remark, that it is a fact well known
to frontier men, that the Indians have been in
the habit of burying their dead in these ridges
and hillocks, and that, in our light, spongy soil,
the skeleton decays surprisingly fast. This is
not the place to exhibit the necessary data, that
have led to the conviction, that not a human
skeleton now exists in all the Western Valley
(excepting in nitrous caves), that was deposi
ted in the earth before the discovery of the
new world by Columbus.
150 peck s guide.
The opinion, that this Valley was once
densely populous, is sustained, from the" sup-.
posed military works, distributed through the
West. This subject, as well as that of mounds,
wants reexamination. Probably, half a dozen
enclosures, in a rude form, might have been
used for military defence. The capabilities of
the country to sustain a dense population, has
been used to support the position, that it must
have been once densely populated. This ar
gues nothing without vestiges of agriculture
and the arts. With the exception of a few small
patches round the Indian villages, for corn and
pulse, the whole land was an unbroken wilder
ness. Strangers to the subject have imagined
that our western prairies must once have been
subdued by the hand of culitvation, because
denuded of timber. Those who have long
lived on them, have the evidences of observa
tion and their senses to guide them. They
know, that the earth will not produce timber
while the surface is covered with a firm grassy
sward, and that timber will spring up, as soon
as this obstruction is removed.
To all these theories, of the former density
of the aboriginal population of the Valley, I
oppose, first, the fact that but a scattered and
erratic population was found here, on the ar
rival of the Europeans; that the people were
rude savages, subsisting chiefly by hunting,
and that no savage people ever became popu
lous; that, from time immemorial, the differ
ent tribes had been continually at war with
ABORIGINES. 151
each other; that, but a few years before the
French explored it, the Iroquois, or Five Na
tions, conquered all the country to the Mis
sissippi, which they could not have done had
it been populous and that Kentucky, one of the
finest portions of the Valley, was not inhabited
by any people, but was the common hunting
and fighting grounds of both the northern and
southern Indians, and hence called by them
Kentuckee, or the "bloody ground."*
That the Indian character has deteriorated,
and the numbers of each tribe greatly lessened
by contact with Europeans and their descend
ants, is not questioned; but many of the de
scriptions of the comforts and happiness of
savage life and manners, before their country
was possessed by the latter, are the exagger
ated and glowing descriptions of poetic fancy.
Evidence enough can be had to show that they
were degraded and wretched, engaged in pet
ty exterminating wars with each other, often
times in a state of starvation, and leading a
roving, indolent, and miserable existence.
Their government was anarchy. Properly
speaking, civil government had never existed
amongst them. They had no executive, or
See Pownal s Administration of the British Colonics; Colden s History of the Five Nations; New York Histori cal Collections, vol. II; Charlevoix Histoire de la Nouvelle France; Hon. De Witt Clinton s Discourse before the New York Historical Society, 1811; Discovery of the Mississip pi river, by Father Lewis Hennepin; M. Tonti s Account of M. De La Salle s Expedition; La Harpe s Journal, &c.
152 peck s guide.
judiciary power, and their legislation was the
result of their councils, held by aged and ex
perienced men. It had no stronger claim upon
the obedience of the people than advice.
In Mexico, civilization had made progress,
and there were populous towns and cities,
and edifices for religious and other purposes.
With the exception of some very rude struc
tures, the ruins of which yet remain, and
which, upon too slight grounds, have been
mistaken for military works, nothing is left as
marks of the enterprise of the feeble bands
of Indians of this Valley. Their implements,
utensils, weapons of war, and water-craft,
were of the most rude and simple construction,
and yet prepared with great labor. Those
who have written upon Indian manners, with
out personal and long acquaintance with, their
circumstances, have made extravagant blun
ders. The historian of America, Dr. Robert
son, seems to suppose that the Indians cut
down large trees and dug out canoes, with
stone hatchets; and that they cleared the
timber from their small fields, by the same
tedious process. Their stone axes or hatch
ets were never used for cutting, but only for
splitting and pounding. They burned down
and hollowed out trees, by fire, for canoes;
and never chopped off the timber, but only
deadened it, in clearing land. The condition
of depraved man, unimproved by habits of
civilization, and unblest with the influences
and consolations of the gospel, ia pitiable in
ABORIGINES. 153
the extreme. Such was the character and
condition of the red skin," before his land
was visited by the "palefaces." I have often
seen the aboriginal man in all his primeval
wildness, when he first came in contact with
the evils and benefits of civilization,—have
admired his noble form and lofty bearing,—
listened to his untutored and yet powerful
eloquence, and yet have found in him the
same humbling and melancholy proofs of his
wretchedness and want, as is found in the
remnants on our borders.
The introduction of ardent spirits, and of
several diseases, are the evils furnished the
Indian race, by contact with the whites, while
in other respects their condition has been im
proved.
From the second number of the Annual
Register of Indian Affairs, within the Indian
(or Western) Territory, just published by the
Rev. Isaac McCoy, the following particulars
have been chiefly gleaned.
Mr. McCoy has been devoted to the work
of Indian reform for almost twenty years; first
in Indiana, then in Michigan, and latterly in
the Indian Territory, west of Missouri and
Arkansas. He is not only intimately ac
quainted with the peculiar circumstances of
this unfortunate race, and with the country
i selected as their future residence by the gov
ernment, but is ardently and laboriously en
gaged for their welfare.
7*
154 peck s guide.
Indian Territory.
The Indian Territory lies west, and imme
diately adjacent to Missouri and Arkansas.
It is about six hundred miles long, from north
to south, extending from the Missouri river to
the Red river, and running westwardly as far
as the country is habitable, which is estimated
to be about two hundred miles. The almost
destitution of timber, with extensive deserts
renders most of the country, from this Terri
tory to the Rocky mountains, uninhabitable.
The dreams indulged by many, that the wave
of white population is to move onward, without
any resisting barrier, till it reaches these
mountains, and even overleap them, to the
Pacific ocean, will never be realized. Provi
dence has thrown a desert of several hundred
miles in extent, as an opposing barrier.
As very contradictory accounts have gone
abroad, prejudicial to the character of the
country selected for the Indians, it becomes
necessary to describe it with some particu
larity. The following, from Mr. McCoy (if
it needed any additional support to its cor
rectness), is corroborated by the statements
of many disinterested persons.
"There is a striking similarity between all
parts of this Territory. In its general char
acter, it is high and undulating, rather level
than hilly; though small portions partly de
serve the latter appellation. The soil is gen
ABORIGINES. 155
erally very fertile. It is thought that in no
part of the world, so extensive a region of
rich soil has been discovered, as in this, of
which the Indian Territory is a central posi
tion. It is watered by numerous rivers, creeks
and rivulets. Its waters pass through it east
wardly, none of which are favorable to navi
gation. There is less marshy and stagnant
water in it than is usual in the western coun
try. The atmosphere is salubrious, and the
climate precisely such as is desirable, being
about the same as that inhabited by the
Indians on the east of the Mississippi. It
contains much mineral coal and salt water,
some lead, and some iron ore. Timber is
scarce, and this is a serious defect, but one
which time will remedy, as has been demon
strated by the growth of timber in prairie
countries which have been settled, where the
grazing of stock, by diminishing the quantity
of grass, renders the annual fires less de
structive to the growth of wood. The prairie
(i. e., land destitute of wood) is covered with
grass, much of which is of suitable length for
the scythe."
The Choctaws, Creeks, Cherokees, Osages,
Kausaus, and Delateares, are entitled to
lands westward of this Territory, for hunting
grounds; some to the western boundary of
the United States, others to the Rocky moun
tains.
Mr. McCoy estimates the number of inhabi
tants of this Territory at 47 733, viz.:
156 peck s guide.
Indigenous Tribes.
Osage, about Kausau, Ottoe and Missourias O Mahaus Pawnees, (four tribes), Pnncahs, about Quapaws,
21 444
Emigrant Tribes.
Choctaw, about Cherokee, Creek, Seneca, Shawanoe of Neosho,
Wea, about Piankeshau Peoria and Kaskaskias,
Ottawa, Shawanoe, of Kausau river
Delaware, Kickapoo, Putawatomie
Emigrants 26 289 Indigenous 21 444
Total, 47 733
The estimate of the Choctaws includes
about four hundred negro slaves; that of the
Cherokees, five hundred; and that of the
Creeks about four hundred and fifty slaves.
Choctaws. Their country adjoins Red river
and the Province of Texas, on the south, Ar
kansas on the east, and extends north to the
Arkansas and Canadian rivers; being one hun
5 510 1 684 1 600 1 400 10 000
800 450
15 000 4 000 3 600 462 225 119 1S6 81 764 896 603 444
ABORIGINES. 157
dred and fifty miles from north to south, and
two hundred miles from east to west. Here
are numerous salt springs. For civil purposes,
their country is divided into three districts.
Cherokees. The boundaries oftheir country
commences on the Arkansas river, opposite
the western boundary of Arkansas; thence
northwardly along the line of Missouri, eight
miles to Seneca river; thence west to the Ne
osho river; thence up said river to the Osage
lands; thence west indefinitely, as far as hab
itable; thence south to the Creek lands, and
along the eastern line of the Creeks to a point
forty-three miles west of Arkansas, and twen
ty-five miles north of Arkansas river; thence
to the Verdigris river, and down Arkansas
river, to the mouth of the Neosho; thence
southwardly to the junction of the North Fork
and Canadian rivers; and thence down the
Canadian and Arkansas rivers to the place of
beginning. The treaty of 1828 secures to
this tribe 7 000,000 of acres, and adds land
westward, for hunting-grounds, as far as the
United States boundaries extend.
The Creeks or Muscogees, occupy the coun
try west of Arkansas, that lies between the
lands of the Choctaws and Cherokees.
The. Senecas join the State of Missouri on
the east, with the Cherokees south, the Neo
sho river west, and possess 127 500 acres.
The Osage (a French corruption of Wos
sosh-e their proper name) have their country
north of the western portion of the Cherokee
158 peck s guide.
lands, commencing twenty-five miles west of
the State of Missouri, with a width of fifty
miles, and extending indefinitely west. About
half the tribe are in the Cherokee country.
The Quapaws were originally connected
with the Osages. They have migrated from
the Lower Arkansas, and have their lands
adjoining the State of Missouri, immediately
north of the Senecas.
The Putawatomies are on the north-eastern
side of the Missouri river, but they are not
satisfied, and the question of their locality is
not fully settled. Four hundred and forty-four
Putawatomies are mingled with the Kickapoos,
on the south-west side of the Missouri river.
The Weas, Piankeshaus Peorias and Kas
kaskias are remnants of the great western
confederacy, of which the Miamies were the
most prominent branch. These and other
tribes, constituted the Illini, Oillinois, or Illi
nois nation, that once possessed the country
now included in the great States of Indiana,
Illinois, &c. Their lands lie west of the State
of Missouri, and south-west of the Missouri
river.
The Delawares occupy a portion of the
country in the forks of the Kausau (or, as writ
ten by the French, Kausas) river. They are
the remnants of another great confederacy, the
Lenni-Lenopi, as denominated by themselves.
The lands of the Kickapoos lie north of the
Delawares, and along the Missouri, including
768 000 acres.
ABORIGINES. 159
The Ottoes occupy a tract of country be
tween the Missouri and Platte rivers, but
their land is said to extend south and below
the Platte.
The country of the O Mahaus has the Platte
river on the south, and the Missouri north-east.
The country of the Pawnees lies to the west
ward of the Ottoes and O Mahaus. The boun
daries are not defined.
The Pnncahs are a small tribe that origina
ted from the Pawnees, and live in the northern
extremity of the country spoken of as the In
dian Territory.
Present Condition. The Choctaws, Chero
kees and Creeks are more advanced in civil
ized habits than any other tribes. They have
organized local governments of their own,
have enacted some wholesome laws, live in
comfortable houses, raise horses, cattle, sheep
and swine, cultivate the ground, have good
fences, dress like Americans, and manufac
ture much of their own clothing. They have
schools and religious privileges, by missionary
efforts, to a limited extent. The Cherokees
have a written language, perfect in its form,
the invention of Mr. Guess, a full-blooded In
dian. The Senecas, Delawares, and Shawa
noes, also, are partially civilized, and live with
considerable comfort from the produce of their
fields and stock. The Putawatomies, Weas,
Piankeshaus, Peorias, Kaskaskias, Ottawas,
and Kickapoos, have partially adopted civil
ized customs. Some live in comfortable log
160 peck s guide.
cabins, fence and. cultivate the ground, and
have a supply of stock: others live in bark
huts, and are wretched. The Osages, or
Wos-sosh-es, Quapaws, Kausaus, Ottoes, O'
Mahaus, Pawnees and Puncahs have made
much less improvement in their mode of living.
A few have adopted civilized habits, and are
rising in the scale of social and individual com
forts, but the larger portion are yet Indians.
Mr. McCoy estimates the whole number of
aborigines in North America, including those
of Mexico, at 1 800,000; of which, 10 000 are
so far improved as to be classed with civilized
men, and amongst whom there are as many
pious Christians, as amongst the same amount
of population in the United States. In addi
tion to these, he estimates that there may be
about 60 000 more, which may have made
advances toward civilization, some more and
some less."
For some years past, the policy of the gov
ernment of the United States has been direct
ed to the project of removing all the Indians
from the country organized into States and
Territories, and placing them sufficiently con
tiguous to be easily governed, and yet remov
ed from direct contact and future interruption
from the white population. This project was
recommended in the period of Mr. Monroe s
administration; was further considered, and
some progress made, under that of Mr. Adams;
but has been carried into more successful ex
ecution within the last five years. It is much
PUBLIC LANDS. 161
to be regretted that this project was not com
menced earlier. The resjdence of small bands
of Indians, with their own feeble and imperfect
government, carried on within any organized
State or Territory, is ruinous. Those who
argue that because of the removal of the In
dians from within the jurisdiction of the States,
or an organized Territory, therefore they will
be driven back from the country in which it is
now proposed to place them, evince but a very
partial and imperfect view of the subject. The
present operation of government is an experi
ment; and it is one that ought to receive a fair
and full trial. If it does not succeed, I know
not of any governmental regulation that can
result, with success, to the prosperity of the
Indians. The project is to secure to each
tribe, by patent, the lands allotted them; to
form them into a territorial government, with
some features of the representative principle;
to have their whole country under the super
vision of our government, as their guardian,
for their benefit; to allow no white men to
pass the lines and intermix with the Indians,
except those who are licensed by due authori
ty; to aid them in adopting civilized habits,
provide for them schools and other means of
improving their condition, and, through the
agency of missionary societies, to instruct
them in the principles of the gospel of Christ.
Missionary Efforts and Stations. These are
conducted by the American Board of Com
missioners for Foreign Missions; the Baptist
8
162 peck s guide.
Board of Foreign Missions; the Methodist
Episcopal Missionary Society; the Western
Foreign Missionary Society; and the Cum
berland Presbyterians. Stations have been
formed, and schools established, with most of
these tribes. About 2500 are members of
Christian churches, of different denomina
tions. The particulars of these operations
are to be found in the reports of the respect
ive societies, and the various religious pe
riodicals.
Of other tribes within the Valley of the
Mississippi, and not yet within the Indian
Territory, the following estimate is sufficient
ly near the truth for practical purposes:—
Indians from New York, about Green Bay,. 725 Wyandots, in Ohio and Michigan, 623 Miamies, 1 200 Winnebagoes, 4 591 Chippeways, or O Jihbeways, 6 793 Otlawas and Chippeways, of lake Michigan, 5 300 Chippeways, Ottawas and Putawatomies, 8 000 Putawatomies, 1 400 Menominees, 4 200
They are all east of the Mississippi, and
chiefly found on the reservations in Ohio, In
diana and Michigan, and in the country be
tween the Wisconsin river and lake Superior.
Those tribes west of the Mississippi river, and
along the region of the Upper Missouri river,
are as follows:—
Sioux, 27 500 Ioways, 1 200 Sauks, of Missouri 500
PUBLIC LANDS. 163
Sauks and Foxes, 6 400 Assinaboines, 8 000 Crees 3 000 Gros Ventres, 3 000 Aurekaras 3 000 Cheyennes, 2 000 Mandans, 1 500 Black Feet 30 000 Camanches, 7 000 Minatarees, 1 500 Crows, 4 600 Arrepahas and Kiawas, 1 400 Caddoes, 800 Snake, and other tribes, within the Rocky mountains, 20 000 West of the Rocky mountains, 80 000
The Camanches, Arrepahas, Kiawas and
Caddoes roam over the great plains, toward
the sources of the Arkansas and Red rivers,
and through the northern parts of Texas.
The Black Feet are toward the heads of the
Missouri.
Monuments and Antiquities. Before dismiss
ing the subject of the aborigines, I shall touch
very briefly on the monuments and antiquities
of the West; with strong convictions that
there has been much exaggeration on this
subject. I have already intimated that the
mounds of the West are natural formations,
but I have not room for the circumstances
and facts that go to sustain this theory. The
number of objects considered as antiquities
is greatly exaggerated. The imaginations
of men have done much. The number of
mounds on the American bottom, in Illinois,
164 peck s guide.
adjacent to Cahokia creek, is stated by Mr.
Flint at two hundred. The writer has count
ed all the elevations of surface for the extent
of nine miles, and they amount to seventy-two.
One of these, Monk hill, is much too large,
and three fourths of the rest are quite too
small for human labor. The pigmy graves on
the Merrimeek, (Missouri,) in Tennessee, and
other places, upon closer inspection, have
been found to contain decayed skeletons of
the ordinary size, but buried with the leg and
thigh bones in contact. The giant skeletons
sometimes found, are the bones of buffalo.
It is much easier for waggish laborers to de
posit old horse-shoes, and other iron articles,
where they are at work, for the special pleas
ure of digging them up for credulous antiqua
rians, than to find proofs of the existence of
the horses that wore them!
There may, or may not be, monuments and
antiquities that belong to a race ofmen of prior
existence to the present race of Indians. All
that the writer urges is, that this subject may
not be considered as settled; that due allow
ance may be made for the extreme credulity
of some, and the want of personal observation
and examination of other writers on this sub
ject. Gross errors have been committed, and
exaggerations of very trivial circumstances
have been made.
The antiquities belonging to the Indian race
are neither numerous or interesting, unless
we except the remains of rude edifices and
PUBLIC LANDS. 165
enclosures, the walls of which are almost in
variably embankments of earth. They are
rude axes and knives of stone, bottles and
vessels of potter s ware, arrow and spear
heads, rude ornaments, &c.
Roman, French, Italian, German and Eng
lish coins and medals, with inscriptions, have
been found; most unquestionably brought by
Europeans; probably by the Jesuits, and other
orders, who were amongst the first explorers
of the West, and who had their religious
houses here, more than a century past.
Copper and silver ornaments have been dis
covered in the mounds that have been opened.
The calumet, or large stone pipe, is often
found in Indian graves. Three facts deserve
to be regarded by those who examine mounds
and Indian cemeteries. 1. That the Indians
have been accustomed to bury their dead in
these mounds. 2. That they were accustom
ed to place various ornaments, utensils, wea
pons, and other articles of value, the property
of the deceased, in these graves, especially if
a chieftain, or man of note. A third fact,
known to our frontier people, is the custom of
several Indian tribes wrapping their dead in
strips of bark, or encasing them with the
halves of a hollow log, and placing them in
the forks of trees. This was the case espe
cially when their deaths occurred while on
hunting or war parties. At stated seasons,
these relics were collected, with much solem
nity, brought to the common sepulchre of the
166 peck s guide.
tribe, and deposited with their ancestors. This
accounts for the confused manner in which the
bones are often found in mounds and Indian
grave-yards. Human skeletons, or rather
mummies, have been discovered in the nitrons
caves of Kentucky. The huge bones of the
mammoth and other enormous animals, have
been exhumed at the Bigbone licks, in Ken
tucky, and in other places.
CHAPTER VII.
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA.
Face of the Country—Soil, Agriculture and internal Im provements—Chief Towns—Pittsburgh—Coal.
The portion of Pennsylvania lying west of
the Alleghany ridge, contains the counties of
Washington, Greene, Fayette, Westmore
land, Alleghany, Beaver, Butler, Armstrong,
Mercer, Venango, Crawford, Erie, Warren,
McKean, Jefferson, Indiana, Somerset, and a
part of Cambria.
Face of the Country. Somerset, and parts
of Fayette, Westmoreland, Cambria, Indiana,
Jefferson and McKean are mountainous, with
intervening vallies of rich, arable land. The
hilly portions of Washington, and portions of
Fayette, Westmoreland, and Alleghany coun
ties are fertile, with narrow vales of rich land
intervening. The hills are of various shapes,
and heights, and the ridges are not uniform,
but pursue various and different directions.
North of Pittsburgh, the country is hilly and
168 peck s guide.
broken, but not mountainous, and the bottom
lands on the water courses are wider and more
fertile. On French creek, and other branches
of the Alleghany river there are extensive
tracts of rich bottom, or intervale lands, cov
ered with beech, birch, sugar maple; pine,
hemlock, and other trees common to that por
tion of the United States. The pine forests
in Pennsylvania and New York, about the
heads of the Alleghany river, produce vast
quantities of lumber, which are sent annually
to all the towns along the Ohio and Mississip
pi rivers. It is computed that not less than
thirty million feet of lumber are annually
sent down the Ohio from this source.
Soil, Agriculture, cSrc Portions of the
country are excellent for farming. The glade
lands, as they are called, in Greene and other
counties, produce oats, grass, &c, but are
not so good for wheat and corn. Those
counties which lie towards lake Erie are bet
ter adapted to grazing. Great numbers of
cattle are raised here. Washington and
other counties south of Pittsburgh produce
great quantities of wool. The Monongahela
has been famous for its whisky, but it is
gratifying to learn that it is greatly on the
decline, and that its manufacture begins to be
regarded as it should be,—ruinous to society.
A large proportion of the distilleries are re
ported to have been abandoned. Bituminous
coal abounds in all the hills around Pittsburgh,
and over most parts of Western Pennsyl
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 169
vania. Iron ore is found abundantly in the
counties along the Alleghany, and many fur
naces and forges are employed in its manu
factory. Salt springs abound on the Allegha
ny, and especially on the Conemaugh and
Kiskiminitas, where salt, in large quantities,
is manufactured.
The natural advantages of Western Penn
sylvania are great. Almost every knoll, hill
and mountain can be turned to some good ac
count, and its rivers, canals, rail and turnpike
roads afford facilities for intercommunication,
and for transportation of the productions to a
foreign market. The advantages of this re
gion for trade, agriculture, raising stock, and
manufacturing, are great. The streams fur
nish abundant mill-seats, the air is salubrious,
and the morals of the community good. Till
recently, Pennsylvania has been neglectful to
provide for common schools. A school sys
tem is now in successful operation, and has a
strong hold on the confidence and affections
of the people in this part of the State.
Internal Improvements. Pennsylvania has
undertaken an immense system of internal
improvements, throughout the State. The
Alleghany portage rail-road commences at
Hollidaysburgh, on the Juniata river, at the
termination of the eastern division of the
great Pennsylvania canal, and crosses the
Alleghany ridge at Blair s Gap, summit thirty
seven miles, to Johnstown on the Conemaugh.
Here it connects with the western division of
170 peck s guide.
the same canal. It ascends and descends the
mountain by five inclined planes on each side,
overcoming in ascent and descent 2570 feet,
1398 of which are on the eastern, and 1172
on the western side of the mountain. Five
hundred and sixty-three feet are overcome
by grading, and 2007 feet by the planes. On
this line, also, are four extensive viaducts,
and a tunnel eight hundred and seventy feet
long, and twenty feet wide, through the sta
ple bend of the Conemaugh river. The west
ern division of the Pennsylvania canal com
mences at Johnstown, on the Conemaugh,
pursues the course of that stream, and also
that of the Kiskiminitas and Alleghany rivers,
and finally terminates at Pittsburgh. In its
course from Johnstown, it passes through the
towns of Fairfield, Lockport, Blairsville,
Saltzburg, Warren, Leechburg, and Freeport,
most of which are small villages, but increas
ing in size and business. "The canal is
one hundred and four miles in length: lockage
four hundred and seventy-one feet, sixty-four
locks (exclusive of four on a branch canal to
the Alleghany), ten dams, one tunnel, sixteen
aqueducts, sixty-four culverts, thirty-nine
waste-wiers, and one hundred and fifty-two
bridges.
The canal commissioners, in their reports
to the legislature, strongly recommend the
extension of this division to the town of
Beaver, so as to unite with the Beaver divi
sion. By a recent survey, the distance was
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 171
ascertained to be 25 065 miles, and the esti
mated cost of construction, $263 821. This,
with a proposed canal from Newcastle to Ak
ron, on the Ohio and Erie canal, will form a
continuous inland communication between
Philadelphia and New Orleans, of 2435 miles,
with the exception of the passage over the
Alleghany portage rail-road, of 36 69 miles
in length.* It is three hundred and ninety-five
miles from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh by this
canal.
The Beaver division of the Pennsylvania
canal commences at the town of Beaver, on
the Ohio river, at the junction of the Big
Beaver river, twenty-five and a half miles
below Pittsburgh, ascends the valley of that
river, thence up the Chenango creek to its
termination in Mercer county, a distance of
42 68 miles. This work, together with
a feeder on French creek, and other works
now in progress, are parts of a canal intend
ed eventually to connect the Ohio river with
lake Erie, atthe town ofErie; which, when fin
ished, will probably be about one hundred and
thirty miles in length. It is also proposed to
construct a canal from Newcastle, on the Bea
ver division, 24 75 miles above the town of
Beaver, along the valley of the Mahoning riv
er, to Akron, near the portage summit of the
See Mitchell s Compendium of the Internal Improve ments in the United States," where much valuable infor mation of the rail-roads and canals of the United States is
found in a small space.
172 peck s guide.
Ohio and Erie canal, eighty-five miles in
length, eight miles of which are in Pennsyl
vania, and the residue in Ohio. Estimated
cost, $764 372.
The Cumberland, or national road, crosses
the south-western part of Pennsylvania. It
passes through Brownsville where it crosses
the Monongahela river, and Washington, into
a corner of Virginia to Wheeling, where it
crosses the Ohio river, and from thence
through Ohio, Indiana and Illinois to the
Mississippi river, or perhaps to the western
boundary of Missouri.
Chief Towns. Brownsville, situated on the
east side of the Monongahela river, is in a ro
mantic country, surrounded with rich farms
and fine orchards, and contains about 1200
inhabitants. It is at the head of steamboat
navigation. Washington is the county seat of
Washington county, surrounded with a fertile
but hilly country, contains about 2000 inhab
itants, and has a respectable college. Can
nonsburgh is situated on the west side of Char
tier s creek, eight miles north of Washington.
It also has a flourishing college, with build
ings, in an elevated and pleasant situation.
Uniontown is the county seat of Fayette, on
the National road, and contains about 1500
inhabitants. Greensburg is the seat of justice
for Westmoreland county, on the great
turnpike road from Philadelphia by Harris
burgh to Pittsburgh, and has about 850
inhabitants. Beaver' is situated at the
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 173
mouth of Big Beaver, on the Ohio, with a
population of 1000 or 1200, and is a place of
considerable business. Meadville is the seat
of justice for Crawford county, situated near
French creek, and has about 1200 inhabitants.
Here is a college established by the Rev.
Mr. Alden, some years since, to which the
late Dr. Bentley, of Salem, Mass., bequeathed
a valuable library. It is now under the
patronage of the Methodist Episcopal church.
Erie is a thriving town, situated on the
south side of lake Erie, one hundred and
twenty miles north of Pittsburgh. Steam-boats
that pass up the lake from Buffalo, usually stop
here, from whence stage routes communicate
with Pittsburgh, and many other towns in the
interior. The portage from this place to the
navigable waters of the Alleghany river is
fifteen miles, over a turnpike road. The
population of Erie is from 1500 to 2000, and
increasing.
Walerford, the place where the Erie por
tage terminates, is situated on the north bank
of the French creek; it is a place of consid
erable business. French creek is a navigable
branch of the Alleghany river. Franklin,
Kitlanning and Freeport are respectable
towns on the Alleghany river, between Pitts
burgh and Meadville.
Economy is the seat of the German colony,
under the late Mr. Rapp, which emigrated
from their former residence of Harmony, on
the Wabash river, in Indiana. It is a flour
174 peck s guide.
ishing town on the right bank of the Ohio,
eighteen miles below Pittsburgh. It has sev
eral factories, a large church, a spacious hotel,
and eight or nine hundred inhabitants, living
in a community form, under some singular
regulations. The Economists or Harmonists,
as they were called, in Indiana, are an indus
trious, moral and enterprising community, with
some peculiarities in their religious notions.
There are many other towns and villages in
Western Pennsylvania, of moral, industrious
inhabitants, which the limits of this work will
not permit me to notice.
Pittsburgh is the emporium of Western
Pennsylvania, and from its manufacturing en
terprise, especially in iron wares, has been
denominated the Birmingham of the West."
It stands on the land formed at the junction
of the Monongahela and Alleghany rivers, on
a level alluvion deposit, but entirely above
the highest waters, surrounded with hills.
This place was selected as the site of a fort
and trading depot by the French, about eighty
years since, and a small stockade erected,
and called Fort du Quesne, to defend the
occupancy of it by the English, and to mo
nopolize the Indian trade. It came into the
possession of the British, upon the conquest
of this country, after the disastrous defeat of
Gen. Braddock; and under the administration
of the elder Pitt, a fort was built here under
the superintendence of Lord Stanwix, that
cost more than $260 000, and called Fort
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 175
Pitt. In 1760, a considerable town arose
around the fort, surrounded with beautiful
gardens and orchards, but it decayed on the
breaking out of the Indian war, in 1763. The
origin of the present town may be dated 1765.
Its plan was enlarged, and re-surveyed in
1784, and then belonged to the Penn family,
as a part of their hereditary manor. By them
it was sold.
The Indian wars in the West, retarded its
growth for several years after, but since, it
has steadily increased, according to the fol
lowing table:
1800, 1 565 1810, 4 768 1820, 7 248 1830, 12 542 1835, estimated 30 000
The estimate of 1835 includes the suburbs.
The town is compactly built, and some streets
are handsome; but the use of coal for culinary
and manufacturing purposes, gives the town a
most dingy and gloomy aspect. Its salubrity
and admirable situation for commerce and
manufactures ensure its future prosperity and
increase of population. The exhaustless beds
of coal in the bluffs of the Monongahela, and
of iron ore, which is found in great abundance
in all the mountainous regions of Western
Pennsylvania, give it preeminence over other
western cities, for manufacturing purposes.
It really stands at the head of steam-boat navi
gation, on the waters of the Ohio; for the Al
176 peck s guide.
leghany and Monongahela rivers are navigable
only at high stages of water, and, by the recent
improvements in the channel of the Ohio and
the use of light draft boats, the navigation to
Pittsburgh is uninterrupted, except in winter.
The suburbs of Pittsburgh, are Birming
ham, on the south bank of the Monongahela,
Alleghany town, on the opposite side of the
Alleghany river, and containing a population
of about 7000, Lawrenceville, Northern and
Eastern Liberties.
The foregoing table was constructed in
1831. Doubtless this branch of business has
greatly increased.
The same year there were twelve foundries
in and near Pittsburgh, which converted 2963
tons of metal into castings, employed 132
hands, consumed 87 000 bushels of charcoal,
and produced the value of $189 614.
The following sketch of manufactures in
Pittsburgh and vicinity, is copied from Tan
ner s Guide, published in 1832:—
Steam engines, thirty-seven, which employ
ed 123 hands. Value, $180 400.
Manufactures.
Nail Factories and Rolling Mills.
Union Sligo Pittsburgh Grant s hill, Juniata, Pine Creek, Miscellaneous factories,
Weight. Value.
720 000 $43 200 400 000 32 000 782 887 86 544 500 000 20 000 500 000 30 000 457 000 34 100 360 000 28 200
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 177
Cotton factories, eight, with 369 power
looms, 598 hands; value, $300 134. In the
counties of Westmoreland and Alleghany,
there are five cotton factories.
In Pittsburgh and the two counties just
named, are eight paper mills, valued at
$165 000.
In Pittsburgh and vicinity are five steam
mills, which employ 50 hands. Value of their
products annually, $80 000.
There are five brass-foundries and eight
coppersmiths' shops. Value of the manufac
tures, $25 000.
Within the limits of the city, there are thirty
blacksmiths' shops, which employ 136 hands.
There are also four gunsmiths, and nine sil
versmiths and watch repairers.
In Pittsburgh, and the counties of West
moreland and Alleghany, there are twenty-six
saddleries and forty-one tanneries, sixty-four
brick-yards and eleven potteries. There are
in the city, four breweries, and four white
lead manufactories, at which 7400 kegs arc
made annually; value, $27 900.
There are six printing offices in Pittsburgh,
and six more in the two counties.
The estimated value of the manufactures of
every kind in Pittsburgh, and the counties of
Alleghany and Westmoreland, in 1831, was
$3 978,469. Doubtless they have greatly in
creased since.
Coal. The bituminous coal formations
around Pittsburgh, are well deserving the at
8*
178 peck s guide.
tention of geologists. Coal hill, on the west
side of the Monongahela, and immediately op
posite Pittsburgh, is the great source of this
species of fuel; and the miners, in some places,
have perforated the hill to the distance of sev
eral hundred feet. It is found in strata from
six inches to ten or twelve feet in thickness,
and often at the height of three hundred feet
above the bed of the river, in the hills around
Pittsburgh, and along the course of the Alle
ghany and Monongahela. Below this one stra
tum, which is of equal elevation, none is found
till you reach the base of the hill, below the bed
of the river. Besides supplying Pittsburgh,
large quantities are sent down the river.
There are in Pittsburgh (or were two years
since), three Baptist churches, or congrega
tions, one of which is of Welch; four Presby
terian, four Methodist, one Episcopal, one
Roman Catholic (besides a cathedral on
Grant s hill), one Covenanter, one Seceder,
one German Reformed, one Unitarian, one
Associate Reformed, one Lutheran, one Af
rican, and perhaps some others in the city
or suburbs.
Of the public buildings deserving notice, I
will name the Western University of Pennsylva
nia, which stands on the Monongahela, near
Grant s hill; the Penitentiary, in Alleghany
town, which has cost the State an immense
amount, and is conducted on the principle of
solitary confinement; the Presbyterian Theo
logical Seminary is also in Alleghany town;
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 179
the Museum; the Untied States Arsenal, about
two miles above the city, at Lawrenceville.
It encloses four acres, and has a large depot
for ordnance, arms, &c. The City Water
works is a splendid monument of municipal
enterprise. The water is taken from the Al
leghany river, by a pipe, fifteen inches in
diameter, and carried 2439 feet, and one hun
dred and sixteen feet elevation, to a reservoir
on Grant s hill, capable of receiving 1 000,000
gallons. The water is raised by a steam en
gine of eighty-four horse power, and will raise
1 500,000 gallons in twenty-four hours. The
aqueduct of the Pennsylvania canal, across the
Alleghany river, is also deserving attention.
The inhabitants of Pittsburgh are a mixture
of English, French, Scotch, Irish, German
and Swiss artizans and mechanics, as well as
of native born Americans, who live together in
much harmony. Industry, sobriety, morality
and good order generally prevail. Extensive
revivals of religion prevailed here a year or
two since.
The population of Western Pennsylvania is
characterized for industry, frugality, economy
and enterprise. Temperance principles have
made considerable progress of late years.
CHAPTER VIII.
WESTERN VIRGINIA.
Sulphur, Hot and Sweet Springa—Chief Towns.
Western Virginia embraces all that part
of Virginia that lies upon the western waters.
The counties are Brooke, Ohio, Monongalia,
Harrison, Randolph, Russell, Preston, Tyler,
Wood, Greenbrier, Kenawha,* Mason, Lewis,
Nicholas, Logan, Cabell, Monroe, Pocahon
tas, Giles, Montgomery, Wythe, Grayson,
Tazewell, Washington, Scott, and Lee,—26.
Its principal river is the Kenawha and its
tributaries. Of these, Gaula, New river and
Greenbrier are the principal. New river is
the largest, and rises in North Carolina. The
Monongahela drains a large district; the little
Kenawha, Guyandotte and Sandy are smaller
streams. The latter separates Virginia from
Kentucky, for some distance.
Much of Western Virginia is mountainous,
I have adopted the orthography of the legislature.
WESTERN VIRGINIA. 181
lying in parallel ridges, which are often brok
en by streams. Some of the vallies are very
fertile. The Kenawha valley is narrow, but
extends to a great distance. The salt-manu
factories extend from Charlestown, up the
Kenawha, the distance of twelve miles. They
are twenty in number, and manufacture nearly
two millions of bushels annually. The river
is navigable for steam-boats to this point, at
an ordinary depth of water. Coal is used in
the manufactories, which is dug from the ad
jacent mountains, and brought to the works
on wooden rail-ways. Seven miles above
Charlestown is the famous burning spring.
Inflammable gas escapes, which, if ignited,
will burn with great brilliancy for many hours,
and even for several days, in a favorable state
of the atmosphere. The State of Virginia has
constructed a tolerably good turnpike road
from the mouth of the Guyandotte, on the
Ohio, to Staunton. It passes through Charles
town, and along the Kenawha river to the
falls; from thence it extends along the course
of New river, and across Sewall s mountain,
by Louisburg, to Staunton. The falls of
Kenawha are in a romantic region, and merit
the attention of the traveler. Marshall s pillar
is a singular projecting rock, that overhangs
New river, 1015 feet above its bed. The
stage road passes near its summit.
This route is one of the great stage routes leading from the Ohio valley to Washington
city, and to all parts of old Virginia.
182 peck s guide.
The White Sulphur, Red Sulphur, Hot,
Warm, and Sweet Springs are in the moun
tainous parts of Virginia, and on this route.
These are all celebrated as watering-places,
but the White Sulphur spring is the great re
sort of the fashionable of the Southern States.
Let the reader imagine an extensive camp
ground, a mile in circumference, the camps
neat cottages, built of brick, or framed, and
neatly painted. In the centre of this area are
the springs, bath-houses, dining-hall, and
mansion of the proprietor. The cottages are
intended for the accommodation of families,
and contain two rooms each. This is by far the
most extensive watering-place in the Union.
Of the effect of such establishments on morals
I shall say nothing. The reader will draw his
own conclusions, when he understands that
the card-table, roulette, wheel of fortune and
dice-box are amongst its principal amuse
ments. Here, not unfrequently, cotton bales,
negroes, and even plantations, change owners
in a night. The scenery around is highly
picturesque and romantic. Declivities and
mountains, sprinkled over with evergreens,
are scattered in wild confusion. A few miles
from White Sulphur springs, you pass the di
viding line,—the Alleghany ridge,—and pass
from Western into Middle Virginia.
Chief Towns. Wheeling is the principal
commercial town, and a great thoroughfare,
in Western Virginia. It has a large number
of stores and commission ware-houses; and
WESTERN VIRGINIA. 183
contains six or eight thousand inhabitants. It
is ninety-two miles by water, and fifty-five
miles by land, from Pittsburgh. It has manu
factures of cotton, glas3 and earthen ware:
boats are built here. The Cumberland or
national road crosses the Ohio at this place,
over which a bridge is about to be erected.
The town is surrounded with bold, precipitous
hills, which contain inexhaustible quantities
of coal. At extreme low water steam-boats
ascend no higher than Wheeling.
Charlestown, Wellsburgh, Parkersburgh,
Point Pleasant, Clarksburgh, Abington, Lou
isburg, and many others, are pleasant and
thriving towns.
The climate of Western Virginia is pre
eminently salubrious. The people, in their
manners, have considerable resemblance to
those of Western Pennsylvania. There are
fewer slaves, less wealth, more industry and
equality, than in the "old dominion," as
Eastern Virginia is sometimes called.
CHAPTER IX.
MICHIGAN.
Extent—Situation—Boundaries—Face of the Country— Rivers, Lakes, &c—Soil and Productions—Subdivisions, Counties—Chief Towns—Education Improvements projected—Boundary Dispute—Outline of the Consti tution.
Michigan is a large triangular peninsula,
surrounded on the east, north and west, by
lakes, and on the south by the States of Ohio
and Indiana. Lake Erie, Detroit river, lake
St. Clair and St. Clair river, lie on the east
for 140 miles; lake Huron on the north-east
and north, the straits of Mackinaw on the ex
treme north-west, and lake Michigan on its
western side. Its area is about 40 000 square
miles.
Face of the Country. Its general surface is
level, having no mountains, and no very ele
vated hills. Still, much of its surface is un
dulating, like the swelling of the ocean.
Along the shore of lake Huron, in some
places, are high, precipitous bluffs, and along
MICHIGAN. 185
the eastern shore of Michigan are hills of
pure sand, Mown up by the winds from the
lake. Much of the country bordering on
lakes Erie, Huron, and St. Clair, is level,—
somewhat deficient in good water, and for the
most part heavily timbered. The interior is
more undulating, in some places rather hilly,
with much fine timber, interspersed with oak
"openings," "plains," and "prairies."
The plains are usually timbered, destitute
of undergrowth, end are beautiful. The soil
is rather gravelly. The openings contain
scattering timber in groves and patches, and
resemble those tracts called barrens farther
south. There is generally timber enough for
farming purposes, if used with economy, while
it costs but little labor to clear the land. For
the first ploughing, a strong team of four or
five yoke of oxen is required, as is the case
with prairie.
The openings produce good wheat.
The prairies, will be described more par
ticularly under the head of Illinois. In
Michigan, they are divided into wet and dry.
The latter possess a rich soil, from one to
four feet deep, and produce abundantly all
kinds of crops common to 42 degrees of north
latitude, especially those on St. Joseph river.
The former afford early pasturage for emi
grants, hay to winter their stock, and, with a
little labor, would be converted into excellent
artificial meadows. Much of the land that
now appears wet and marshy, will, in time, be
9
186 peck s guide.
drained, and be the first rate soil for farm
ing.
A few miles back of Detroit is a flat, wet
country, for considerable extent, much of it
heavily timbered,—the streams muddy and
sluggish, —some wet prairies, —with dry,
sandy ridges intervening. The timber consists
of all the varieties found in the Western
States; such as oaks of various species, wal
nut, hickory, maple, poplar, ash, beech, &c,
with an intermixture of white and yellow
pine.
Rivers and Lakes. In general, the country
abounds with rivers and small streams. They
rise in the interior, and flow in every direc
tion to the lakes which surround it. The
northern tributaries of the Maumee rise in
Michigan, though the main stream is in Ohio,
and it enters the west end of lake Erie on the
"debatable land." Proceeding up the lake,
Raisin and then Huron occur. Both are nav
igable streams, and their head waters inter
lock with Grand river, or Washtenong, which
flows into lake Michigan. River Rouge enters
Detroit river, a few miles below the city of
Detroit. Raisin rises in the county of Lena
wee, and passes through Monroe. Huron
originates amongst the lakes of Livingston,
passes through Washtenaw, and a corner of
Wayne, and enters lake Erie towards its
north-western corner. Above Detroit is river
Clinton, which heads in Oakland county, pass
es through Macomb, and enters lake St.
MICHIGAN.
Clair. Passing by several smaller streams,
as Belle, Pine, and Black rivers which fall in
to St. Clair river, and going over an immense
tract of swampy, wet country, between lake
Huron and Saginaw bay, in Sanilac county,
we come to the Saginaw river. This stream,
is formed by the junction of the Tittibawassee,
Hare, Shiawassee, Flint, and Cass rivers, all
of which unite in the centre of Saginaw coun
ty, and form the Saginaw river, which runs
north, and enters the bay of the same name.
The Tittibawassee rises in the country west
qf Saginaw bay, runs first a south, and then
a south-eastern course, through Midland coun
ty into Saginaw county, to its junction. Pine
river is a branch of this stream, that heads in
the western part of Gratiot county, and runs
north-east into Midland. Hare, the original
name of which is Waposebee, commences in
Gratiot and the north-west corner of Shia
wassee counties, and runs an east and north
east course. The heads of the Shiawassee,
which is the main fork of the Saginaw, are
found in the counties of Livingston and Oak
land. Its course is northward. Flint river
rises in the south part of Lapeer county, and
runs a north-western course some distance
past the centre of the county, when it sudden
ly wheels to the south, then to the west, and
enters Genesee county, through which it
pursues a devious course towards its destina
tion. Cass river rises in Sanilac county, and
runs a western course. These rivers are
formed of innumerable branches, and water
an extensive district of country. Other small
 
188 peck s guide.
er streams enter lake Huron, above Saginaw
bay; but the whole country across, to lake
Michigan is yet a wilderness, and recently
purchased of the Indians. Doubtless it will
soon be surveyed and settled. On the west
ern side of the State are Traverse, Ottawa,
Betsey, Manistic, Pent, White, Maskegon,
Grand, Kekalamazoo, and St. Joseph, all of
which fall into lake Michigan. Those above
Grand river are beyond the settled portion of
the State. Grand river is the largest in
Michigan, being 270 miles in length, its wind
ings included. Its head waters interlock with
the Pine, Hare, Shiawassee, Huron, Raisin,
St. Joseph and Kekalamazoo. A canal pro
ject is already in agitation to connect it with
the Huron, and open a water communication
from lake Erie, across the peninsula, direct
to lake Michigan. Grand river is now navi
gable for batteaux, 240 miles, and receives in
its course, Portage, Red Cedar, Looking
glass, Maple, Muscota, Flat, Thorn-Apple,
and Rouge rivers, besides smaller streams.
It enters lake Michigan 24 5 miles south-west
erly from Mackinaw, and 75 north of St. Jo
seph; is between fifty and sixty rods wide
at its mouth, with eight feet water over its bar.
Much of the land on Grand river and its trib
utaries, is excellent, consisting of six or seven
thousand square miles; —and, considering its
central position in the State,—the general fer
tility of its soil,—the good harbor at its
mouth,—the numerous mill sites on its
tributaties,—this region may be regarded
 
i
MICHIGAN. 189
as one of the most interesting portions of
Michigan. The Kekalamazoo rises in Jackson
and Eaton counties, passes through Calhoun
and the northern part of Kalamazoo, enters
the south-eastern part of Allegan, and passes
diagonally through it to the lake. There is
much first-rate land, timber, prairie and
openings on its waters, and is rapidly
settling.
The St. Joseph country is represented by
some as the best country in Michigan. This
stream has several heads in Branch, Hillsdale,
Jackson, Calhoun, and Kalamazoo counties,
which unite in St. Joseph county, through
which it passes diagonally to the south-west,
into Indiana, —thence through a corner of
Elkhart county, into St. Joseph of that State,
makes the "South Bend," and then runs
north-westerly into Michigan, through Berrian
county, to the lake. The town of St. Joseph
is at its mouth. It has Pigeon, Prairie, Hog,
Portage Christianna, Dowagiake, and Crook
ed rivers for tributaries, all of which afford
good mill sites. In Cass and St. Joseph
counties, are Four-mile, Beardsley, Town
send, McKenny, La Grange, Pokagon, Young,
Sturges, Nottawa-Sepee, and White Pigeon
prairies, which are rich tracts of country, and
fast filling up with inhabitants.
Michigan abounds with small lakes and
ponds. Some have marshy and unhealthy
borders; others are transparent fountains,
surrounded with beautiful groves, an undula
ting country, pebbly and sandy shores, and
190 peck s guide.
teeming with excellent fish. The counties of
Oakland, Livingston, Washtenaw, Jackson,
Barry and Kalamazoo are indented with them.
Productions. These are the same, in gen
eral, as those of Ohio and New York. Corn
and wheat grow luxuriantly here; rye, oats,
barley, buckwheat, potatoes and all the gar
den vegetables common to the climate, grow
well; all the species of grasses are produced
luxuriantly; apples, and other fruit, abound
in the older settlements, especially among the
French about Detroit. It will be a great fruit
country.
Subdivisions. Michigan had been divided
into thirty-three counties in 1835, some of
which were attached to adjacent counties for
judicial purposes. Other counties may have
been formed since. The following organized
counties show the population of the State
(then Territory), at the close of 1834:
Counties. Population. Scats ofJustice. ^Detroit10
Berrian 1 787 Benian, 180 Branch, 764 Branch, 133 Calhoun 1 714 Eckford, 100 Cass 3 280 Cassopolis, 160 Jackson 1 865 Jacksonburgh, 77 Kalamazoo 3 124 Bronson, 137 Lenawee, 7 911 Tecumseh 63 Macomb 6 055 Mount Clemens, 25 Monroe, 8 542 Monroe 36 Oakland, 13 844 Pontiac, 26 St. Clair, 2 244 St. Clair, 60 St. Joseph, 3 168 White Pigeon 135 Washtenaw, 14 920 Ann Arbor, 42 Wayne 16 638 Detroit
Total, 85356
MICHIGAN. 191
The other counties are Hillsdale, Van Bu
ren, Allegan, Barry, Eaton, Ingham, Living
ston, Lapeer, Genesee, Shiawassee, Clinton,
Ionia, Kent, Ottawa, Oceana, Gratiot, Isabel
la, Midland, Saginaw, Sanilac, Gladwin and
Arenac, the population of which are included
in the counties given in the table. Doubtless,
the population of Michigan exceeds one hun
dred thousand.
The counties are subdivided into incorpo
rated townships, for local purposes, the lines
of which usually correspond with the land
surveys.
For the sales of public lands,the State is
divided into three land districts, and land-of
fices are established at Detroit, Monroe, and
Bronson.
Chief Towns. Detroit is the commercial
and political metropolis. It is beautifully sit
uated on the west side of the river Detroit,
eighteen miles above Maiden, in Canada, and
eight miles below the outlet of lake St. Clair.
A narrow street, on which the wharves are
built, runs parallel with the river. After
ascending the bench or bluff, is a street call
ed Jefferson avenue, on which the principal
buildings are erected. The older dwellings
are of wood, but many have been recently
built of brick, with basements of stone, the
latter material being brought from Cleveland,
Ohio. The primitive forest approaches near
the town: the table land extends twelve or
fifteen miles interior, when it becomes wet
192 peck s guide.
and marshy. Along Detroit river the ancient
French settlements extend several miles, and
the inhabitants exhibit all the peculiar traits
of the French on the Mississippi. Their gar
dens and orchards are valuable.
The public buildings of Detroit are a state
house, a council-house, an academy, and two
or three banking-houses. There are five
churches for as many different denominations,
in which the Episcopalians, Presbyterians,
Baptists, Methodists and Roman Catholics
worship. The Catholic congregation is the
largest, and they have a large cathedral.
Stores and commercial warehouses are nu
merous, and business is rapidly increasing.
Town lots, rents, and landed property in the
iiinity, are rising rapidly. Lots have ad
vanced, within two or three years, A m the
business parts of the city, more than one
thousand percent. Mechanics of all descrip
tions, and particularly those in the building
line, are much wanted here, and in other
towns in Michigan. The population is sup
posed to be about 10 000, and is rapidly in
creasing. This place commands the trade of
all the upper lake country.
Monroe, the seat of justice for Monroe
county, is situated on the right bank of the
river Raisin, opposite the site of old French
town. Three years since, it had about one
hundred and fifty houses, of which twenty or
thirty were of stone, and 1600 inhabitants.
There were also two flouring and several
MICHIGAN. 193
saw-mills, a woollen factory, an iron foundry,
a chair factory, &c, and an abundant supply
of water power. The "Bank of the River
Raisin," with a capital of $100 000, is es
tablished here. The Presbyterians, Epis
copalians, Baptists, Methodists and Roman
Catholics have houses of worship and minis
ters here.
It was at this place, or rather at French
town in its vicinity, that a horriblemassacre
of American prisoners took place during the
last war with Great Britain, by the Indians
under Gen. Proctor. The sick and wounded
were burned alive in the hospital, or shot as
they ran shrieking through the flames! Of
the seven hundred young men barbarously
murdered here, many were students at law,
young physicians and merchants, the best
blood of. Kentucky.
Mount Clemens, Brownstown, Ann Arbor,
Pontiac, White Pigeon, Tecumseh, Jackson
burgh, Niles, St. Joseph, Spring Arbor, and
many others, are pleasant villages, and will
soon become populous.
Education. Congress has made the same
donation of lands, as to other Western States,
and will, doubtless, appropriate the same per
centage on the sales of all public lands, when
the State is admitted into the Union, as has
been appropriated in the other new States. A
respectable female academy is in operation at
Detroit. The Presbyterian denomination are
about establishing a college at Ann Arbor, the
194 peck s guide.
Methodists a seminary at Spring Arbor, the
Baptists one in Kalamazoo county, and the
Roman Catholics, it is said, have fixed their
post at Bertrand, a town on the St. Joseph
river, in the south-eastern corner of Berrian
county, and near to the boundary line of In
diana. Much sentiment and feeling exists in
favor of education and literary institutions,
among the people.
Projected Improvements. A survey has been
made for a rail-road across the peninsula
of Detroit, through the counties of Wayne,
Washtenaw, Jackson, Calhoun, Kalamazoo,
Van Buren and Berrian, to the mouth of St.
Joseph river. Another project is, to com
mence at or near Toledo, on the Maumee
river, and pass through the southern counties
of Michigan, into Indiana, and terminate at
Michigan city. A third project is, to open a
water communication from the navigable wa
ters of Grand river to Huron river, and, by
locks and slack-water navigation, enter lake
Erie. A canal from the mouth of Maumee
bay to lake Michigan, has also been spoken
of as a feasible project; or one from the mouth
of the river Raisin to the St. Joseph would
open a similar communication. It has also
been suggested to improve the river Raisin
by locks and slack-water navigation. Doubt
less, not many years will elapse before some
of these projects will prove realities.
Boundary Dispute. This unpleasant dis
pute between Ohio and Michigan, relates to
MICHIGAN.
a atripof country about fifteen miles in width
at its eastern and seven miles at its western
end, lying between the north-eastern part of
Indiana and the Maumee bay. A portion of
the Wabash and Erie canal, now constructing
by Indiana, and which is dependent for its
completion on either Ohio or Michigan, passes
over this territory. Michigan claims it, by
virtue of an ordinance of Congress, passed
July 13, 1787, organizing the NorthWestern
Territory, in which the boundaries of three
States were laid off; "provided, that the
boundaries of these three States shall be sub
ject so far to be altered, that, if Congress shall
hereafter find it expedient, they shall have
authority to form one or two States in that
part of the said Territory which lies north of
an east and west line drawn through the south
erly bend or extreme of lake Michigan." Ohio
claims it by possession; and because, by being
received into the Union with this portion in
possession, Congress virtually annulled that
part of the former ordinance that fixed the
south bend of lake Michigan as the boundary
line, and by having run the line north of this.
Outlines of the Constitution. A convention
assembled at Detroit, May 11, 1835, and
framed a constitution for a State government,
which was submitted to and ratified by vote of
the people, on the first Monday in October.
The powers of the government ere divided
into three distinct departments; the legisla
tive, the executive, and the judicial.
196 peck s guide.
The legislative power is vested in a Senate
and House of Representatives. The represent
atives are to be chosen annually; and their
number cannot be less than forty-eight, nor
more than one hundred.
The senators are to be chosen every two
years, one half of them every year, and to
consist, as nearly as may be, of one third of
the number of the representatives.
The census is to be taken in 1837 and 1845,
and every ten years after the latter period,
and also after each census taken by the Unit
ed States: the number of senators and repre
sentatives is to be apportioned anew among
the several counties, according to the number
of white inhabitants.
The legislature is to meet annually, on the
first Monday in January.
The executive power is to be vested in a
governor, who holds his office for two years.
Upon a vacancy, the lieutenant governor per
forms executive duties. The first election
was held on the first Monday in October,
1835; and the governor and lieutenant gover
nor hold their offices till the first Monday in
January, 1838.
The judicial power is vested in one Supreme
Court, and in such other courts as the legisla
ture may, from time to time, establish. The
judges of the supreme court are to be ap
pointed by the governor, with the advice and
consent of the senate, for the term of seven
years. Judges of all county courts, associate
MICHIGAN. 191
judges of circuit courts and judges of probate
are to be elected by the people, for the term
of four years.
Each township is authorized to elect four
justices of the peace, who are to hold their
offices for four years. In all elections, every
white male citizen, above the age of twenty
one years, having resided six months next
preceding any election, is entitled to vote at
such election. Slavery, lotteries and the sale
of lottery-tickets are prohibited.
The seat of government is to be at Detroit,
or such other place or places as may be pre
scribed by law, until the year 1847, when it is
to be permanently fixed by the legislature.
CHAPTER X.
OHIO.
Boundaries—Divisions—Face of the Country—Soil and Prod uctions—Animals—Minerals—Financial StatisticsCanal Fund—Expenditures—Land Taxes—School Fund —Statistics—Canal Revenues—Population at different Periods—Rivers Internal Improvements—^Manufac tures—Cities and Towns, Cincinnati, Columbus—Edu cation—Form of Government—Antiquities—History.
Ohio is bounded on the north by lake Erie
and the State of Michigan, east by Pennsyl
vania and the Ohio river, south by the Ohio
river, which separates it from Virginia and
Kentucky, and west by Indiana. The mean
derings of the Ohio river extend along the line
of this State four hundred and thirty-six miles.
It is about two hundred and twenty-two miles
in extent, both from north to south and from
east to west. After excluding a section of lake
Erie, which projects into its northern borders,
Ohio contains about 40 000 square miles, or
25 000,000 acres of land.
Divisions. Nature has divided this State
OHIO. 199
into four departments, according to its princi
pal waters.
1. The lake country, situated on lake Erie,
and embracing all its northern part. Its
streams all run into the lake, and reach the
Atlantic ocean through the gulf of St. Law
rence.
2. The Muskingum county, on the eastern
side, and along the river of that name.
3. The Scioto country, in the middle; and,
4. The Miama country, along the western
side.
For civil purposes, the State is divided into
seventy-five counties, and these are again sub
divided into townships. Their names, date of
organization, number of square miles, number
of organized townships, seats of justice, and
bearing and distance from Columbus, are ex
hibited in the following table
Adams, Allen, Ashtabula, Athens, Belmont, Brown, Butler, Carrol
Spats of Justice.
1797 550| 10 |West Union, Lima Jefferson, Athens, St. Clairsville, Georgetown, Hamilton, Carrolton, 1831 542 1811 700 27 1805 740 19 1801 536 16 1818 470 14 1803 480 13 1833 I

101 s. 110 n ie. 200 n w. 73 s e. 116 e. 104 s. 101 s w. 125 e n.e.
Carroll county has been formed from Columbiana, H irrison, Stark 1 Tuscarawai, since the edition of the Ohio Gazetteer of 1833 was been constructed Buhlished, from which the foregoing table has ence the townships are not given*
200 peck s guide.
os.
c z
0-6 i
7 Counties. O J: Seats of Justice. sps-a s 3 ll i| s. bn Champaign, 1805 4l7i 12 Urbanna, 50 w n.u: Clark, 1818 412 10 Springfield, 44 w. Clermont, 1800 515 12 Batavia, 96 s w. Clinton, 1810!400 8 Wilmington, 60 s w. Columbiana, 1803 New Lisbon, 150 e n.e. Coshocton, 1811 562 21 Coshocton, 68 n e. Crawford, 1826|594 12 60 n. Cuyahoga, 1810 475! 19 Cleveland 140 n n.e. Dark, 1817 660 10 Greenville, 93 to. Delaware, 1808 610; 23 24 71. Fairfield, 1800 540 14 Lancaster, 28 s e. Fayette, 1810 415 7 Washington, 38 s. w. Franklin, 1803 520 IS Columbus, Gallia, 1803 500 15 102 s s.e. Geauga, 1805 600 23 157 n e. Greene, 1803 400 8 Xenia, 56 ic s.w. Guernsey, 1810 621 19 Cambridge, 76 e. Hamilton, 1790I4001 14 Cincinnati, 1 10 s w. Hancock, 1828 576 90 n n.ic. Hardin, 1833 570 70 n n.ic. Harrison, 1813 13 Cadiz, 124 e n.e. Henry, 744 161 n tu. Highland, 1805 555 11 iHillsborough, 62 s s.v: Hocking, 1818|432, 9 Logan, 46 s s.e. Holmes, 1825 422 14 Hillershurg, 81 n e. Huron, 1815 S00' 29 iNorwalk, 106 n. Jackson, 1816 490 13 Jackson, 73 s s.e. Jefferson, 1797 400 13 ;SteubenviIle. 147 e n.e. Knox, 1808 618 24 Mount Vernon, 47 n n.e. Lawrence, 1817 430 12 Burlington, 130 s s.e. Licking, 1808 666 25 33 e n.e. Logan, 1818 425 9 Bellefontaine, 50 n w. Lorain, 1824 580 19 130 n n.e. Lucas,* 1835 Toledo, 150 n n.w. Lucas county has been rec9ntty formed from parts taken from Sandusky and Wood counties, and trom the disputed country claimed by Michigan.
OHIO.
 
Counties.
Madison, Marion, Medina, Meigs, Mercer, Miami,
1810 4S0 1824 52' 1818|475; 1819 400 1824 576 1807410 Monroe, 11815:563 18 Montgomery, 1803 480, 12 Morgan
Seals of Justice.
25 W S.W. 45 n. 110 n n.e. Chester, i 94 s s.e. London, Marion, Medina,
Jq c E 5 3 3 i 22 J? 0SO
1819!500, 15 18041665 23 432' 3 1818 402 12 14
Muskingum, Paulding,* Perry, Pickaway,. .|l810;47O
Pike, 1815 421; 9 1807 750 30 |lS08 432 12 576 2 1813|900 25 17981650 16 1820 600 10
St. Mary s, Troy, Woodsfield, Dayton, M Connelsville, Zanesville,
Portage, Preble, Putnam,* Richland, Ross, Sandusky, Scioto, Seneca, Shelby, Stark, Trumbull, Tuscarawas, Union, Vanwert t Warren, Washington, Wayne, Williams, Wood,
Somerset, Circleville, Piketon, Ravenna, Eaton,
1803 700, 14 1824 540 18191418 18091 1800875 1808 1820 450 432 1803400 1788 713 1812660 1824 600 18201750
Mansfield, Chilicothe, Lower Sandusky, Portsmouth, Tiffin Sidney, Canton, Warren, New Philadelphia,'] Marysville
Lebanon, 19 (Marietta, 20 1Wooster, 10 Defiance, 7 Perrysburg, Paulding, Pdtnam and Vanwert counties had not been organised at the period of our information. t Much of the land in Vanwert is wet. The southern portion con tains much swampy prairie.
9*
111 n w. 68 n ofw. 120 e s.e. 68 w. 75 s e. 52 e. 170 n w. 46 e s.e. 26 s. 64 s. 135 n e. 50 w. 148 n w. 74 n n.e. 45 s. 105 n. 90 s. 87 70 n w. 116 n e. 160 n e. 100 e n.e. 30 n w. 100 n w. 80 s w. 106 s.«. 89 n e. 130 n w. 135 n w.
202 peck s guide.
There are nineteen congressional districts
in Ohio, which elect as many members of
Congress, and twelve circuits for courts of
common pleas.
Face of the Country. The interior and
northern parts of the State, bordering on lake
Erie, are generally level, and, in some places,
wet and marshy. The eastern and south
eastern parts, bordering on the Ohio river,
are hilly and broken, but not mountainous.
In some counties the hills are abrupt and
broken; in others they form ridges, and are
cultivated to their summits. Immediately on
the banks of the Ohio, and other large rivers,
are strips of rich alluvion soil.
The country along the Scioto and two Mi
ami rivers, furnish more extensive bodies of
rich, fertile land, than any other part of the
State. The prairie land is found in small
tracts near the head waters of the Muskingum
and Scioto, and between the sources of the
two Miami rivers, and especially in the north
western part of the State. Many of the prai
ries in Ohio are low and wet; some are ele
vated and dry, and exhibit the features of
those tracts called barrens," in Illinois.
There are extensive plains, some of which
are wet, towards Sandusky.
Soil and Productions. The soil, in at least
three fourths of the State, is fertile; and some
of it very rich. The poorest portion of Ohio is
along the Ohio river, from fifteen to twenty
five miles in width, and extending from the na
OHIO. 203
tional road, opposite Wheeling, to the mouth
of the Scioto river. Many of the hills in this
region are rocky.
Among the forest trees are oak of various
species, white and black walnut, hickory,
maple of different kinds, beech, poplar, ash
of several kinds, birch, buckeye, cherry,
chestnut, locust, elm, hackberry, sycamore,
linden, with numerous others. Amongst the
undergrowth are spice-bush, dogwood, iron
wood, pawpaw, hornbeam, black-haw, thorn,
wild plum, grape vines, &c. The plains and
wet prairies produce wild grass.
The agricultural productions are such as
are common to the Eastern and Middle States.
Indian corn, as in other Western States, is a
staple grain, raised with much ease, and in
great abundance: more than one hundred
bushels are produced from an acre, on the
rich alluvial soils of the bottom lands, though
from forty to fifty bushels per acre ought to
be considered an average crop. The State,
generally, has a fine soil for wheat, and flour
is produced for exportation in large quan
tities; rye, oats, buckwheat, barley, potatoes,
melons, pumpkins and all manner of garden
vegetables, are cultivated to great perfection.
No markets in the United States are more
profusely and cheaply supplied with meat and
vegetables than those of Cincinnati and other
large towns in Ohio. Hemp is produced to
some extent, and the choicest kinds of tobacco
are raised and cured in some of the counties
204 peck s guide.
east of the Muskingum river. Fruits of all
kinds are raised in great plenty, especially
apples, which grow to a large size, and are
finely flavored. The vine and the mulberry
have been introduced, and, with enterprise
and industry, wine and silk might easily be
added to its exports.
Animals. Bears, wolves and deer are still
found in the forests and unsettled portions of
the State. The domestic animals are similar
to other States. Swine is one of the staple pro
ductions, and Cincinnati has been denomina
ted the pork market of the world." Other
towns in the West, and in Ohio, are begin
ning to receive a share of this trade, especially
along the lines of the Miami and the Erie ca
nals. One hundred and fifty thousand hogs
have been slaughtered and prepared for mar
ket in one season, in Cincinnati. About sev
enty-five thousand is the present estimated
number, from newspaper authority. Immense
droves of fat cattle are sent every autumn
from the Scioto valley and other parts of the
State. They are driven to all the markets of
the east and south.
Minerals. The mineral deposits of Ohio,
as yet discovered, consist principally of iron,
salt, and bituminous coal, and are found,
chiefly, along the south-eastern portion of
the State. Let a line be drawn from the
south-eastern part of Ashtabula county, in
a south-western direction, by Northampton,
in Portage county, Wooster, Mount Vernon,
Granville, Circleville, to Hillsborough, and
i
ohio. 205
thence south, to the Ohio river in Brown
county, and it would leave most of the salt,
iron and coal on the eastern and south-east
ern side.
Financial Statistics. From the auditor s
report to the legislature, January, 1836, the
following items are extracted. The general
revenue is obtained from moderate taxes on
landed and personal property, and collected
by the county treasurers, from insurance,
bank and bridge companies, from lawyers,
physicians, &c.
Collected in 1835, by the several county treasurers $150 080 Paid by banks, bridges, and insurance com panies, 26 060 By lawyers and physicians, 1 598 From other sources 24 028
Making an aggregate of $201 766
The disbursements are:—
Amount of deficit, for 1834 $16 622 tills redeemed at the treasury, for the year ending Nov. 1835, 182 005 Interest paid on school fund, 33 101
Amounting to $231 728
Showing a deficit in the revenue, of $29 962
Canal Funds. These appear to be separate
accounts from the general receipts and dis
bursements.
Miami Canal. The amount of money aris
ing from the sales of esiami canal lands up to
206 peck s guide.
Nov. 15, 1835, is $310 178. This sum has
been expended in the extension of the canal
north of Dayton.
Ohio Canal. The amount of taxes collect
ed for canal purposes, for the year 1835, in
cluding tolls, sales of canal lands, school
lands, balance remaining in the treasury of
last year, &c, is $509 322. Only $38 242 of
the general revenue were appropriated to ca
nal purposes; of which, $35 507 went to pay
interest on the school funds borrowed by the
State.
The foreign debt is $4 400,000; the legal
interest of which is $260 000 per annum. The
domestic debt of the State, arising from invest
ing the different school funds, is $579 287 the
interest of which amounts to $34 757: making
an aggregate annual interest paid by the State
on loans, $294 757. The canal tolls for the
year 1835 amounted to $242 357, and the
receipts from the sale of Ohio canal lands,
$64 549; making an aggregate income to the
canal fund of $306 906 per annum; —a surn
more than sufficient to pay the interest on all
loans for canal purposes.
Items of Expenditure. Under this head the
principal items of the expenditures of the State
government are given.
Members, and officers of the General As sembly, per annum, $43 987 Officers of government, 20 828 Keeper of the Penitentiary, 1 909 For new Penitentiary buildings 46 050
ohio. 207
State printing, 12 243 Paper and stationary, for use of the State,. 4 478 Certificates for wolf scalps, 2 824 Adjutant, and Quarter Master Generals, and Brigade Inspectors 2 276 Treasurer s mileage, on settlement with the Auditor of State, 1 027 Deaf and Dumb Asylum, 5 700 Periodical works, &c, 400 Postage on documents, 545 Reporter to Court, in Bank, 800 Members and clerks of the Board of Equal ization, and articles furnished, 1 960 Paymaster General,—Ohio militia, 2 000
The extra session of the legislature on the
boundary line, in June, 1835, was $6 823.
Land Taxes. The amount of lands taxed,
and the revenue arising therefrom, at several
different periods, are herewith given, to show
the progressive advance of the farming and
other interests of the State.
Years. Acres. Taxes pniJ.
1809, 9 924,033.. $63 991 87 1810, 10 479,029 67 501 60 1811, 12 134,777.. 170 546 74
From 1811 to 18 1 6, the average increase
of the taxes paid by the several counties, was
$59 351. From 1816, the State rose rapidly
in the scale of prosperity and the value of
property. In 1820, the number of acres re
turned as taxable, exceeded a fraction of thir
teen millions, while the aggregate of taxes,
was $205 346.
The period of depression and embarrass
208 peck s guide.
ment that followed throughout the West, pre
vented property from advancing in Ohio. In
1826, '27, '23, '29, '30, a material change in
the amount of property taxable, took place,
from a few hundred thousands to more than
fifty millions. The total value of taxable
property of the State, for 1835 (exclusive of
three counties, from which returns had not
been received), amounts to the sum of ninety
four millions, four hundred and thirty-seven
thousand, nine hundred and fifty-one dollars.
School Funds. The amount of school funds
loaned to the State, up to Nov. 15, 1835, is:—
Virginia military land fund, f 109 937 United States military land fund 90 126 Common schoolTottd 23 179 Athens university, 1 431 School section, No. 16, 453 000 Connecticut Western Reserve, 125 758
Total, $803 432
The following tabular view of the acres of
land, total amount of taxable property, and to
tal amount of taxes paid for 1833, is taken from
the Ohio Gazetteer. It should be noted, that
in all the Western States, lands purchased of
the government of the United States, are ex
empted from taxation for five years after sale.
It is supposed that such lands are not included
in the table. I have also placed the popula
tion of each county for 1830, from the census
of that year; reminding" the reader that great
changes have since been made.
ohio. 209
Countjes.
Popula tion 1830.
Acres ofland.
Total amount of taxable property.
Total amount of taxes paid.
Adams, 12 231 234 822 $832 565 #6 995 41 Alien, 57S 14 159 51 214 725 28 Ashtabula, 14 584 449 742 1 347,900 13 524 97 Athens, 9 787 365 348 481 579 5 820 90 Belmont, 28 627 301 511 1 591,716 11 590 33 Brown, 17 867 267 130 1 458,944 8 179 35 Butler, 27 142 257 989 2 514,007 20 111 55 Carrol 185 942 529 575 6 876 92 Champaign, 12 131 233 493 908 571 5 956 66 Clark, 13 114 247 083 1 114,995 7 744 89 Clermont, 20 466 280 679 1 542,627 15 645 31 Clinton, 11 436 239 404 785 770 6 482 14 Columbiana, 35 592 317 796 1 491,099 14 217 2S Coshocton, 11 161 246 123 850 708, 9 307 28 Crawford, 4 791 79 582 217 675! 3 630 09 Cuyahoga, 10 373 292 252 1 401,591 18 122 96 Dark,. 6 204 107 730 260 259 3 312 81 Delaware, 11 504 338 856 831 093 8 516 66 Fairfield, 24 786 308 163 1 992,697 13 716 97 Fayette, 8 182 234 432 544 539 6 428 98 Franklin, 14 741 325 155 1 663,315 13 247 34 Gallia, 9 733 205 727 427 962 4 826 55 Geauga, 15 813 381 380 1 427,869 15 832 65 Greene, 14 801 251 512 1 441,907 12 082 36 Guernsey, 18 036 275 652 908 109 9 855 72 Hamilton, 52 317 239 122 7 726,091 97 530 42 Hancock, 813 9 302 50 929 421 70 Harden, 210 125 607 118 425 1 291 43 Harrison, 20 916 22 412 1 025,210 12 400 97 Highland, 16 345 317 079 1 065,863 8 755 29 Hocking, 4 008 92 332 215 272 1 919 29 Holmes, 9 135 182 439 556 060 6 364 03 Huron, 13 346 504 689 1 512,655 15 490 88 Jackson, 5 941 57 874 197 932 2 239 69 Jefferson, 22 489 230 145 1 855,064 13 149 44 Knox 17 085 313 823 1 252,294 13 329 41 Lawrence,. 5 367 56 862 241 782 2 280 80
10
210 peck s guide.
Counties.
Popula tion 1830.
Acres of land.
Total amount of taxable property.
Total amount of taxes paid.
Licking, 20 869 393 205 2 101,495 17 370 83 Logan, 6 440 203 509 519 622 3 925 65 Lorain 5 696 360 863 889 552 10 539 09 Madison, 6 190 256 421 600 578 4 6s13 91 Marion, 6 551 168 164 390 602 5 599 78 Medina, 7 560 296 257 931 599 10 198 31 Meigs, 6 158 229 004 380 172 5 111 58 Mercer 1 110 12 688 54 118 714 30 Miami, 12 807 240 093 1 000,748 6 423 09 Monroe, 8 768 95 520 280 572 3 666 61 Montgomery, 24 362 267 349 2 293,419 14 649 12 Morgan, J1 800 169 135 452 991 4 945 02 Muskingum, 29 334 366 609 2 362,616 18 567 75 Perry, 13 970 175 123 729 241 6 116 55 Pickaway, 16 001 300 969 1 798,665 10 924 76 Pike, 6 024 129 153 521 109 4 114 37 Portage, 18 826 472 156 2 019,029 17 787 06 Preble 16 291 246 678 1 086,322 7 441 82 Richland, 24 008 433 620 1 354,169 15 069 92 Ross, 24 068 328 765 2 897,605 17 474 81 Sandusky, 2 851 95 822 275 992 3 354 64 Scioto, 8 740 105 539 963 882 7 926 93 Seneca, 6 159 108 758 302 089 3 916 51 Stark, 26 588 374 101 1 854,967 16 361 36 Shelby, 3 671 66 863 194 468 1 961 26 Trumbull, 26 123 556 011 1 807,792 1 6 635 58 Tuscarawas, 14 298 237 337 902 778 8 955 75 Union, 3 192 259 101 380 535 5 193 68 Warren, 21 468 243 517 2 143,065 16 247 33 Washington, 11 731 282 498 681 301 7 463 12 Wayne 23 333 382 254 1 451,996 14 5S4 77 Williams and others not in 1 089 17 797 90 066 1 351 02 corporated. s Wood 1 102 17 981 127 862 1 572 22
1937 90317,133 481 78 019,526730 010 75
OHIO. 211
Statistics for 1836. From the annual report
of the auditor of State, it appears there were
returned, on the general list for taxation,
17 819,631 acres of land, under the new valu
ation, made under the law of 1833 '34:
Lands, including buildings, valued at. $58 166,821 Town lots, including houses, mills, etc. 15 762,594 Horses (262 291), valued at $40 each, 10 491,640 Cattle (455 487), valued at $8 each,. 4 043,896 Merchants' capital and money at interest, 7 262,927 Pleasure carriages (2 603), valued at. 199 518
Total amount of taxable property, $94 438,016
On the value of taxable property, the follow
ing taxes were levied:
State and Canal tax $142 854 15 County and School tax, 396 505 80 Road tax, 66 432 10 Township tax 102 991 65 Corporation, Jail and Bridge tax, 51 276 89 Physicians' and Lawyers' tax, 3 144 19 School-house tax, 1 482 84 Delinquencies of former years, 13 044 37
Total taxes, $777 782 07
No returns were made from the counties of
Crawford, Hancock, Jefferson and Williams.
Canal Revenues. The total amount of re
ceipts for tolls, for the year ending October
31, 1835, was as follows:
Ohio Canal.
Cleaveland,. .$72 718 721 Akron, 6 362 90 Massillon, 13 585 78 Dover, 8 096 42; Roscoe, 14 555 83l Newark, $20 487 85 Columbus, 4 605 37 Circleville, 9 651 44 Chillicothe, 12 134 75 Portsmouth,. 23 118 78
Total, $185 317 45
212 peck s guide.
Miama Canal.
Dayton $14 016 75|Hamilton, $8 664 88 Middleton, 8 747 19 (Cincinnati, 26 803 77
Total, $52 232 59
Total tolls received on both canals, f237 550 04 Deduct contingent expenses on Ohio canal, $5 836 05 Do. on Miama canal, 2 954 68—8 790 73
$228 759 31 Toll received on Lancaster Lat. canal, 1 062 56 Water rents and sale of State lota, 3 700 07 Arrearages paid of tolls received in Oc tober, 1834, 7 835 26
$242 357 20
Population of Ohio, at different periods.
In Population. From Increase.
1790, about. 3 000 1790 to 1800, 42 365 1800, 45 365 1800 1810, 185 395 1810, 230 760 1810 1820, 350 674 1820, 581 434 1820 1830, 356 469 1830, 937 903 1830 1835, 437 097 1835 estimated,l 375,000
Rivers. The streams which flow into the
Ohio river, are the Mahoning, a branch of the
Beaver, Little Beaver, Muskingum, Hock
hocking, Scioto, and Little and Great Miami.
Those which flow from the northward into
lake Erie, are the Maumee, Portage, Sandus
ky, Huron, Cuyahoga, Grand and Ashtabula.
Hence the State is divided into two unequal
inclined planes, the longest of which slopes
towards the Ohio, and the shortest towards
the lake. The head waters of the Muskingum,
Scioto and Miami interlock with those of the
OHIO. 213
Cuyahoga, Sandusky and Maumee, so as to
render the construction of canals not only
practicable, but comparatively easy. All the
large streams are now navigable for boats
during the spring season.
Internal Improvements. These consist of
canals, rail-roads, turnpike-roads, and the
national road, now under the supervision of,
and owned by the State. The canaling is
managed by a Board of Commissioners. The
State canals were projected about 1823; and,
considering the youthful character of the
State, its want of funds and other circum
stances, they are, undoubtedly, the greatest
works ever executed in America.
The Ohio and Erie canal connects lake Erie
with the Ohio river. It commences at Cleave
land, at the mouth of the Cuyahoga, passes
along that river and its tributaries, to the
summit level; from thence to the waters of the
Muskingum, and to the border of Muskingum
county; from thence it strikes across the
county, past Newark, in Licking county, and
strikes the Scioto, down the valley of which
it proceeds to its mouth, at Portsmouth. The
principal places on the canal are Akron, New
Portage, Massillon, Bolivar, New Philadel
phia, Coshocton, Newark, Bloomfield, Circle
ville, Chillicothe, Piketon and Portsmouth.
It was commenced on the 4th of July, 1825,
and completed in 1832; and, together with
the Miami canal to Dayton, cost about
$5 500,000, and has greatly enriched the
 
214 peck s guide.
State and the people. Private property along
its line has risen from five to ten fold.
Length of the Ohio and Erie Canal.
Miles.
Main trunk, from Cleaveland to Portsmouth, 310 Navigable feeder, from main trunk to Columbus, 11 Granville,. 6 Muskingum side-cut, from the Muskingum river, at Dresden, 3 Navigable feeder from the Tuscarawas river, 3 Walhonding river, 1
Total length of Ohio canal and branches, 334
The Miami canal commences at Cincinnati;
and, passing through the towns of Reading,
Hamilton, Middletown, Franklin and Miamis
burg, terminates at Dayton, sixty-five miles.
It has been navigated from Dayton to the
head of Main street, Cincinnati, since the
spring of 1829. An extension of the work is
now in progress, to be carried along the val
leys of St. Mary s and Au Glaise rivers, and
unite with the Wabash and Erie canal, at
Defiance distance from Cincinnati about one
hundred and ninety miles.
An act passed the Ohio legislature in 1834,
for continuing the Wabash and Erie canal
(now constructing in Indiana, by that State),
from the western boundary of Ohio, to the
Maumee bay. Operations have been suspend
ed by the boundary dispute with Michigan.
The Mahoning and Beaver canal has al
ready been noticed, under the head of West
ern Pennsylvania. It is proposed to carry it
OHIO. 215
from Akron, on the Portage summit, along the
valley of the Mahoning river, to Newcastle,
on the JBeaver division of the Pennsylvania
canal. Distance in Ohio, seventy-seven
miles. The work is in progress.
The Sandy Creek and Little Beaver canal
is in progress by a chartered company. It
commences near the town of Bolivar, on the
Ohio and Erie canal, in Tuscarawas county,
and passes along near the line of Stark and
Carrol counties, to the Little Beaver in Co
lumbiana county, and from thence to the Ohio
river.
The Mad River and Sandusky rail-road
will extend from Dayton on the Miami canal,
to Sandusky, through Springfield, Urbanna,
Bellefontaine, Upper Sandusky, Tiffin, and
down the valley of the Sandusky river, to lake
Erie. The route is remarkably favorable for
locomotive power. Length 153 miles; esti
mated cost, $1 1 000 per mile. The work was
commenced in September, 1835.
The Erie and Ohio rail-road is intended
to be constructed from Ashtabula on the lake,
through Warren to Wellsville, on the Ohio
river, a distance of ninety miles. Other
rail-roads are in contemplation in this State,
the most important of which is the Great
Western rail-road, from Boston, by Worces
ter, Springfield, and Stockbridge, through
New York, by Albany, Utica and Buffalo,
along the summit ridge, dividing the northern
from the southern waters, through Pennsyl
peck s guide.
vania, Ohio, to intersect the Wabash and
Erie canal at Lafayette, in Indiana. From
thence provision is already made for it to pass
to the eastern boundary of Illinois, from
which, a company has been recently charter
ed to construct it across the State of Illinois
by Danville, Shelbyville, Hillsborough to
Alton on the Mississippi. It must be some
untoward circumstance, that shall prevent this
splendid work from being completed the whole
length, before 1850.
The project of a rail-road from Cincinnati,
to Charleston in South Carolina, has been
entered upon with great spirit in the South,
and in all the States more directly concerned
in the enterprise. It will, undoubtedly, be
carried into effect.
The State of Ohio has incorporated a num
ber of turnpike companies, some of which
have gone into operation. The first is near
the north-eastern corner of the State, from
Pierpont, through Monroe and Salem town
ships to the mouth of Conncaut creek,
sixteen miles long. The second is the
Trumbull and Ashtabula turnpike, leading
from Warren to Ashtabula, forty-eight miles.
The third is from the town of Wooster,
through Medina to Clcaveland, fifty-one miles.
The fourth is from Columbus to Sandusky,
106 miles, now in the course of construction.
Another from Cincinnati, through Lebanon
and Columbus, to Wooster, has been com
menced on the McAdamized plan, but is not
OHIO. 217
completed. A McAdatn turnpike from Cin
cinnati to Chillicothe is in progress. The
national road, constructed by the general
government, and transferred to the State,
passes from Wheeling, through Columbus, to
the Indiana line.
Manufactures. The principal factory for
woollen goods is at Steubenville. A number
of cotten factories are in the towns along the
Ohio river. Furnaces for smelting iron ore
are in operation in the counties bordering on
the Ohio, near the mouth of the Scioto.
Glass is manufactured in several towns. Con
siderable salt is made on the Muskingum below
Zanesville, on the Scioto, and on Yellow
creek above Steubenville. About half a mil
lion of bushels were made in the State, in
1830.
Cincinnati rivals Pittsburgh in the number,
variety and extent of its manufacturing oper
ations.
In every town and village through the State,
mechanics' shops are established for the man
ufacture of all articles of ordinary use,
Cities and Towns. To enter upon minute
descriptions, or even name all these, would
much exceed the bounds of this work.
Cincinnati is the great commercial empo
rium of the State. It is pleasantly situated
on the right or northern bank of the Ohio
river, about equidistant from Pittsburgh and
its mouth, in north latitude 39° 06', and
west longitude from Washington city 7° 25'.
218 peck s guide.
Directly fronting the city to the south, and
on the opposite side of the Ohio river, are the
flourishing manufacturing towns of Newport
and Covington, which are separated by the
Licking river, of Kentucky, which enters
the Ohio directly opposite the Cincinnati
landing.
The wharf arrangements are the most con
venient for lading and unlading goods at all
stages of the water, to be found on our west
ern rivers. The town site is beautifully sit
uated on the first and second banks of the
river,—the former of which is above ordinary
high water, and the latter gently rises sixty
or seventy feet higher, and spreads out into a
semicircular plain, surrounded with elevated
bluffs.
Cincinnati was founded in 1789, but did not
grow rapidly till about 1808. The progressive
increase of population will appear from the
following table:
In Population.! In Population. 1810 2 320 1826, 16 230 1813 4 000 1880, 26 515 1819, 10 000 1835, estimated, 31 000 1824 12 016;
Add the adjoining towns of Covington and
Newport, whose interestsare identified, and
the aggregate population will equal thirty-five
thousand; and, in all reasonable probability,
in 1850, these towns, with Cincinnati, will
number one hundred thousand active, edu
cated and enterprising citizens. In 1826, ac
OHIO. 219
cording to the "Picture of Cincinnati," by
B. Drake, Esq. and E. D. Mansfield, Esq.,
the manufacturing industry alone, according
to an accurate statistical examination, amount
ed to $1 800,000. At that time, there were
not more than fifteen steam-engines employed
in manufactures, in the city. At the close of
1835, there were more than fifty in successful
operation, besides four or five in Newport and
Covington. "More than one hundred steam
engines, about two hundred and forty cotton
gins, upwards of twenty sugar-mills, and
twenty-two steam-boats (many of them of the
largest size), have been built or manufactured
in Cincinnati during the year 1835."* Hence
the productive industry of Cincinnati, Coving
ton and Newport, for 1835, may be estimated
at $5 000,000. By a laborious investigation,
at the close of 1826, by the same writer, the
exports of that year were about $1 000,000 in
value. A similar inquiry induced him to place
the exports of 1832 at $4 000,000. The esti
mate for 1835 is $6 000,000.
To enumerate all the public and private
edifices deserving notice, would extend this
article to too great a length. The court
house, four market-houses, banks, college,
Catholic Athenaeum, two medical colleges,
mechanics' institute, two museums, hospital
and lunatics' asylum, the Woodward high
See a valuable statistical article, by B. Drake, Esq., in the Western Monthly Magazine, for January, 1836, enti tled, Cincinnati, at the close of 1835."
220 peck s guide.
school, ten or twelve large edifices for free
schools, hotels, and between twenty-five and
thirty houses for public worship, some of
which are elegant, deserve notice. The type
foundry and printing-press manufactory, is
one of the most extensive in the United
States. Here is machinery, lately invented,
for casting printer s types, exceeding, per
haps, any thing in the world. Printing, and
the manufacture of books, are extensively
carried on in this city. Here are six large
bookstores, several binderies, twelve or fifteen
printing-offices, from which are issued ten
weekly, four tri-weekly, four daily, fourmonth
ly and one quarterly publications. Two medical
publications, of a highly respectable charac
ter, are issued. The Western Monthly Mag
azine is too well known to need special notice
here. The Cincinnati Mirror is a respectable
literary periodical. The Family Magazine
deserves notice. The Presbyterians, Baptists,
Methodists, Roman Catholics, and, perhaps,
other sects, have each their weekly paper,
respectable in size and character. During
four months, in 1831, there were issued from
the Cincinnati press, 86 000 volumes, of
which 20 300 were original works. In the
same period, the periodical press issued
243 200 printed sheets. The business has
increased greatly since that time.
The College of Professional Teachers," is
an institution formed at the convention of
teachers, held in this city, in October, 1832.
OHIO.
Its objects are to unite the professional instruc
ted of youth throughout the Western coun
try in the cause in which they are engaged,
and to elevate the character of the profession.
Their meetings are held on the first Monday
in October annually. Lectures are given,
discussions held, reports made, and a respect
able volume of transaction published annual
ly. There is no doubt that much good will
result to the cause of education in the West,
from this annual convocation.
Law School. An institution of this char
acter has been organized, under the manage
ment of Hon. J. C. Wright, and other gen
tlemen of the bar.
Of Medical Schools there are two, at the
heads of which are gentlemen of high char
acter and attainments in their profession.
The Mechanics' Institute is designed for the
diffusion of scientific knowledge among the
mechanics and citizens generally, by means
of popular lectures and mutual instruction.
The Cincinnati Lyceum was formed for the
purpose of useful instruction and entertain
ment, by means of popular lectures and
debates. The Academic Institute is designed
to aid the cause of education and elevate the
profession amongst the teachers in Cincinna
ti. Its meetings are monthly. The Athenceum
is an institution under the management of
Roman Catholic priests. The college edi
fice is a splendid and permanent building, of
great capacity. The Woodward High School
222 peck s guide.
was founded by the late William Woodward.
The fund yields an income of about $2000
annually. It is conducted by four professors,
and has about one hundred and twenty stu
dents. The corporation has established a sys
tem of free schools, designed to extend the
benefits of primary education to all classes,
and ten or twelve large edifices have been
erected for the purpose. I regret the want of
documents to give particulars of this liberal
and praiseworthy enterprise, which reflects
much honor upon the city and its honorable
corporation. In 1833, there were twenty
public schools for males and females, and two
thousand pupils. Many excellent private
schools and seminaries, some of deserved
celebrity, are sustained by individual enter
prise.
Columbus, the political capital of the
State, and nearly in the centre of the State,
is a beautiful city, on the east bank of the
Scioto river. In 1812, it was covered with a
dense forest, when it was selected by the leg
islature for the permanent seat of govern
ment. The public buildings are a state-house,
a court-house for the Supreme Court, a
building for the public offices, a market-house,
&c, all of brick. The State penitentiary is
here, for which a new substantial building is
constructing, and an Asylum for the deaf and
dumb, sustained by legislative aid.
Chillicothe, Cleaveland, Zanesville, Steu
benville, Circleville and many others, are
large and flourishing towns.
OHIO. 223
Education. Charters for eight or ten col
leges and collegiate institutions have been
granted. Congress has granted 92 800 acres
of public land to this State, for colleges and
academies. One township (23 040 acres),
and a very valuable one, has been given to
the Miami university, at Oxford. Two town
ships of land (46 080 acres), though of infe-.
rior quality, have been given to the Ohio
university. Academies have been established
in most of the principal towns. A common
school system has been established by the
legislature. Each township has been divided
into school districts. Taxes are levied to the
amount of three fourths of a mill upon the
dollar of taxable property in the State, which,
with the interest accruing from the different
school funds already noticed, are applied to
wards the expenses of tuition. Five school
examiners are appointed in each county, by
the court of common pleas, who are to ex
amine teachers. The governer, in his recent
message, speaks of the common school sys
tem as languishing in proportion to other
improvements.
Form of Government. The legislative au
thority is vested in a Senate and House of
Representatives; both of which, collectively,
are styled the General Assembly. The mem
bers of both branches are chosen by counties,
or by districts composed of counties, accord
ing to population. The representatives are
chosen annually, the senators biennially.
224 peck s guide.
The General Assembly has the sole power of
enacting laws; the signature or assent of the
governor not being necessary in any case
whatever. The judiciary system comprises
three grades of courts; —the Supreme Court,
courts of common pleas, and Justices'
courts. The justices of the peace are chosen
triennially, by the people. The executive
authority is vested in a governor, who is
elected biennially, and must be thirty years
of age, and have resided in the State at least
four years. He is commander-in-chief of all
the militia, and commissions all officers in
the State, both civil and military. Each free,
white male citizen of the United States, of
twenty-one years of age, and a resident of the
State one year preceding an election, is
entitled to a vote in all elections.
The following shows the professions, occu
pations, and nativity of the members of the
legislature of Ohio, during the present winter
(1835-6), and is about a proportionate esti
mate for other Western States:—
The members of the Ohio legislature, as to
their occupations and professions, are:—farm
ers, fifty-eight; lawyers, seventeen; merchants
thirteen; doctors, five; printers, three; sur
veyors, two; millers, two; masons, two; car
penters, two; painter, one; watch-maker, one;
blacksmith, one; house joiner, one.
Their nativity is as follows:—Ohio, seven;
Pennsylvania, thirty; Virginia, twenty-two;
New England States, seventeen; Maryland,
OHIO. 225
eight; New York, seven; New Jersey, four;
Kentucky, three; Delaware, two; North
Carolina, one; Ireland, five; England, one;
Germany, one.
The youngest member in the Senate, is
thirty-three years of age, and the oldest fifty
six. In the House, the youngest twenty-six;
oldest sixty-seven. Under the constitution,
a senator must be thirty; and a member of
the House, twenty-six.
Antiquities. Mush has been said about the
antiquities of Ohio,— the fortifications, arti
ficial mounds, and military works, supposed
to indicate a race of civilized people, as the
possessors of the country, anterior to the In
dian nations. At Marietta, Circleville, Paint
creek, and some other places, are, doubtless,
antiquities, that exhibited upon their first dis
covery, strong marks of a military purpose.
I have no doubt, however, that credulity and
enthusiasm have greatly exaggerated many
appearances in the West, and magnified them
into works of vast enterprise and labor.
Mounds of earth are found in every country
on the globe, of all forms and sizes; and why
should they not exist in the western valley
Mr. Flint states that he has seen a horse-shoe
dug up at the depth of thirty-five feet below
the surface, with nails in it, and much eroded
by rust. He mentions also a sword, which is
said to be preserved as a curiosity, but
which he had not seen, found enclosed in the
wood of the roots of a tree, which could not
10*
226 peck s guide.
have been less than five hundred years old
Those who delight especially in the marvel
lous, may consult the "Description of the
Antiquities discovered in the State of Ohio
and other Western States, by Caleb Atwater,
Esq."
History. The first permanent settlement of
Ohio, was made at Marietta, April 7, 1788,
by forty-seven persons from Massachusetts,
Rhode Island, and Connecticut. This was
the nucleus around which has grown up the
populous State of Ohio. Amongst the most
active promoters of this colony, were those
called then "The Ohio Company." The
next settlement was that of Symmes' purchase,
made at Columbia, six miles above Cincinnati,
in November, 1789, by Major Stites and
twenty-five others, under the direction of
Judge Symmes. A colony of French emi
grants settled at Gallipolis, in 1791. In 1796,
settlements were made by New England emi
grants at Cleaveland and Conneaut, on the
southern shore of lake Erie. The intermedi
ate country gradually filled up by emigration
from various parts of the United States.
Some slight diversity exists, in different sec
tions of the State, in manners, customs and
feelings, amongst the people, in accordance
with the States or countries from which they
or their fathers emigrated. These shades of
character will become blended, and the next
generation will be Ohions, or, to use their own
native cognomen, Buckeyes.
OHIO. 227
The first territorial legislature convened at
Cincinnati, in September, 1790. The gov
ernor having exercised his right of veto in re
lation to the removal of a county seat, an un
happy collision followed, and, upon framing
the State constitution, in November, 1802,
the convention prevented the governor of the
State from ever exercising the negative power
upon acts of the legislature.
Date of Organization of some of Vie oldest Counties.
Washington, July 27, 1788 Hamilton Jan. 2, 1790 Adams, July 10, 1797 Jefferson, July 29, 1797 Ross, Aug. 20, 1798 Trumbull, Julv 18, 1800 Clermont, Dec. 6, 1800 Belmont, Sept. 7, 1801
These were all organized under the territo
rial government.
0
CHAPTER XI.
INDIANA.
Boundaries and Extent—Counties—Population at different Periods—Face of the Country—Sketch of each County —Form of Government—Finances—Internal Improve ments—Manufactures Education—History—General Remarks.
Length two hundred and forty, breadth
One hundred and fifty miles; between 37° 48'
north latitude, and 7° 45' and 1 1° west longi
tude; bounded north by the State of Michigan
and iake Michigan, east by Ohio, south by the
Ohio river, which separates it from Kentucky,
and west by Illinois. It contains about 37 000
square miles, equal to 23 680,000 acres.
It is naturally subdivided into the hilly por
tion, bordering on the Ohio; the level, timber
ed portion, extending across the middle of the
State the Wabash country, on that river; and
the northern portion, bordering, on the State
of Michigan and the lake. The two last por
tions include nearly all the prairie country.
For civil purposes, this State has been di
vided into counties, and those subdivided into
townships.
INDIANA. 229
Table of Counties, Seats of Justice, fyc.
Counties.
Allen, Bartholomew, Boon, Carroll, Cass, Clark, Clay, Clinton, Crawford, Daviess, Dearborn, Decatur, Delaware, Dubois, Elkhart, Fayette, Floyd, Fountain, Franklin, Gibson, Grant, Greene, Hamilton, Hancock, Harrison, Hendricks, Henry, Huntington,. Jackson Jefferson, Jennings Johnson, Knox, La Porte,
B C
S 5
|Date of |Format
a o Seats of Justice. <o a! ISa o _ rgl O S 1823 720 1 000 Fort Wayne. 1821 588 5 800 Columbus. 1830 400 622 Lebanon. 1828 450 1 614 Delphi. 1829 460 1 154 Logansport. 1802 400 10 719 Charlestowiu 1825 360 1 616 Bowling Green. 1830 450 1 423 Frankfort. 1813 350 3 184 Fredonia. 1816 460 4 512 Washington. 1802 448 14 573 Lawrenceville. 1821 400 5 854 Greensburgh. 1827 440 2 372 Muncytown. 1817 420 1 774 Jasper. 1830 576 935 Goshen. 1818 200 9 112 Connersville. 1819 200 6 363 New Albany. 1825 400 7 644 Covington. 1810 400 10 199 Bruokville. 1813 450 5 417 Princeton. 1831 415 Marion. 1821 540 4 250 Bloomfield. 1823 400 1 705 Noblesville. 1828 340 1 569 Greenfield. 1808 470 10 288 Corydon. 1823 420 3 967 Danville. 1821 440 6 498 Newcastle. 1832 400 1815 500 4 894 Brownstown. 1809 400 11 465 Madison. 1816 400 3 950 Vernon. 1822 300 4 130 Franklin 1802 540 6 557 Vincennes. 1832 420 La Porte.
230 peck s guide.
Lagrange Lawrence, Madison, Marion, Martin, Miami, Monroe, Montgomery, Morgan, Orange, Owen, Parke, Perry, Fike, Posey, Putnam, Randolph, Ripley, Rush, Scott, Shelby, Spencer St. Joseph, Sullivan, Switzerland, Tippecanoe, Union, Vanderburgh, Vermilion, Vigo, Wabash, Warren, Warrick, Washington, Wayne,
j
a
0
*"o 9 Seats of Justice. o Popiin It ta o Ci OQ E 1832 380 Mongoquinon. 1818 460 9 237 Bedford. 1823 420 2 442 Andersontown. 1821 440 7 181 [ndianopolis. 1818 340 2 010 Mount Pleasant. 1832 330 Miamisport. 1818 560 6 578 Bloomington. 1822 500 7 376 Crawforilsville. 1821 530 5 579 Martinsville. 1815 378 7 909 Paoli. 1818 380 4 060 Spencer. 1821 450 7 534 Rockville. 1814 400 3 378^ Rome. 1816 430 2 464 Petersburgh. 1814 500 6 883 Mount Vernon. 1821 490 8 195 Greencastle. 1818 440 3 912 Winchester. 1818 400 3 957 Versailles. 1821 400 9 918 Rushville. 1817 200 3 097 Lexington. 1821 430 6 294 Shelbyville. 1818 400 3 187 Rockport. 1830 740 287 South Bend. 1816 430 4 696 Merom. 1814 300 7 111 Vevay. 1826 500 7 161 Lafayette. 1821 224 7 957 Liberty. 1818 225 2 610 Evansville. 1823 280 5 706 Newport. 1818 400 5 737 Terre Haute. 1832 380 1828 350 2 854 Williamsport. 1813 412 2 973 13 072 Boonville. 1813 550 Salem. 1810 420 23 344 Centreville.
INDIANA. 231
The total population is 1830 was 341 682;
the estimated population in the message of
Gov. Noble, to the legislature, December,
1835, was 600 000.
The counties in which the population has
not been given in the foregoing table, have
been formed since 1830. Probably other new
counties, along the waters of the Wabash and
Kankakee, have been formed recently, of
which no intelligence has been had by the
author. The counties in the northern portion
of the State have increased the most in popu
lation since 1830.
For electing representatives to Congress,
the State is divided into seven electoral dis
tricts: for judicial purposes, it is divided into
eight circuits, in each of which there is a cir
cuit judge, who, together with two associates
in each county, holds the circuit courts.
Population at Different Periods.
In Population.
1800 (excluding Illinois), 2 641 1810, 24 520 1820 147 178 1825, 222 000 1830, 341 582 1835, estimated, 600 000
From Increase,
1800 to 1810, 21 879 1810 1820, 122 658 1820 1825, 74 822 1825 1830, 119 582 1830 1835, 258 418
In 1825, the number of voters was 36 977,
and the number of paupers, 217.
Face of the Country, 5rc. The counties bor
dering on the Ohio river are hilly; sometimes
abrupt, precipitous, stony, and occasionally
peck s guide.
degenerating into knobs and ravines. Com
mencing at the mouth of White river, on the
Wabash, and following up that stream, on its
east fork, and thence along the Muscatatack,
through Jennings and Ripley counties, to
Lawrenceville, and you leave the rough and
hilly portion of Indiana to the right. Much
of the country we have denominated hilly is
rich, fertile land, even to the summit of the
hills. On all the streams are strips of rich
alluvion of exhaustless fertility. The interior,
on the two White rivers and tributaries, is
moderately undulating, tolerably rich soil,
and much of it heavily timbered with oaks of
various species, poplar, beech, sugar-tree,
walnut, hickory, elm and other varieties com
mon to the West. There is much level, table
land, between the streams. Along the Wa
bash, below Terre Haute, is an undulating
surface, diversified with forest and prairie,
having a soil of middling quality, interspersed
with some very rich tracts. Above Terre
Haute, along the Wabash and its tributa
ries, the land in general is first rate; a large
proportion forest, interspersed with beautiful
prairies. The timber consists of oak of va
rious species, poplar, ash, walnut, cherry,
sugar-tree, buckeye, hickory, beech, sassa
fras, linden, honey-locust, with some cotton
wood, sycamore, hackberry and mulberry on
the bottom lands. The undergrowth is spice
bush, hazel, plum, crab-apple, hawthorn and
vines. Along the northern part of the State
INDIANA. 233
are extensive prairies and tracts of barrens,
with groves of various kinds of timber, and
skirts of burr-oak. Towards lake Michigan,
and along the Kankakee and St. Joseph rivers,
are lakes, swamps and marshes.
Rivers. The Ohio meanders along the
south-eastern and southern parts of the State
for 350 miles. The east and west forks of
White river, and their tributaries, water the
interior counties for 100 miles in extent.
They are both navigable streams for flat-boats
during the spring and autumn floods. The
Wabash river has several heads, which inter
lock with the waters of the St. Joseph and St.
Mary s, which form the Maumee of lake
Erie. It runs asouth-westwardly course across
the State, to Warren county,—thence south
wardly to Vigo county, where it becomes the
boundary between Indiana and Illinois, along
which it meanders to the Ohio, which it enters
twelve miles above Shawneetown. The St.
Joseph of lake Michigan, already noticed
under the State of Michigan, makes a curve
into Elkhart and St. Joseph counties, forming
what is called the South Bend. The Kankakee,
which is the longest branch of Illinois river,
rises in Indiana, near the South Bend. Some
of its head waters interlock with those of Tip
pecanoe, a prominent tributary ofthe Wabash.
Sketch ofeach County. The following sketch
of each county, its streams, surface, soil and
minerals, has been made and collated with
much labor, from an excellent Gazetteer of
11
234 PECK S GUIDE.
this State, published in 1833, by Douglass
Maguire, of Indianopolis, from personal ob
servation of many of the older counties, and
from an extensive correspondence.
Allen.—Streams; Saint Joseph s and Saint
Mary s, which form the Maumee of lake Erie
(navigable for small keel-boats), and numer
ous creeks; generally heavily timbered; soil
clay, sandy on the rivers.
Barlholemew.—Streams; Driftwood, Clif
ty, Flat Rock, and Salt Creeks,—all mill
streams. Surface, level; soil, a rich loam,
mixed with sand and gravel; the western
part hilly, with clay soil. Minerals; lime
stone, coal, iron ore, red ochre.
Boon.—Watered by the tributaries of Ra
coon and Sugar Creeks. Surface, level,—
soil rich.
Carroll.—Streams; Wabash river, Deer,
Rock, and branches of Wildcat creeks. Con
siderable timber,—some prairies, of which
Deer prairie is the largest and most beautiful.
Considerable quantities of limestone on the
surface; a remarkable spring near Delphi,
the water reddish.
Cass.—Streams are Wabash and Eel rivers,
which unite at Logansport,—the head of
steam-boat navigation of the Wabash. Sur
face, generally, level, rolling towards the
rivers with abrupt bluffs; soil, near the rivers,
a mixture of loam and sand; at a distance
from them, flat and clayey. Large proportion
forest land,—some prairies.
INDIANA. 235
Clark.—Silver and Fourteen Mile creeks
furnish excellent mill sites. Ohio river on
the south. Surface, rolling and hilly; soil,
loam, mixed with sand. Minerals; limestone,
gypsum, water lime, marble, salt, iron ore,
copperas, alum.
Clay.—Eel river and tributaries. Surface
moderately undulating; soil various, chiefly
clay and loam, and a mixture of sand, in
places; timber predominates,—some prairies.
Clinton.—Watered by the South, Middle,
and Kilmore s Forks of Wildcat creek. Sur
face, moderately undulating, or level: Twelve
Mile prairie extends from south-west to north
east twelve miles, and is three fourths of a
mile wide. The remaindertimbered land. Soil,
a rich sandy loam, and exceedingly fertile.
Crawford.—Waters; the Ohio and Blue
rivers,—plenty of water power, and excellent
springs. Surface, hilly and broken; in places,
tolerably productive; in others, soil thin and
rocky. A timbered region, and abundance of
limestone.
Daviess. —Streams; Forks of White river,
with its tributaries, Smother s, Prairie, Veal,
Aikman s and Sugar creeks. Level bottoms
on the rivers—sometimes inundated; undula
ting on the high grounds. Soil on the West
Fork, sandy; much timber,—an extensive
tract of sugar tree; some prairies. The
county destitute of rock near the surface;
plenty of lime and sandstone in the bed of
West Fork of White river, at the rapids.
Plenty of coal.
236 peck s guide.
Dearborn.—Watered by the Great Miami,
Whitewater, Laughery, Hogan s and Tan
ner s creeks. Surface hilly and broken, with
rich, level, bottom lands, on the Miami. Soil,
one fourth first rate, one fourth second rate,
—remainder inferior. A timbered region.
Decatur.—Flat Rock, Clifty, and Sand
creeks, are all good mill streams. Surface,
generally level,—some parts undulating soil,
loam, with a substratum of clay; well adapt
ed to grain, —timbered. Minerals; limestone,
some iron ore and coal.
Delaware.—Streams; Missisinawa, and
West Fork of White river; surface tolera
bly level; soil, loam, mixed with sand. Min
erals; some limestone, and granite bowlders
scattered over (he surface.
Dubois.—Streams; East Fork of White
river, Patoka and Anderson creeks. Surface
rolling, —some parts hilly and broken,—some
level tracts; soil, rich and sandy loam near
the streams. Minerals; sandrock and coal.
Elkhart.—Watered by St. Joseph of lake
Michigan, Elkhart and tributaries. Surface,
generally level,—a portion undulating; soil
various, but generally rich; forest and prairie,
both wet and dry.
Fayette.—Watered by the West Fork of
Whitewater, and a small lake in the north.
Surface, undulating; soil, on the high ground,
clayey, and a mixture of sand,—on the bottom
lands, a rich, sandy loam. Limestone found
in masses and quarries.
 
INDIANA. 237
Floyd.—Watered by the Ohio river, Silver
creek, and some head branches of Big and
Little Indian creeks. Surface various,—a
range of knobs,—east of these knobs, it is
gently undulating; soil inferior. Minerals;
shale, soft sandstone, limestone, freestone,
iron ore, and some traces of coal. A boiling
spring, from which is emitted an inflammable
gas.
Fountain.-—Watered by the Wabash river,
and Coal and Shawnee creeks, with numerous
mill sites. Surface, gently undulating; soil,
a black loam, mixed with sand and very rich.
Minerals; coal, and some sandstone.
Franklin.—Watered by the East and West
Forks of Whitewater. Surface, on the east
ern part level, —western, rolling; soil, in the
central and northern parts, a black loam,—in
the south-west, thin and clayey.
Gibson.—Watered by the Wabash, White,
and Patoka rivers. Surface, rolling and tim
bered; soil, generally a sandy loam, and pro
ductive.
Grant.—Watered by the Missisinawa and
tributaries. Surface level,—generally heavily
timbered; soil, clay and loam on the table
lands,—sandy on the river bottoms.
Green.—Watered by White and Eel rivers,
and Richland creek; soil, on the rivers, a rich
loam, —on the bluffs, sandy, —east side, hilly,
—west side, level. White river is navigable.
Minerals; lime and sandstone, coal, and some
iron ore.
238 peck s guide.
Hamilton.—The streams are White river,
and Cicero, Coal, Stoney, and Fall creeks.
Generally forest,—some few prairies; soil, in
places, clay,—more generally, a sandy loam.
Minerals; lime, and some soft sandrock.
Hancock.—Watered by Blue river, Sugar
and Brandywine creeks, with excellent mill
sites, and well supplied with springs. Sur
face, either level or gently undulating; soil,
a rich loam, mixed with sand,—heavily tim
bered.
Harrison.—Watered by Big and Little In
dian, and Buck creeks, and Blue river. Sur
face various,—some parts hilly and broken,—
some parts undulating,—some parts level;
soil, in the low grounds, a rich loam,—on the
high grounds, calcareous and gravelly. A
large tract of "barrens" in the west. Min
erals; a quarry and several caves of black
flint, salt licks, limestone.
Hendricks.—The waters are White Lick,
and branches of Eel river, with good mill
sites. Surface, gently rolling, and timbered
with the varieties of the Wabash country;
soil, a mixture of clay, loam and sand.
Henry.—Watered by Blue river, Flat Rock
and Fall creeks. Surface, in some places,
broken, —in most parts, level; soil, a mixture
of sand with loam and clay. Plenty of springs
and mill sites. Mostly timbered, but several
tracts of prairie.
Huntington.—The streams are Salamania,
Little river, and Wabash. Surface, on the
INDIANA. 239
rivers, level,—back, gently undulating; soil,
loam and clay, with a slight mixture of sand.
Several tracts of prairie, but generally forest
land.
Jackson.—Watered by Indian, Driftwood,
White, Muscatatack, and Gum creeks. Sur
face7, rolling and in places hilly soil, clay
and loam, mixed with sand. In the forks of
the creeks, sand predominates. On the west
and north-west, inclined to clay.
Jefferson.—Watered by the Ohio river,
Indian-Kentucky and Big creeks. Surface
various; along the river and creeks, low allu
vion; soil, loam mixed with sand. The bot
toms are bounded by precipitous bluffs, with
towering cliffs of limestone. The table lands
are undulating, and the soil inclined to clay.
Timber various. Abounds with limestone,
masses of freestone, and scattered granite
bowlders.
Johnson.—Watered on the eastern side by
Blue river, and Sugar and Young s creeks,—
on the western side by Indian, Crooked, and
Stott s creeks. Surface, gently undulating;
soil, a rich, black, sandy loam; timbered.
Minerals; masses of freestone, and scattered
granite bowlders.
Jennings.—Watered by Graham s Fork,
and the North Fork of the Muscatatack.
Surface, in some parts level, some parts very
hilly; soil, calcareous, rich and productive;
timber of all varieties; abounds with lime
stone.
240 peck s guide.
Knox.—The Wabash on the west side,—
White river south,—the West Fork of White
river east, —and Maria and Duchain creeks,
interior. Surface undulating; soil, somewhat
various,—a rich loam in places,—sandy in
other places; —some tracts of prairie, but
timber predominates.
Lagrange.—Watered by Pigeon and Crook
ed rivers. Surface, gently rolling; northern
part extensive prairies; southern portion chief
ly forest; soil, loam and sand.
La Porte.—Watered by the Kankakee,
Galena, and Trail creek, at the mouth of
which is Michigan city and a harbor for lake
Michigan commerce. Surface, gently undu
lating; abounds with large, rich prairies, with
groves of timber, and lakes of clear water
interspersed; soil, a sandy loam, rich and
productive.
Lawrence.—Watered by Salt, Indian,
Guthrie s, Beaver, and Leatherwood creeks,
and excellent springs. Surface, generally
hilly,—some level lands; —soil, on the water
courses, sandy, —back from the streams, loam
and clay. Abounds with limestone.
Madison. —The West Fork of White river
is navigable. The other streams are Killbuck,
Pipe, Lick and Fall creeks. Surface, gener
ally level, with some broken land near the
streams; timbered, with a wet prairie, seven
miles long and three fourths 'of a mile wide;
soil, sand, mixed with clay and loam, —pro
ductive. Minerals; lime and freestone,
INDIANA. 241
marble that polishes well, and some traces of
iron ore.
Marion.—West Fork of White river passes
through it, on which is situated Indianofolis,
the capital of the State. Fall creek is an ex
cellent mill stream. Surface, chiefly level
forest land; soil, a deep black loam, with a
mixture of sand. Large granite bowlders are
scattered over the surface.
Martin. —The East Fork of White river
passes through it, and receives Lost river
from the left, and Indian and Flint creeks from
the right. Surface, on the east side of White
river, broken and hilly; soil, clay and loam;
on the west side, level, or gently undulating,
with portions of barrens and prairie land; soil,
clay and loam, mixed with sand. Minerals;
coal in large quantities, lime, sand and free
stone.
Miami.—The Wabash and Eel rivers pass
through it, and the Missisinavva comes from
the east, and enters the Wabash about the
centre of the county. The Wabash and Erie
canal passes through it. Surface, gently un
dulating and beautiful,—chiefly forest, and
interspersed with small prairies; soil, the rich
est in the State, of loam, clay and sand inter
mixed.
Monroe.—Streams; Salt, Clear, Indian,
Racoon, Richland, and Bean-blossom creeks,
—pure springs. Surface, hilly and undula
ting; soil, second rate. Minerals; limestone
rock, salt licks, with manufactories of salt.
peck s guide.
Montgomery.—The heads of Shawnee and
Coal creeks in the north-west, —Sugar creek
in the centre, —and Big Racoon on the south
eastern part. Surface, gently undulating;
the northern portion prairie, interspersed with
groves, with a rich soil of black loam, mixed
with sand,—the middle and southern portions
timbered. Excellent quarries of rock in the
middle,—granite bowlders in the northern
parts.
Morgan.—White river, which is navigable.
The mill streams are White Lick, Sycamore,
Highland, and Lamb s creeks on the west
side, and Crooked, Stott s, Clear, and Indian
creeks on the east side. Surface, generally
rolling,—some parts hilly; soil, calcareous
and clayey,—on the bottoms, a rich sandy
loam. Minerals; limestone, and some iron
ore.
Orange. —Streams; Lost river, French
Lick, and Patoka. Surface, hilly and broken,
—limestone rock,—springs of water, of which
Half-moon and French Lick are curiosities.
On the alluvial bottoms, the soil is loamy,—on
the hills, calcareous, and inclined to clay.
Excellent stones for grit, equal to the Turkey
oil stones are found in this county.
Owen. —Watered by the West Fork of
White river, with its tributaries, Racoon,
Indian, Mill, Rattlesnake, and Fish creeks.
The falls of Eel river furnish the best water
power in the State. Surface rolling; soil, in
some places a dark loam, —in others clayey
INDIANA.
and calcareous. Minerals; immense bodies of
lime rock, and some iron ore.
Parke.—Watered by the Big and Little
Racoon, and Sugar creeks (with excellent
mill sites), all of which enter the Wabash on
its western side. Surface, generally level,—
some beautiful prairies, but mostly forest land;
soil, a loam, mixed with sand, and rich. Mine
rals; lime and sandstone, coal and iron ore.
Perry.—Watered by the Ohio river, with
Anderson s, Bear, Poison, and Oil creeks in
terior. Some level land, with a rich, sandy
loam, on the streams,—all the high lands very
broken; hilly, with a clayey, sterile soil.
Minerals; immense bodies of limestone, grind
stone quarries, iron ore and coal.
Pike—has White river on the north, and
Patoka creek through the centre. Surface
all forest land and undulating; soil, eastern
part clay and sand, —western, a rich, dark
loam, mixed with sand, —some swampy land.
Minerals; limestone and coal.
Posey.—In the forks of the Ohio and Wa
bash, with Big, Mill, and McFadden s creeks
interior, and good springs. Surface, rolling,
and all forest land; soil, a sandy loam, and
produces well. Minerals; sand, and lime
stone, and coal.
Putnam—has Raooon creek, and Eel
river, with abundant water privileges, and fine
springs. Surface, gently undulating; soil, in
places calcareous and clayey,—in other
places a rich loam; limestone.
244 peck s guide.
Randolph.—Water courses; the West Fork
of White river and Missisinaw* and their
tributaries, which furnish good mill sites.
Surface, either level or gently undulating;
soil, a rich loam,—in some places marshy;
a small quantity of limestone, with granite
bowlders.
Ripley.—Watered by Laughery and Gra
ham s creek. Surface, level, forest land; soil
clay,—in some parts inclines to sand,—with
limestone abundant.
Rush. —The streams are Big and Little Blue
river, Big and Little Flat Rock, with exce)lent
water power. Surface, moderately rolling,
and heavily timbered; soil, loam on clay, with
a slight mixture of sand.
Scott.—Watered by tributaries of the Mus
catatack. Surface rolling,—some flat lands,
inclining to marsh; soil, clay; minerals, lime
stone, iron ore, salt, sulphur and copperas.
Shelby. —Watered by Big and Little Blue
river, Brandywine and Sugar creeks, with
good mill sites,—all heads of the east fork of
White river. Surface, generally level, with
forest land; soil, clay, mixed with loam.
Spencer.—Ohio river, Anderson s, Little
Pigeon and Sandy creeks. Surface tolerably
level, and forest land; soil, clay, mixed with
loam: minerals; coal, lime, and sandrock.
St Joseph. —St. Joseph s river, Kankakee
and Bobango, with some small creeks; exten
sive marshes on the Kankakee, and near the
South Bend of the St. Joseph. These marshes
INDIANA. 245
are of vegetable formation. Surface, in some
parts level, in others, gently undulating; soil,
a loam, in some places sand. The north-west
part chiefly prairies and barrens, including
the large and fertile prairies of Portage and
Terre Coupee. The north-eastern, barrens;
the south-eastern, forest. Minerals, granite
bowlders and bog-iron ore.
Sullivan—has the Wabash river on its west
ern side, and Turroan s, Busseron and Turtle
creeks, interior. Surface, rolling; —some
prairies, but, generally forest land, —some
poor barrens; soil, loam and sand; —lime,
sandrock and coal.
Switzerland.—The Ohio east and south,
Indian, Pluin, Bryant s, Turtle and Grant s
creeks, interior. Surface, various,—bottom
lands level and rich,—then a range of precip
itous bluffs, with cliffs of limestone,-—the table
land rolling, with a calcareous and clayey soil.
At Vevay are extensive vineyards.
Tippecanoe.—Watered by the Wabash
river, and Wildcat, Wea, Burnett s and Mill
Branch creeks. The Wabash affords naviga
tion, and the other streams excellent mill
sites. Surface gently undulating, with exten
sive level tracts, and consists of one half prai
rie, one eighth barrens, and the remainder
heavy forest land. The prairie soil is a rich,
black loam,—the barrens cold, wet clay,—^the
forest a very rich loam and sand.
Union.—Streams; the East Fork of White
river and its tributaries, Hanna s, Richland
246 peck s guide.
and Silver creeks, all of which furnish excel
lent mill sites. Surface, moderately rolling;
soil, a dark loam.
Vanderburgh.—Watered by the Ohio and
Great Pigeon creek. Surface, high, dry,
rolling land, with good timber, and well wa
tered; soil, clay and sand, of inferior quality.
Minerals; lime and sandstone, salines and a
mineral spring.
Vermilion. —A long, narrow county, be
tween the Wabash river and the State of Il
linois. The streams are Wabash, Big and
Little Vermilion, and their tributaries. Sur
face high, rolling land, with abrupt bluffs near
the streams; a good proportion of prairie and
timber; soil, rich, sandy loam, and very pro
ductive. Minerals; freestone, limestone, and
large coal banks.
Vigo.—The Wabash passes through it,—
navigable. The mill streams are Prairie,
Honey, Otter and Sugar creeks, but their
waters fail in a dry season. Surface level, or
gently undulating, with forest and prairies;
soil, first rate, rich loam and sand. Mineral;
gray limestone, freestone, and inexhaustible
beds of coal.
Wabash.—The Wabash river, and Wabash
and Erie canal, pass through it, as does the
Missisinawa, Eel, Blnegrass and Salamania.
Surface, wide, rich bottoms on the streams;
bluffs and ravines adjoining; table lands fur
ther back, either dry and rolling, or flat and
wet, and abounding with willow swamps.
INDIANA. 247
Limestone rock abundant, and many excel
lent springs of pure water.
Warren.—The Wabash on the south-east
border for thirty miles, and navigated by
steam-boats; interior streams, Rock, Red
wood, and Big and Little Pine creeks, all of
which afford good mill sites; some pine and
cedar timber. Surface generally level, with
broken land on the bluffs of creeks; some
forest, but the largest proportion prairie; soil,
a rich and very fertile loam. Minerals; lime
and excellent freestone for building purposes,
coal, iron, lead and copper, with several old
diggings and furnaces, where copper and
lead ore have been smelted in early times.
Warrick.—Watered by the Ohio river, Big
and Little Pigeon and Cypress. Surface,
rolling and hilly; soil, a sandy loam, on clay.
Minerals; quarries of freestone, some lime
stone, and inexhaustible beds of coal.
Washington.—Streams; Muscatatack, on the
north, Rush, Twin, Highland, Delany s, Elk,
Bear and Sinking creeks, and the heads of
Blue and Lost rivers, and mill sites. Surface,
diversified, from gentle undulations, to lofty
and precipitous hills; soil, in part, second rate,
with much of inferior quality: substratum of
limestone; caves, hollows and sink-holes.
Wayne.—Streams; East and West Forks of
Whitewater, with excellent water-power for
machinery. Surface, moderately hilly, heavy
forest land; soil, a rich loam; substratum, clay.
Minerals; generally limestone, excellent for
building.
peck s guide.
Form of Government. This differs very little
from that of Ohio. The constitution provides
that an enumeration be made every five years
of all free white male inhabitants, above the
age of twenty-one years; and the representa
tion of both houses of the General Assembly
is apportioned by such enumeration, in such
ratio that the number of representatives shall
never be less than thirty-six, nor exceed one
hundred, and the number of senators not ex
ceeding one half nor less than one third the
number of representatives. Every free white
male citizen, twenty-one years of age, who
has resided in the State one year, is entitled
to vote; except such as shall be enlisted in
the army of the United States, or their allies."
Elections are held annually, by ballot, on the
first Monday in August. The governor, lieu
tenant governor and senators, hold their offi
ces for three years. The judiciary is vested
in a Supreme Court, in circuit courts, probate
courts, and justices of the peace. The Su
preme Court consists of three judges, who are
appointed by the governor, with the advice
and consent of the Senate, for the term of
seven years, and have appellate jurisdiction.
The circuit courts consist of a presiding judge
in each judicial circuit, elected by joint ballot
of both houses of the General Assembly, and
two associate judges in each county, elected
by the qualified voters, in their respective
counties, for a like term. The probate courts
consist of one judge for each county, who
INDIANA. 249
is elected by the voters, for the same term.
Justices of the peace are elected in each
township, for the term of five years, and have
jurisdiction, in criminal cases, throughout the
county, but in all civil cases, throughout the
township.
Finances. The. Indiana Gazetteer, of 1833,
estimates that the revenue for State purposes,
amounted to about $35 000 annually; and, for
county purposes, to about half that sum. The
aggregate receipts for 1835, according to the
governor s message of Dec. 1835, amounted
to $107 714; expenditures for the same time,
$103 901. Sales of canal lands for the same
period, §175 740. The canal commissioners
have borrowed $605 257, for canal purposes,
on a part of which they obtained two per cent.
premium, and, on another part, as high as
seven per cent.; and have also borrowed
$450 000 bank capital, for which they receiv
ed four and a half per cent. premium. Three
per cent. on all sales of United States lands
within the State is paid by the general gov
ernment into the State treasury, to be expend
ed in making roads. The receipts from this
source, in 1835, amounted to $24 398. Sales
and rents of saline lands, produced an income
of $4 636. The proceeds of certain lands,
donated by the general government towards
the construction of a road from the Ohio river
to lake Michigan, amounted to $33 030.
Internal Improvements. This State has en
tered with great spirit upon a system of inter
11*
peck s guide.
nal improvements. It consists of canaling,
improving river navigation, rail-roads, and
common turnpike-roads.
Wabash and Erie Canal. This work will
extend from Lafayette, on the Wabash river,
up the valley of that stream, to the Maumee,
and to the boundary of Ohio, a distance of one
hundred and five miles. The cpst of construc
tion has been estimated at $1 081,970, and
lands to the amount of 355 200 acres, have
been appropriated by the general government,
the proceeds of which will be sufficient to com
plete the canal to Fort Wayne. The middle
division, thirty-two miles, was completed in
July, 1835, and the remainder is in active
progress. Its whole distance, through a part
of Ohio, to Maumee bay, at the west end of
lake Erie, will be one hundred and eighty
seven miles.
The Whitewater Canal, seventy-six miles
in length, along the western branch of White
water, is intended to pass through Conners
ville, Brookville, Somerset and other towns,
to Lawrenceburgh, on the Ohio river.
Provision is made to improve the naviga
tion of the Wabash river, in conjunction with
Illinois, where it constitutes the boundary
line; and by this State alone, further up.
Synopsis of canals surveyed by order of the
Indiana legislature, in 1835.—Lafayette and
Terre Haute division of the Wabash and
Erie canal; length, ninety miles; total cost.
$1 067,914 70; per mile, $11 865 79. i
INDIANA. 251
Central Canal, north of Indianopolis total
length from Indianopolis, by the way of An
dersontown, Pipe creek summit, to the Wa
bash and Erie canal, at Wabash town, one
hundred and three miles, thirty-four chains;
total cost, $1 992,224 54; per mile, $17 106
51 :—length, by the way of Pipe creek sum
mit, to Peru, near the mouth of the Missisi
nawa, one hundred and fourteen miles, forty
six chains; total cost, $1 897,797 19; per
mile, $14 871 85:—length, by the way of Pipe
creek summit (including lateral canal to Mun
cytown), to Wabash town, one hundred and
twenty-four miles, fifty-one chains; total cost,
$2 103,15361 permile, $15 873 83:— length,
by the way of Pipe creek summit (including
lateral canal to Mnncytown), to Peru, one
hundred and eighty-five miles, sixty-three
chains; total cost, $2 008,726 26; permile,
$14 793 12.—Total length, from Indianopolis,
by the way of Mnncytown, to the Wabash
and Erie canal, at Peru, one hundred and
thirty-one miles, forty-one chains; total cost,
$2 058,929 41 per mile, $14 549 71. Cen
tral canal, south of Indianopolis: total length,
from Indianopolis to Evansville, one hundred
and eighty-eight miles; total cost, $2 642,285
92; permile, $14 054 71. Route down the
valley of Main Pigeon, —length, one hundred
and ninety-four miles; total cost, $2 400,957
70; per mile, $12 376 02.
Terre Haute and Eel river Canal, which
forms a connexion between the Wabash and
252 peck s guide.
Erie canal and White river or Central canal:
total length, forty miles and a half; total cost,
$629 631 65; which, including a feeder, is
$13 540 46 per mile.
Wabash and Erie Canal, eastern division,
(east of Fort Wayne); upper line,—length,
nineteen miles, thirtv chains; total cost,
$154 113 13; permile,"$7 952 17: lower line,
—total length, twenty miles, seventy-six and
a half chains; total cost, $254 817 52; per
mile, $11 159 04.
The following are the works provided for in
the bill, and the sums appropriated for them:
1. The Whitewater canal, including a lateral canal or rail-road, to connect said canal with the Central or White river canal, $1 400,000 2. Central or White river canal, 3 500,000 3. Extension of the Wabash and Erie canal, 1 300,000 4. Madison and Lafayette rail-road, 1 300,000 5. M Adamized turnpike-road from New Albany to Vincennes, 1 150,000 6. Turnpike or rail-road, from New Al bany to Crawfordsville, 1 300,000 7. Removing obstructions in the Wabash, 50 000
$10 000,000
8. The bill gives the credit of the State to the Lawreneeburgh and Tndianopolis rail-road company, for the sum of $500 000
Rail-Roads, from Evnnsville, on the Ohio,
to Lafayette, on the Wabash, one hundred
and seventy-five miles, —from Lafayette to
Michigan city, ninety miles, forming a line
INDIANA. 253
from the Ohio river to lake Michigan, two
hundred and sixty-five miles in length; —from
Madison, on the Ohio, to Indianopolis, the seat
of government, eighty-five miles; and several
others, were projected three years since. But
at the session of the legislature of 1835-6, a
bill was passed to borrow, in such instalments
as should be needed, tenmillions of dollars; and
a system of internal improvements, including
canals, rail-roads, and the improvement of
river navigation, was marked out. In a few
years, this State will be prominent in this
species of enterprise.
Manufactures. Besides the household man
ufacture of cotton and flannels, common to the
western people, at Vincennes, and probably
other towns, machinery is employed in seve
ral establishments. It will be seen from the
sketch of each county, already given, that in
most parts of the State there is a supply of
water power for manufacturing purposes.
Both water and steam power, saw and grist
mills, are already in operation in various parts
of the State.
Education. The same provision, of one
section of land in each township, or a thirty
sixth part of the public lands, has been made
for the encouragement of common schools, as
in other Western States. A law has been
enacted providing for common schools, and
the public mind has become in a measure
awakened to the subject of education. Some
most extravagant and exaggerated statements
have been made, relative to an incredible
254 peck s guide.
number of children in this State, who have
no means of education." As in all new coun
tries, the first class of emigrants, having to
provide for their more immediate wants, have
not done so much as is desirable to promote
common school education; but we have no
idea they will slumber on that subject, while
they are wide awake to the physical wants
and resources of the country. Academies
have been established in several counties, and
a college at Bloomington, from the encourage
ment of State funds; and other institutions are
rising up, of which the Hanover institution,
near the Ohio river, and Wabash college, at
Crawfordsville, promise to be conspicuous.
History. This country was first explored
by adventurers from Canada, with a view to
the Indian trade, towards the close of the sev
enteenth century; and the place where Vin
cennes now stands is said to have been thus
early occupied as a trading post. A company
of French, from Canada, made a settlement
here, in 1735. The country, in common with
the Western Valley, was claimed by France,
until it was ceded to Great Britain, lit the
treaty of peace, in 1763, under whose juris
diction it remained, until subdued by the
American arms, under the intrepid Gen. G.
R. Clark, and his gallant band, in 1779. A
territorial government was organized by Con
gress, in 1787, including all the country north
west of the Ohio river, which was then called
the North-Western Territory. In 1802, when
the State of Ohio was organized, all that part
INDIANA. 255
of the Territory lying west of a line due north
from the mouth of the Great Miami, was or
ganized into the Territory of Indiana; which
was divided, and from which Illinois Territory
was formed in 1809. In June, 1816, a con
stitution was adopted, and at the ensuing ses
sion of Congress, Indiana was made a State.
General Remarks. The importance of In
diana, as a desirable State for the attention of
the emigrant to the West, has been too much
overlooked. Although not possessing quite
equal advantages with Illinois, especially in
the quality and amount of prairie soil, it is far
superior to Ohio; and fully equal,—nay, in
our estimation,—rather superior to Michigan.
Almost every part is easy of access, and in a
very few years the liberal system of internal
improvements, adopted and in progress, will
make almost every county accessible to public
conveyances, and furnish abundant facilities
to market.
Along the wide, alluvion bottoms of the
streams, and amidst a rank growth of vegeta
tion, there is usually more or less autumnal
fever; yet, in general, there is very little dif
ference in any of the Western States as to
prospects of health.
Mechanics, school teachers, and laborers
of every description, are much wanted in this
State, as they are in all the States further
west; and all may provide abundantly and
easily all the necessaries of living for a family,
ifthey will use industry, economy and sobriety.
CHAPTER XII.
ILLINOIS.
Boundaries and Extent—Face of the Country and Qualities of Soil—Inundated Land—River Bottoms, or Alluvion— Prairies—Barrens—Forest, or timbered Land—Knobs, Bluffs, Ravines and Sink-holes—Rivers, &c.—Animal, Mineral and Vegetable Productions—Manufactures— Civil Divisions—Tabular View of the Counties—Sketch of each County—Towns—Projected Improvements— Education—Government—General Remarks.
The State of Illinois is situated between
37° and 42° 30" north latitude; and between
10° 25' and 14° 3& west longitude from Wash
ington city. It is bounded on the north by
Wisconsin Territory, north-east by lake Mich
igan, east by Indiana, south-east and south by
Kentucky, and west by Missouri. Its extreme
length is three hundred and eighty miles; and
its extreme width, two hundred and twenty
miles; its average width, one hundred and
fifty miles. The area of the whole State, in
cluding a small portion of lake Michigan with
in its boundaries, is 59 300 square miles.
ILLINOIS. 251
The water area of the State is about 3750
square miles. With this, deduct 5550 square
miles for irreclaimable wastes, and there re
mains 50 000 square miles, or 32 000,000
of acres of arable land in Illinois,—a much
greater quantity than is found in any other
State. In this estimate, inundated lands,
submerged by high waters, but which may be
reclaimed at a moderate expense, is included.
Face of the Country, and qualities of Soil.
The general surface is level, or moderately
undulating; the northern and southern por
tions are broken and somewhat hilly, but no
portion of the State is traversed with ranges
of hills or mountains. At the verge of the al
luvial soil on the margins of rivers, there are
ranges of bluffs," intersected with ravines.
The bluffs are usually from fifty to one hun
dred and fifty feet high, where an extended
surface of table land commences, covered
with prairies and forests of various shapes
and sizes.
When examined minutely, there are several
varieties in the surface of this State, which
will be briefly specified and described.
1. Inundated Lands. I apply this term to
allt hose portions, which, for some part of the
year, are under water. These include por
tions of the river bottoms, and portions of the
interior of large prairies, with the lakes and
ponds which, for half the year or more, are
without water. The term bottom is used
throughout the West, to denote the alluvial
12
258 peck s guide.
soil on the margin of rivers, usually called
intervales," in New England. Portions of
this description of land are overflowed for a
longer or shorter period, when the rivers are
full. Probably one eighth of the bottom lands
are of this description; for, though the water
may not stand for any length of time, it wholly
prevents settlement and cultivation, though it
does not interrupt the growth of timber and
vegetation. These tracts are on the bottoms
of the Wabash, Ohio, Mississippi, Illinois and
all the interior rivers.
When the rivers rise above their ordinary
height, the waters of the smaller streams,
which are backed up by the freshets of the
former, break over their banks, and cover all
the low grounds. Here they stand for a few
days, or for many weeks, especially towards
the bluffs; for it is a striking fact in the geol
ogy of the western country, that all the river
bottoms are higher on the margins of the
streams than at some distance back. When
ever increase of population shall create a de
mand for this species of soil, the most of it
can be reclaimed at comparatively small ex
pense. Its fertility will be inexhaustible, and
if the waters from the rivers could be shut
out by dykes or levees, the soil would be per
fectly dry. Most of the small lakes on the
American bottom disappear in the summer,
and leave a deposit of vegetable matter un
dergoing decomposition, or a luxuriant coat
of weeds and grass.
ILLINOIS. 259
As our prairies mostly lie between the
streams that drain the country, the interior
of the large ones are usually level. Here are
formed ponds and lakes, after the winter and
spring rains, which remain, to be drawn off by
evaporation, or absorbed by an adhesive soil.
Hence the middle of our large, level prairies
are wet, and for several weeks portions of
them are covered with water. To remedy
this inconvenience completely, and render all
this portion of soil dry and productive, only
requires a ditch or drain of two or three feet
deep to be cut into the nearest ravine. In
many instances, a single furrow with the
plough would drain many acres. At present,
this species of inundated land offers no incon
venience to the people, except in the produc
tion of miasm, and even that, perhaps, be
comes too much diluted with the atmosphere
to produce mischief before it reaches the set
tlements on the borders of the prairie. Hence
the inference is correct, that our inundated
lands present fewer obstacles to the settle
ment and growth of the country, and can be
reclaimed at much less expense, than the
swamps and salt marshes of the Atlantic
States.
2. River bottoms, or Alluvion. The surface
of our alluvial bottoms is not entirely level. In
some places it resembles alternate waves of
the ocean, and looks as though the waters
had left their deposit in ridges, and retired.
The portion of bottom land capable of pres
260 peck s guide.
ent cultivation, and on which the waters never
stand, if, at an extreme freshet it is covered,
is a soil of exhaustless fertility; a soil that for
ages past has been gradually deposited by
the annual floods. Its average depth on the
American bottom, is from twenty to twenty
five feet. Logs of wood, and other indica
tions, are found at that depth. The soil dug
from wells on these bottoms, produces luxuri
antly the first year.
The most extensive and fertile tract of this
description of soil in this State, is the Ameri
can bottom, a name it received when it consti
tuted the western boundary of the United
States, and which it has retained ever since.
It commences at the mouth of the Kaskaskia
river, five miles below the town of Kaskaskia,
and extends northwardly, along the Mississip
pi, to the bluffs at Alton, a distance of ninety
miles. Its average width is five miles, and
contains about four hundred and fifty square
miles, or 288 000 acres. Opposite St. Louis,
in St. Clair county, the bluffs are seven miles
from the river, and filled with inexhaustible
beds of coal. The soil of this bottom is an
argillaceous or a silicious loam, according as
clay or sand happens to predominate in its
formation.
On the margin of the river, and of some of
its lakes, is a strip of heavy timber, with a
thick undergrowth, which extends from half a
mile to two miles in width; but from thence to
the bluffs, it is principally prairie. It is in
ILLINOIS.
terspersed with sloughs, lakes and ponds, the
most of which become dry in autumn.
The soil of the American bottom is inex
haustibly rich. About the French towns it
has been cultivated, and produced corn in
succession for more than a century, without
exhausting its fertilizing powers. The only
objection that can be offered to this tract is
its unhealthy character. This, however, has
diminished considerably within eight or ten
years. The geological feature noticed in the
last article,—that all our bottoms are higher
on the margin of the stream, than towards
the bluffs,—explains the cause why so much
standing water is on the bottom land, which,
during the summer, stagnates and throws off
noxious effluvia. These lakes are usually
full of vegetable matter undergoing decompo
sition, and which produces large quantities of
miasm. Some of the lakes are clear, with a
sandy bottom, but the most are of a different
character. The French settled near a lake
or a river, apparently in the most unhealthy
places, and yet their constitutions were little
affected and they usually enjoyed good health,
though dwarfish and shriveled in their form
and features.
"The villages of Kaskaskia, Prairie du
Rocher and Cahokia, were built up by their
industry, in places where Americans would
have perished. Cultivation has, no doubt,
rendered this tract more salubrious than for
merly; and an increase of it, together with
peck s guide.
the construction of drains and canals, will
make it one of the most eligible in the States.
The old inhabitants advise the emigrants not
to plant corn in the immediate vicinity of their
dwellings, as its rich and massive foliage pre
vents the sun from dispelling the deleterious
vapors."*
These lakes and ponds could be drained at
a small expense, and the soil would be suscep
tible of cultivation. The early settlements of
the Americans were either on this bottom, or
the contiguous bluffs.
Besides the American bottom, there are
others that resemble it in its general charac
ter, but not in extent. In Union county,
there is an extensive bottom on the borders
of the Mississippi. Above the mouth of the
Illinois, and along the borders of the counties
of Calhoun, Pike and Adams, there are a se
ries of bottoms, with much good and elevated
land; but the inundated grounds around
present objections to a dense population at
present.
The bottoms of Illinois, where not inundat
ed, are equal in fertility, and the soil is less
adhesive than most parts of the American
bottom. This is likewise the character of the
bottoms in the northern parts of the State.
The bottoms of the Kaskaskia arc generally
covered with a heavy growth of timber, and
in many places inundated, when the river is
at its highest floods.
Beck
ILLINOIS. 263
The extensive prairies adjoining, will create
a demand for all this timber. The bottom
lands on the Wabash are of various qualities.
Near the mouth, much of it is inundated;
higher up, it overflows in high freshets.
These bottoms, especially the American,
are the best regions in the United States for
raising stock, particularly horses, cattle and
swine. Seventy-five bushels of corn to the
acre is an ordinary crop. The roots and
worms of the soil, the acorns and other fruits
from the trees, and the fish of the lakes, ac
celerate the growth of swine. Horses and
cattle find exhaustless supplies of grass in the
prairies; and pea-vines, buffalo-grass, wild
oats, and other herbage in the timber, for
sumpier range; and often throughout most of
the winter. In all the rush bottoms, they
fatten during the severe weather, on rushes.
The bottom soil is not so well adapted to the
production of small grain, as of maize or In
dian corn, on account of its rank growth, and
being more subject to blast or fall down be
fore harvest, than on the uplands.
3. Prairies. Much the largest proportion is
undulating, dry and extremely fertile. Other
portions are level; and the soil in some cases
proves to be wet; the water, not running off
freely, is left to be absorbed by the soil, or
evaporated by the sun. Craw-fish throw up
their hillocks in this soil, and the farmer who
cultivates it, will find his labors impeded by
the water.
264 peck s guide.
In the southern part, that is, south of the
national road leading from Terre Haute to
the Mississippi, the prairies are comparative
ly small, varying in size from those of several
miles in width, to those which contain only a
few acres. As we go northward, they widen
and extend on the more elevated ground be
tween the water-courses, to a vast distance,
and are frequently from six to twelve miles in
width. Their borders are by no means uni
form. Long points of timber project into the
prairies, and line the banks of the streams,
and points of prairie project into the timber
between these streams. In many instances
are copses and groves of timber, from one
hundred to two thousand acres, in the midst
of prairies, like islands in the ocean. This is
a common feature in the country between the
Sangamon river and lake Michigan, and in the
northern parts of the State. The lead-mine
region, both in this State and Wisconsin Ter
ritory, abound with these groves.
The origin of these prairies has caused much
speculation. We might as well dispute about
the origin of forests, upon the assumption that
the natural covering of the earth was grass.
Probably one half of the earth s surface, in a
state of nature, was prairies or barrens. Much
of it, like our vestern prairies, was covered
with a luxuriant coat of grass and herbage.
The steppes of Tartary, the pampas of South
America, the savannas of the Southern, and
the prairies of the Western States, designate
ILLINOIS. 265
similar tracts of country. Mesopotamia, Syria
and Judea had their ancient prairies, on which
the patriarchs fed their flocks. Missionaries
in Burmah, and travelers in the interior of
Africa, mention the same description of coun
try. Where the tough sward of the prairie is
once formed, timber will not take root. De
stroy this by the plough, or by any other
method, and it is soon converted into forest
land. There are large tracts of country in
the older settlements, where thirty or forty
years since, the farmers mowed their hay,
that are now covered with a forest of young
timber of rapid growth.
The fire annually sweeps over the prairies,
destroying the grass and herbage, blackening
the surface, and leaving a deposit of ashes to
enrich the soil.
4. Barrens. This term, in the western dia
lect, does not indicate poor land, but a species
of surface of a mixed character, uniting forest
and prairie.
The timber is generally scattering, of a
rough and stunted appearance, interspersed
with patches of hazle and brushwood, and
where the contest between the fire and timber
is kept up, each striving for the mastery.
In the early settlements of Kentucky, much
of the country below and south of Green river,
presented a dwarfish and stunted growth of
timber, scattered over the surface, or collect
ed in clumps, with hazle and shrubbery inter
mixed. This appearance led the first explor
266 peck s guide.
ers to the inference that the soil itself must
necessarily be poor, to produce so scanty a
growth of timber, and they gave the name of
barrens to the whole tract of country. Long
since, it has been ascertained that this de
scription of land is amongst the most produc
tive soil in the State. The term barren has
since received a very extensive application
throughout the West. Like all other tracts
of country, the barrens present a considerable
diversity of soil. In general, however, the
surface is more uneven or rolling than the
prairies, and sooner degenerates into ravines
and sink-holes. Wherever timber barely suf
ficient for present purposes, can be found,
a person need not hesitate to settle in the
barrens. These tracts are almost invariably
healthy; they possess a greater abundance of
pure springs of water, and the soil is better
adapted for all kinds of produce, and all de
scriptions of seasons, wet and dry, than the
deeper and richer mould of the bottoms and
prairies.
When the fires are stopped, these barrens
produce timber, at a rate of which no north
ern emigrant can have any just conception.
Dwarfish shrubs, and small trees of oak and
hickory are scattered over the surface, where
for years they have contended with the fires
for a precarious existence, while a mass of
roots, sufficient for the support of large trees,
have accumulated in the earth. As soon as
they are protected from the ravages of the
ILLINOIS. 267
annual fires, the more thrifty sprouts shoot
forth, and in ten years are large enough for
corn-cribs and stables.
As the fires on the prairies become stopped
by the surrounding settlements, and the wild
grass is eaten out and trodden down by the
stock, they begin to assume the character of
barrens; first, hazle and other shrubs, and
finally, a thicket of young timber, covers the
surface.
5. Forest, or timbered Land. In general, Il
linois is abundantly supplied with timber, and
were it equally distributed through the State,
there would be no part in want. The appa
rent scarcity of timber where the prairie pre
dominates, is not so great an obstacle to the
settlement of the country as has been suppos
ed. For many of the purposes to which tim
ber is applied, substitutes are found. The
rapidity with which the young growth pushes
itself forward, without a single effort on the
part of man to accelerate it, and the readiness
with which the prairie becomes converted
into thickets, and then into a forest of young
timber, shows, that, in another generation,
timber will not be wanting in any part of
Illinois.
The kinds of timber most abundant are oak
of various species, black and white walnut,
ash of several kinds, elm, sugar-maple, honey
locust, hackberry, linden, hickory, cotton
wood, pecaun, mulberry, buckeye, sycamore,
wild cherry, box-elder, sassafras, and per
268 peck s guide.
simmon. In the southern and eastern parts
of the State are yellow poplar and beech;
near the Ohio are cypress, and in several
counties are clumps of yellow pine and cedar.
On the Calamick, near the south end of lake
Michigan, is a small forest of white pine. The
undergrowth are red-bud, pawpaw, sumach,
plum, crab-apple, grape vines, dogwood, spice
bush, green brier, hazle, &.c. The alluvial
soil of the rivers produces cotton-wood and
sycamore timber of amazing size.
For ordinary purposes there is now timber
enough in most parts of the State, to say noth
ing about the artificial production of timber,
which may be effected with little trouble and
expense. The black locust, a native of Ohio
and Kentucky, may be raised from the seed,
with less labor than a nursery of apple trees.
It is of rapid growth, and, as a valuable and
lasting timber, claims the attention of our
farmers. It forms one of the cleanliest and
most beautiful shades, and when in blossom,
gives a rich prospect, and sends abroad a de
licious fragrance.
6. Knobs, Bluffs, Ravines and Sink-holes.
Under these heads are included tracts of un
even country found in various parts of the State.
Knobs are ridges of flint limestone, inter
mingled and covered with earth, and elevated
one or two hundred feet above the common
surface. This species of land is of little value
for cultivation, and usually has a sprinkling of
dwarfish, stunted timber, like the barrens.
ILLINOIS. 269
The steep hills and natural mounds that
border the alluvions have obtained the name
of bluffs. Some are in long, parallel ridges,
others are in the form of cones and pyramids.
In some places, precipices of limestone rock,
from fifty to one or two hundred feet high,
form these bluffs.
Ravines are formed amongst the bluffs, and
often near the borders of prairies, which lead
down to the streams.
Sink-holes are circular depressions in the
surface, like a basin. They are of various
sizes, from ten to fifty feet deep, and from
ten to one or two hundred yards in circum
ference. Frequently they contain an outlet
for the water received by the rains. Their
existence shows that the substratum is secon
dary limestone, abounding with subterraneous
cavities.
There are but few tracts of stony ground in
the State; that is, where loose stones are
scattered over the surface, and imbedded in
the soil. Towards the northern part of the
State, tracts of stony ground exist. Quarries
of stone exist in the bluffs and in the banks of
the streams and ravines throughout the State.
The soil is porous, easy to cultivate, and ex
ceedingly productive. A strong team is re
quired to break up the prairies, on account of
the firm, grassy sward which covers them;
but when subdued, they become fine, arable
lands.
Rivers, Sec. This State is surrounded and
270 peck s guide.
intersected by navigable streams. The Mis
sissippi, Ohio and Wabash rivers are on
three sides; the Illinois, Kaskaskia, Sanga
mon, Muddy, and many smaller streams are
entirely within its borders; and the Kankakee,
Fox, Rock, and Vermilion of the Wabash run
part of their course within this State. The
Mississippi meanders its western border for
seven hundred miles. Its principal tributaries
within Illinois, are Rock, Illinois, Kaskaskia
and Muddy rivers. The Illinois river com
mences at the junction of the Kankakee, which
originates nearthe South Bend, in Indiana, and
the Des Plaines, which rises in Wisconsin
Territory. From their junction, the Illinois
runs nearly a west course (receiving Fox
river at Ottawa, and Vermilion near the foot
of the rapids), to Hennepin, where it curves
to the south and then to the south-west, re
ceiving a number of tributaries, the largest of
which are Spoon river from the right and San
gamon from the left, till it reaches Naples.
Here it bends gradually to the south, and
continues that course till within six miles of
the Mississippi, when it curves to the south
east, and finally, to nearly an eastern course.
Its length (without reckoning the windings of
the channel in navigation), is about two hun
dred and sixty miles, and is navigable for
steam-boats, at a moderate stage of water, to
the foot of the rapids. The large streams on
the eastern side of the State are Iroquois, a
tributary to the Kankakee, Vermilion of the
ILLINOIS. 271
Wabash, which enters that river in Indiana,
Embarras, that has its source near that of the
Kaskaskia, runs south-easterly, and enters
the Wabash, nine miles below Vincennes,
and Little Wabash, near its mouth. Along
the Ohio, the only streams deserving note are
the Saline and Bay creeks, and Cash river,
the last of which enters the Ohio six miles
above its confluence with the Mississippi.
Productions. These are naturally classed
into mineral, animal and vegetable.
Minerals. The northern portion of Illinois
is inexhaustibly rich in mineral productions,
while coal, secondary limestone, and sand
stone, are found in every part.
Iron ore has been found in the southern
parts of the State, and is said to exist in con
siderable quantities in the northern parts.
Native copper, in small quantities, has been
found on Muddy river, in Jackson county,
and back of Harrisonville, in the bluffs of
Monroe county. Crystallized gypsum has
been found in small quantities in St. Clair
county. Quartz crystals exist in Gallatin
county.
Silver is supposed to exist in St. Clair
county, two miles from Rock Spring, from
whence Silver creek derives its name. In
early times a shaft was sunk here, by the
French, and tradition tells of large quantities
of the precious metals being obtained.
In the southern part of the State, several
sections of land have been reserved from sale,
peck s guide.
on account of the silver ore they are supposed
to contain.
Lead is found in vast quantities in the
northern part of Illinois, and the adjacent
Territory. Here are the richest lead mines
hitherto discovered on the globe. This por
tion of country lies principally north of Rock
river and south of the Wisconsin. Du
buque s and other rich mines, are west of
the Mississippi.
Native copper, in large quantities, exists in
this region, especially at the mouth of Plum
creek, and on the Peek-a-ton-o-kee, a branch
of Rock river.
The following is a list of the principal dig
gings in that portion of the lead-mine region
that lies between Rock river and the Wiscon
sin, embracing portions of Illinois State, and
Wisconsin Territory. Some of these diggings
are, probably relinquished, and many new
ones commenced:—
Apple creek, Galena and vicinity, Cave diggings, Buncombe, Natchez, Hardscrabble, New diggings, Gratiot s Grove, Spulburg, W. S. Hamilton s, Cotttle s, McNutt s,
and many
Menomonee creek, Plattsville, Cassville and vicinity, Madden s, Mineral point, Dodgeville, Worke s diggings, Brisbo s, Bine mounds, Prairie springs, Hammett Campbell s, Morrison s
others.
ILLINOIS. 273
JtmmuA of Lead manufactured. For many
years the Indians, and some of the French
hunters and traders, had been accustomed to
dig lead in these regions. They never pene
trated much below the surface, but obtained
considerable quantities of the ore which they
sold to the traders.
In 1823, the late Colonel James Johnson,
(brother to the Hon. R. M. Johnson,) of
Great Crossings, Kentucky, obtained a lease
from the United States government, and made
arrangements to prosecute the business of
smelting, with considerable force, which he
did the following season. This attracted 'the
attention of enterprising men in Illinois, Mis
souri, and other States. Some went on in
1826, more followed in 1827, and in 1828 the
country was almost literally filled with miners,
smelters, merchants, speculators, gamblers,
and every description of character. Intelli
gence, enterprise and virtue were thrown in
the midst of dissipation, gaming, and every
species of vice. Such was the crowd of ad
venturers in 1829, to this hitherto almost
unknown and desolate region, that the lead
business was greatly overdone, and the mar
ket for a while nearly destroyed. Fortunes
were made almost upon the turn of the spade,
and lost with equal facility. The business
has revived, and is profitable. Exhaustless
quantities of mineral exist here, over a tract
of country two hundred miles in extent.
The following table shows the amount of
12*
274 peck s guide.
lead made annually at these diggings, from
1821, to September 30, 1835:—
Amount of Lead manufactured.
Pounds. From 1821, to Sept. 1823,. 335 130 For the year ending Sept. 30, 1824, 175 220 i< it tt 1825,. 664 530 n 1826,. 958 842 t< CI ft 1827,. 5 182,180 1< 9* 1828,. 11 105,810 tt tt 1829,. 13 344,150 u tt tt 1830,. 8 323,993 tt tt tt 1831,. 6 381,900 CI tt tt 1832,. 4 281,876 c1 u 1833, 7 941,792 1< tt i1 1834,. 7 971,579 tt tt tt 1835,. 3 754,290
Total, 70 420,357
The rent, accruing to government, for the
same period, is a fraction short of six millions
of pounds. The government formerly receiv
ed ten per cent. in lead, for rent: now it is
six per cent.
A part of the mineral land in Wisconsin
Territory has been surveyed and brought into
market, which will add greatly to the stability
and prosperity of the mining business.
Coal. Bituminous coal abounds in Illinois.
It may be seen, frequently, in the ravines and
gullies, and in the points of bluffs. Exhaust
less beds of this article exist in the bluffs of
St. Clair county, bordering on the American
bottom, of which large quantities are trans
ported to St. Louis, for fuel. There is scarce
ILLINOIS. 275
ly a county in the State, but what can furnish
coal, in reasonable quantities. Large beds
are said to exist near the Vermilion of the Il
linois, and in the vicinity of the rapids of the
latter.
Agatized Wood. A petrified tree, of black
walnut, was found in the bed of the river Des
Plaines, about forty rods above its junction
with the Kankakee, imbedded in a horizontal
position, in a stratum of sandstone. There is
fifty-one and a half feet of the trunk visible;
eighteen inches in diameter at its smallest
end, and probably three feet at the other end.
Muriate of Soda, or common salt. This is
found in various parts of the State, held in
solution in the springs. The mauufacture of
salt, by boiling and evaporation, is carried on
in Gallatin county, twelve miles west-north
west from Shawneetown in Jackson county,
near Brownsville; and in Vermilion county,
near Danville. The springs and land are
owned by the State, and the works leased.
A coarse freestone, much used in building,
is dug from quarries near Alton, on the Mis
sissippi, where large bodies exist.
Scattered over the surface of our prairies,
are large masses of rock, of granatic forma
tion, roundish in form, usually called by the
people, lost rocks. They will weigh from one
thousand to ten or twelve thousand pounds,
are entirely detached, and frequently are
found several miles distant from any quarry.
Nor has there ever been a quarry of granite
276 peck s guide.
discovered in the State. These stones are
denominated bowlders, in mineralogy; they
usually lie on the surface, or are partially im
bedded in the soil of our prairies, which is
unquestionably of diluvial formation. How
they came here is a question of difficult solu
tion.
Medicinal waters are found in different
parts of the State. These are chiefly sulphur
springs and chalybeate waters. There is said
to be one well in the southern part of the
State, strongly impregnated with the sulphate
of magnesia or Epsom salts, from which con
siderable quantities have been made for sale,
by simply evaporating the water, in a kettle,
over a common fire.
There are several sulphur springs in Jef
ferson county, to which persons resort for
health.
Vegetable Productions. The principal trees
and shrubs of Illinois have been noticed under
the head of forest or timbered land. Of oak
there are several species, as over-cup, burr
oak, swamp or water oak, white oak, red or
Spanish oak, post oak and black oak of seve
ral varieties, with the black-jack, a dwarfish
gnarled-looking tree, excellent for fuel, but
good for nothing else.
The black walnut is much used for building
materials and cabinet work, and sustains a
fine polish.
In most parts of the State, grape-vines, in
digenous to the country, are abundant, which
ILLINOIS. 277
yield grapes that might advantageously be
made into excellent wine. Foreign vines are
susceptible of easy cultivation. These are
cultivated to a considerable extent, at Vevay,
Switzerland county, Indiana, and at New
Harmony, on the Wabash. The indigenous
vines are prolific, and produce excellent fruit.
They are found in every variety of soil; in
terwoven in every thicket in the prairies and
barrens; and climbing to the tops of the very
highest trees on the bottoms. The French,
in early times, made so much wine as to ex
port some to France; upon which the proper
authorities prohibited the introduction of wine
from Illinois, lest it might injure the sale of
that staple article of the kingdom. I think
the act was passed by the Board of Trade, in
1774. The editor of the Illinois Magazine
remarks, We know one gentleman who
made twenty-seven barrels of wine in a single
season, from the grapes gathered with but
little labor, in his immediate neighborhood."
The wild plum is found in every part of the
State; but in most instances the fruit is too
sour for use, unless for preserves. Crab
apples are equally prolific, and make fine pre
serves, with about double their bulk of sugar.
Wild cherries are equally productive. The
persimmon is a delicious fruit, after the frost
has destroyed its astringent properties. The
black mulberry grows in most parts, and is
used for the feeding of silk-worms, with suc
cess. They appear to thrive and spin as Veil
278 peck s guide.
as on the Italian mulberry. The gooseberry,
strawberry and blackberry, grow wild and in
great profusion. Of nuts, the hickory, black
walnut and pecaun, deserve notice. The last
is an oblong, thin-shelled, delicious nut, that
grows on a large tree, a species of the hick
ory (the Carya olivmformis of Nuttall). The
pawpaw grows on the bottoms and rich, tim
bered uplands, and produces a large, pulpy
and luscious fruit. Of domestic fruits, the
apple and peach are chiefly cultivated. Pears
are tolerably plenty in the French settle
ments, and quinces are cultivated with suc
cess by some Americans. Apples are easily
cultivated, and are very productive. The
trees can be made to bear fruit to considera
ble advantage, in seven years, from the seed.
Many varieties are of fine flavor, and grow to
a large size. I have measured apples, the
growth of St. Clair county, that exceeded thir
teen inches in circumference. Some of the
early American settlers provided orchards;
they now reap the advantages. But a large
proportion of the population of the frontiers
are content without this indispensable article
in the comforts of a yankee farmer. Cider is
made in small quantities in the old settle
ments. In a few years, a supply of this bev
erage can be had in most parts of Illinois.
Peach trees grow with great rapidity, and
decay proportionally soon. From ten to fif
teen years may be considered the life of this
tree. Our peaches are delicious, but they
ILLINOIS. 279
sometimes fail, by being destroyed in the
germ, by winter frosts.—The bud swells pre
maturely.
Garden vegetables can be produced here in
vast profusion, and of excellent quality.
That we have few of the elegant and well
dressed gardens of gentlemen in the old
States, is admitted; which is not owing to
climate, or soil, but to the want of leisure
and means.
Our Irish potatoes, pumpkins and squashes
are inferior, but not our cabbages, peas,
beets or onions.
A cabbage-head, two or three feet in diam
eter, including the leaves, is no wonder on
this soil. Beets often exceed twelve inches
in circumference. Parsnips will penetrate
our light, porous soil, to the depth of two or
three feet.
The cultivated vegetable productions in the
field, are maize or Indian corn, wheat, oats,
barley, buckwheat, Irish potatoes, sweet po
tatoes, turnips, rye for horse-feed and distil
leries, tobacco, cotton, hemp, flax, the castor
bean, and every other production common to
the Middle States.
Maize is a staple production. No farmer
can live without it, and hundreds raise little
else. This is chiefly owing to the ease with
which it is cultivated. Its average produce
is fifty bushels to the acre. I have oftentimes
seen it produce seventy-five bushels to the
acre, and in a few instances, exceed one
hundred.
280 peck s guide.
Wheat yields a good and sure crop, espe
cially in the counties bordering on the Illinois
river. It weighs upwards of sixty pounds per
bushel; and flour from this region has prefer
ence in the New Orleans market, and passes
better inspection than the same article from
Ohio or Kentucky.
In 1825, the weevil, for the first time, made
its appearance in St. Clair and the adjacent
counties, and has occasionally renewed its
visits since. Latterly, some fields have been
injured by the fly.
A common but slovenly practice amongst
our farmers, is to sow wheat amongst the
standing corn in September, and cover it, by
running a few furrows with the plough be
tween the rows of corn. The dry stalks are
then cut down in the spring, and left on the
ground. Even by this imperfect mode, fifteen
or twenty bushels of wheat to the acre, are
produced. But where the ground is duly pre
pared by fallowing, and the seed put in at the
proper time, a good crop, averaging from twen
ty-five to thirty-five bushels per acre rarely
fails to be procured.
The average price of wheat, at present, is a
dollar per bushel, varying a little according
to the competition of mills and facilities to
market. In many instances a single crop of
wheat will more than pay the expenses of
purchasing the land, fencing, breaking the
prairie, seed, putting in the crop, harvesting,
threshing and taking it to market. Wheat is
ILLINOIS. 281
now frequently sown on the prairie land, as a
first crop, and a good yield obtained.
Flouring-mills are now in operation in many
of the wheat-growing counties. Steam power
is getting into extensive use, both for sawing
timber and manufacturing flour.
It is to be regretted, that so few of our
farmers have erected barns for the security
of their crops. No article is more profitable,
and really more indispensable to a farmer,
than a large barn.
Oats have not been much raised till lately.
They are very productive, often yielding from
forty to fifty bushels on the acre, and usually
sell for twenty-five cents per bushel. The
demand, for the use of stage and travelers'
horses, is increasing.
Htmp is an indigenous plant, in the south
ern part of this State, as it is in Missouri. It
has not been extensively cultivated; but wher
ever tried, is found very productive, and of an
excellent quality. It might be made a staple
of the country.
Tobacco, though a filthy and noxious weed,
which no human being ought ever to use, can
be produced in any quantity, and of the first
quality, in Illinois.
Cotton, for many years, has been success
fully cultivated in this State, for domestic
use, and some for exportation. Two or three
spinning-factories are in operation, and pro
duce cotton yarn, from the growth of the coun
try, with promising success. This branch of
13
282 peck s guide.
business admits of enlargement, and invites
the attention of eastern manufacturers with
small capital. Much of the cloth made in
families who have emigrated from States south
of the Ohio, is from the cotton of the country.
Flax is produced and of a tolerable quality,
but not equal to that of the Northern States.
It is said to be productive and good in the
northern counties.
Barley yields well, and is a sure crop.
The palma christi, or castor-oil bean, is pro
duced in considerable quantities, in Madison,
Randolph and other counties, and large quan
tities of oil are expressed and sent abroad.
Sweet potatoes are a delicious root, which
yields abundantly, especially on the American
bottom and rich, sandy prairies.
But little has been done to introduce culti
vated grasses. The prairie grass looks coarse
and unsavory, and yet our horses and cattle
will thrive well on it.
To produce timothy with success, the
ground must be well cultivated in the sum
mer, either by an early crop, or by fallowing,
and the seed sown about the twentieth of Sep
tember, at the rate of ten or twelve quarts of
clean seed to the acre, and lightly brushed in.
If the season is in any way favorable, it will
get a rapid start before winter. By the last
week in June, it will produce two tons per
acre, of the finest hay. It then requires a
dressing of stable or yard-manure, and occa
sionally the turf may be scratched with a har
ILLINOIS. 283
row, to prevent the roots from binding too
hard. By this process, timothy meadows may
be made and preserved. There are meadows
in St. Clair county, which have yielded heavy
crops of hay in succession, for several years,
and bid fair to continue, for an indefinite pe
riod. Cattle, and especially horses, should
never be permitted to run in meadows, in Il
linois. The fall grass may be cropped down
by calves and colts. There is but little more
labor required to produce a crop of timothy,
than a crop of oats; and as there is not a
stone or a pebble to interrupt, the soil may
be turned up every third or fourth year, for
corn, and afterwards laid down to grass
again.
A species of blue grass is cultivated by
some farmers, for pastures. If well set, and
not eaten down in summer, blue grass pas
tures may be kept green and fresh till late in
autumn, or even in the winter. The English
spire-grass has been cultivated with success
in the Wabash county.
Of the trefoil, or clover, there is but little
cultivated. A prejudice exists against it, as
it is imagined to injure horses, by affecting
the glands of the mouth, and causing them to
slaver. It grows luxuriantly, and may be cut
for hay, early in June. The white clover
comes in naturally, where the ground has
been cultivated and thrown by, or along the
sides of old roads and paths. Clover pastures
would be excellent for swine.
284 peck s guide.
Animals. Of wild animals there are several
species. The buffalo is not found on this side
of the Mississippi, nor within several hundred
miles of St. Louis. This animal once roamed
at large over the prairies of Illinois, and was
found in plenty, thirty-five years since.
Wolves, panthers and wild-cats still exist on
the frontiers and through fhe unsettled por
tions of the country, and annoy the farmer, by
destroying his sheep and pigs.
Deer are also very numerous, and are val
uable, particularly to that class of our popula
tion which has been raised to frontier habits;
the flesh affording them food, and the skins
clothing. Fresh venison-hams usually sell for
twenty-five cents each, and when properly
cured, are a delicious article. Many of the
frontier people dress the skins and make them
into pantaloons and hunting-shirts. These
articles are indispensable to all who have oc
casion to travel, in viewing land, or for any
other purpose beyond the settlements, as cloth
garments, in the shrubs and vines, would soon
be in strings.
It is a novel and pleasing sight to a stran
ger, to see the deer, in flocks of eight, ten, or
fifteen in number, feeding on the grass of the
prairies, or bounding away, at the sight of a
traveler.
The brown bear is also an inhabitant of the
unsettled parts of this State, although he is
continually retreating before the advance of
civilization.
ILLINOIS. 285
Foxes, racoons, opossums, gophars and squir
rels are also numerous, as are muskrats, otters,
and occasionally beaver, about our rivers and
lakes. Racoons are very common, and fre
quently do mischief, in the fall, to the corn.
Opossums sometimes trouble the poultry.
The gophar is a singular little animal, about
the size of a squirrel, which burrows in the
ground, and is seldom seen; but its works
make it known. It labors during the night,
in digging subterranean passages in the rich
soil of the prairies, and throws up hillocks of
fresh earth, within a few feet distance from
each other, and from twelve to eighteen inch
es in height.
The gray and fox squirrels often do mischief
in the cornfields, and the hunting of them
makes fine sport for the boys.
Common rabbits exist in every thicket, and
annoy nurseries and young orchards exceed
ingly. The fence around a nursery must al
ways be so close as to shut out rabbits; and
young apple trees must be secured, at the ap
proach of winter, by tying straw or corn-stalks
around their bodies, for two or three feet in
height, or the, bark will be stripped ofF by
these mischievous animals.
Wild horses are found ranging the prairies
and forests in some parts of the State. They
are small in size, of the Indian or Canadian
breed and very hardy. They are found chief
ly in the lower end of the American bottom,
near the junction of the Kaskaskia and Mis
286 peck s guide.
sissippi rivers, called the point. They are the
offspring of the horses brought there by the
first settlers, and which were suffered to run
at large. The Indians of the West have many
such horses, which are commonly called In
dian ponies.
Domestic Animals. These are the same
as are found in other portions of the United
States. But little has been done to improve
the breed of horses among us. Our common
riding or working-horses average about fifteen
hands in height. They are much more used
here than in the Eastern States, and many a
farmer keeps half a dozen or more. Much
of the traveling throughout the western coun
try, both by men and women, is performed on
horseback; and a large proportion of the land
carriage is by means of large wagons, with
from four to six stout horses for a team. A
great proportion of the ploughing is performed
by horse-labor. Horses are more subject to
diseases in this country than in the old States,
which is thought to be occasioned by bad
management, rather than by the climate. A
good farm-horse can be purchased for fifty
dollars. Riding or carriage-horses, of a su
perior quality, cost from seventy-five to eighty
dollars. Breeding-mares are profitable stock
for every farmer to keep, as their annual ex
pense in keeping is but trifling: their labor is
always needed, and their colts, when grown,
find a ready market. Some farmers keep a
stallion and eight or ten brood-mares.
ILLINOIS.
Mules are brought into Missouri, and rind
their way to Illinois, from the Mexican do
minions. They are a hardy animal, grow to
a good size, and are used by some, both for
labor and riding.
Our neal cattle are usually inferior in size to
those of the old States. This is owing entirely
to bad management. Our cows are not pen
ned up in pasture fields, but suffered to run
at large over the commons. Hence all the
calves are preserved, without respect to qual
ity, to entice the cows homeward at evening.
In autumn their food is very scanty, and
during the winter they are permitted to pick
up a precarious subsistence amongst fifty or a
hundred head of cattle. With such manage
ment, is it surprising that our cows and steers
are much inferior to those of the old States?
And yet, our beef is the finest in the world.
It bears the best inspection of any in the New
Orleans market. By the first of June, and
often by the middle of May, our young cattle
on the prairies are fit for market. They do
not yield large quantities of tallow, but the fat
is well proportioned throughout the carcass,
and the meat tender and delicious. By infe
riority, then, I mean the size of our cattle in
general, and the quantity and quality of the
milk of cows.
Common cows, if suffered to lose their milk
in August, become sufficiently fat for table use
by October. Farrow-heifers and steers are
good beef, and fit for the knife at any period
after the middle of May. Nothing is more
288 peck s guide.
common than for an Illinois farmer to go
among his stock, select, shoot down, and dress
a tine beef, whenever fresh meat is needed.
This is often divided out amongst the neigh
bors, who, in turn, kill and share likewise. It
is common at camp and other large meetings,
to kill a beef and three or four hogs for the
subsistence of friends from a distance.
Steers from three years old or more, have
been purchased in great numbers in Illinois,
by drovers from Ohio. Cattle are sometimes
sent in flat-boats down the Mississippi and
Ohio, for the New Orleans market.
We can hardly place limits upon the amount
of beef cattle that Illinois is capable of pro
ducing. A farmer calls himself poor, with a
hundred head of horned cattle around him.
A cow in the spring is worth from seven to
ten or fifteen dollars. Some of the best quality
will sell higher. And let it be distinctly un
derstood, once for all, that a poor man can
always purchase horses, cattle, hogs, and pro
visions, for labor, either by the day, month,
or job.
Cows, in general, do not produce the same
amount of milk, nor of as rich a quality as in
older States. Something is to be attributed
to the nature of our pastures, and the warmth
of our climate, but more to causes already
assigned. If ever a land was characterized
justly, as "flowing with milk and honey," it
is Illinois and the adjacent States. From the
springing of the grass till September, butter
is made in great profusion. It sells at that
ILLINOIS. 289
season, in market, for about ten cents. With
proper care, it can be preserved in tolerable
sweetness for winter use. Late in autumn
and early in the winter, sometimes butter is
not plenty. The feed becomes dry, the cows
range further off, and do not come up readily
for milking, and dry up. A very little trouble
would enable a farmer to keep three or four
good cows in fresh milk at the season most
needed.'
Cheese is made by many families, especial
ly in the counties bordering on the Illinois
river. Good cheese sells for eight and some
times ten cents, and finds a ready market.
Swine. This species of stock may be called
a staple in the provision of Illinois. Thou
sands of hogs are raised without any expense,
except a few breeders to start with, and a
little attention in hunting them on the range,
and keeping them tame.
Pork that is made in a domestic way, and
fatted on corn, will sell from three to four and
five dollars, according to size, quality, and
the time when it is delivered. With a pasture
of clover or blue grass, a well-filled corn crib,
a dairy, and slop barrel, and the usual care
that a New Englander bestows on his pigs,
pork may be raised from the sow, fatted, and
killed, and weigh from two hundred to two
hundred and fifty, within twelve months; and
this method of raising pork would be profit
able.
Few families in the West and South put up
their pork in salt pickle. Their method is to
290 peck s guide.
salt it sufficiently to prepare it for smoking,
and then make bacon of hams, shoulders, and
middlings or broadsides. The price of bacon,
taking the hog round, is about seven and eight
cents. Good hams command eight and ten
cents in the St. Louis market. Stock hogs,
weighing from sixty to one hundred pounds,
alive, usually sell from one to two dollars per
head. Families consume much more^neat in
the West, in proportion to numbers, than in
the old States.
Sheep do very well in this country, especial
ly in the older settlements, where the grass
has become short, and they are less molested
by wolves.
Poultry is raised in great profusion and
large numbers of fowls taken to market.
Ducks, geese, swans, and many other
aquatic birds, visit our waters in the spring.
The small lakes and sloughs are often literally
covered with them. Ducks, and some of the
rest, frequently stay through the summer and
breed.
The prairie fowl is seen in great numbers
on the prairies in the summer, and about the
cornfields, in the winter. This is the grouse
of the New York market. They are easily
taken in the winter.
Partridges (the quail of New England),
are taken with nets, in the winter, by hun
dreds in a day, and furnish no trifling item in
the luxuries of the city market.
Bees. These laborious and useful insects,
are found in the trees of every forest.
ILLINOIS. 291
Many of the frontier people make it a promi
nent business, after the frost has killed the
vegetation, to hunt them for the honey and
wax, both of which find a ready market.
Bees are profitable stock for the farmer, and
are kept to a considerable extent.
Silk-worms are raised by a few persons.
They are capable of being produced to any
extent, and fed on the common black mulberry
of the country.
Salt. The principal salines of this State
have been mentioned under the head of min
erals. The principal works are at Gallatin,
Big Muddy, and Vermilion salines.
Steam Mills for flouring and sawing are be
coming very common, and in general are
profitable. Some are now in operation with
four run of stones, and which manufacture
one hundred barrels of flour in a day. Mills
propelled by steam, water, and animal power,
are constantly increasing. Steam mills will
become numerous, particularly in the southern
and middle portions of the State; and it is
deserving remark, that, while these portions
are not well supplied with durable water
power, they contain, in the timber of the
forest, and the inexhaustible bodies of bitumi
nous coal, abundant supplies of fuel; while
the northern portion, though deficient in fuel,
has abundant water power. A good steam
saw-mill with two saws, can be built for $1500;
and a steam flouring-mill with two run of
stones, elevators and other apparatus com
plete, and of sufficient force to turn out forty
peck s guide.
or fifty barrels of flour per day, may be built
for from $3500 to $5000. Ox-mills, on an in
clined plane, and horse-mills, by draught, are
common through the country.
Castor oil. Considerable quantities of this
article have been manufactured in Illinois,
from the palma christi, or castor-bean. One
bushel of the beans will make nearly two gal
lons of the oil. There are five or six castor
oil presses in the State; in Madison, Randolph,
Edwards, and perhaps in other counties. Mr.
Adams, of Edwardsville, in 1825, made five
hundred gallons, which then sold at the rate
of $2 50 per gallon;—in 1826, he made eight
hundred gallons; —in 1827, one thousand gal
lons, the price then, $1 75; —in 1828, one
thousand eight hundred gallons, price $1 :—in
1830, he started two presses, and made up
wards of ten thousand gallons, which sold for
from seventy-five to eighty-seven cents per
gallon;—in 1831, about the same quantity.
That and the following season being unfavor
able for the production of the bean, there has
been a falling off in the quantity. The amount
manufactured in other parts of the State has
probably exceeded that made by Mr Adams.
Lead. In Jo Daviess county are eight or
ten furnaces for smelting lead. The amount
of this article made annually at the mines of
the Upper Mississippi, has been given under
the head of minerals.
Manufactures. In the infancy of a State,
little can be expected in machinery and manu
factures. And in a region so much deficient
Illinois. 293
in water power as some parts of Illinois are,
still less may be looked for; yet Illinois is not
entirely deficient in manufacturing enterprise.
There is in thi3 State, as in all the West
ern States, a large amount of domestic manu
factures made by families. All the trades,
nedful to a new country, are in existence.
Carpenters, wagon-makers, cabinet-makers,
blacksmiths, tanners, &c, may be found in
every county and town, and thousands more
are wanted.
There has been a considerable falling off in
the manufacture of whisky within a few years,
and it is sincerely hoped by thousands of our
citizens that this branch of business, so de
cidedly injurious to the morals and happiness
of communities and individuals, will entirely
decline. Several companies, for manufactur
ing purposes, have been incorporated by the
legislature.
Boat-huilding will soon become a branch
of business in this State. Some steam-boats
have been constructed already within this
State, along the Mississippi. It is thought
that Alton and Chicago are convenient sites
for this business.
Civil Divisions. There are sixty-six coun
ties laid off in this State, fifty-nine of which
are organized for judicial purposes. The
counties of Will, Whiteside, Kane, Ogle,
McHenry and Winnebago were laid off at the
session of the legislature, Jan. 1836. The
county of Will was formed from portions of
Cook, Lasalle and Iroquois, with the town of
294 peck s guide.
Juliet, near the junction of the Kankakee and
Des Plaines, for its seat of justice.
In this State there are no civil divisions into
townships, as in Ohio, Indiana, &x. The
township tracts of six miles square, in the
public surveys, relate exclusively to the land
system. The State is divided into three dis
tricts to elect representatives to Congress, and
into six circuits for judicial purposes.
Tabular View of the Counties.
Counties.
Ad tins, Alexander,. Bond Calhnnn, Champaign,
Clark
Clay, Clinton Crawford, Col™, Cook, Edfar, Edwards, Effingham Fayette Fnnklin, Fullon, Gallatin Greene, Hamilton, Hancock, Henry, (not or ganized, Iroquois, Jackton,
1825 1819 J8I7 1825
8-11 375 360 26(1 8U4
1819! 500
i824! ran 1824 590 mini :m 1 8:i0 1248 IKIfl t 1823 648 1814 son 1831, 48(5 1 1821; 68-1 1818 B5 l 1825 590 1812 828 1821 912 1821! 378 1825, 775
1825 8001 1833 t 1810: 576
249| 519 151 102
451
17-2; 414 519 680 528 788 2:1!) 129 665 759 607 1312 1360 460 357
7042 20511 3580 1091 1045 3413
1648 9618 3540 5125 98 6
21M 1055 31'.38 5551 5917| 8fi60 1274 28771 3M9
Scats of Justice.
Quiucy, Unity, Greenville, Gilead, Cr mnna, Darwin,* or I Marshall, Maysville, Carlyle, 1' destine, Charleston, I 'hicngo Piris, Mhimi, Rwington, Vandalia, Frankfurt, Lewistown, Equality, Carrhllton, Mcljeanshoro', Carthage,
118 67 1164 (Not established!,. 354' 2783 Hrownsville
175 n to. 135 s. 19 res to. 134 ic M.ir. 103 n n.e.
82 c n.c
50 a e. 28 s s.w. 101 c. 75 n e. 2 8 n n.e. 100 n e. 9fi s e. 29 e n.e.
83 1. 135 n.».w. 100 s s.e. 90 76 s s s. 160 n ic.
210 n n.w. 165 n n.e. 96 s s.K.
It is expected the seat ofjustice of Clark county will he removed to Marshall, ten miles north-west from Darwin, and on the national road. The distance is computed to Marshall.
ILLINOIS. 295
Jasper Jeflt;rson, Jo Daviesa, Johnson, Kane t Knox Lasalle, Lawrence, Macon, MadiBon, Macoupen,.. Marion, McDonough, MeHeuiy J. McLean, Mercer, Monroe, Montgomery, Morgan, Ogle,* Peoria, Perry, Pike, Pope, Putmtm, Randolph, Rock Inland, Sang imoit,. Schuyler, SlielUv, St. Clair,
atr. s 1831 1819 1,-27 1812 1836 792 t 530, 618 1829' 1404i 'J9 1812| 750 130 1829 720, 024 1823 576 37-J 1825| 57ti; 3ft IS 1.) 1831 576 455 t 492: 486 316 180 1836' 183o;i9l6 1825 1816 1821 1823 1836 1825 1827 1821 1816 4% I 558 360 449 960 475 1 50 2717 648 2>3 446 273; 800 657 576 444 1825 1340 ::P3 1795| 540 814 1831; 377, 83| 1821:123 1 2219! 18-55 864i BS0 1 827 i 1080 636 1795 1030 11S3
IOO0 1025 180 441 900 216 P5(i 333 576 471 516 977
Newton, Mount Vernon,. Galena, Vienna,
Seats of Justice.
Knoxvillc, Ottawa, Lawrenceville, Decatur, Edward*vilie, 1Jarlinville, ^alnm, Macomb,
Kloomington, New Boston, Waterloo, Hilbboro' Jacksonville,
Peoria, Phicknevvil e, Pittafieid, flolc onda, Hennepin. 5(i95 Kaskaskia,.
Tazewell, |1827|1430, 433 Union, ;1813| 396 545 Vermilion 182ft Wabash 18-24 Warren,' 1825 Washington, ..1818 Wavne, 181!) White 1815 Whiteside,}.. 1836 Will J 1836 —1 [Juliet, Winnebago,!;. 1836 t These counties hare been recently subdivided, and their super ficial area is not known. J These counties were formed January, 1836, and wore taken from Jo DavieM, Lacalle, Cook and Iroquois. The seats of justice not. es tablished, and much of the laud unsurveyed, though rapidly settling.
tophenion,. Ppringfield, Rmhvill", ShfP wille,.. Beth-lib, Tremont, Jun^s ioro', Danville, Mount Cannel,. Monmouth, Nnshvillo, Fairfield, C irmi,
296 peck s guide.
The following is a sketch of each county
in the State:
Adams.—The streams are Bear creek and
branches, Cedar, Tyrer, Mill, Fall, and Pigeon
creeks, with the Mississippi river on its west
ern border. Timber various, with equal por
tions of prairie. First rate county.
Alexander. —In the forks of the Ohio and
Mississippi, with Cash river through it. All
timbered,—half alluvion,—some inundated at
high water, —lime and sandstone on the Ohio;
—soil, generally rich.
Bond. Shoal creek and its branches
through it, with Hurricane creek on the east
side; —proportioned into timber and prairie;
rather level; second rate. Sandstone, coal,
and salt springs.
Calhoun.—Long and narrow, in the forks
of the Illinois and Mississippi; —alluvial and
sometimes inundated along the rivers
broken blufTs and interior table land; —good
soil; —prairies at the foot of the bluffs. Coal,
lime and sandstone.
Champaign.—The streams are the heads
of the Kaskaskia, Sangamon, Vermilion of
Illinois, Salt Fork of the Vermilion of the
Wabash, and the Embarras, all running in
opposite directions. Extensive prairies, a
little undulating and rich; —timber in groves;
—many granite bowlders.
Clark.—North Fork of Embarras, Mill and
Big creeks. Timber and prairie,—second
rate soil.
ILLINOIS.
Clay. —Watered by Little Wabash and
tributaries. Two thirds prairie,—of inferior
quality,—rather level and wet.
Clinton. —Kaskaskia river, with its tribu
taries, Crooked, Shoal, Beaver and Sugar
creeks pass through it. Equally proportioned
into timber and prairie. Soil, second rate;
surface, a little undulating.
Coles.—The Kaskaskia, Embarras, and
heads of the Little Wabash water it. Much
excellent land, —much undulating, rich prai
rie —some level and wet laud in the south
eastern part. Timber in sufficient quanti
ties.
Cook.—Adjoins Lake Michigan, and has
the branches of Chicago, Des Plaines, Du
Page, Au Sable and Hickory creeks. Sur
face, tolerably level; rich soil, —extensive
prairies,—timber in groves; —a few swamps.
Plenty of limestone, and the streams run over
rocky beds.
Crawford. —The Wabash river on its east
ern side, with Lam°tte, Hudson, Racoon and
Sugar creeks. Some level prairies, rather
sandy, with a full supply of timber.
Edgar.—Watered by Big, Clear, and Bru
lette s creeks on the eastern, and Little Em
barras on its western side. Southern and
eastern sides timbered; northern and western
sides much prairie; some undulating,— some
level and rather wet. Grand View is a
delightful tract of country.
Edwards.—The Little Wabash on its west
13*
298 peck s guide.
em, and Bon Pas on its eastern border.
Several prairies, high, undulating, and bound
ed by heavy timber. Soil, second quality.
Effingham.—Watered by the Little Wa
bash and its tributaries; due proportion of
timber and prairie; tolerably level,—second
rate.
Fayette.—Kaskaskia river, Hurricane, Hig
gens', Ramsey s and Beck s creeks. The
bottom lands on the Kaskaskia low and inun
dated at high water; considerable prairie;
much heavy timber; soil, second rate.
Franklin.—Watered by the Big Muddy
and its branches, and the South Fork of Saline
creek. The prairies small, fertile and level,
—timber plenty,—soil rather sandy.
Fulton.—The Illinois on the south-eastern
side, with Spoon river and several small
creeks through it. About half heavily tim
bered, with rich, undulating prairies; streams
flow over a pebbly bed; soil, first rate.
Gallatin.—Joins the Wabash and Ohio
rivers, and has the Saline and branches run
ning through it. Soil, sandy, with sandrock,
limestone, quartz crystals, excellent salines,
&c. Timber of various kinds; no prairies.
Greene—Has the Mississippi south, the
Illinois west, with Otter, Macoupen and Apple
creeks. Much excellent land, both timber
'and prairie, in due proportion, with abundance
of lime, and sandstone, and coal.
Hamilton.—Watered by branches of the
Saline and Little Wabash; a large proportion,
ILLINOIS. 299
timbered land; soil, second and third rate,
with some swamp in the northern part. Sand
stone and some lime.
Hancock.—Besides the Mississippi, it has
a part of Bear, Crooked, and Camp creeks;
large prairies; timber along the streams; rich,
first rate land.
Henry—Has Rock river north, with Win
nebago swamp, and its outlet or Green river,
and one of the heads of Spoon river, and
Edwards river interior. Some rich, undula
ting prairies and groves, with considerable
wet, swampy land. Not much population.
Iroquois.—Kankakee, Iroquois and Sugar
creek. Sand ridges and plains; much rich
prairie some timber, but deficient. It is
found chiefly in groves and strips along the
water courses.
Jackson—Has the Mississippi on the south
west, and Muddy river running diagonally
through it, with some of its tributaries. Some
prairies in the north-eastern part,—much
heavy timber, —some hilly and broken land,—
with abundance of coal, saline springs, lime
and sandstone.
Jasper.—The Embarras runs through it,
and the Muddy Fork of the Little Wabash
waters its western side. Much of both the
prairie and timbered land is level and rather
wet; some fertile tracts.
Jefferson.—Watered by several branches
of the Big Muddy and Little Wabash. Soil,
second rate; surface, a little undulating; one
300 peck s cuide.
third prairie several sulphur and other medi
cinal springs.
Jo Daviess—Formerly embraced all the
State north-west of Rock river, but recently
divided into three or four counties. Besides
the Mississippi, it has Fever river, Pekatono
kee, Apple river, and Rush and Plum creeks.
A rich county, both for agricultural and
mining purposes. Timber scarce, and in
groves; surface, undulating, —in some places
hilly; well watered by streams and springs,
and has good mill sites. Copper and lead ore
in abundance.
Johnson.—The Ohio on the south, Cash
river and Big Bay creek, and a series of lakes
or ponds interior. A timbered country, toler
ably level; soil sandy, with considerable quan
tities of second rate land.
Knox.—Watered by Henderson and Spoon
rivers, and their tributaries. The prairies
large, moderately undulating, and first quality
of soil, with excellent timber along the water
courses.
hasalle.—Besides the Illinois river, which
passes through it, Fox river, Big and Little
Vermilion, Crow, Au Sable, Indian, Mason,
Tomahawk, and other creeks, water this
county. They generally run on a bed of sand
or lime rock, and have but little alluvial bot
tom lands. Deficient in timber, but has an
abundance of rich, undulating prairie, beau
tiful groves, abundant water privileges, and
extensive coal banks. 
ILLINOIS. 301
Lawrence.—The Wabash east, Fox river
west, and Embarras and Racoon through it.
An equal proportion of timber and prairie,
some excellent, other parts inferior,—and
some bad, miry swamps, called "purgato
ries."
Macon.—South-east portion, watered by the
Kaskaskia and tributaries; the middle and
northern portions by the North Fork of San
gamon, and the north-western part by Salt
creek. The prairies large, and in their inte
rior, level and wet,—towards the timber, dry,
undulating and rich.
Madison.—The Mississippi lies west; Ca
hokia and Silver creeks, and Wood river, run
through it. A part of this county lies in the
American bottom, and is a rich and level allu
vion; but much of the county is high, undu
lating, and proportionably divided into timber
and prairie. Well supplied with stone quar
ries and coal banks.
Macoupen. The Macoupen creek and
branches water its central and western parts,
the Cahokia, the south-eastern, and the heads
of Wood river and Piasau, the south-western
parts. A large proportion of the county is
excellent soil, well proportioned into timber
and prairie, and slightly undulating.
Marion.—Watered by the East Fork, and
Crooked creek, tributaries of Kaskaskia river,
on its western, and heads of Skillet Fork of
Little Wabash on its eastern sides. Much of
the land of second quality, slightly undulating,
peck s guide.
about one third timbered,—some of the prai
rie land level, and inclined to be wet.
McDonough. Crooked creek and its
branches water most of the county. The
eastern side, for eight or ten miles in width,
is prairie,—the western and middle parts
suitably divided between prairie and forest
land; surface, moderately undulating; soil,
very rich.
McLean. —One third of the eastern, and a
portion of the northern side, is one vast prai
rie. The timber is beautifully arranged in
groves; the surface moderately undulating,
and the soil dry and rich. The head waters
of the Sangamon, Mackinau, and the Ver
milion of the Illinois, are in thia county. Its
minerals are quarries of lime and sandstone,
and granite bowlders, scattered over the
prairies.
Mercer—Has the Mississippi on the west,
and Pope and Edwards rivers interior, along
which are fine tracts of timber; in its middle
and eastern parts are extensive prairies; sur
face, generally undulating; soil, rich.
Monroe.—Watered by Horse, Prairie de
Long, and Fountain creeks. The American
bottom adjacent to the Mississippi is rich allu
vion, and divided into timber and prairie. On
the bluffs are ravines and sink-holes, with
broken land. Further interior is a mixture of
timber and prairie. Abundance of limestone,
coal, and some copper.
Montgomery. Watered by Shoal creek
ILLINOIS* 303
and branches, and Hurricane Fork. Surface,
high and undulating, and proportionably di
vided into timber and prairie. Soil, second
rate.
Morgan.—A. first rate county,—well pro
portioned into prairie and forest lands,—much
of the surface undulating; watered by the Illi
nois river and Mauvaise-terre, Indian, Plum,
Walnut, and Sandy creeks, and heads of
Apple creek. Coal, lime and freestone.
Peoria.—Watered by the Illinois, Kicka
poo, Copperas, Senatchwine, and heads of
Spoon river. Surface, moderately rolling,
rich soil, and proportionably divided into
prairie and forest.
Perry.—Streams; Big Beaucoup, and Little
Muddy; one third prairie, tolerably level, and
second rate soil.
Pike. Besides Mississippi and Illinois,
which wash two sides, it has the Suycartee
slough running through its western border,
and navigable for steam-boats, and a number
of smaller creeks. The land and surface
various,—much of it excellent undulating soil,
—some rich alluvion, inundated at high water,
—large tracts of table land, high, rolling, and
rich, with due proportion of timber and prai
rie. A large salt spring.
Pope.—With the Ohio river east and south,
it has Big Bay, Lusk s, and Big creeks inte
rior. A timbered region, tolerably level, ex
cept at the bluffs, with good sandy soil, and
sand and limestone.
304 peck s guide.
Putnam.—The Illinois runs through it,—
Spoon river waters its north-western part, and
Bureau, Crow, Sandy, and some other streams,
water its middle portions. Here are beautiful
groves of timber, and rich, undulating and
dry prairies, fine springs, and good mill sites.
Lime, sand and freestone, and bituminous
coal. A few tracts of wet prairie, with some
ponds and swamps, are in the north-western
part.
Randolph—Has the Mississippi along the
western side; Kaskaskia river passes diago
nally through it: soil, of every quality, from
first rate to indifferent; surface, equally as
various, with rocky precipices at the termin
ation of the alluvial bottoms.
Rock Island—Is at the mouth of Rock riv
er, which, with the Mississippi and some
minor streams, drain the county. Rich allu
vion along the Mississippi, with much excel
lent table land, —both timber and prairie inte
rior. Some wet, level prairie, south of Rock
river.
Sangamon.— Watered by Sangamon river
and its numerous branches. Much of the soil
is of the richest quality, with due proportions
of timber and prairie, moderately undulating,
and a first rate county.
Schuyler.—The south-eastern side has the
Illinois, the interior has Crooked and Crane
creeks, and the south-west has McKee s creek.
Along the Illinois is much timber, with some
inundated bottom lands. Interior, there is a
ILLINOIS. 305
due proportion of prairie, and timber, and rich
soil, with an undulating surface.
Shelby—Is watered by the Kaskaskia and
tributaries; has a large amount of excellent
land, both timber and prairie, with good soil,
moderately undulating.
St. Clair. The streams are Cahokia,
Prairie du Pont, Ogle s, Silver, Richland, and
Prairie de Long creeks, and Kaskaskia river.
The land is various, much of which is good,
first and second rate, and proportionably di
vided into timber, prairie, and barrens. The
minerals are lime and sandstone, and exten
sive beds of coal and shale.
Tazewell.—Watered by the Illinois, Mack
inau, and their tributaries. Much of the
surface is undulating, soil rich; prairie pre
dominates, but considerable timber, with some
broken land about the bluffs of Mackinau, and
some sand ridges and swamps in the southern
part of the county.
Union.—Watered by the Mississippi, Clear
creek, the heads of Cash, and some of the
small tributaries of the Big Muddy. Much of
the surface is rolling and hilly,—all forest
land. Soil, second and third rate. Some rich
alluvial bottom.
Vermilion—Is watered by Big and Little
Vermilion of the Wabash, with large bodies
of excellent timber along the streams, and
rich prairies interior. Surface, undulating
and dry; soil, deep, rich and calcareous.
Wabash—Has Wabash river on the east,.
14
306 peck s guide.
I
Bon Pas on the west, and some small creeks
central; surface, rolling, and a mixture of
timber and prairie; soil, generally second
rate. Minerals; lime and sandstone.
Warren.—Besides the Mississippi, its prin
cipal stream is Henderson river, which passes
through it, with Ellison, Honey, and Camp
creeks. Much of the land on these streams
is rich, undulating, deficient somewhat in
timber, with excellent prairie. Along the
Mississippi, and about the mouth of Hender
son, the land is inundated in high water.
Washington—Has the Kaskaskia on its
north-western side, with Elkhorn, Little Mud
dy, Beaucoup, and Little Crooked creeks in
terior. The prairies are rather level, and in
places inclined to be wet; the timber, espe
cially along the Kaskaskia, heavy.
Wayne.—The Little Wabash, with its trib
utaries, Elm river, and Skillet Fork, are its
streams. It is proportionably interspersed
with prairie and woodland, generally of second
quality.
White.—The eastern side washed by the
Big Wabash, along which is a low, inundated
bottom; the interior is watered by the Little
Wabash and its tributaries. Some prairie,
but mostly timber. Soil and surface various.
Some rich bottom prairies, with sandy soil.
Towns. Vandalia is the seat of govern
ment till 1840; after which, it is to be removed
to Alton, according to a vote of the people, in
1834,—unless they should otherwise direct.
ILLINOIS.
It is situated on the right bank of the Kaskas
kia river, in north latitude 39° 0' 42", and
fifty-eight miles in a direct line, a little north
of east from Alton. The public buildings are
temporary. Population, about seven hundred
and fifty.
Alton. Two towns of this name are distin
guished as Alton, and Upper Alton. Alton is
an incorporated town, situated on the bank of
the Mississippi, two and a half miles above
the mouth of the Missouri, and at the place
where the curve of the Mississippi penetrates
the furthest into Illinois, eighteen miles be
low the mouth of the Illinois river. For
situation, commerce, business of all kinds,
health, and rapidity of growth, it far exceeds
any other town on the east bank of the Mis
sissippi, above New Orleans. The population
is about two thousand. The commercial
business done here is already immense, and
extends through more than half of Illinois,
besides a large trade on the western side of
the Mississippi. Five large mercantile estab
lishments do wholesale business only, lour do
wholesale and retail, besides four wholesale
and retail groceries, and fifteen or twenty
retail stores and groceries; and yet many
more mercantile houses are necessary for the
business of the country. Great facilities for
business of almost every description, especial
ly for every kind of mechanics, are to be had
here. It offers one of the best situations on
the western waters for building and repairing
308 peck s guide.
steam-boats. Town lots and lands adjacent,
have risen in value from five hundred to one
thousand per cent. within the last twelve
months.
Alton has respectable and well finished
houses of worship, for the Presbyterian,
Methodist Protestant, and Baptist denomina
tions; two good schools, a lyceum, that holds
weekly meetings, and two printing-offices.
The population in general, is a moral, indus
trious, enterprising class. Few towns in the
West have equalled this in contributions for
public and benevolent objects, in proportion
to age and population.
Arrangements have been made for doing
an extensive business in the slaughtering and
packing of pork and beef. Four houses are
engaged in that line, which slaughtered about
twenty-five thousand hogs the last season.
Many buildings will be erected the present
season, amongst which will be an extensive
hotel, which is much needed. The town is
situated at the base, side, and top, of the first
bluffs that extend to the river, above the
mouth of the Kaskaskia. Adjacent to it, and
which will eventually become amalgamated,
is Middleton, laid off directly in the rear.
Upper Alton is from two and a half to three
miles back from the river, and in the rear of
Lower Alton, on elevated ground, and in every
respect a very healthy situation. It has ex
ceeding one hundred and twenty families, and
is rapidly improving. Adjacent to it, and
ILLINOIS. 309
forming now a part of the town plat, is
Shurtleff College, of Alton, Illinois," which
bids fair to become an important and flourish
ing institution. Also, "Alton Theological
Seminary," which has commenced operations.
Both these institutions have been gotten up
under the influence and patronage of the
Baptist denomination. A female seminary,
of a high order, under the name of the "Al
ton Female Institute," has been chartered, and
a building is about to be erected for the pur
pose. The Baptists, Methodists and Presby
terians have congregations here, and two
houses of worship were built the past year.
Chicago is the largest commercial town in
Illinois. It is situated at the junction of
north and south branches, and along the main
Chicago, near its entrance into lake Michi
gan, on a level prairie, but elevated above
the highest floods. A recent communication,
from a respectable mercantile house, gives
the following statistics: "Fifty-one stores,
thirty groceries, ten taverns, twelve physi
cians, twenty-one attornies, and 4000 inhabit
ants. We have four churches, and two more
building, one bank, a marine and fire insur
ance company about to go into operation, and
a brick hotel containing ninety apartments.
There were nine arrivals and departures of
steam-boats in 1835, and two hundred and
sixty-seven, of brigs and schooners, contain
ing 5015 tons of merchandise, and 9400 bar
rels of salt, besides lumber, provisions, &c.
310 peck s guide.
The harbor now constructing by the United
States government, will be so far completed
in 1836, as to admit vessels and stearn-boats
navigating the lakes. A few miles back of
Chicago, are extensive tracts of wet prairie.
Galena is the seat of justice for Jo Daviess
county, situated on Fever river, in the midst
of the mining district. It has about twenty
stores, a dozen groceries, and about 1000
inhabitants.
Springfield is near the geographical centre
of the State, and in the midst of a most fertile
region of country. It is a flourishing inland
town, and contains about 2000 inhabitants.
Jacksonville, the county seat of Morgan coun
ty, has about the same population, and is
equally delightful and flourishing.
One mile west, on a most beautiful emi
nence, stands "Illinois College," founded
under the auspices of the Presbyterian de
nomination, and bids fair to become a flour
ishing seat of learning.
I have not room to name, much less de
scribe, the many growing towns and villages
in this State, that excite and deserve the
attention of emigrants. On the Illinois river,
are Ottawa, and several eligible sites in
its vicinity, where towns have commenced;
Beardstown, a short distance below the mouth
of Sangamon river; Peoria, at the foot of
Peoria lake (a most beautiful site, and con
taining 1 000 inhabitants) Meredosia, Naples,
Pekin, Hennepin, &.c. On the Mississippi,
ILLINOIS. 311
are Quincy, Warsaw, New Boston, and Ste
phenson, the seat of justice for Rock Island
county. Interior, are Bloomington, Decatur,
Tremont, Shelbyville, Hillsboro', Edwards
ville, Carlyle, Belleville, Carrollton, and
many others. Towards the Wabash, are
Danville, Paris, Lawrenceville, Carmi, and
Mount Carmel; the last of which has an
importance, from being connected with the
grand rapids of the Wabash. Shawneetown
is the commercial depot for the south-eastern
part of the State. On the military tract, are
Rushville, Pittsfield, Griggsville, Carthage,
Macomb, Monmouth, Knoxville, Lewistown,
Canton, &c. all pleasant sites, and having a
population from two or three hundred to one
thousand inhabitants.
For a more particular description of each
county, town and settlement, with all other
particulars of Illinois, the reader is referred
to "A Gazetteer of Illinois," by the au
thor of this Guide.
Projected Improvements. The project of
uniting the waters of lake Michigan and the
Illinois, by a canal, was conceived soon after
the commencement of the Grand canal of
New York; and a board of commissioners,
with engineers, explored the route and esti
mated the cost, in 1823. Provision, by a
grant of each alternate section of land within
live miles of the route, having been granted
by Congress, another board of commissioners was appointed in 1829; a new survey wass
312 peck s guide.
made, and the towns of Chicago and Ottawa
laid off, and some lots sold in 1830. Various
movements have since been made, but noth
ing effectually done, until the recent special
session of the legislature, when an act was
passed, to authorize the governor to borrow
funds upon the faith of the State; a new
board of commissioners has been organized,
and this great work is about to be prosecuted
with vigor to its completion.
Funds, in part, have been provided, from
the sales of certain saline lands belonging to
the State, to improve the navigation of the
Great Wabash, at the Grand Rapids, near
the mouth of White river, in conjunction
with the State of Indiana. From the same
source, funds are to be applied to the clearing
out of several navigable water-courses, and
repairing roads within the State.
Charters have been granted to several rail
road companies, some of which have been
surveyed, and the stock taken. One from
Alton to Springfield was surveyed last year,
and the stock subscribed in December. An
other from St. Louis, by the coal mines of St.
Clair county, to Belleville, thirteen miles, is
expected to be made immediately. The pro
ject of a central rail-way from the termination
of the Illinois and Michigan canal, at the foot
of the rapids, a few miles below Ottawa,
through Bloomington, Decatur, Shclbyville,
Vandalia, and on to the mouth of the Ohio
river, has been entered upon with spirit.
ILLINOIS. 313
Another charter contemplates the continu
ance of a route, already provided for in Indi
ana, and noticed under Ohio, from Lafa
yette, la., by Danville, Shelbyville, and Hills
boro', to Alton, the nearest point from the
east to the Mississippi. A rail-road charter
was granted, at a previous session of the
legislature, from Meredosia to Jacksonville,
and another from Vincennes to Chicago.
We have only room to mention the follow
ing charters, which have recently been grant
ed, in addition to those already specified:
One from Pekin to Tremont, in Tazewell
county, nine miles.
One from the Wabash, by Peoria, to War
saw, in Hancock county.
The Wabash and Mississippi rail-road com
pany.
The Mount Carmel and Alton rail-road
company.
The Rushville rail-road company.
The Winchester, Lynville, and Jackson
ville rail-road company.
The Shawneetown and Alton rail-road com
pany.
The Pekin, Bloomington, and Wabash rail
road company.
The Waverly and Grand Prairie rail-road
company.
The Galena and Chicago union rail-road
company.
The Wabash and Mississippi union rail
road company.
314 peck s guise.
The Mississippi, Carrollton, and Springfield
rail-road company.
The national road is in progress through
this State, and considerable has been made
on that portion which lies between Vandalia
and the boundary of Indiana. This road en
ters Illinois at the north-east corner of Clark
county, and passes diagonally through Coles
and Effingham counties, in a south-westerly
course, to Vandalia-, a distance of ninety
miles. The road is established eighty feet
wide, the central part thirty feet wide, raised
above standing water, and not to exceed
three degrees from a level. The base of all
the abutments of bridges must be equal in
thickness to one third of the height of the
abutment.
The road is not yet placed in a traveling
condition. The line of the road is nearly
direct; the loss, in ninety miles, being only
the eighty-eighth part of one per cent. Be
tween Vandalia and Ewington, for twenty
three miles, it does not deviate in the least
from a direct line.
From Vandalia, westward, the road is not
yet located; but it will probably pass to Alton.
Education. The same provision has been
made for this as other Western States, in the
disposal of the public lands. The section,
numbered sixteen, in each township of land,
is sold upon petition of the people within the
township, and the avails constitute a perma
nent fund, the interest of which is annually
ILLINOIS. 315
applied towards the expenses, in part, of the
education of those who attend school, living
within the township.
A school system, in part, has been arrang
ed by the legislature. The peculiar and un
equal division of the country into timber and
prairie land.?, and the inequality of settlements
consequent thereupon, will prevent, for many
years to come, the organization of school
districts with defined geographical boundaries.
To meet this inconvenience, the legislature
has provided, that any number of persons can
elect three trustees, employ a teacher in any
mode they choose, and receive their propor
tion of the avails of the school funds. In all
cases, however, the teacher must keep a daily
account of each scholar who attends school, and
make out a schedule of the aggregate that each
scholar attends, every six months, and present
it, certified by the trustees of the school, to
the school commissioner of the county, who
apportions the money accordingly.
This State receives three per cent. on all
the net avails of public lands sold in this
State, which, with the avails of two townships
sold, makes a respectable and rapidly in
creasing fund, the interest only of which can
be expended, and that only to the payment of
instruoters.
Good common school teachers, both male
and female, are greatly needed, and will meet
with ready employ and liberal wages. Here
is a most delightful and inviting field for
316 peck s guide.
Christian activity. Common school, with
Sunday school instruction, calls for thousands
of teachers in the West.
Several respectable academies are in oper
ation, and the wants and feelings of the com
munity call for many more. Besides the col
leges at Jacksonville and Alton, already no
ticed, others are projected, and several have
been chartered. The Methodist denomina
tion have a building erected, and a prepara
tory school commenced, at Lebanon, St. Clair
county. The Episcopalians are about estab
lishing a college at Springfield. One or more
will be demanded in the northern and eastern
portions of the State; and it may be calculat
ed, that, in a very brief period, the State of
Illinois will furnish facilities for a useful and
general education, equal to those in any part
of the country.
Government. The constitution of Illinois
was formed by a convention, held at Kaskas
kia, in August, 1818. It provides for the
distribution of the powers of government into
three distinct departments,—the legislative,
executive, and judiciary. The legislative
authority is vested in a general assembly,
consisting of a senate and house of represen
tatives. Elections are held biennially, as are
the ordinary sessions of the legislature. Sen
ators are elected for four years.
The executive power is vested in the gov
ernor, who is chosen every fourth year, by
the electors for representatives; but the same
ILLINOIS. 317
person is ineligible for the next succeeding
four years. The lieutenant governor is also
chosen every four years.
The judicial power is vested in a supreme
court, and such inferior courts as the general
assembly, from time to time, shall establish.
The supreme court consists of a chief justice
and three associate judges.
The governor and judges of the supreme
court constitute a council of revision, to
which all bills, that have passed the assembly,
must be submitted. If objected to by the
council of revision, the same may become a
law, by the vote of a majority of all the mem
bers elected to both houses.
The right of suffrage is universal. All
white male inhabitants, citizens of the United
States, twenty-one years of age, and who
have resided within the State six months next
preceding the elections, enjoy the right of
voting. Votes are given viva voce. The in
troduction of slavery is prohibited. The con
stitution can only be altered by a convention.
General Remarks. 1 Farms, somewhat'
improved, are almost daily exchanging own
ers, and a considerable spirit of enterprise
has been awakened within a year or two past.
The prices of farms and improvements vary
greatly, and are influenced much by factitious
and local circumstances. From St. Clair
county, northward, they average, probably,
from five to ten dollars per acre, and are
rising in value. In some counties, farms will
peck s guide.
cost from two to five dollars per acre. Afarm
in Illinois, however, means a tract of land,
much of it in a state of nature, with some
cheap, and, frequently, log-buildings; with
twenty, forty, sixty, eighty or one hundred
acres, fenced and cultivated. Good dwellings
of brick, stone or wood, begin to be erected.
Among the old residents, there have been but
few barns built. The want of adequate supplies of lumber,
and of mechanics, renders good buildings
more expensive than in the new counties of
New England or New York. 2. Merchants' goods, groceries, household
furniture and almost every necessary and
comfort in house-keeping, can be purchased
here; and many articles retail at about the
same prices as in the Atlantic States.
3. The following table will exhibit the cost
of three hundred and twenty acres of land, at
Congress price, and preparing one hundred
and sixty acres for cultivation or prairie land:
Cost of 320 acres, at $1 25 per acre, $400 Breaking up 160 acres prairie, at $2 per acre,. 320 Fencing it into four fields, with a Kentucky fence
of eight rails high, with cross stakes 175 Cabins, corn-cribs, stable, &c., 250
Making the cost of the farm, $1145
In many instances, a single crop of wheat
will pay for the land, for fencing, breaking
up, cultivating, harvesting, threshing, and
taking to market. 4. All kinds of mechanical labor, especially
ILLINOIS. 319
in the building line, are in great demand;
even very coarse and common workmen get
almost any price they ask. Journeymen
mechanics get $2 per day. A carpenter or
brick mason wants no other capital, to do
first-rate business, and soon become indepen
dent, than a set of tools, and habits of indus
try, sobriety, economy and enterprise.
5. Common laborers on a farm obtain from
$12 to $15 per month, including board. Any
young man, with industrious habits, can begin
here without a dollar, and in a very few years
become a substantial farmer. A good cradler
in the harvest-field, will earn from $1 50 to
$2 per day.
6. Much that we have stated in reference
to Illinois, will equally apply to Missouri, or
any other Western State. Many general
principles have been laid down, and particu
lar facts exhibited, with respect to the general
description of the State, soil, timber, kinds of
land, and other characteristics, under Illinois,
and, to save repetition, are omitted elsewhere.
CHAPTER XIII.
MISSOURI.
Extent and Boundaries—Civil Divisions—Population at different Periods Surface, Soil and Productions— Towns.
Length, two hundred and seventy-eight;
medium breadth, two hundred and thirty-five
miles: containing 64 500 square miles, and
41 280,000 acres.
Bounded north by the Des Moines country,
or New Purchase, attached to Wisconsin
Territory, west by Indian Territory, south
by Arkansas, and east by the Mississippi
river;—Between 36° and 40° 37' north lati
tude, and between 11° 15' and 17° 307 west
longitude.
Civil Divisions. It is divided into fifty
counties, as follows:—Barry, Benton, Boone,
Callaway, Cape Girardeau, Carroll, Chari
ton, Clay, Clinton, Cole, Cooper, Crawford,
Franklin, Gasconade, Green, Howard, Jack
son, Jefferson, Johnson, Lafayette, Lewis,
Lincoln, Madison, Marion, Monroe, Mont
MISSOURI. 321
gomery, Morgan, New Madrid, Perry, Pettis,
Pike, Polk, Pulaski, Randolph, Ralls, Ray,
Ripley, Rives, St. Francis, Ste. Genevieve,
St. Charles, St. Louis, Saline, Scott, Shelby,
Stoddart, Van Buren, Warren, Washington
and Wayne.
Population at Different Periods.
In Population.
1810 (excluding Arkansas), 19 833 1820, 66,.336 1824, 80 000 1830, 140 455 1832, 176 276 1836, estimated,. 210 000
From
1810 to 1820, 1820 1824, 1824 1830, 1830 1832, 1832 1836,
Increase.
46 753 14 500 60 455 35 820 33 724
The constitution is similar to that of Illinois,
in its broad features, excepting the holding
of slaves is allowed, and the General Assembly
has no power to pass laws for the emancipa
tion of slaves, without the consent of their
owners, or paying an equivalent. It is made
the duty of the General Assembly to oblige
the owners of slaves to treat them with hu
manity, and to abstain from all injuries to
them extending to life or limb." Slaves
shall not be deprived of an impartial trial by
jury." In 1832, there were in the State,
32 184 slaves, and 661 free colored persons.
Every free white male citizen has the right of
suffrage, after a residence in the State of one
year.
Surface, Soil and Productions. The surface
of this State is greatly diversified. South of
14*
322 peck s guide.
Cape Girardeau, with the exception of some
bluffs along the Mississippi, it is entirely allu
vial, and a large proportion consists of" swamp
and inundated lands, the most of which are
heavily timbered. From thence to the Mis
souri river, and westward to the dividing
grounds between the waters of the Osage and
Gasconade rivers, the country is generally
timbered, rolling, and in some parts, quite
hilly. No part of Missouri, however, is strict
ly mountainous. Along the waters of Gascon
ade and Black rivers the hills are frequently
abrupt and rocky, with strips of rich alluvion
along the water-courses. Much of this region
abounds with minerals of various descriptions.
Lead, iron, coal, gypsum, manganese, zinc,
antimony, cobalt, ochre of various kinds,
common salt, nitre, plumbago, porphyry, jas
per, chalcydony, buhrstone, marble and free
stone, of various qualities. The lead and iron
ore are literally exhaustless, and of the rich
est quality. To say there is probably iron ore
enough in this region to supply the United
States with iron for one hundred thousand
years to come, would not be extravagant.
Here, too, is water power in abundance,
rapid streams, with pebbly beds, forests of
timber and exhaustless beds of bituminous
coal. The only difficulty of working this vast
body of minerals is the inconvenience of get
ting its proceeds to the Mississippi. The
streams that rise in this region, run different
courses into the Missouri, the Mississippi and
MISSOURI.
the Arkansas, but they are too rapid and
winding in their courses to afford safe and
easy navigation.
Were the rafts now lodged in the St. Fran
cois removed by the agency of government, as
they have been in Red river, the lower section
of the mineral country could be reached by
steam-boat navigation. The citizens of St.
Louis, very recently, have entered upon the
project of a railway from that city, through
the heart of this country, to the fine, farming
lands, in the south-western part of the State.
Such a project, carried into effect, would open
a boundless field of wealth in Missouri.
The western part of the State is divided in
to prairie and forest land, much of which is
fertile. Along the Osage, it is hilly, and
the whole is undulating, and regarded as a
healthy region, abounding with good water,
salt springs and limestone. North of the Mis
souri the face of the country is diversified,
with a mixture of timber and prairie. From
the Missouri to Salt river, good springs are
scarce, and in several counties it is difficult
to obtain permanent water by digging wells.
Artificial wells, as they may be called, are
made by digging a well forty or fifty feet deep,
and replenishing it with a current of rain wa
ter from the roof of the dwelling-house. Much
of the prairie land in this part of the State is
inferior to the first quality of prairie land
in Illinois, as the soil is more clayey, arid
does not so readily absorb the water. Be
peck s guide.
tvveen Salt river and Des Moines, are beauti
ful, rich lands. The counties of Ralls, Ma
rion, Monroe, Lewis and Shelby are first rate.
The counties of Warren, Montgomery, Calla
way, Boone, Howard and Chariton, all lying
on the north side of the Missouri river, are
rolling; in some places are bluffs and hills,
with considerable good prairie, and an abun
dance of timbered land. Further west, the
proportion of prairie increases to the boundary
line, as it does to the northward of Boone,
Howard and Chariton counties. After making
ample deductions for inferior soil, ranges of
barren hills, and large tracts of swamp, as in
the south, the State of Missouri contains a vast
proportion of excellent farming land. The
people, generally, are enterprising, hardy and
industrious; and most of those who hold slaves,
perform labor with them. Emigrants from
every State and several countries of Europe,
are found here, but the basis of the population
is from Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia.
The natural productions of Missouri are simi
lar to those States already described, and the
agricultural productions are the same as Illi
nois, except that more tobacco is produced in
the middle, and considerable quantities of cot
ton in the southern counties.
Towns. The city of Jefferson is the politi
cal capital of the State. It is situated on the
right bank of the Missouri, a few miles above
the mouth of the Osage, and about one hun
dred and thirty-eight miles from St. Louis. It
 
MISSOURI. 325
is a small town, with little business, except
what pertains to the government of the State.
A state house, governor s house and peniten
tiary have been erected.
St. Louis is the commercial capital, and
the most important place in all this portion of
the Valley of the Mississippi. It stands on
the western bank of the Mississippi, one hun
dred and eighty miles above the junction of
the Ohio, eighteen miles below that of the
Missouri, and thirty-eight miles below that of
the Illinois. It is beautifully situated on as
cending and elevated ground, which spreads
out into an undulating surface to the west for
many miles. Two streets are parallel with
the river on the first bank, and the rest of the
city stands on the second bank; but very little
grading is necessary, to give the streets run
ning back from the river their proper inclina
tion. The old streets, designed only for a
French village, are too narrow for public con
venience, but a large part of the city has been
laid out on a liberal scale. The Indian and
Spanish trade, the fur and peltry business,
lead, government agencies, army supplies,
surveys of government lands, with the regular
trade of an extensive interior country, makes
St. Louis a place of great business, in propor
tion to its population, which is about 10 000.
The following, from the register of the
wharf-master, will exhibit the commerce for
1835:—
326 peck s guide.
Steam-boat Register.
Number of different boats arrived, 121 Aggregate of tonnage, 15 470 Number of arrivals, 8113 Wharfage collected, $4 573 60
Wood and Lumber, liable to wharfage.
Plank, joUt and scantling, 1 414,330 feet Shingles, 148 000 Cedar posts 7 706 Fire-wood, 8 066 cords.
The proportionate increase of business will
be seen by reference to the following registry
for 1831
Different steam-boats arrived, 60 Average amount of tonnage, 7 769 Number of entries, 532
The morality, intelligence and enterprise of
this city is equal to any other in the West, in
proportion to its size. The American popu
lation is most numerous, but there are many
French, Irish and Germans. About one third
of the inhabitants are Roman Catholics. The
Presbyterians, Methodists and Episcopalians
have large congregations and houses of wor
ship the Baptists and Unitarians are rather
small, and without public edifices. The Ro
man Catholic cathedral is a costly building,
of freestone, and has a splendid chime of
bells, sent over from Europe. St. Louis is a
pleasant and healthy situation, and surround
ed by a fertile country.
We have not space to give particulars re
specting many interesting and flourishing
towns in Missouri.
MISSOURI. 327
Cape Girardeau is a commercial depot for
the southern part of the State. Ste. Gene
vieve stands a little back from the river, and
is known only as an old French village.
Selma is a landing and depot for the lead
mine country, thirty-eight miles below St
Louis. Clarksville, Louisiana, Marion city,
Hannibal, Saverton and La Grange are com
mercial sites on the Mississippi, above the
mouth of Missouri. Palmyra is a beautiful
town, of about one thousand inhabitants, and
the seat of justice for Marion county. Along
the Missouri, are Portland, Rocheport, Boon
ville, Lexington, Independence, and many
other places of various degrees of importance.
Franklin formerly stood on the north bank of
Missouri, but most of it has been removed,
three miles interior, to the bluffs. Potosi is a
central town in the mineral district. Fulton,
Columbia and Fayette are the seats of justice
for Callaway, Boone and Howard counties,
and are pleasant and flourishing towns.
About the same provision for education has
been made in this as in other Western States,
and a disposition to encourage schools, acad
emies and colleges is fast increasing.
CHAPTER XIV.
ARKANSAS.
Situation and Extent—Civil Divisions—Rivers—Face of the Country —Soil—Water—Productions—ClimateMinerals—State of Society.
Arkansas, which has recently formed a con
stitution, and has been received into the na
tional Union, lies between 33° and 36° Sff
north latitude, and between 13° 30' and 17°
45' west longitude. Length, two hundred and
thirty-five; medium breadth, two hundred and
twenty-two miles; containing about 50 000
square miles, or 32 000,000 acres.
Civil Divisions. The following are the
counties-, with the population, from the census
taken in 1835:—
Comities. Popula Counties. Pouula. Counties. Poputa.
Arkansas,. 2 080 Independence, 2 633 Phillips, 1 518 Carroll, 1 857 Izard, 1 879 Pike 449 Chicot,. 2 471 Jackson, 891 Pope, 1 318 Conway, 1 214 Jefferson, 1 474 Pulaski, 3 513 Clark, 1 285 Johnson, l 803[Scott, 100 Crawford,. 3 139 Lafayette, 1 446 Sevier, 1 350 Crittenden, 1 407 Lawrence, 3 844 St. Francis,. 1 896 Greene, 971 Miller, 1 373 Union, 878 ITempstead 2,955 Mississippi, 600 Van Buren, 855 Hot-Spring 6, 117 Monroe 556 Washington, 6 742
Total, 58 212
ARKANSAS. 329
Another table we have seen, makes out the
population, as officially reported (with the ex
ception of two counties, from which returns
had not been made), to be 51 809;—white
males, 22 585; white females, 19 386;—total
whites, 41 971: slaves, 9 629; —free persons
of color, 209. The population, in 1830,
30 388;—in 1833, 40 660.
The following graphic description of Arkan
sas, is taken from a letter from Rev. Harvey
Woods, in that State, to the editor of the
Cincinnati Journal, and is corroborated by
testimony in our possession, from various
correspondents. It was written in 1835.
Arkansas Territory is a part of that vast
country ceded to the United States, by France,
in 1803. From the time of the purchase, till|
lately, the tide of emigration hardly reached
thus far. In 1800, the population was 1052.
Arkansas was erected into a Territory, in
1819. At this time it is receiving a share of
those who retire beyond the Mississippi.
Rivers. The Territory is admirably in
tersected with navigable rivers; the Missis
sippi on the east, the great Red river on the
south. Between these, and running general
ly from north-west to south-east, are the St.
Francois, White, Arkansas and Washitau
rivers, all fine streams for steam-boat navi
gation. Face of the Country. It is various. Nos
country affords more diversified scenery. The
country in the east, for one hundred miles, is
15
330 peck s guide.
flat, with marshes and swamps; in the middle,
broken and hilly; and in the west, hilly and
mountainous. There are some prairies, some
thickly timbered land, some heavy timbered.
The country is generally a timbered country.
Some parts are sandy, some rocky, and some
flinty.
Soil. Should a man travel here, and ex
pect to find all good land, he would be sadly
disappointed. Thft best lands are generally
contiguous to the rivers and creeks; and
these are exceedingly fertile, not surpassed
by any soil in the United States. Arkansas
soil, that is rich, has just sand enough to
make it lively and elastic. Our best lands
are covered with walnut, hackberry, mulber
ry, oak, ash, grape vines, &c.
Water. The hilly and mountainous parts
are well supplied with springs, limestone and
freestone. Also good streams for mills. In
the flat country, good water is easily obtained
by digging.
Productions. Cotton and corn are the prin
cipal. The Arkansas cottons commanded the
best price last season, in the Liverpool mar
ket. It is a country of unequalled advantages
for raising horses, mules, cattle and hogs.
Climate. It is mild, and, from its differ
ence in latitude, say from 32° 40' to 36° 3C
N., and the difference in local situation, we
would guess, and correctly too, that there is
much difference in the health of different
places; the high and northern parts healthy,
ARKANSAS. 331
and the flat and southern subject to agues
and bilious fevers. The climate has been
considered unhealthy to new settlers; but it
is not more so than other new countries.
"Minerals. There are quantities of iron,
lead, coal, salt, and, it is asserted by some,
silver. There are many salt and sulphur
springs. On the Arkansas river, beyond the
limits of the Territory proper, is a section of
country called the salt prairie, which, accord
ing to good authority, is covered, for many
miles, from four to six inches deep, with pure
white salt. In the Hot Spring country, are
the famous hot springs, much resorted to by
persons of chronic and paralytic diseases.
The temperature, in dry, hot weather, is at
boiling point.
State of Society. The general character of
the people is brave, hardy and enterprising,
—frequently without the polish of literature,
yet kind and hospitable. The people are now
rapidly improving in morals and intellect.
They are as ready to encourage schools, the
preaching of the gospel, and the benevolent
enterprises of the age, as any people in new
countries. The consequences of living here
a long time, without the opportunity of edu
cating their children, and destitute of the
means of grace, are, among this population,
just what they always will be under similar
circumstances. Ministers of all denomina
tions are 'few and far between.' We have
no need here to build on others' foundation.
332 peck s guide.
"I am living in Jackson county, on White
river. This county has a larger quantity of
good land than any one in the Territory.
White river is always navigable for steam
boats to this place, three hundred and fifty
miles from its mouth. Well water is good,—
some fine springs. Washington county, and
some others, that have the reputation of bet
ter health, are more populous.
We want settlers; and we have no doubt,
that vast numbers of families in the States,
particularly the poor, and those in moderate
circumstances, would better their situation by
coming here, where they can get plenty of
fertile and fresh land at government price,—
$1 25 per acre. They can have good range,
and all the advantages of new countries.
Emigrants, however, ought not to suffer
themselves to expect all sunshine, and no
winter. We have cloudy days and cold
weather, even in Arkansas! If they have
heard of the honey pond, where flitters grow
on trees, they need not be surprised, if they
do n t find it. Cabins cannot be built, wells
dug, farms opened, rails made, and meeting
houses and school-houses erected, without
work.
It may be asked, 'If Arkansas be so fine a
country, why has it not been settled faster?'
There are, perhaps, three reasons:— a fear of
the Indians, a fear of sickness, a fear of bad
roads. The Indians are now all peaceably
situated beyond the Territory proper, and are
ARKANSAS. 333
blessed with the labors of a number of good
pious missionaries, who are teaching them to
read the Bible, and showing the tall sons of
the forest the way that leads to heaven.
Sickness is no more to be dreaded here, than
in Illinois and Missouri. The roads have
indeed been bad. For a long time, no one
could venture through the Mississippi swamps,
unless he was a Daniel Boone. But appro
priations have been made, by Congress, for
several roads. This summer (1835), roads
from Memphis to Little Rock, and to Litch
field and Batesville, and other points, will be
completed. An appropriation of upwards of
$100 000 has been made, to construct a road
through the Mississippi swamp.
Again: we want settlers,—we want physi
cians, lawyers, ministers, mechanics and
farmers. We want such, however, and only
such, as will make good neighbors. If any,
who think of coming to live with us, are gam
blers, drunkards, Sabbath-breakers, profane
swearers, or the like, we hope that, when
they leave their old country, they will leave
their old habits."
The constitution of this State, in its essen
tial features, is similar to Missouri, and other
south-western States.
1
CHAPTKR XV.
WISCONSIN TERRITORY.
Boundaries and Extent—Rivers— Soil—Productions— Towns, &c
Under this name, is now comprehended an
extensive district of country, lying on both
sides of the Mississippi river, above Illinois
and Missouri, and extending indefinitely north.
That portion lying betwixt the northern boun
dary of Illinois and the Wisconsin river, and
from lake Michigan to the Mississippi, has
the Indian title extinguished, and, in part,
has been surveyed and brought into market.
There is much excellent land in this part of
the Territory, and it is well watered with
perennial streams and springs. Offices are
opened, for the sale of public lands, at Min
eral Point and Green Bay, and a large amount
has been sold, and some at a high price.
The country immediately bordering on lake
Michigan, is well timbered, with various trees.
Here are red, white, black and burr oaks,
beech, ash, linden, poplar, walnut, hickory,
J
WISCONSIN TERRITORY. 335
sugar and white maple, elm, birch, hemlock
and pine, with many other kinds. The soil is
not so deep and dark a mould as in the prai
ries of Illinois, but is fertile and easily culti
vated; it is sandy, especially about the town
of Green Bay. Towards the lake, and near
the body of water called Sturgeon Bay, con
nected with Green Bay, and between that and
the lake, are extensive swamps and cranberry
marshes. Wild rice, tamarisk and spruce
grow here. About Rock river, and from
thence to the Mississippi, there is much ex
cellent land, but a deficiency of timber. Lead
and copper ore, and probably other minerals,
abound in this part of the country. Along to
the east and north of the Four lakes, are
alternate quagmires and sand-ridges, for fifty
miles or more, called by the French coureurs
du hois, lerre tremblant" (trembling land),
the character of which is sufficiently indicated
by the name.
There are several small lakes in the district
of country we are now examining; the largest
of which is Winnebago, situated thirty or for
ty miles south of Green Bay. It is about ten
miles long and three broad, and is full of wild
rice: Fox river passes through it. Kushka
nong is situated on Rock river, between Cat
fish and Whitewater; it is six or eight miles in
diameter, with some swamps and quagmires
in its vicinity.
The Four lakes are strung along on a stream
called Catfish, which enters Rock river twen
336 peck s guide.
ty-five or thirty miles above the boundary of
Illinois. They are six or eight miles long,
abounding with fish, and are surrounded with
an excellent farming country.
Green Bay settlement and village is two
hundred and thirty miles north of Chicago;
two hundred and twenty north-east from Ga
lena; one hundred and twenty from Fort
Winnebago, and in north latitude 44° 44'.
Navarino is a town recently commenced in
this vicinity, with an excellent harbor, grows
rapidly, and bids fair to become a place of
importance. Property has risen the last year
most astonishingly.
Fort Winnebago is a military post, at the
bend, and on the right bank of Fox river,
opposite the portage. From thence to the
Wisconsin, is a low, wet prairie, of three
fourths of a mile, through which, a company
has been chartered to cut a canal. On this
route, the first explorers reached the Missis
sippi, in 1673. The Wisconsin river, how
ever, without considerable improvement, is
not navigable for steam-boats, at ordinary
stages of the water, without much trouble.
It is full of bars, islands, rocks, and has a
devious channel.
The streams that rise in the eastern part of
this Territory and flow into lake Michigan,
north of the boundary of Illinois, are in order
as follows: 1. Pipe creek, a small stream, but
a few miles from the boundary: 2. Root river:
3. Milwaukee, ninety miles from Chicago,
WISCONSIN TERRITORY. 337
which rises in the swampy country, south
of Winnebago lake, runs a south-easterly
course, and after receiving the Menomone,
forms Milwaukee bay. Here is a town site,
on both sides of the river, with a population
of six or eight hundred, which promises to
become a place of business. The soil up the
Milwaukee is good, from six to twelve inches
in depth, a black loam and sand. Passing
northward down the lake, is Oak creek, nine
miles below Milwaukee; thence twenty-one
miles is Sauk creek, a small stream. Seven
ty miles from Milwaukee is Shab-wi-wi-a-gun.
Here is found white pine, maple, beech, birch
and spruce, but very little oak: the surface
level and sandy. Pigeon river is fifteen or
twenty miles further on, with excellent land
on its borders; timber, maple, ash, beech,
linden, elm, &c. Fifteen miles further down
is Manatawok. Here commences the hem
lock, with considerable pine. This stream is
about forty or fifty miles from Green Bay set
tlement. Twin rivers are below Manatawok,
with a sandy soil, and good timber of pine and
other varieties. From Milwaukee to Green
Bay, by a surveyed route, is one hundred and
twelve miles; by the Indian trail, commonly
traveled, one hundred and thirty-five miles.
North of the Wisconsin river is Crawford
county, of which Prairie du Chien is the seat
of justice. From the great bend at Fort Win
nebago, across towards the Mississippi, is a
series of abrupt hills, rising several hundred
338 peck s guide.
feet, and covered with a dense forest of elm,
linden, oak, walnut, ash, sugar-maple, &c.
The soil is rich, but too hilly and broken for
agricultural purposes. There is no alluvial
soil or bottoms along the streams, or grass in
the forests.
The Wisconsin river rises in an unexplored
country, towards lake Superior. The coureurs
du bois and voyageurs represent it as a cold,
mountainous, dreary region, with swamps.
West of the Mississippi, above Des Moines,
and extending northward to a point some dis
tance above the northern boundary of Illinois,
and for fifty miles interior, is a valuable coun
try, purchased of the Indians, in 1832. Its
streams rise in the great prairies, and run an
east or south-east course into the Mississippi.
The most noted are Flint, Skunk, Wau-be-se
pin-e-con, Upper and Lower Iowa rivers, and
Turkey, Catfish and Big and Little Ma-quo
ka-tois or Bear creeks. The soil, in general,
is excellent, and very much resembles the
military tract in Illinois. The water is excel
lent, plenty of lime, sand and freestone, ex
tensive prairies, but a deficiency of timber a
few miles interior. About Dubuque, opposite
Galena, are extensive and rich lead mines.
Burlington is a town at the Flint hills, opposite
Warren county, Illinois, containing a popula
tion of seven hundred. Dubuque is situated
on the Mississippi, on a sandy bottom, above
high water, and fourteen miles north-west
from Galena. It has about sixty stores and
WISCONSIN TERRITORY. 339
groceries, two taverns, two churches, and
about one thousand inhabitants, and we have
before us the prospectus for the Dubuque
Visitor," a weekly newspaper. Peru is in
the vicinity, and contains about five hundred
inhabitants. The New Purchase, as this dis
trict of country is called, is divided into two
counties, Dubuque and Des Moines, and con
tains a population of eight or ten thousand.
This Territory has, heretofore, for civil
purposes, formed a part of the late Michigan
Territory; —but in 1836 it was erected into a
territorial government, by an act of Congress.
The population has been recently estimated,
by the legislature of the Territory, at 30 000.
Probably not many years will elapse before
two new States will be formed out of this dis
trict of country, the one on the eastern and the
other on the western side of the Mississippi.
CHAPTER XVI.
LITERARY AND RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS.
Colleges—Statistical Sketch of each Denomination—Field for Effort, and Progress made.
In giving a sketch of literary and religious
institutions in the West, the very limited
space remaining to be occupied in this work,
compels me to throw together a few general
facts only. The author has made some pro
gress in collecting materials, and he designs
to prepare another work soon, in which a va
riety of particulars and sketches will be given
of the early history, progress of literary and
religious institutions, colleges, seminaries and
churches, Bible, Sunday school, education,
and other kindred societies in the Western
Valley, with the present aspect of each de
nomination of Christians. The interest taken
in the affairs of the West, and the anxiety
evinced by the community for facts and par
ticulars on those subjects, demand that they
should be treated more in detail than the
limits of this Guide will allow.
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 341
1. COLLEGES.
Western Pennsylvania Has Jefferson
College, at Canonsburgh, which the Presbyte
rians originated in 1802, from the first grammar
school ever established by Protestants west of
the Alleghany mountains. Graduates, in 1835,
forty-six new students admitted, seventy-five
present number, two hundred and thirty (in
cluding the preparatory department), of which
one hundred and thirty-five profess religion.
Course of mathematics and physical sciences
greatly extended, with practical application
to civil engineering. Instruction provided in
Hebrew, French, Spanish, German, Portu
guese and Italian;—provision for manual la
bor; —expenses moderate.
Washington College, at Washington, Penn.,
also connected with the Presbyterian denom
ination, founded in 1806; had one hundred
and forty students in 1832.
Alleghany College, at Meadville, was found
ed in 1815, by Rev. T. Alden, has a valuable
library of eight thousand volumes, principally
the donation of the late Rev. Dr. Bentlty, of
Salem, Mass., a distinguished benefactor of
this institution. The college did not flourish
for some years, and it is now transferred to
the Methodist Episcopal church, and is under
charge of the Pittsburgh Conference. It now
promises to be successful.
The Western University of Pennsylvania was
founded in 1820. The number of graduates,
in 1832, was fifty; of under graduates, in all
342 peck s guide.
departments, seventy. A beautiful college
edifice has been erected in the western part
of Pittsburgh, for this institution.
There is no collegiate institution in Western
Virginia.
Ohio.— Ohio University, at Athens, was
founded in 1802; has an endowment of forty
six thousand and eighty acres of land, which
yields $2 300 annually. A large and elegant
edifice of brick was erected in 1817. The
number of students, about ninety.
Miami University was founded in 1824, and
is a flourishing institution at Oxford, Butler
county, thirty-seven miles from Cincinnati.
It possesses the township of land in which it
is situated, and from which it receives an in
come of about $5000. Number of students,
about two hundred. Patronized by Presbyte
rians.
The Cincinnati College was incorporated in
1819,—continued to be sustained as a clas
sical institution for some years, and then
suspended operations. It has been revived
and reorganized lately and will probably be
sustained.
Kenyon College, at Gambier, Knox county,
in a central part of the State, was established
in 1828, through the efforts of Rev. Philander
Chase, then bishop of the Ohio Diocess, who
obtained about $30 000 in England to endow
it. Its chief patrons were those excellent
British noblemen, lords Kenyon and Gambier.
It is under Episcopal jurisdiction, and has a
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 343
theological department, for the education of
candidates for the ministry in the Episcopal
church. It has about one hundred and fifty
students.
Western Reserve College is at Hudson. It
was founded by Presbyterians and Congrega
tionalists, in 1826, and has eighty-two students
in all its departments.
Franklin College is in New Athens, Har
rison county, on the eastern side of the State,
and has about fifty students.
The Granville Literary and Theological In
stitution originated under patronage of the
Baptist denomination in 1831. It is designed
to embrace four departments,—preparatory,
English, collegiate, and theological. It is
rapidly rising, and contains more than one
hundred students.
Oberlin Institute has been recently estab
lished in Lorrian county, under the influence
of "new measure" Presbyterians, with four
departments, and hastwo hundred and seventy
six students, as follows: In the theological
department, thirty-five; collegiate, thirty
seven; preparatory, thirty-one; female, seven
ty-three. The citizens of Cleaveland have
recently contributed to it $15 000, of which
The Willibough Collegiate Institute is in the
lake country of Ohio, and has been gotten up
within a few years past.
Marietta Collegiate Institute is said to be a
flourishing and respectable institution, having
 
344 peck s guide.
a large number of students in various depart
ments.
Indiana.—Indiana College is a State insti
tution, established at Bloomington, and com
menced operations in 1828. Present number
of students not known. In 1832, the number
exceeded fifty.
Hanover College is at South Hanover, six
miles below the town of Madison, and near
the Ohio river. It is a flourishing institution,
with arrangements for manual labor, and is
styled "South Hanover College and Indiana
Theological Seminary." The number of stu
dents exceeds one hundred.
Wabash College, at Crawfordsville, has just
commenced operations under auspicious cir
cumstances. Under patronage of the Pres
byterians.
Illinois.—Illinois College, near Jackson
ville, commenced as a preparatory school in
1830, and has made rapid progress. Large
funds for its endowment have been recently
provided in the Eastern States. The number
of students about eighty.
Shurtleff College of Alton, Illinois, was com
menced under the efforts of Baptists at Alton,
in 1832, as a preparatory institution:—char
tered, as a college, in February, 1835, and
has been recently named in honor of a liberal
patron, Dr. Benjamin Shurtleff, of Boston,
Mass., who has presented the institution with
$10 000. It has sixty students, and its pros
pects are encouraging.
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 345
McKendreeaii College has been chartered,
a building erected, and a school commenced
at Lebanon. It is connected with the Metho
dist Episcopal church. Charters have been
recently granted for other colleges in this
State, and measures adopted to bring some of
them into existence. The Rev. Philander
Chase, whose persevering labors brought into
existence and successful operation, Kenyon
college in Ohio, and who is now bishop of
Illinois, is at present in England, where, by
recent advices, he has obtained $50 000 to
invest in Illinois Lands, and to establish a
college for the interests of the Episcopal
church.
Missouri. The Roman Catholics have
two institutions of a collegiate character, es
tablished in this State.
St. Mary s College, in Perry county, was
established by bishop Du Bourg, in 1822.
It has six thousand volumes in the library.
Including the nunnery, and school for females,
a seminary for the education of priests, a pre
paratory, and a primary school, the number
of teachers and students, are about three
hundred.
St. Louis University was founded in 1829, and
is conducted by the Fathers of the Society of
Jesuits. The edifice is one hundred and
thirty feet by forty, of four stories, including
the basement, and is situated on elevated and
pleasant ground, on the confines of the city.
15*
346 peck s guide.
For the Protestants, the following institu
tions have been established:
Columbia College, adjacent to Columbia,
Boon county. The institution opened in 1835,
under encouraging circumstances.
Marion College is in a delightful tract of
country, a prairie region, in the western part
of Marion county,—and has between eighty
and one hundred students. It is connected
with the Presbyterian interests. The project,
as developed by some of its founders, is an
immense one, including English, scientific,
classical, theological, medical, agricultural,
and law departments,—all to be sustained by
manual labor, and the proceeds of extensive
farms. Doubtless, by prudent and persever
ing efforts, a respectable college may be
brought into successful operation.
A college at St. Charles, has been founded,
principally by the liberality of George Collier,
a merchant of St. Louis, and two or three
other gentlemen, and a classical and scientific
school has been commenced.
Arkansas.—Efforts are making to establish
a college by Presbyterian agency, at Cane
Hill, in this newly formed State. Two or
three collegiate institutions will soon be need
ed in this region.
Kentucky. Transylvania University at
Lexington, is the oldest collegiate institution
in the West. It was commenced, by a grant
of eight thousand acres of land by the legis
lature of Virginia, in 1783, and was then
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 347
called "Transylvania Seminary." The "Ken
tucky Academy" was founded in 1794, and
both institutions were united and incorporated
in 1798, under the present name. It has
classical, medical, law, and preparatory de
partments, and including each, from three to
four hundred students.
Center College, at Danville, was founded by
the Presbyterian church, in 1818, for which
the synod of Kentucky pledged $20 000.
Number of students, about one hundred.
Augusta College was founded in 1822, by
the Ohio and Kentucky conferences of the
Methodist Episcopal church. It adopted col
legiate regulations in 1828. Number of stu
dents in the collegiate, academical and prima
ry departments, about two hundred.
Cumberland College was incorporated in
1824, and is established at Princeton, in the
western part of the State. It is under the
patronage and jurisdiction of the Cumberland
Presbyterians. A farm, including a tract of
five thousand acres of land, with workshops,
furnish facilities for manual labor. It has
about eighty students.
St. Joseph s College, is a Roman Catholic
institution, at Bardstown, with college build
ings sufficient to accommodate two hundred
students, and valued at $60 000. It com
menced with four students in 1820. In 1833,
there were in the collegiate and preparatory
departments, one hundred and twenty students.
The St. Thomas and St. Mary seminaries,
348 peck s guide.
are also under the charge of Roman Catholic
priests, the one in Nelson county, four miles
from Bardstown, and the other in Washington
county.
Georgetown College, in Scott county, was
founded by the Baptist denomination, in 1830;
but for some years it has been in other hands,
and in not a prosperous condition. The
Campbellites obtained a preponderating influ
ence over it. After much contention, an
arrangement has been effected to place it
under the influence of the denomination to
whom it fairly belonged, and the Rev. B. F.
Farnsworth has been elected president, and
has accepted the office. It is expected to
prosper under this arrangement.
Tennessee.—The University of Nashville is
a prominent institution. The laboratory is one
of the finest in the United States, and the
mineralogical cabinet not exceeded, and this
department, as well as every other in the col
lege, is superintended with much talent. The
number of students is about one hundred.
Greenville, Knoxville and Washington col
leges are in East Tennessee.
Jackson College is about to be removed
from its present site, and located at Columbia;
$'25 000 have been subscribed for the purpose.
A Presbyterian Theological Seminary is at
Maryville.
Mississippi.—Jefferson College is at Wash
ington, six miles from Natchez. It has not
flourished as a college, and is now said to be
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 349
conducted somewhat on the principle of a
military academy.
Oakland College has been recently founded
by Presbyterians, and bids fair to exert a
beneficial influence upon religion and morals,
much needed in that State. The Baptist de
nomination are taking measures to establish a
collegiate institution in that State.
Louisiana—Has a college at Jackson, in
the eastern part of the State. The Roman
Catholics have a college at New Orleans.
Alabama.—There is a respectable colle
giate institution, under the fostering care of
the iMethodist Episcopal church, at La Grange,
in the north-western part of this State.
Academies have been established in various
parts of the West, for both sexes, and there
are female seminaries of character and stand
ing at Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Granville, Louis
ville, Lexington, Nashville, and many other
places. Several more colleges, and a large
number of minor institutions, will be needed
very shortly to supply the demands for edu
cation in the West. The public mind is
awake to the subject of education, and much
has already been done, though a greater work
has yet to be accomplished to supply the wants
of the West in literary institutions.
An annual convention is held in Cincinnati,
on the first Monday in October, denominated
the Western Institute and College of Profes
sional Teachers." Its object, according to
the constitution, is, to promote by every
350 peck s guide.
laudable means, the diffusion of knowledge in
regard to education, and especially by aiming
at the elevation of the character of teachers,
who shall have adopted instruction as their
regular profession." The first meeting was
held in 1831, under the auspices of the
"Academic Institute," a previously existing
institution, but of more limited operations.
The second convention, in 1832, framed a
constitution and chose officers, since which
time regular meetings have been held by del
egates or individuals from various parts of the
West, and a volume of Transactions of three
or four hundred pages published annually.
II. THEOLOGICAL INSTITUTIONS.
The Western Theological Seminary at Alleg
hany town, opposite Pittsburgh, is under the
jurisdiction of the general assembly of the
Presbyterian church. It commenced opera
tions in 1829. At Canonsburg is a seminary
belonging to the Associate church, of which
Dr. Ramsey is professor. The Associate
Reformed church have a theological school in
Pittsburgh, under charge of the Rev. John T.
Pressly, D. D. The Baptist denomination are
now engaged in establishing a manual labor
academy in the vicinity of Pittsburgh, for both
ministerial and general education.
The theological departments of Oberlin,
Granville, and other collegiate institutions,
have already been noticed. Lane Seminary,
near Cincinnati, was founded in 1830, by
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 351
Messrs. E. W. A. Lane, merchants, of
New Orleans, who made a very liberal offer
of aid. Its location is excellent, two and a
half miles from Cincinnati, at Walnut Hills,
and is under the charge of the Rev. Dr.
Beecher, and a body of professors. Number
of students about forty. The Hanover Insti
tution in Indiana, has been noticed already.
In the theological department are three pro
fessors and twelve students. The Baptists in
this State are about establishing a manual
labor seminary for ministerial and general
education.
A valuable property has been purchased,
adjoining Covington, Ky., opposite Cincinna
ti, and measures have been put in train to
found a theological seminary by the Baptist
denomination. The executive committee of
the Western Baptist Education Society,"
have this object in charge. The "Alton
Theological Seminary," located at Upper Al
ton, Illinois, is under an organization distinct
from that of Shurlleff College, already noticed.
This institution has fifty acres of valuable
land, and a stone edifice of respectable size,
occupied at present in joint concern with the
college, and a valuable library of several
hundred volumes. Its organization has been
but recently effected. Rev. L. Colby is pro
fessor, with eight students. Other institu
tions, having theological education, either in
whole or in part, their object, are in contem
plation.
Two remarks, by way of explanation, are
352 peck s guide.
here necessary. 1. Most of the colleges and
theological schools of the Western Valley,
have facilities for manual labor, or are making
that provision. In several, some of the stu
dents pay half, and even the whole of their
expenses, by their own efforts. Public senti
ment is awake to this subject, and is gaining
ground. 2. In enumerating the students, the
members of the preparatory departments are
included, many of whom do not expect to pass
through a regular collegiate course. The
circumstances and wants of the country, from
its rapid growth, seem to require the appen
dage of a large preparatory department to
every college.
It may be well, to observe here, that a
great and increasing demand exists in all the
Western States, and especially those border
ing on the Mississippi, for teachers of primary
schools. Hundreds and thousands of moral,
intelligent and pious persons, male and fe
male, would meet with encouragement and
success in this department of labor. It is
altogether unnecessary for such persons to
write to their friends, to make inquiries
whether there are openings, &c. If they
come from the older States, with the proper
recommendations as to character and qualifi
cations, they will not fail to meet with em
ployment in almost any quarter to which they
may direct their course. There is not a
county in Missouri, Arkansas, Illinois, or
Indiana, where persons would not meet with
constant employment in teaching, and espe
i
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 353
cially where teachers in Sabbath schools are
needed. Persons desirous of such a field of
humble, yet useful labor, should come here
with the fixed purpose to mix with, and con
form to the usages of the western popula
tion, to avoid fastidiousness, and to submit to
the plain, frank, social and hospitable manners,
of the people.
III. DEAF AND DUMB ASYLUMS.
There are two institutions of this descrip
tion in the West: one at Columbus, Ohio;
the other at Danville, Ky. The one in Ohio
contains about fifty pupils.
IV. MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS.
The medical department in Transylvania
university, Kentucky, has six professors, and
usually about two hundred students to attend
the lectures. Fees for an entire course, with
matriculation and library, one hundred and
ten dollars. Two medical institutions of re
spectable standing exist in Cincinnati: one
connected with the Miami university, the
other with Cincinnati college.
The Ohio Reformed Medical School wass
established at Worthington, nine miles north
of Columbus, in 1830. No specified time is.,
required for study; but when a student will
pass examination, he is licensed to practice.
V. LAW SCHOOLS.
The law department of Transylvania uni
versity is under the charge of two able pro
fessors, who hear recitations and deliver lec
16
354 peck s guide.
tures. The average number of students is
about forty.
A law school was established at Cincinnati,
in 1833, with four professors:—Messrs. John
C. Wright, John M. Goodenow, Edward
King and Timothy Walker. The bar, the
institution and the city have recently sustain
ed a severe loss in the decease of Mr. King.
VI. BENEVOLENT AND RELIGIOUS SOCIETIES.
To enumerate and give particulars of all
these, would make a volume. We can but
barely call the attention of the reader to some
of the more prominent organizations amongst
the different Christian denominations in this
great Valley, for doing good.
The Foreign Missionary Society of the Val
ley of the Mississippi, is a prominent auxiliary
of the American Board of Commissioners for
Foreign Missions. Its seat is Cincinnati;
but by agencies and branches, it operates
throughout the Valley. The Report of No
vember, 1835, states, that eighteen thousand
six hundred and fifty-eight dollars had been
received into the treasury the preceding year.
An edition of 3000 copies of the Missionary
Herald is republished in Cincinnati, for cir
culation in the West.
The Western Education Society, connected
with the American Education Society, has
also its seat of operations at Cincinnati. Aux
iliaries also exist in most of the Western
States. Seventy-one beneficiaries were un
der its charge at the last anniversary.
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 355
The American Tract Society has auxiliaries
and agencies in most of the Western States.
The operations of the American Bible Society,
through its numerous auxiliaries, is felt to the
remotest parts of the West.
The American Sunday School Union has
recently established a central agency in Cin
cinnati, and is preparing to renew and greatly
enlarge its very important efforts for the ben
efit of the rising generation in the West.
A series of very interesting anniversaries
are held in Cincinnati the first week in No
vember, when all the great objects of Chris
tian effort receive a renewed impulse.
The American Home Missionary Society has
more than two hundred missionaries laboring
in the States west of the mountains. In
1835, they assisted two hundred and seven
teen Presbyterian ministers in this field.
The Temperance effort has not been neglect
ed, and an interesting change is going for
ward, in a quiet and noiseless way, in the
habits of the people, in reference to the use
of intoxicating liquors. It is to be hoped,
that more prompt and vigorous efforts will be
made to promote this cause; but even now,
there are many thousands, who abstain from
the use of spirituous liquors without any for
mal pledge.
The Methodist Episcopal church, in addi
tion to their regular system of circuits, are
extending the influence of their denomination
on the frontiers, by missionary operations,
and their labors are prospered.
356 peck s guide.
The Baptist denomination have made some
important movements in the Western Valley
within the last three years. Their Home
Mission Society has nearly one hundred mis
sionaries in the West. In November, 1833,
the General Convention of Western Baptists"
was organized by more than one hundred
ministers and brethren, assembled from vari
ous parts of the West. It is not an ecclesi
astical body, claiming jurisdiction either over
churches or ministers, nor is it strictly a mis
sionary body. Its business, according to the
constitution, is, "to promote, by all lawful
means, the following objects, to wit:—Mis
sions, both foreign and domestic; ministerial
education, for such as may have first been
licensed by the churches; Sunday schools,
including Bible-classes; religious periodicals;
tract and temperance societies; as well as all
others warranted by Christ in the gospel."
At its second session, in 1834, the West
ern Baptist Education Society" was formed.
Its object is "the education of those who give
evidence to the churches of which they are
members, that God designs them for the min
istry." The executive committee are charg
ed temporarily with establishing the Central
Theological Seminary, already mentioned, at
Covington, Ky.
Many other interesting associations for
humane, philanthropic and religious purposes,
exist in the Valley, which are necessarily
omitted.
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 357
VII. THE PERIODICAL PRESS.
The number of different periodicals pub
lished in the Valley of the Mississippi must
exceed four hundred, of which twelve or fif
teen are daily papers. There are twenty-five
weekly periodicals in Mississippi, one hun
dred and sixteen in Ohio, thirty-eight in Indi
ana, nineteen in Illinois, seventeen in Mis
souri, three, and probably more, in Arkansas,
two, at least, in Wisconsin Territory. The
Western Monthly Magazine, published at Cin
cinnati, is well known. The Western Litera
ry Journal and Monthly Review is a respecta
ble periodical, under the editorial manage
ment of W. D. Gallagher, Esq. The Western
Journal of the Medical and Physical Sciences,
edited by Daniel Drake, M. D., Professor of
Theory and Practice of Medicine in the Cin
cinnati college, is published quarterly, in
Cincinnati. There are a number of religious
weekly, semi-monthly and monthly periodicals,
devoted to the interests of the principal de
nominations through the Valley. There are
known to be at least one in Western Virginia,
two in Western Pennsylvania, seven in Ohio,
four in Kentucky, four in Tennessee, two in
Illinois, two in Missouri, and one in New
Orleans. Supposing the average number of
copies of western periodicals equalled seven
hundred and fifty, this, estimating the different
periodicals at four hundred, would give three
hundred thousand! We see no marked and
essential difference in the talent with which
358 peck s guide.
the editorial press is conducted, between the
Eastern and Western States. The limits of
this work will not allow me to add further
evidence that our western population are not
all illiterate," and that not more than one
person in ten can read," than the following
epitome of the issues of one of the publishing
houses in Cincinnati, as exhibited in the Cin
cinnati Journal.
Western Enterprise. The enterprise of
the West is not generally appreciated. As a
specimen, we have procured from Messrs.
Corey Webster the following list of books,
published by them within the last three years.
These books are of sterling value.
Western Primer, 60 000 Webster s Spelling Book, 600 000 Primary Reader, 7 500 Elementary Reader 37 000 Western 16 000 Webster s History of the United States, 4 000 Miss Beecher s Geography, 15 000 Pocket Testament, 6 500 Watts' and Select Hymns 8 000 Beecher s Lectures on Skepticism, (three editions, 1000 each), 3 000 Stowe s Introduction to the Study of the Bible, 1 500 Christian Lyre 2 000 Mitchell s Chemistry, 1 000 F berle on the Diseases of Children 2 000 Ebcrle s Notes of Practice, 1 500 Young Lady s Assistant in Drawing 1 000 Mnnsell a Map, 3 500 Chase s Statutes of Ohio, (three volumes,) 1 000 Hammond s Reports, (sixth volume,) 500
Total, 771 000
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 359
Probably some of the many other publishers
in the city have got out nearly or quite aa
many books. Truly, we are a book-making
and book-reading nation."
VIU. RELIGIOUS DENOMINATION?.
In exhibiting the following statistics, entire
correctness is not attempted. In some of the
States, the latest reports have been had; in
others, the author has taken data of two or
three years date. Of the numbers of some of
the numerous sects existing, the opinions of
individuals have been the chief data he could
obtain.
1. Baptists.
States and parts of States.
Western Pennsylvania, Western Virginia Ohio, Michigan, Indiana Illinois, Missouri, Arkansas Louisiana, Mississippi, North Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky
p
e
1 i
a 5 sO 3 50 30 2 569 89 48 3 306 332 175 13 926 60 30 1 700 320 175 15 000 240 163 6 741 180 115 6 990 25 18 700 20 12 1 000 100 46 4 000 125 53 5 700 348 292 22 868 558 296 38 817
2447 1353 123317Total,
Periodicals. The Cross and Journal, weekly,
and Baptist Advocate, monthly, at Cincinnati;
360 peck s guide.
the Baptist Banner, weekly, at Shelbyville, Ky.;
the Baptist, a large monthly quarto, at Nash
ville, Tenn. the Western Pioneer and Baptist
StandardBearer, weekly, at Upper Alton, 111.
and the Witness, a small quarto, weekly, at
Pittsburgh.
2. Methodists (Episcopal). This denomina
tion is divided into conferences, which are not
arranged exactly with the boundaries of the
States. A large book and printing-office is es
tablished at Cincinnati, where all the society s
publications are kept for sale. Another de
pository is kept at Nashville.
 
m 8 V 1 5 B
Conferences.
t#
5 r 2 C Z S
5 5 i
3 0 c h e
Mississippi, 55 6 358 2 622 727 9 707 Alabama, (one Dis trict in the Valley.) 16 3 051 490 3 543 Pittsburgh, 156 40 155 296 40 451 Ohio, 204 62 686 544 217 63 447 Missouri, (including Arkansas,) 57 7 948 1 061 889 9 898 Kentucky, 100 25 777 5 592 31 369 fi! 15 038 59 15 097 70 24 984 229 25 213 62 21 559 2 478 24 031 Tennessee, 120 29 794 5 043 508 35 345
Total, 901 237 350 18 416 2 341 258 101
Allowing two local to one circuit preacher,
which is rather under than over the propor
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 361
tion, would make 1802, which, added to the
number of those whose names are on the
minutes of the conferences, would make 2703
Methodist Episcopal ministers of the gospel
in the Valley of the Mississippi. The Pitts
burgh Conference Journal, Western Christian
Advocate, and Western Methodist, are their
periodicals.
3. Methodists (Protestant). There are two
conferences of this denomination, in the West
the Pittsburgh and Ohio conferences and their
circuits, preaching-stations and members, ex
tend through the States north of the Ohio riv
er, with a few stations and churches south.
Pittsburgh Conference has twenty-eight cir
cuit and eighty-five local preachers and licen
tiates; twenty-five circuits, four stations and
two mission-circuits, with six thousand nine
hundred and two members in society.
Ohio Conference has twenty-eight circuit
and ninety local preachers, twenty-two cir
cuits, three stations, three mission-circuits,
and three thousand six hundred and sixty-sev
en members. The Methodist Correspondent,
a neat, semi-monthly quarto periodical, pub
lished at Zanesville, Ohio, is devoted to their
interests.
4. Presbyterians. The following table (with
the exception of Illinois), embraces fifty-six
presbyteries, and is constructed from the re
turns to the general assembly, in 1834; the
minutes of 1835, we understand, have not
been printed.
peck s guide.
Western Pennsylvania and Western
States and parts of States.
 
Virginia, Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois Missouri, Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee, North Alabama, Mississippi,
212 135 22 687
32 400 99 71 33 12 120 121 15 33
20 255 55 50 20 9 83 90 12 24
1 397 27 821 4 339 2 000 1 549 390 8 378 9 926 725 761
Total, 1148 753 79 973
Periodicals. The Cincinnati Journal and
Western Luminary, published at Cincinnati;
Christian Herald, at Pittsburgh; Ohio Ob
server, at Hudson, Ohio; Western Presbyterian
Herald, at Louisville, Ky.; New Orleans Ob
server, at New Orleans; and Alton Observer,
at Alton, 111. —all weekly and the Missionary
Herald, republished at Cincinnati, monthly.
5. Cumberland Presbyterians. This sect
originated from the Presbyterian church in
1804, in Kentucky, but did not increase much
till 1810 or 12. They are spread through
most of the Western States, and have thirty
four presbyteries, seven synods, and one gen
eral assembly. The minutes of their general
assembly, now before me, are not sufficiently
definite to give the number of congregations.
LITERARV INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 363
These probably exceed three hundred. An
intelligent member of that denomination states
the number of ordained preachers to be three
hundred, licentiates, one hundred, candidates
for the ministry, one hundred and fifty, and
communicants, 50 000.
Periodicals. The Cumberland Presbyterian
is a weekly paper, published at Nashville,
Tenn. Another has been recently started at
Pittsburgh.
6. Congregationalists. In Ohio, especially
in the northern part, are a number of Con
gregational churches, and some ministers, as
there are in Indiana, Michigan and Illinois.
There are two or three ministers, twelve or
fifteen congregations, and about five hundred
communicants in Illinois, who are organized
into an association in Illinois.
7. Protestant Episcopal Church. This de
nomination has seven diocesses in the West
ern or south-western States, exclusive of
Western Pennsylvania and Western Virginia,
which belong to the diocesses of those States.
They are, Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, Kentucky,
Tennessee, Mississippi, Indiana and Missouri.
There are about seventy-five or eighty minis
ters, and twice as many churches in the West.
Provision has been made, in part, for the en
dowment of the theological seminary at Gam
bier, O., in England, and Bishop Mcllvaine
has obtained about $12 600, to be appropriat
ed in the erection of a gothic edifice, to be
called "Bexley Hall," with three stories, and
364 peck s guide.
accommodations for fifty students. A weekly
periodical is issued at the same place, to sup
port the interests of the denomination.
8. German Lutherans. We have no data
to give the statistics of this denomination.
There is a synod in Ohio, another in Western
Pennsylvania, and perhaps others. There are
probably fifty or sixty ministers in the West,
and one hundred and fifty congregations.
9. German Reformed Church. There are
eighty congregations in Ohio, twenty in Indi
ana, and probably fifty others in the West,
with forty or fifty ministers.
10. The Tunkers, or Dunkards, have forty
or fifty churches, and about half as many
ministers in the Western States.
11. The Shakers have villages in several
places in Ohio and Kentucky, but are losing
ground.
12. The Mormons have a large community
at Kirkland, Ohio, where, under the direction
of their prophet, Joseph Smith, they are
building a vast temple. They have probably
two hundred preachers, and as many congre
gations in the West, and still make proselytes.
13. Christian Sect, or Newlights, have be
come, to a considerable extent, amalgamated
with the Reformers," or Campbelhtes." I
have not data on which to construct a tabular
view of this sect; but from general informa
tion, estimate the number of their bishops"
and proclaimers at three hundred, and
their communicants at 10 000 or 12 000.
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 365
They have three or four monthly periodi
cals.
Alexander Campbell, who may be justly
considered the leader of this sect (though
they disclaim the term sect), is a learned,
talented, and voluminous writer. He con
ducts their leading periodical,—the Millennial
Harbinger.
14. The United Brethren in Christ," are
a pious, moral and exemplary sect, chiefly in
Ohio, but scattered somewhat in other West
ern States. They are mostly of German de
scent, and, in their doctrinal principles and
usages, very much resemble the Methodists.
They have about three hundred ministers in
the West, and publish the Religious Telescope,
a large weekly paper, of evangelical princi
ples, and well conducted,—printed at Circle
ville, Ohio.
15. Reformed Presbyterians, or Covenanters,
have twenty or thirty churches, and as many
ministers, but are much dispersed through the
Northern Valley.
16. The Associate Church, or Seceders, are
more numerous than the Covenanters.
17 The Associate Reformed Church. The
western synod of this body still exists as a
separate denomination. Their theological
school, at Pittsburgh, has already been no
ticed. I know not their numbers, but sup
pose they exceed considerably the Associate
Church.
18. The Friends, or Quakers, have a num
366 peck s guide.
ber of societies in Western Pennsylvania,
Ohio, Indiana, &c.
19. The Unitarians have societies and min
isters at Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville, St.
Louis, and probably in other places.
There are many other sects and fragments
in the West. The Valley of the Mississippi,
like all new countries, is a wide and fertile
field for the propagation of error, as it is for
the display of truth.
20. Roman Catholics. The number of pa
pal diocesses in the Valley, including the one
at Mobile, is seven, of each of which a very
brief sketch will be given, commencing with,
1. Detroit, including Michigan and the
North-Western Territory, —one bishop, with
sub-officers, eighteen priests, and as many
chapels. At Detroit and vicinity, for two or
three miles, including the French, Irish and
Germans, Roman Catholic families make up
one third of the population; probably 3 500,
of all ages. At Ann Arbor, and in the towns
of Webster, Scio, Northfield, Lima and Dex
ter are many. At and near Bert rand on the
St. Joseph s river, adjoining Indiana, they
have a school established and an Indian mis
sion. Including the fur traders and Indians,
they may be estimated at 10 000 in this
diocess.*
The reader will note that our estimates of Roman Catholics include the whole family of every age. Where as, our statistics of Protestant denominations included only communicants.
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 367
t2. Cincinnati. A large cathedral has been
built in this place, and fifteen or twenty chap
els in the diocess. Ten years ago, the late
bishop Fenwick could not count up five hun
dred. The emigration of foreigners, and the
laborers on the Ohio canals, and not a little
success in proselyting, account for the in
crease. There are twenty-five congregations,
and eighteen priests. A literary institution,
called the Athewzum, is established at Cincin
nati, where the students are required to attend
the forms of worship, and the superior in
spects all their letters. St. Peter s Orphan
Asylum, is under charge of four Sisters of
Charity." The number of Catholics in Cin
cinnati is variously estimated, the medium of
which is 6000, and as many more dispersed
through the State.
3. Bardstown. This includes the State of
Kentucky, and has a bishop, with the usual
subordinates, twenty-seven congregations, and
thiry-three priests, eleven of whom reside at
Bardstown. A convent of six Jesuit priests
at Lebanon another of five Dominicans,
called St. Rose, in Washington county; the
college at Bardstown, already noticed, and
St. Mary s Seminary in Washington county,
for the education of priests. Of female insti
tutions, there are the Female Academy of
Nazareth, at Bardstown, conducted by the
"Sisters of Charity," and superintended by
the bishop and professors of St. Joseph s col
lege,—one hundred and fifty pupils the
368 peck s guide.
female academy of Loretto, Washington
county, with accommodation for one hundred
boarders, and directed by the Sisters of
Mary at the foot of the cross." This order
have six other places for country schools, and
are said to be one hundred and thirty-five in
number. The Convent of Holy Mary, and the
Monastery of St. Magdalene, at St. Rose,
Washington county, by Dominican nuns, fif
teen in number, and in 1831, thirty pupils.
The Catholics have a female academy at
Lexington, with one hundred pupils.
I have no data to show the Roman Catholic
population of this State, but it is by no means
proportionate to the formidable machinery
here exhibited. All this array of colleges,
seminaries, monasteries, convents and nun
neries is for the work of proselyting, and if
they are not successful, it only shows that the
current of popular sentiment sets strongly in
another direction.
4. Vincennes. This is a new diocess, re
cently carved out of Indiana and Illinois, by
the authority of an old gentleman, who lives
in the city of Rome! It includes a dozen
chapels, four or five priests, the St. Claire
convent at Vincennes, with several other ap
pendages. The Roman Catholic population
of this State is not numerous, probably not
exceeding 3000. Illinois has about 5000, a
part of which is under the jurisdiction of St.
Louis diocess. In Illinois, there are ten
churches and six priests, a part of which are
LITERARY INSTITUTIONS, ETC. 36J)
included in the diocess of Indiana. A con
vent of nuns of the Visitation of the blessed
Virgin Mary," at Kaskaskia, who conduct a
female school, with a few boarders and about
thirty or forty day scholars.
5. St. Louis. This diocess includes eight
een congregations and nineteen priests, with
the following appendages:— 1. St. Louis Uni
versity, already noticed, with six priests, for
instructers, and one hundred and fifty students,
of which, about eighty are boarders. The
rules require their attendance on morning and
evening prayers, the catechism, and divine
service on Sundays and holidays. 2. St.
Mary s college, also noticed in our description
of colleges. 3. Noviciate for Jesuits under
St. Stanislaus, in St. Louis county.
Of female institutions there are,— 1. Con
vent of the "Ladies of the Sacred Heart;" at
St. Louis; 2. another of the same description,
and their noviciate, at Florrissant; 3. another
of the same order at St. Charles; 4. a female
academy at Carondalet, six miles below St.;
Louis, by the Sisters of Charity;" 5. a con
vent and academy of the Sisters of Loretto,"
at New Madrid; 6. a convent and female
academy at Frederickstown, under supervision
of a priest; 7. a convent and female academy
of the Sisters of Loretto," in Perry county.
The Roman Catholic population in Missouri
does not exceed 15 000. Their pupils of both
sexes, may be estimated at seven hundred.
To the above may be added the hospital, and
16*
370 peck s guide.
the asylum for boys, in St. Louis, under the
management of the Sisters of Charity.
Roinin Catholic teachers, usually foreign
ers, disperse themselves through the country,
and engage in teaching primary schools;
availing themselves of intercourse with the
families of their employers to instruct them in
the dogmas of their religion. The greatest
success that has attended the efforts of the
priests in converting others, has been during
the prevalence of the cholera, and especially
after collapse and insensibility had seized the
person! We know of more than sixty Roman
Catholics who have been converted to the
faith of Christ, and joined Christian churches
within three or four years past, in this State.
6. Neio Orleans. —The Roman Catholics in
Louisiana are numerous, probably including
dne third of the population. Relatively,
Protestants are increasing, as a large propor
tion of the emigration from the other States,
who care any thing about religion, are Pro
testants. There are twenty-six congregations,
and twenty-seven priests with several con
vents, female seminaries, asylums, &c.
7. Mobile. —A splendid cathedral has been
commenced here. This diocess extends into
Florida.
CHAPTER XVII.
SUGGESTIONS TO EMIGRANTS.
Canal, Steam-Poat and Stage Routes Other Modea of Travel Expenses Roads, Distances, &c., &c.
In the concluding chapter to this Guide, it
is proposed to give such information as is
always desirable to emigrants upon removing,
or traveling for any purpose, to the West.
I. Persons in moderate circumstances, or
who would save time and expense, need not
make a visit to the West, to ascertain partic
ulars previous to removal. A few general
facts, easily collected from a hundred sources,
will enable persons to decide the great ques
tion, whether they will emigrate to the Valley.
By the same means, emigrants may determine
to what State, and to what part of that State,
their course shall be directed. There are
many things that a person of plain, common
sense will take for granted without inquiry,—
such as facilities for obtaining all the necessa
ries of life; the readiness with which property
of any description may be obtained for a fair
372 peck s guide.
value, and especially farms and wild land;
that they can live where hundreds of thousands
of others of similar habits and feelings live;
and above all, they should take it for granted,
that there are difficulties to be encountered in
every country, and in all business; that
these difficulties can be surmounted with
reasonable effort, patience and perseverance,
and that in every country, people sicken and
die.
2. Having decided to what State and part
of the State, an emigrant will remove, let him
then conclude to take as little furniture and
other luggage as he can do with, especially
if he comes by public conveyances. Those
who reside within convenient distance of a
sea port, would find it both safe and economi
cal to ship by New Orleans, in boxes, such
articles as are not wanted on the road, espe
cially if they steer for the navigable waters
of the Mississippi. Bed and other clothing,
books, Slc, packed in boxes, like merchants'
goods, will go much safer and cheaper by
New Orleans, than by any of the inland
routes. I have received more than one
hundred packages and boxes from eastern
ports, by that route, within twenty years, and
never lost one. Boxes should be marked to
the owner or his agent at the river port
where destined, and to the charge of some
forwarding house in New Orleans. The
freight and charges may be paid when the
boxes are received.
SUGGESTONS TO EMIGRANTS. 373
3. If a person designs to remove to the
north part of Ohio and Indiana, to Chicago
and vicinity, or to Michigan, or Green Bay,
his course should be by the New York canal,
and the lakes. The following table, showing
the time of the opening of the canal at Albany
and Buffalo, and the opening of the lake,
from 1827 to 1835, is from a report of a com
mittee at Buffalo to the common council of
that city. It will be of use to those who wish
to take the northern route in the spring.
Year.
Canal opened Canal opened Lake Erie opened at Buffalo. at Albany. at Buffalo. 1827 April 21 April 21 April 21 1828 1 1 1 1829 25 29 May 10 1830 15 20 April 6 1831 16 16 May 8 1832 18 25 April 27 1833 22 22 23 1834 16 17 6 1835 15 15 May 8
The same route will carry emigrants to
Cleaveland, and by the Ohio canal, to Co
lumbus, or to the Ohio river, at Portsmouth;
from whence, by steam-boat, direct commu
nications will offer to any river port in the
Western States. From Buffalo, steam-boats
run constantly (when the lake is open), to
Detroit, stopping at Erie, Ashtabula, Cleave
land, Sandusky and many other ports, from
whence stages run to every prominent town.
Transportation-wagons are employed in for
warding goods.
374 peck s guide.
Routtfrom Buffalo to Detroit, by water.
Mil.
Dunkirk, N Y 89 Portland, 18—57 Erie, Pa 35—92 Ashtabula, Ohio, 34—131 Fairport, 32—163
Mil-.
Cleaveland, Ohio, 30—193 Sanduskv, 54—247 Amherstburg, N C. 52—299 Detroit, Mish 18—317
From Detroit to Chicago, Illinois.
Milov
8t Clair river, Mich.,. 40 Palmer, 17—57 Fort Gratiot, 14—71 While Hock,. 40—111 Thunder Island, 70—181 Middle Island, 25—206 Presque Isle, 65—271
Mackinaw, 5S—323 Isle Brule, 75—404 Fort Howard, Wis consin Ter., 100—504 Milwaukee, W T.3I0—814
Chicago, III., 90—904
Fron Cleaveland to Portsmouth, via. the Ohio canal.
Miba.
Cuvahoga aqueduct, 22 Old Portage, 12—34 Akron, 4—38 New Portage, 5—43 Clinton 11—54 Massillon, 1 1 —65 Bethlehem 6—71 Bo!ivar, 8—79 Zoar 8—82 Dover 7—89 New Philadelphia, 4—93 Newcomers town, 22—1 1 5 Coshocton 17—132
Irville, 26—158 Newark 18—171 Hebron, 10—181 Licking Summit, 5—186 Lancaster Canaan, II —197 Columbus, side cut, IS—215
Bloonfield 8—223 Circteville 9—232
Chillicothe 23—255 Pi!<eti>n 25—280 I I ucasville 14—294 Portsmouth, (Ohio river), 13—307
The most expeditious, pleasant and direct
route for travelers to the southern parts of
Ohio and Indiana; to the Illinois river, as far
north as Peoria; to the Upper Mississippi, as
SUGGESTIONS TO EMIGRANTS. 375
far as Quincy, Rock island, Galena and Prairie
du Chien; to Missouri, and to Kentucky, Ten
nessee, Arkansas, Natchez and New Orleans,
is one of the southern routes. These are,
1. From Philadelphia to Pittsburgh, by rail
roads and the Pennsylvania canal; 2. By the
Baltimore and Ohio rail-road and stages, to
Wheeling; or, 3. For people living to the
south of Washington, by stage, by the way of
Charlottesville, (Virginia,) Staunton, the Hotj
Warm, and White-Sulphur Springs, Lewis
burg, Charlestown, to Guyandotte, from
whence a regular line of steam-boats runs
three times a week to Cincinnati. Inter
mediate routes from Washington city to
Wheeling, or to Harper s Ferry, to Fred
ericksburg, and intersect the route through
Virginia, at Charlottesville.
From Philadelphia to Pittsburgh, by the rail-road and canal.
AliInn.
Petersburg, 8—221 Alexandria, 23—244 Frankstownand IIollidaysburg, S—247 From thence, by rail-rou,/, across the mountain, to Johnstown, 38—285 By canal, to Blairsville 35—320 Saltzburg, _ \l8—338 Warren, 12—350 Allegliany river, 10—36 6 Pittsburgh, 28—3i>4
Miles.
Columbia on theSusquelianna river, by rail road, daily,. 81 By canal packets, to Bainbridge 11 —92 Midd etown, 17—109 Hanisburg, 10—119 Juniata river, 15— 144 MidemtowD, 17—151 Mifflin, 17—168 I owUown, 13—181 Waynesburg, 14— 195 Hami tonvil.e 11—206 huiilingdon 7—213
376 peck s guide.
The Pioneer line, on this route, is exclusive
ly for passengers, and professes to reach
Pittsburgh in four days, but is sometimes
behind, several hours. Fare through, §10.
Passengers pay for meals.
The Good-Intent line is also for passengers
only, and runs in competition with the Pioneer
line.
Leech s line, called the Western Trans
portation line," takes both freight and pas
sengers. The packet-boats advertise to go
through, to Pittsburgh, in five days, for $7.
Midship and steerage passengers in the
transportation line, in six and a half days,—
merchandise delivered in eight days. Gen
erally, however, there is some delay. Emi
grants must not expect to carry more than
a small trunk or two, on the packet-lines.
Those who take goods or furniture, and wish
to keep with it, had better take the transport
ation lines, with more delay. The price of
meals on board the boats is about thirty-seven
and a half cents.
In all the steam-boats on the Western wa
ters no additional charge is made to cabin pas
sengers for meals;—and the tables are usually
profusely supplied. Strict order is observed,
and the waiters and officers are attentive.
Steam-boat routefrom Pittsburgh to the mouth of the Ohio.
Wiles.
Middletown, Pa 11 Economy, 8—19 Beaver 10—29 Georgetown," ..13—42
Miles.
Steubenville, Ohio, 27—69 Wellsburgh, Va., 7—76 Warren, Ohio, 6—ffl Wheeling, Va., 10—92
SUGGESTIONS TO EMIGRANTS. 377
Mile*.
Elizabethlown, Va.,ll—103 Sistersville, 34—137 Newport, Ohio, 27—164 Marietta, ..14—178 Parkersburgh, Va. 1 1—189 Belpre and Blannerhasset Island, O., 4—193 Troy, Ohio, 10—203 Belleville, Va., 7—210 Letait s Rapids, 07—247 Point Pleasant, 27—274 Gallipolis, Ohio, 4—278 Guyamlotte, Va.,. 27—305 Burlington, Ohio, 10—315 Greensburg, Ky., 19—334 Concord, Ohio, 12—3 lii
Portsmouth (Ohioca nal), 7—353 Vanceburg, Ky.,. 20—373 Manchester, Ohio, 16—389 Maytville, Ky., 11—400 Charleston, 4—404 Ripley, Ohio, 6—410 Augusta, Ky., 8—418 Neville, Ohio, 7—425 Moscow, 7—432 Point Pleasant, 4—436 New Richmond," 7—443 Columbia, 15—458 Fulton, 6—564 Cincinnati, 2—466 North Bend, 15—481 Lawrenceburgh, Ind. and mouth of the Miami, 8—489 Aurora, Ind.,. 2—491 Petersburg, Ky.,. 2—493 Bellevue, 8—501 Rising Sun, Ind., 2—503 Fredericksburg Ky.l8—521
Miles.
I Vevay, Ind., and Ghent, Ky., 11—532 Port William, Ky., 8—540 Madison, Ind., 15—556 New London, 12—567 Pethlehem, 8—575 Westport, Ky., 7—582 Transylvania, 15—595 Louisville, 12—609 Shippingport, through the canal 2£—61 1J New Albany, Ind., 14—613 Salt River, Ky., 23—636 Northampton, Ind. 18—654 Leavenworth, 17—671 Fredonia, 2—673 Rome, 32—705 Troy, 25—730 Ilockport, 16—746 Owenburgh, Ky., 12—758 Eransville, Ind., 36—794 Henderson, Ky., 12—806 Mount. Vernon, Ind. 28—834 Carth;<re, Ky., 12—846 Wabash river, 7—853 Shawncrtnivn, III., 11—864
Mouth of Saline, 12—876 Cave in Kcick, 10—8S6 Golconda, 19—905 Southland, mouth oftheCumi>irland river, Ky., 10—915 Paducah, mouth of the Tennessee river, Ky.,. 13—928 Caledonia, III., 31—959 Trinity, mouth of Cash river, 111., 10—969 Mouth of the Ohio River,. 6—975
17
578 peck s guide.
Persons who wish to visit Indianopolis will
stop at Madison, Indiana, and take the stage
conveyance. From Louisville, by the way of
Vincennes, to St. Louis by stage, every al
ternate day, two hundred and seventy-three
miles, through in three days and a half.
Fare $17. Stages run from Vincennes to
Terre Haute and other towns up the Wabash
river. At Evansville, Indiana, stage lines are
connected with Vincennes and Terre Haute;
and at Shawneetown twice a week to Carlyle,
Illinois, where it intersects the line from
Louisville to St. Louis. From Louisville to
Nashville by steam-boats, passengers land at
Smithland at the mouth of Cumberland river,
unless they embark direct for Nashville.
In the winter, both stage and steam-boat
lines are uncertain and irregular. Ice in the
rivers frequently obstructs navigation, and
high waters and bad roads sometimes prevent
stages from running regularly.
Farmers who remove to the West from the
Northern and Middle States, will find it ad
vantageous, in many instances, to remove
with their own teams and wagons. These
they will need on their arrival. Autumn, or
from September till November, is the favor
able season for this mode of emigration. The
roads are then in good order, the weather
usually favorable, and feed plenty. People of
all classes, from the States south of the Ohio
river, remove with large wagons, carry and
cook their own provisions, purchase their
SUGGESTIONS TO EMIGRANTS. 379
feed by the bushel, and invariably encamp out
at night.
Individuals who wish to travel through the
interior of Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, Mis
souri, &.c., will find that the most convenient,
sure, economical and independent mode is on
horseback. Their expenses will be from sev
enty-five cents to one dollar fifty cents per day,
and they can always consult their own con
venience and pleasure as to time and place.
Stage fare is usually six cents per mile, in
the West. Meals, at stage-houses, are thirty
seven and a half cents.
Steam-boat Fare, including Meals.
From Pittsburgh to Cincinnati, $10 Cincinnati to Louisville, 4 Louisville to St. Louis, 12
And frequently the same from Cincinnati to
St. Louis,—varying a little, however.
A deck passage, as it is called, may be rated
as follows:—
From Pittsburgh to Cincinnati $3 Cincinnati to Louisville, 1 Louisville to St. Louis, 4
The deck for such passengers is usually in
the midship, forward of the engine, and is
protected from the weather. Passengers fur
nish their own provisions and bedding. They
often take their meals at the cabin table, with
the boat-hands, and pay twenty-five cents a
meal. Thousands pass up and down the riv
ers as deck passengers, especially emigrating
380 peck s guide.
families, who. have their bedding, provisions
and cooking utensils on board.
The whole expense of a single person from
New York to St. Louis, by the way of Phila
delphia and Pittsburgh, with cabin passage on
the river, will range between $40 and $45;—
time from twelve to fifteen days.
Taking the transportation lines on the Penn
sylvania canal, and a deck passage in the
steam-boat, and the expenses will range be
tween $20 and $25, supposing the person buys
his meals at twenty-live cents, and eats twice
a day. If he carry his own provisions, the
passage, &C., will be from $15 to $18.
The following is from an advertisement of
the Western Transportation, or Leech s line,
from Philadelphia:
Miles. Days. Fare.
Fare to Pittsburgh 400 6J $6 00 Cincinnati, 900 84 8 50 Louisville, 1050. 9 00 V Nashville 1650 13J 13 00 St. Louis 1750 14 13 00
The above does not include meals.
Packet-ioatsfar Cabin Passengers (same line.)
Miles. Days. Fare.
Fare to Pittsburgh;. 400 5 $7 06 Cincinnati, 900 8. 17 00 Louisville, 1050 9.. 19 00 Nashville 1650 13. 27 00 St. Louis, 1750 13. 27 00
Emigrants and travelers will find it to their
interest always to be a little skeptical rela
SUGGESTIONS TO EMIGRANTS. 381
tive to statements of stage, steam and canal
boat agents, to make some allowance in their
own calculations for delays, difficulties and
expenses and above all, to feel perfectly pa
tient and in good humor with themselves, the
officers, company, and the world, even if they
do not move quite as rapid and fare quite aa
well as they desire.