ANCIENT HISTORY,

OR

ANNALS OF KENTUCKY;

WITH A SURVEY OF THE ANCIENT MONUMENTS

OF NORTH AMERICA,

And a Tabular View of the Principal Languages and Primitive Nations of the whole Earth.

By C. S, RAFINESQUE, AM, Ph. D,

Prof. in Trans. Univ.—Sup’t of the Trans Bot Garden—Sec’y of the Kent. Institute, and member of the following Societies:

Imp. Nat. Cus. of Bonn

Imp. Econ. Soc. of Vienna,

R. Inst. of Sciences of Naples,

It. Ac. of Arts and Sciences,

Lin. Soc. of Paris,

Amer. Antiq. Soc.

Histor. Soc. of New York,

Lit. Phil. Soc. of New York,

Lyc. of Nat. Hist. of New York,

Ac, of Nat. Sc. of Philadelphia,

Antiq. Soc. of Tennessee,

Med. Soc. of Cincinnati,

Med. Soc. of Lexington,

&c. &c. &c.

(Numquam otiosus.)

FRANKFORT, IN KENTUCKY.

PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR.

ETHNOLOGICAL AND PHILOLOGICAL TABLE

OF THE

Primitive Nations and Languages.

The words Heaven, Land, Water and Man have been selected to form this table; which is the first attempt ever made to ascertain and compare the roots of all languages. This has been done by reducing those words from dialects and analogous languages into their primitive, essential and radical sounds. The sounds of universal speech are 64, or 12 vowels, 12 nasals, 15 Consonnants. 15 Sibilants and 10 Aspirations, the orthography adapted to express them is phonological and invariable. The relative connection and affinities of the American nations and languages with those of the eastern continent, will be perceived at a glance by comparing these roots. The number following each Radical Language indicates from how many dialects the roots have been evolved; but few radical Languages are omited, while the words of some important Dialects are added as examples. This singn marks the roots identical with the American roots.

[Table of roots]

ANCIENT ANNALS OF KENTUCKY;

OR,

OB,

INTRODUCTION TO THE HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

BY C. S. RAFINESQUE, A. M.—Ph. D.

PROFESSOR IN TRANSYLVANIA UNIVERSITY, MEMBER OF THE KENTUCKY INSTITUTE, AND 15 OTHER SCIENTIFIC OR LITERARY SOCIETIES IN THE UNITED STATES AND IN EUROPE.

(Nunquam otiosus.)

Exordium.

My enquiries during several years, concerning the antiquities of the western states, have led me to extend my researche over the whole circle of North American antiquities, and compelled me to enter the dedalus of ancient history.

The result of my researches may be given in a more ample form at some future period, when rendered adequate to illustrate the interesting primitive periods of human existence in both hemispheres. I shall merely attempt at present to delineate the first rudiments of the ancient history, involving the revolutions of nature and nations, in that central part of North America, now known under the name of Kentucky, and surrounded fey Virginia, Tennessee, the rivers Ohio and Mississippi, extending upwards of 400 miles from east to west, and from latitude 36 1-2 to 39 degrees north.

In order to ascertain the filiation, migrations and annals of the American nations, all the sources have been consulted from which plausible or certain information might be derived. The evidences which they afford, stand in the following order:— 1, Features and complexions of nations; 2, their languages; 3, their monuments; 4, their religions; 5, their manners; 6, their histories; and 7, their traditions.

1.	The white, tawny, coppery, brown and black varieties of mankind are connected by numerous links, and claim a common origin; they have been early divided, variously separated, and occasionally blended again, yet preserving a sufficient distinction to guide us in tracing their successive settlements.

The white men became tawny by constant exposure, brown in warm climates, coppery in cold regions, and black in the sands of India and Africa. The Mongol features had origin in the deserts of Northern Asia, and the negro features in those of Southern Asia and central Africa. There are Mongols with different complexions, white, pale, tawny, yellow, olive, coppery, &c.; and there are white, yellow, brown and black negroes. Real negroes have been found in all the parts of the world, except Europe and North America, while in Africa they are confined to the central and western parts of that continent.

2.	The primitive language of mankind was gradually modified and divided into dialects, which became languages after producing other dialects: their mixture has produced all those which have existed or still exist. The analogies of those dialects, in their roots and most important words, afford the best mean to trace the relative parentage of nations.

3.	4. 5. Monuments of arts, traces of various religions and similarity of manners, compared and elucidated by each other, are of high importance in historical investigation.

6. 7. There is such a diversity in the ancient history, chronology and traditions of the several nations, that it is very difficult to fix precisely the dates of many events; but we may trace with a bold hand a general view of their migrations and settlements although the revolutions of the earliest empires are involved in fables, we can draw even from those fables, some correct inferences and true events.

It is almost impossible to make a plausible choice among the various chronological tables, even of the many texts of the Sepher or Hebrew Bible, and not easy to make them harmonize with the contradictory accounts of Berosus, Plato, Herodotus, Sanchoniato, Manetho, the Hindoux, Chinese, &c. I shall not attempt it at present, as this would require too many discussions, and I shall substitute thereto mere periods of time, or epochs, which may be composed of indeterminate ages.

Part I...Pro Clio,

OR, GEOLOGICAL ANNALS OF THE REVOLUTIONS OF NATURE IN KENTUCKY.

1.	Every complete history of a country ought to include an account of the physical changes and revolutions, which it may have undergone.

2.	The documents for such a geological survey, are to be. found every where in the bowels of the earth, its rocks and strata, with the remains of organized bodies imbedded therein, which are now considered as the medals of nature.

3.	The soil of Kentucky shows, like many other countries, that it has once been the bed of the sea. In James’s Map, the primitive ocean is supposed to have covered North America, by having a former level of 6000 feet above the actual level. Since the highest lands in Kentucky do not exceed 1800 feet above the level of the actual ocean, they were once covered with at least 4200 feet of water.

4.	The study of the soil of Kentucky, proves evidently the successive and gradual retreat of the salt waters, without evincing any proofs of any very violent or sudden disruptions or emersions of land, nor eruptions of the ocean, except some casual accidents, easily ascribed to earthquakes, salses and submarine volcanoes.

5.	There are no remains of land or burning volcanoes in Kentucky, nor of any considerable fresh water lake. All the strata are nearly horizontal, with valleys excavated by the tides and streams during the soft state of the strata.

6.	After these preliminary observations, I shall detail the successive evolution of this soil and its productions, under six distinct periods of time, which may be compared to the six epochs or days of creation, and supposed to have lasted an indefinite number of ages.

1st Period.—General Inundation.

“In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.”

“And the spirit of God was moving over the waters.”

The briny ocean covers the whole land of Kentucky, and the United States, rising above 4000 feet over the Cumberland or Wasioto mountains, and 5000 feet over the limestone region near Lexington. The Oregon and Mexican mountains alone rise above the waters in North America.

Gradual decrease of the ocean, by the decomposition and consolidation of the waters in the formations of rocks and deposition of strata. The rate of this decrease can only be conjectured, and is rather immaterial. The ocean subsides to 3000 feet.

The parallel strata arc formed in the following order, or nearly: 1, limestone; 2, slate; 3, sandstone; 4, freestone; 5, grit; 6, pebble stone. They are not always superincumbent, nor coexistent: but are generally horizontal, except the four last towards the Cumberland mountains, which having probably a granitic nucleus, have compelled the incumbent strata to become obliqual or slightly inclined from 10 to 30 degrees.

By the operation of submarine volcanoes, the strata of coal, clay and amygdalvid are formed and intermixed at various intermittent times with the above strata.

Several minerals, flint, quartz, calcedony, onyx, ovulites, marls, barytes, iron, lead, pyrites, &c. are successively formed and imbedded or alternated with the proeminent strata.

Creation of sea animals, fishes, shells, polyps, &c.; the exuvia of many pelagic animals become buried under or within the strata, where they exist to this time: they belong principally to the genera terebratula, gonotrema, orthocera, encrinites, pentremites, turbinotites, astrea, millepera, cyclorites, mastrema, favosites, &c.

2nd Period.—Emersion of Mountains.

The Cumberland or Wasioto mountains emerge from the sea, which sinks to the level of 1500 feet above its actual level, and form a peninsula attached to the Allegheny Island or mountain. The schistose formations proceed under water.

The Black, Laurel, Pine, Log and Gelico mountains emerge successively, after the Cumberland mountains, and an inland sea remains between them, surrounded by sandy hills.

The heavy tides and rains furrow these new lands, and form valleys through the soft sandy strata.

Grass and reeds grow, vegetation begins. Springs appear. Streams begin to flow, and gradually increase in length as the land extends, but decrease in depth and bulk by the excavation of valleys.

3d Period.—Emersion of Table Lands.

Further diminution of the sea, till its level is reduced to 1100 feet above the actual level, and all the table lands and high lands of Kentucky become uncovered.

An inland sea remains over the Ohio limestone basin, covering part of the states of Ohio and Indiana, and extending from the actual mouth of Scioto river to that of Salt river. It is bounded W. and S. by Muldrow hill, or the ascent of the central table land of Kentucky, E. by the Knob hills of Kentucky and Ohio, N. by the Silver hills of Indiana.

Another inland sea fills the actual Cumberland basin, bounded N. by the Green river knobs, S. by the Cumberland mountains, and open to the west.

The upper Cumberland sea is drained, the Cumberland river flows, forms its upper valley, the Falls, and empties into the Gulf of Cumberland.

The Ohio flows above the Scioto, and falls into the large Limestone sea; a long and narrow straight is formed below the Silver hills.

Green river forms its valley, &c. All those streams and their branches excavate deep valleys. The Kentucky river falls into the Limestone sea below Red river.

The knobs are formed like downs on the shores of the Limestone sea. Muldrow hill shaped like a wall by the currents being principally composed of slate schist.

Sea animals still living in the Limestone sea, and their exuvias imbedded in the last limestone schist.

Creation of land animals, insects, reptiles, birds and quadrupeds on the dry land.

Vegetation increases, a thin soil is formed, trees and shrubs begin to grow, and form forests: they succeed the mosses, reeds, grasses and maritime plants produced in the second period.

4th Period.—Draining of the Limestone Sea.

Level of the sea gradually reduced to 700 feet above the actual level. The Limestone sea of Kentucky drained, but full of marshes, and muddy swamps; licks, clay and marl salses, &c.

The Ohio river and its branches, Kentucky, Licking, Salt, Miami, &c. excavate their valleys in the soft muddy lime strata, which only became indurated after a long lapse of time.

The plains and glades of the Cumberland gulf arc drained, and the sea recedes west of them, to the alluvial gravel hills, formed under water, between the actual Cumberland and Tennessee valleys.

The alluvions and bottoms begin to form in the valleys and gulfs, by the attrition of the strata and soil conveyed and deposited by the streams.

Animals and plants increase and spread; the sea animals become gradually extinct, while the land animals multiply their individuals and species.

Some small lakes and ponds left over the land. The sinks and caves of the limestone regions are formed. A soil is formed by the decomposition of strata and the decay of vegetable substances.

Creation of mankind in Eden, in the highlands of Asia.— Adam, or Admo, or Adimo, (first man;) and Eve, or Evah, (life;) are the parents of the primitive or antedeluvian nation, called the Adamites.

This fourth period of Kentuckian history, answers therefore to the sixth day or period of the general creation. The first and second periods of creation having produced the light, suns, stars, planets, and the earth with her primitive crystallized mountains, rising from 10 to 30 000 feet above the actual ocean, besides the burning volcanoes, &c.

5th Period.—Noah’s Flood.

Great flood of Noah, Nub, Menu, or Nahu, in the eastern continent, which may have reached America; but has not left any evident traces of any such violent convulsion, (in Kentucky at least:) the organic and human remains buried in the soil, are all in gradual depositions.

In Kentucky the ocean, which still bathes its western corner, subsides gradually to 300 feet above its actual level, and abandons Kentucky forever; forming merely a gulf in the Mississippi valley.

The great northern inland sea of North America, which included all the great lakes, and extended from the Mississippi to the Gulf of St. Lawrence, is gradually drained. The great lakes with their outlets and falls are formed.

South of Kentucky, the Gulf stream of Mexico deposits the alluvial ground reaching from Louisiana to New York.

All the valleys of rivers and creeks in Kentucky, &c. receive their present shape.

Stratas begin to consolidate. The ponds and marshes decrease; but the salses or muddy volcanoes increase. Vegetation overspreads the soil. Animals multiply. Earthquakes are frequent; some strata are deranged by them.

6th Period.—Peleg’s Flood.

Great volcanic eruptions of the sea in Europe, America, &c. with awful earthquakes, convulsing the Atlantic ocean, West Indies, Mediterranean, &c.; destroying many countries and men.

The ocean acquires its actual level, and the American continent its actual shape.

The strata become indurated, and the soil firm and solid. Lakes disappear. Springs diminish, and streams decrease in bulk; rains are less heavy, &c.

Huge animals ramble over the soil, such as the mammoths or mastodons, elephants, megalonyx, big bears, elks, buffaloes, jaguars, &c.; they form licks. Some of them become extinct; their bones are found at Big-bone lick, Drennon’s lick, the Ohio valley, &c. in the mud or alluvions.

Part II...Clio,

OR, HISTORICAL ANNALS OF MANKIND IN KENTUCKY.

CHAP. I.—ADAMITES, &c.

Religion, philosophy, geology, history, and tradition, combine to teach and prove that mankind was created in Asia, and that the second cradle of mankind after Noah’s flood was also in the lofty lands of Asia, where mountains and peaks from 20 to 30 thousand feet high (over our actual ocean,) arise among table lands elevated from 10 to 15 000 feet. The loftiest table lands and mountains of America are much less elevated, from 6 to 22 thousand feet at utmost, and they are besides entirely volcanic, unfit therefore to have been the cradles of mankind. It is an evident and positive fact therefore, that America was populated from the eastern continent in the first instance.

The first cradle of mankind was called Eden, or Ima, and was in the highest land of Asia. The Adamites, or Antedeluvians, were spread over the eastern continent; but we have no positive proofs that they came to America, as very few, if any, remains have been found that might be ascribed or traced to that previous existence of mankind. I shall not venture therefore to offer mere conjectures on that subject. All the American nations can be traced to the second human stock, and need not therefore be deemed descendants of the Adamites.

The second cradle of mankind has received many names,— Theba, Tibet, Meru, Iran, Taurus, Ararat, &c.; all referring to lofty mountains of Asia. Noah, the second parent, monarch and legislator of mankind, was known to all the ancient nations under many consimilar names: He is the

Nuh of the Persians;

Menuh of the Hindoux;

Ta-nauh of the Scythians; Ni-nuh of the Assyrians;

U-ra-nuh of the Celts;

Pe-non of the Chinese;

Me-non of the Armenians;

Ac-mon of the Atlantes;

Me nu of the Egyptians;

Oa-nes of the Chaldeans;

Noch or Cox of the Mexicans;

Noch or Moch of the Chiapans, &c.

The three sons of Noah were also known by many ancient nations under peculiar names.

The principal nations of the eastern continent which have contributed to people North America and Kentucky, were

The Atalans and Cutans, who came easterly through the Atlantic ocean;

The Iztacans and Oghuzians, who came westerly through the Pacific ocean.

CHAP. II.—THE ATALANS AND CUTANS.

The history of those two nations, and of their settlements in America, may be divided into five periods, as follows:

1.	From the dispersion of mankind to the first discovery of America, including several centuries.

2.	From the discovery of America to the foundation of the western empires, including some centuries.

3.	From the foundation of these empires to the Pelegian revolution of nature, including several centuries.

4.	From the Pelegian revolution to the invasion of the Iztacan nations, including about twelve centuries,

5.	From the Iztacan invasion to the decline and fall of the Atalan and Cutan nations in North America, including about thirty centuries to the present time.

1st Period.—To the Discovery of America.

After the Noachian revolution of nature, mankind was spread again over the earth, from Iran, Aran, Meru, Shinar or Cashmir, different names given to the highlands of Asia.

The first colonies of the primitive nation, preferred to reside on mountains:.—the mounts Shingar, Hima, Liban, Ghaut, Shensi, Laos, Allay, Caf, Arat, Cush, Ural, &c. in Asia; the mounts Carpath, Hemus, Arcad, Appenines, Alps, Pyrenees, &c. in Europe, and the mounts Atlas, Samen, Tigreh, &c. in Africa, became the first abode of nations, who gradually spread in the plains.

Several empires were successively established in Hindostan, China, Turan, Persia, Egypt, Abyssinia, &c. which underwent many revolutions, and sometimes attained universal dominion or preponderance.

The nations which peopled the western shores of the eastern continent, were the Gomerians in Europe and the Atlantes in Africa. The Atlantes formed a powerful empire in North Africa, which gave laws to many nations, such as the Lehabim or Lybians, the Phuts, Naphthubim or Numidians, the War-bars, Barabars or Berbers, the Darans, the Garamans, the Corans or Guanches, &c.

In Europe, the Gomerians divided into many nations; those that occupied the sea shores were—1st. the Pelasgians, scattered from Greece to Ireland, under the names of Tirasians in Thracia, Arcadians in Greece, Lestrigons in Sicily, OEnotrians &c. in Italy, Tubalans in Spain, Cunetans or Henetans in France; Termurians in Ireland, &c.;—2nd. the Celts, or Pallis, who became Hellens or Yavanas in Greece, Meshekians, Ausonians and Ombrians in Italy, Sicules in Sicily, Gaels in France, Hesperians and Gadelians in Spain, Direcotians in Ireland, Cumrics in Scotland, Feans or Feines in England, &c.;

—3d. the Sacas, who became Magas in England, Saxons and Rasins in Germany, Etruscans or Tuscans in Italy, Sicanians in-Sicily, &c.;—4th, the Garbans, who. became Cyclops in Greece and Sicily, Ligurians in Italy, Cantabrians in Spain, Bascans in France, &c.

All those nations were intimately connected in languages and manners. The Pelasgians were bold navigators, and ventured to navigate from Iceland to the Azores and Senegal, The Azores, Madera, Canary and Capverd islands were then united in one or more islands, called the Atlantic Islands, which have given the name to the Atlantic ocean, and were first populated by the Darans and Corans or Western Atlantes. Iceland was called Pushcara, and was not settled, owing to the severe climate and awful volcanoes.

Numerous revolutions and invasions took place among those nations, until at last the Atlantes of Africa, united them all by conquest in one powerful empire, which extended over North Africa, Spain, France, Italy, part of Greece, Asia, &c.; and lasted many ages under several dynasties and emperors.

It was during the splendor of this empire, that America was discovered, by some bold navigators who were led by the trade winds, to the West Indies, in a few days from the Atlantic islands. They called them Antila Islands, which meant before the land, and America was called Atala or Great Atlantes. —Returning to the Azore land, by a north east course, they extolled the new country, and a great settlement was soon formed in Ayati or Ayacuta (Hayti,) and the neighbouring continent by the Atlantes.

2nd Period.—To the Foundation of Empires.

The Atalans, or American Atlantes spread themselves through North and South America, in the most fertile spots; but the marshy plains of Orenoe, Maranon, Paraguay, and Mississippi, as well as the volcanoes of Peru, Chili, Quito, Guatemala and Anahuac, prevented them from settling those parts of the continent. Many of the subjects of the Atlantic empire, such as the Tubalans, Cantabrians, Cyclops and Gunetans, follow the Atalans in America, and become the Cutan nations.

It is very difficult to trace the American nations, who have sprung from those early settlers, owing to the numerous revolutions and intermixtures which they have undergone: nor is. it my intention to give now a complete genealogy of the Atalan and Cutan nations. I must confine myself to North America, or even Kentucky.

The Allegheny mountains were called Localoca. Beyond them the country was called Great White Land, (Mahasweta-Bhumi of Hind:) and it became the seat of a great empire, or the Western Atlantic Empire. This included of course Kentucky, but extended from lake Ontario in the north, to, the Mississippi. The Atlantic shores called Locuta, or Lachacuta, were not settled, owing to their arid soil, lately emerged from the sea. This western empire may be called the Atalan empire.

3d Period.—To the Revolution of Peleg.

The country watered by the Ohio and its branches was the centre of the Atalan empire, and its metropolis stood somewhere on the Ohio. It was divided in several provinces, and ruled by a powerful monarch of the Atlas family. The Atlantic monarchs of Africa, Europe, Atlantia and Atala, often corn tended for supremacy, and the Atalan emperors obtained it once. Their dominion extended from Atala to Syria: they were repulsed in Greece and Egypt. The African emperors were acknowledged generally as lords paramount; but they resided in Europe as often as in Africa, and had to contend against the Titans, a branch of their family reigning in the Alps.

There were successively many Atlantic emperors and monarchs, bearing the names of Ian, Atlas, Acmon, Ouran, Ilan, Silvan, Sanu or Satur, Japet or Yudish, Titan, Neptune or Naphtur, Plut, Evenor, Oanes, Derceto, Tritan, Muth, Lucip, Rahu, &c. in both continents, who were often at war with the monarchs of Egypt, Ethiopia, Scythia, Iran, and Bharata or Hindostan.

An intercourse was kept up more or less regularly between all the primitive nations and empires from the Ganges to the Mississippi. Crishna or Hercules, and Ramachandra, two heroes of India, visited Atala and the court of the western monarchs, which is called one of the heavens on earth, by the holy books of the east.

The Atalans were civilized like the Atlantes; lived in towns; built houses of wood, clay and rough stones. They worshipped the sun and moon as emblems of the Deity, and built them circular temples. They knew geometry, architecture, astronomy, glyphic signs, or writing; the use of metals, agriculture, &c. They had public games, festivals, &c. Their food was flesh, fish, fruits, roots and corn which they brought from the east.

At the time of their highest prosperity, a dreadful convulsion of nature happened in the Atlantic ocean, and other parts of the world, which is recorded in the oldest annals of many nations, the Hebrew, Hindoux, Chinese, Mexican,' Greeks, Egyptians, &c. It appears to have been occasioned by simultaneous eruptions of volcanoes and earthquakes, which sunk, destroyed or convulsed many islands and countries, and among others the Atlantic land, of which the volcanic islands Azores, Madera, Canary and Capverd are the remains.

In America, the Antilan lands were severed, the Carib islands formed, the Atlantic shores inundated by awful tides, and many countries sunk or altered. This cataclysm is the division of the earth under Peleg, the flood of Ogyges or Ogug, the Sanscrit convulsion of the White sea or Atlantic ocean.— The terror occasioned by this phenomenon interrupted the intercourse between Europe and America. The Eastern Atlan-tes thought that the whole American continent had sunk, like the Atlantic and many Antilan islands; and the Atlantes of the interior of America became insulated and separated from the Atlantic empire.

4th Period.—To the Iztacan Invasion.

The Atalans of North America became now divided in many states and nations, such as

The Apalans or Tlapalans, scattered from Florida to Virginia.

The Timalans from Texas to Guatimala.

The Pocons or Locans from the Allegheny to Panama.

These divided again into Golocas, Conoys, Nanticoes, Zolu-cans, Lomashas, Popolocas, Wocons and Poconchians.

The Corans from Missouri to Mexico.

The Talegans in Kentucky, Illinois, Ohio, Virginia, &c.

While the Cutans of North America became also independent, and formed many nations, such as

The Ayacutans of Hayti, &c.

The Lachacutans of Cuba and Alachuans of Florida.

The Yucutans of Mexico, and Yucuyans of Bahama.

The Arobuans of many islands and South America.

The Tunicas of Louisiana, Tepenacas and Tononacas of Anahuac.

The Panucans of Texas, and Tanutans of Tennessee.

The Catabans of Carolina and Florida.

The Cuzans, Cuzadans or Quezedans of Tennessee and Alabama.

All those nations were often contending for supremacy; except the Islanders, who became happy peaceful nations, whence the West Indies were called the Fortunate Islands when discovered again.

It appears that the Talegans of the Ohio, and the Apalans South of them, were two of the most powerful empires of that period. The Apalans had many provinces or tribes, such as the Apalachis, Apalehen, Tlapan, Alatamaha, Ichiti, Opalusas, &c.; and were often at war with the Talegans.

These Talegans, which we found named Talegawes or Alleghanys afterwards, had dominion over a large extent of country. Their several provinces were situated in the most fertile regions, such as Kentucky, Ohio, the Kenhaway valley, the Illinois, the banks of lake Erie and Ontario.

After some centuries, America was visited again by the nations of West Europe and Africa, but neither frequently nor in numbers. A casual intercourse was restored between the two continents. The Azores were visited as well as Madera, but not peopled owing to their active volcanoes; but the Canary or Hesperides islands were; from thence the navigators went to Cernc or St. Jago, and in 18 days to the Carib islands.— About this time the Carib, or Galibis, must have come to South America; they appear of Cantabrian origin. The great nation of Guarani which extended all over Guiana, Brazil and Paraguay was of Daran origin and previous arrival.

When the Arcutans or Fermurians of Ireland, were expelled by the Dannans, a tribe of Pallis or Gaels, (after many revolutions in the island,) they fled to Ayacuta, or Western Island of Hayti, and became probably the Arohuac nation.

Till then all the inhabitants of America had come from the cast; but now a great invasion took place from the west or from Asia. Perhaps these Asiatic nations had crossed the ocean before the Pelegan or Ogugan catastrophe. They are traced to the north west coast of America, and gradually came in contact with the Atalans and Cutans on the Missouri and in Anahuac. I shall call them Iztacan, from their ancestor Iztac.

5th Period.—Decline and Fall of the Atalans, &c.

The wars which happened in consequence of the Iztacan invasions, had the effect to annihilate some nations, and scatter many other, while several were subdued and incorporated with their conquerors. Kentucky was conquered by the Ulmecas, the Huasiotos and Taensas, three Iztacan nations. After the successive rule of these nations on the Ohio, the Siberian nations or Oguzian tribes began to appear and wage war on the Iztacans and the Atalans, which they drove away to the south. The last remains of the former Atalans and Cutans, which can he traced to have esqaped these conflicts and were still existing towards 1500, were the following:—The Wocons in Carolina, the Homoloas, Malicas, Apalachians and others in Georgia and Florida, the Conoys of Virginia, the Nanticoes of Maryland, the Catabas of Carolina, the Cahuitas and Calusas of Alabama, the Tunicas of Louisiana, the Corans, Coroas or Escoros of the Missouri, Arkanzas, Carolina, California and Mexico; besides many nations of Anahuac, &c.

Before the Christian era a casual intercourse was kept up between the two continents. The Phenicians and Gadesiems traded to America: this continent was known to the maritime nations of West Europe and North-west Africa. The Numidians went there 2000 years ago, as well as the Celts; they frequented Paria and Hayti principally. The Etruscans, a powerful nation of Italy, who settled there from the Rhetian Alps about three thousand years ago, went to America and wanted to send colonies there, but were prevented by the Carthagenians. This intercourse gradually declined, owing to the numerous shipwrecks and warlike habits of the Caribs, Iztacans and Oguzians, till the knowledge of America became almost lost or clouded in fables and legends.

During the decline of the Atalans, some fled to Anahuac and South America, where they founded new empires, or civilized many nations, such as the Cholulans of Anahuac, and the Muyseas, Puruays, Collaos, Tiahuanacos and Cojas of South America, who ascribe their ancient civilization to white and bearded strangers.

Thus the ancient arts and sciences of North America were transferred to the South. In the greatest splendor of the Atalans and Culans, they had built above one thousand towns on the waters of the Ohio, of which nearly two hundred were in Kentucky, and the remains of above one hundred are seen to this day. The population must have been as great as the actual one, and Kentucky must have had half a million of inhabitants at least. The monuments of these early nations are easily distinguished from the subsequent Iztacan monuments, by a greater antiquity, their circular, elliptical and conical shapes.

CHAP. III.—HISTORY OF THE IZTACANS.

The annals of the numerous nations who claim this origin, may be divided into five periods of time.

1.	From the Iztacan empire of Asia to the Iztacan settlements in America and Kentucky, including many centuries.

2.	From the invasion of Kentucky to the foundation of the Natchez empire, including about ten centuries.

3.	From the Natchez empire to the Oghuzian invasion, including about five centuries.

4.	From the Oghuzian invasion to the expulsion of the Natchez from Kentucky, including about five centuries.

5.	From the Natchez expulsion to the present time, including the Chicasa and Cherokee dominions in Kentucky,—about ten centuries.

1st Period.—To the Invasion of Kentucky.

Soon aftert he formation of the great Asiatic empires of Iran, Ayodhia, Vitora, China, &c. another was founded near the Caspian sea, on the mountains of Caf or Caucasus and Vipula or Bactria, which was successively called Aztula, (strong land) Aztlan, Tula, Tollan, Turan, &c. The first monarch of it was Iztac-mixcoatl, (strong head snake:) He had six sons, who became the heads of as many nations; they were

Xelhua or Colhua, the father of the Colhuans, &c.

Tenoch or Tenuch, ancestor of the Tenuchs, &c.

Olmecatl or Ulmecatl, ancestor of the Olmecans, &c. Xicalancatl or Xicalhan, of the Zicalans, &c.

Mixtecatl or Miztecatl, of the Tecas, &c.

Otomitl, ancester of the Otomis, &c.

From these have sprung all the Iztacan nations, scattered all over North America and part of South America.

Many other empires having begun to rise in the vicinity of Aztlan, such as those of Bali, Scythia, Thibet, Oghuz, the Iztacan were driven eastwards, north of China; but some fragments of the nation are still found in the Caucasus, &c. such as the Abians or Abassans, Alticezecs, Cushazibs, Chunsags, Modjors, &c.

The six Iztacan nations being still pressed upon by their neighbours the Oghuzians, Moghls, &c. gradually retreated or sent colonies to Japan, and the islands of the Pacific ocean; having discovered America at the peninsula of Alasca, during their navigations, the bulk of the nation came over and spread from Alasca to Anahuac, establishing many states in the west of America, such as Tula, Amaquemecan, Tehuajo, N abajoa, Teopantla, Huehue, and many others.

After crossing the mountains, they discovered and followed the Missouri and Arkanzas rivers, reaching thus the Mississippi and Kentucky.

2nd Period.—To the Foundation of the Natchez.

The Olmecas or Hulmees were the first Iztacans who ventured to come to Kentucky, where they did not make a permanent settlement. They came in contact with the Talegans, and not being able to subdue them, they left the country, invaded Tennessee, &c. The Winginas and Westoes of Carolina, as well as the Yamassees of Georgia, may be remains of these Olmecas; but the bulk of the nation went to Anahuac, with the Xicalans, having made an alliance with them. The Xicalans were another Iztacan nation who had come-down the Arkanzas; meeting on the Mississippi with powerful Atalans, such as the Corans, Talagans, &c. they joined the Olmecas in a confederacy against them.

After partly settling in Alabama, Tennessee, Georgia and Florida; they were both compelled to go to Anahuac, which they reached from the north-east, and where they became powerful in time.

The Otomis were the most barbarous of the Iztacans, being hunters rather than cultivators; they had spread gradually from the Missouri to Anahuac, in the rear of the Xical lans, under the names of Mazahuas or Mahas, Huashashas or Ozages, Capahas or Arkanzas, Otos or Huatoctas, Mincwas or Missouri or Ayowas, Dareotas or Nadowessis, Huatanis or Mandans, &c. They began to make war on the Talegans of Illinois, Ohio and Kentucky, and the Otos appear to have become the Sciotos of Ohio, the Huasiotcs of East Kentucky, and the Utinas of Florida.

The Colhuans and Tenuchans came the last on the Arkanzas, and settled the kingdoms of Tollan, Tula, Huehue, Copatta, &c. in that region. The Atalans and Iztacans were successively at war or in peace; but the Iztacans prevailed at last in West Kentucky, when all the Iztacans east of the Mississippi formed a confederary against the Atalans; this was the beginning of the Natchez dominion.

During these struggles, many peaceful Atalans left the country and went to Anahuac, Ayati, Onohualco and South America, where they became legislators and rulers.

3d Period.—To the Oghuzian Invasion.

The Natchez empire, or confederacy of Iztacan nations, extended from the Ohio to Florida, and from the Alleghenies to the Mississippi; west of it were the kingdoms of Capaha, Pacaha and Copatta, (perhaps only one,) also Iztacan. This confederacy consisted of five hundred towns, and many tribes, such as the Natchez, Taensas, Chitimachas, Movila, Yasoos or Hiatus, and many more. East of them were the Apalachian and Cataba confederacies, and north the Talegans who had retreated on the north side of the Ohio.

The nations forming this empire or league, were civilized and cultivators; they became polished by their intercourse with the Atalans, and borrowed many customs from them.— They worshipped the sun and fire; but did not build circular temples, erecting instead pyramids and high altars, generally of a square or angular form. Each tribe had a king, each town a governor; but the Natchez kings who were called Suns, had the supremacy over all. Agriculture and trade were well attended to. Many contentions and revolutions happened; but the Oghuzian invasion was the most fatal.

The Siberian nations, which had spread over the north of Asia at the dissolution of the Oghuzian empire, having come to America across Behring Strait, sought milder climates by-travelling south, and coming in contact with the civilized but less warlike nations of anterior origin, began to wage war over them, and drive them gradually further south, towards Florida and Anahuac.

4th Period.— To the expulsion of the Natchez from Kentucky.

At the Oghuzian invasion; the Taencas, a Natchez tribe, occupied West Kentucky, the Huasiotos were in East Kentucky, and some Talegans still held the banks of the Ohio, &c.

The Cherokees or Zulocans, an Atalan nation dwelling west of the Mississippi, being driven by the Oghuzians, came to Kentucky and Tennessee, and settled at last after many wars in the mountains of Carolina, where they became a nation of hunting mountaineers, and gradually destroyed the Huasioto nation of the Cumberland mountains.

The Shawanees, an Oghuzian tribe, came then in contact, with the Natchez and expelled them from Kentucky, which they occupied for a long time.

The Talegans north of the Ohio, were partly destroyed or driven south, through Kentucky, to join the Apalachian, or down the Mississippi towards Louisiana and Mexico.

5th Period.—To the present time.

The Natchez confederacy declined gradually, becoming divided into several independent nations, such as the Taensas, Chitimachas, Alabamas, Coosas, Cahuitas or Cowetas, Win-ginas, &c. spread from Louisiana to Carolina, which however did not wage war together, but were often united against the Cherokees, Catawbas and Oghuzian nations.

When the Toltecas of Mexico drove away the Xicallans, the bulk of that nation came to the Mississippi, and settled on both sides of it, above the Natchez; many nations have sprung from that stock, all intimately connected in language and manners, such as the Chicasas, Chactaws, Yazoos or Tapousas, Mus-colgees, Cofachis, &c. spreading north and east of the Natchez, they formed a bulwark between them and the northern invaders; the Chicasas extended their conquests to the banks of the Ohio in Kentucky,

The great Otomi nations, extending from the Missouri to Anahuac, divided into numerous tribes, such as the Osages or Wahashas, Missouris, Ottos, Mazahuas, or Omahuas, Capahas or Arkansas, Mandans, &c.: the Osages, Missouris and Arkansas, penetrate as far as West Kentucky, the banks of the Wabash, &c.

A succession of wars and contentions take place between the numerous nations of various stocks scattered in North America, by which they are weakened and prevented from improving their civilization, or uniting against the encroachments of the Europeans.

The Spanish, French, and English, after the discovery of America by Columbus, settle in North America, and in three hundred years occupy all the land from Canada to Mexico, except a few small spots, acquiring possession of it by various means, conquests, cessions or purchases.

CHAP IV.—HISTORY OF THE OGHUZIANS.

Something like a chronological order can be now introduced. The records of the Mexicans, the traditions of many Oghuzian nations, and the annals of the Europeans, afford sufficient materials for a complete history; but I must be very brief.

1st Period.—From the Invasion of North America by the Oghuzians, towards the first year of our Era, to the Defeat of the Talegans, towards 500, including five hundred years.

Nearly two thousand years ago, great revolutions happened

in the north of Asia; the Oghuzian empire was severed, and a swarm of barbarous nations emigrating from Tatary and Siberia, spread desolation from Europe to America. In Europe they nearly destroyed the powerful Roman empire, and in North America they subverted many civilized states.

Several of those Oghuzian nations, driven by necessity or their foes to the north-east corner of Asia, came in sight of America, and crossing Berhing Strait on the ice, at various times, they reached North America. Two of them, the Lenap and the Menguy, seeking milder climates, spread themselves towards the south; while another, the Karitit, which came after them, spread on the sea shores from Alaska to Greenland, and some others settled on the north-west coast of America.

The Lenaps after settling some time on the Oregon and Multnomah rivers, crossed the Oregon mountains, and following the Missouri, fighting their way through the Ottomies; &c. they reached the Mississippi, nearly at the same time with the Menguys, who had come north of the Missouri. They found the powerful Talegans in possession of Illinois, Ohio, Kentucky, who opposed their progress and cut off the first party that ventured to cross the Mississippi. A long war ensued, in which the two Oghuzian nations joined in a confederacy against the Talegans, and succeeded after a long struggle to drive them away to the south.

2nd Period.—From the Defeat of the Talegans, towards 500, to the Dispersion of the Lenaps, towards 800,—including three hundred years.

When the Lenaps had defeated the Talegans, they had to contend with the Natchez of West Kentucky, the Huasiotos of East Kentucky, the Sciotos of Ohio, besides many remaining branches of the Atalans, Cutans, &e. scattered in North America, which they vanquished, destroyed or drove away, occupying all the country from the Missouri to the Allegheny mountains; while the Menguys settled north of them on the lakes.

The Lenaps were hunters, but lived in towns, and became partly civilized by the prisoners and slaves that they made.— They began to cultivate corn, beans, squashes, tobacco, &c. Their hunters having ventured across the Allegheny mountains, discovered a fine country, not occupied by any nations, in Maryland and Pennsylvania. Many were induced to remove to that country, where they should be more distant from their southern foes.

A settlement was made east of the mountains, and the great Lenapian nation became thus divided into many distant tribes, independent of each other; but connected by a similarity of language, religion, manners, and acknowledged origin.

The principal of these tribes, which thus became independent nations, were the Chinucs on the Oregon, the Anilcos and Quiguas on the Missouri, the Utawas and Miamis north of the Ohio, the Shawanees or Massawomees in Kentucky, the Mo-higans and Abnakis in New England, the Sankikans in New Jersey, the Unamis and Minsis in Pennsylvania, the Powhatans in Virginia, the Nanticoes in Maryland, the Chipeways and Clistenos on the upper Mississippi, &c.

A similar division took place in the Menguys, and the independent nations sprung from them, were the Hurons or Wyandots near lake Huron, the Erics or Erigas on lake Erie in Ohio, the Tuscororas in Kentucky, the Senekas, Mohawks, Cayugas, Oneidas on the St. Lawrence, &c. That portion of the nation which remained west of the Mississippi, became mixt with some Otomian tribes, and formed the great Darcota nation, since divided into many tribes, such as the Sioux, Assinihoils, Tintons, Yanctons, &c.

3d Period.—From the Dispersion of the Lenaps, towards 800, to the Shawanee Confederacy, towards 1100—including three hundred years.

The Oghuzian nations had united for a long while against their southern enemies; hut many Menguy tribes became jealous of the Lenaps when they saw them possessed of the best lands and growing very powerful. Dissentions occurred between the various tribes east and west of the mountains. The Senekas and Mohawks begin to quarrel with the Mohigans and

Lenaps. They endeavour to excite wars between them and the Cherokees. Several wars occur between the Lenaps and many Menguys, in which the Wyandots and Erigas take no part.

Meanwhile the Shawanees of Kentucky have many quarrels and wars with their neighbours; they drive away the Tuscaro-ras to Carolina, and some Erigas towards Florida. They wage war by turns with the Natchez, Tapoussas, Cherokees, and Apalachians to the south, with the Catabas, Wocons and Westos to the east, the Capahas, Ozages, &c. to the west. Not satisfied with the possession of Kentucky, they extend their conquests and settlements as far as lake Ontario to the north, in Carolina and Georgia to the south. The Cumberland river became the centre of their settlements. They were hostile to all their neighbours except those of Lenapian origin, and being in contact with many more than any other branch, were considered as the bulwark of that nation.

In order to resist their numerous enemies, they formed a general confederacy extending from the Lakes to Florida, which soon became formidable even to their former allies, under the name of Massawomees or Wassawomees. The branches of this great alliance were known by the names of Sakis and Kicapoos in the west, Uchees and Chowans in the east, Satanas in the north, Savanas in the south, &c.

4th Period.—From the Shawanee Confederacy, towards 1100, to the

Utawa Supremacy, towards 1400,—including three hundred years.

The Utawas were a branch of the Lenaps, settled north of the Lakes, and holding supremacy over the Northern Lenaps; being driven south of the lakes, by their wars with the Menguys, they assumed a superiority over the Miamis of Ohio, whom they defeated in battle; but they had more difficulty in their contentions with the powerful Shawanees. A long war was the result; the Utawas conquered part of central Kentucky, and compelled at last the Shawanees to acknowledge them as superiors and entitled to hold the great council fire in the west, as the Lenaps did in the east.

During this struggle many revolutions had occurred around Kentucky. The Conoys had become powerful in the Kenhaway valley, and the Illinois on the Wabash. The Shawa-nees enter into an alliance with them. The Chicasaws begin to grow powerful in the south-west, and wage war with the Shawanees, &c.

The supremacy of the Utawas was acknowledged gradually by all the Lenapians west of the mountains, and the chief of that tribe was considered as the greatest chief. They settled in many parts of lake Huron and Michigan, on the Mississippi, and left Kentucky to the Shawanees.

5th Period.—From the Utawa Supremacy, towards 1400, to the Invasion of Soto, towards 1540,—including about 140 years.

Towards the discovery of America by Columbus in 1492, the situation of the nations residing in Kentucky or the immediate neighbourhood was nearly as follows:

The Massawomees or Shawanees had possession of the greatest part of Kentucky, the Cumberland valley in Tennessee, nearly all the banks of the Ohio, and they had settlements or colonies in Illinois, Georgia, Carolina, Gennessee, &c. They had nearly one hundred towns, many of which very populous.

The Chicasaws claimed by conquest the west of Tennessee and Kentucky, and resided southerly of the Ohio.

West of the Mississippi near Kentucky, the most powerful nations were the Capahas, Ozages, Anileos, Quiguas, &c.; the two last of Lenapian origin, and extending east as far as the Wabash.

In Ohio were the Miamis, Erigas, Tongorias, &c.

In Virginia, the Conoys, Monacans, Powhatans, &c.

In Tennessee, the Cherokees, Chugees or Ichias, &c.

On the St. Lawrence, five tribes of Menguys—the Senekas, Mohawks, Oneidas, Cayugas and Onondagos, had united into a league, which soon became formidable (under the name of Iroquese or Five Nations,) to all the Oghuzian nations.

On the Atlantic shores the Lenapian tribes had divided into numerous nations, often at war with each other for supremacy or dominion.

Several other nations, besides the Atalans, Cutans, Iztacans, and Oghuzians, had reached various parts of America, before the modern Europeans, such as the Mayans or Malays, the Scandinavians, the Chinese, the Ainus, of Eastern Asia, the Nigritians or African negroes! &c.; but as they did not settle in or near Kentucky, they do not fall under my present scope.

CHAP. V.—HISTORY OF KENTUCKY, &c.

From the Spanish Discovery or Invasion under Soto, towards 1543,

till the Settlement of Kentucky by the Virginians in 1773—in-cluding about two hundred and thirty years.

1st Period.—Introduction.

1492. Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus.

1496. Discovery of North America by Sebastian Cabot.

1512. Discovery of Florida, by J. Ponce De Leon.

1520. Discovery of Georgia by Mirvelo, who calls it Cicoria.

1525. Invasion of Georgia by D’Aillon and Mirvelo, who are defeated by the Shawanees and other nations.

1528. Second invasion and defeat of the Spaniards in Florida.

1536. Third invasion of the Spaniards in Florida. Alvar Nunez discovers the Mississippi, and reaches Culiacan on the Pacific ocean across the continent.

2nd Period.—Sixteenth Century.,

1539.	Fern. Soto, governor of Cuba, invades North America with an army of 1050 men and three hundred horses: he lands in Florida, defeats many nations, and winters in Apalachia.

1540.	Soto visits the Cofas, Cherokees, Shawanees, Curas, &c.; discovers Tennessee, wins a great battle at Mobile, and winters at the Chicasas.

1541.	Battle with the Chicasas; Soto crosses the Chuca-gua or Mississippi, visits Capaha and Tula, discovers Arkanzas, and winters in Utiangue.

1542.	Soto wanders west of the Mississippi, discovers the Missouri, and dies at Guachoya, (the Washashas or Ozages) near the Anilcos or Ilicos, (Illinois.) He is succeeded by Moscoso, who vainly attempts to reach Mexico by land, goes no further than the Aches or Panis, and returns to the Missouri near the Ozages, winters at Minoya or Minowas.

1543. The Spaniards reduced to 350 men, and threatened by the king of the Quiguas (or Wiwas,) with a powerful attack, embark in 21 boats, and going night and day, reach the mouth of the Mississippi in twenty days, after losing many men in battle with the Quiguas, who pursued them for ten days.— Only 300 Spaniards reached Panuco and Mexico, Discovery of Illinois and Kentucky in descending the Mississippi.

1545. The Muscogees settle east of the Mississippi, and become afterward the head of the southern confederacy.

1550. The Menguys begin to wage war with all their neighbours they destroy the Satanas, a branch of the Massawomees, and settle in their country south of lake Ontario.

1560. The Massawomees of Kentucky are at war with the southern nations, and many eastern nations; but at peace with the nations north of the Ohio;—they form a settlement on the Susquehannah.

1562 to ’68. Settlements and wars of the French and Spaniards in Carolina and Georgia, in which many nations take a part.

1584 to ’89. First settlements of the English in North Carolina; wars with the Winginans, &c. Three unsuccessful colonies. Kentucky was included in the charter of the colony.

1590. Wahun-Sanacoc, king of the Powhatans in, Virginia, conquers many tribes, and becomes formidable to all his neighbours, even the Massawomees and Erigas of Kentucky. He adopts Opechan, a wise Shawanee for his brother, and makes him king of Pamunkey.

1595. The Erigas, a powerful nation of Menguy origin, is now scattered from lake Erie to Florida in various tribes, called Erieronons, Tongorias, Rechehecrians, Grigras, &c, and is at war with the Menguys of Gennessee, 3d Period.—Seventeenth Century.

1607.	Permanent settlement of the English in Virginia, the colony including Kentucky in its charter. The French settle in Canada.

1608.	First interview of the English with the Shawanees or Wassawoomees of Kentucky. Sir J. Smith meets one oftheir war party in the Chesapeak, going to attack the Susquehannoes and Tocwoys. The Nantaquaes or Nanticoes of Maryland went to trade with them beyond the mountains.

1618. Death of Wahun Sanacoe, king of the Powhatans; he is succeeded by Opechan, the Shawanee king of Pamunkey, who takes the title of Mango-Peomen, and becomes the foe of the settlers.

1640. The Menguys succeed to destroy the Erigas of Ohio: the remains of that nation fly to East Kentucky, &c.

1642. End of the wars between the English and Powhatans, which had lasted twenty years; Opechan is taken, and dies, 95 years old: he is succeeded by his son Totopotomoi, who makes peace.

1654. Col. Wood explores Kentucky as far as the Mississippi.

1656. The Rechehecrians or Grigras cross the Allegheny, and invade Virginia, being molested by the Menguys; Captain Hill and King Totopotomoi who attack them, are defeated; the king is killed. They soon after leave the country, and are admitted by the Natchez into their confederacy.

1660. The Menguys rendered powerful by fire arms, lay waste all the country on the Ohio, and make war on the Tongorias, Shawanees, Miamis, Illinois, Chicasaws, Natchez, &c.; often coming down the Ohio in war parties. They destroy the Conoys or Kenhaways.

1667. Captain Batt visits the Allegheny mountains, from Virginia.

1670. Captain Bolt visits Kentucky from Virginia, Is he the same as the above?

1672. Father Marquette descends the Mississippi from Illinois, and discovers the Missouri, Ohio, Wabash, &c. He finds 40 towns of Shawanees on the Ohio and its lower branches.

1680. Father Hennepin descends the Mississippi to its mouth from Illinois, and visits Kentucky, &c. The Tennessee is called Cherokee river.

1683. Captain Tonti descends the Mississippi to its mouth, for the first time, with Lasalle. Kentucky visited again.

1685. Second voyage of Tonti down the Mississippi.

1688. Third voyage of Tonti down the same.

1700. At the end of this century, the Shawanees of Kentucky were defeated and humbled by the Menguys. Those of Georgia were compelled to enter the Muscolgee confederacy. The Tongorias of East Kentucky were united with the Cherokees; and the Illinois, Miamis, Kicapus, &c. often crossed Kentucky, to go to war against the Chicasas.

4th Period.—Eighteenth Century.

1710. Col. Spottswood, governor of Virginia, crosses the Allegheny mountains and explores the country near Kentucky.

1712. The great Apalachian nation destroyed, partly by the Carolinians in 1702 and the Alabamous in 1705; the remains blend with the Muscolgee confederacy.

1720. The French traders begin to descend the Ohio.

1722. Treaty at Albany between the Virginians and Menguys or Iroquese; the land west of the Allegheny ridge is acknowledged as belonging to the Iroquese, who claim it by conquest over the Erigas, Conoys, Tongorias, &c.

1731. The Natchez are destroyed by the French; the remains of that great nation take refuge with the Chicasas; a war follows in consequence with the French, which lasts many years.

1739. Mr. Longueil descends the Ohio, from Canada, and discovers Big-bone lick in Kentucky. Many Canadians follow that road.

1745. The Shawanees of Kentucky had retreated on the banks of the Ohio, Miami and Muskingum, to avoid their southern enemies, being now at peace with the Menguys, and allied with them against the Cherokees, Catawbas, Muscolgees, Chicasaws, &c. Kentucky remained the hunting ground of the northern and southern nations where they met at war.

1750.	Dr. Thomas Walker, of Virginia, crosses the Allegheny and Wasioto mountains, which he calls Cumberland. He discovers Cumberland Gap, the Shawanee river, which he calls Cumberland river, Kentucky river, which he calls Louisa, &c.

1751.	Several Indian traders descends the Ohio.

1752.	Lewis Evans publishes his map of Kentucky, &c. from the account of those traders.

1754. James McBride descends the Ohio as far as the mouth of the Kentucky.

1760. Second visit of Dr. Walker to Kentucky, as far as Dick river.

1764. The Shawanees remove to Ohio from Pennsylvania, and to the Wabash from Green river.

1767 to 1774. Kentucky is visited by traders and hunters from Virginia and North Carolina, and begins to be settled, after extinguishing the claims of the Cherokees and Iroquese; but the Shawanees’ best claim having never been attended to, this was the cause of the war which they waged with their allies, against the Virginian settlers for more than twenty years. Ever since 1756 an alliance of all the Oghuzian tribes north of the Ohio having been formed against the Iroquese, Cherokees and Chicasas, the Virginians were considered as new intruders, who had bought the land from their foes.

CONCLUSION.

All the details which might have explained, and the notes which would have proved, my statements, have been unavoidably omitted, in order to confine myself within the short prescribed limits. I am merely allowed to add the enumeration of the principal monuments of antiquity, and a mere list of the authors in which all the facts are to be found which I have asserted, except those derived from my personal examination of the geology, antiquities and languages of North America. A philological and ethnological view of nearly four hundred American and eastern nations or languages, with their comparative names for land and water, was also found by far too long for insertion, although this is now considered as the base of historical researches.

I. APPENDIX

ENUMERATION

Of the Sites of Ancient Towns and Monuments of Kentucky, &c.

The following Catalogue contains the first general account ever published of the ancient monuments hitherto discovered in this State, the greatest part of which have been discovered, surveyed, drawn, and described by myself in my large manuscript work on the antiquities of Kentucky, which has nearly 100 maps and views. As a further illustration of the subject, I add a short account of the monuments of the surrounding States, so intimately connected with ours. They are all very ancient except these marked L. which appear to be less ancient (from 100 to 1000 years) and to belong to the Lenapian nations.

[list of monuments]

The actual number of ancient seats of population or sites already ascertained by me, in North America, amount therefore to 541, of which 393 out of Kentucky, and 148 in Kentucky, while the ancient monuments found in those sites amount already to 1830, of which 505 in Kentucky and 1325 out of it.

If by my researches during 4 years, I have been able thus to increase the knowledge of the number of ancient sites and monuments in the single State of Kentucky, from 25 sites to 148, and from 100 monuments to 505: it is very probable that when equal industry will be exercised in the other States, that number will be more than doubled; since I entertain no doubt that 1000 sites and 4000 monuments exist still in the United States, exclusive of Mexico, besides the small burrows, and those that have been destroyed.

II. APPENDIX

CATALOGUE

Of the Authors and Works consulted.

[authors and works]
