George Wilson1 to Arthur St. Clair.
My Dear Capt. —I am Sorey that the first Letter I ever under
took to Write you should Contain a Detail of a Grievance so Dis
agreeable tomc; Wars of any Cind are not agreable to aney Person
Posesed of ye proper feelings of Humanity, But more Especially
intestin Broyls 2 I no soouer Returned Home from Court'' than I
Found papers containing the Resolves, as they Called them, of ye
1The writer of this letter—George Wilson, generally known West of the
mountains, at that date, as Colonel Wilson —was one of the justices of Bed
ford county, Pennsylvania, nominated and autherized by the Governor, for
the time being, by a commission under the broad seal of the Province." He
was not a man learned in the law,'' but was, nevertheless, a prominent and
influential citizen. He was afterward, upon the erection of Westmoreland
county, appointed one of its trustees for the purpose of "fixing a place for
building a Court-House [and] a Coal [jail] for the said county." He was,
also, made one of its justices of the peace, having received his first appoint
ment February 27, 1773, and a second one the 11th of January, 1774. Col
onel Wilson, at one time, resided at Staunton, Virginia, and moved thence to
Pennsylvania. He succeeded Maekay as Colonel of the Eighth Pennsyl
vania Regiment. Died at Quibbletown, New Jersey, in the spring of 1777.
2 The "intestin Broyls" referred to are the boundary troubles between
Pennsylvania and Virginia, the history and progress of which will hereafter
more fully be shown.
2The first court of quarter sessions of the peace and juil delivery was
beld in Bedford, April 16, 1771, before William Proctor, Jr., Robert Cluggage,
Robert Hanna, William Lochry, William McConnell, and the author
of this letter—George Wilson. The Court had the high-sounding title of
"Justices of our Lord the King, to hear and determine divers felonies and
misdemeanors committed in Bedford county."
17 (257)

inhabitants to ye Westward of ye Laurall hills 1 ware handing fast
abowt amongst ye people, in which amongst ye rest Was one that
they Were Resolved to appose Everey of Pens Laws as they Called
them, Except Felonious actions, at ye Risque of Life, under the
peuelty of fiftey pounds, to be Recovourcd or Leveyed By them
selves off ye Estates of ye failure.' The first of them I found
Hardey anugh to offer it in publick, I emeditly ordred into Custotey,
on which a large number Ware asembled as Was Seposed to Resque
The Prisonar. I indavoured, By all ye Reason I was Capable of,
to Convince them of the ill Consequences that would of Conse
quence attend such a Rebellion, Hapely Gained on the people to
Consent to Relinquish their Resolves to Burn the Peper they had
Signed—When their Forman saw that the Arms of His Centrie,
that as hec said Hec had thrown himself into would not Resque
him By force, hce Catched up his Rifle, Which Was Well Lodcd,
Jumped out of Dors, swore if aney man Cam nigh him bee
Would put What Was in his throo them; the Person that Had him
in Custody Called for asistance in ye Kings name, and in pirtickelaur
Comanded my self, I told him I was a Subject was not fit to
Comand if not Willing to obey, on which I watched his eye untilI I
saw a Chance, Sprang in on him Sezed the Rifle by ye Muzleand
held him, So as he Could not Shoot mec, untill more help Got in to
my asistance, on which I Disarmed him Broke his Rifle to peeses.
I Res d a Sore Bruze on one of my arms By a punch of ye Gun in
ye Struglc—Then put him under a Strong Guard, Told them the
Laws of their Contrie was stronger then the Hardiest Puffin amongst
them.
I found it neccsery on their Complyance& altering their Resolves,
and his promising to Give him self no more trouble in the affair, as
1The Laurel Hill is a mountainous range in the South-western part of
Pennsylvania. At the Yougliiogheny liiver going North, it becomes (_ hostnut
Kidge, and the range east of it receives the name of Laurel Hill. Col
onel Wilson s home was in what is now Fayette county.
2 I understand by Captain John Haden, the bearer of this, that there is
an agreement entered into by a number of the inhabitants of Monongahela
and Redstone. They have entered into a bond or article of agreement, to
join and keep off all officers of the law, under a penalty of fifty [pounds],
to be forfeited by the party refusing to join against all officers whatsoever."
—Extract from a Letter written at Stewart s Crossings,'' in what was then
Bedford county, August 9, 1771. The explanation of this unusual determina
tion of the people of that section is, they were living in disputed territory
claimed by both Virginia and Pennsylvania.

hee found that the people Ware not as hartley as hoc Expected
them to be, to Kelece him on his promise of Good Behavour.
I am affraid Bum Who Have Been too much Countenanced By
their King and ye province of Pensallvania are (Irate aceesoreys
to those factions, God Knows where they May Eind. I have, in
my Little time in Life, taken the oath of Alegence to His Majestie
seven times, allways Did it with ye Consent of my Whole
Heart, am Determined in my proper place to Seport the Con
tents thereof to ye outmost of my power, as I look on it as my Duty
to Let those things be known to Government, my acquaintance
at Philadelphia is none. I Expect you will Communieat those
things to them, that the Wisdom of Government may provide
Remedies in time, as there are numbers in the Lowr parts of ower
Settlement still increasing ye faction.
It givs mce Grate Pleasure that my nighbours are Determined
not to Joyn in the faction, I Hope the Difiaut Majestrits in this
side ye Mountains will use their influence to Discorago it. I under
stand Grate thrates are made against mee in partikolaur if possible
to intimidate mee With fear, allso against the Sherifs Con
stables, all Ministers of Justice, But I Hope the Laws, ye Bullworks
of ower nation, will be Seported in Spight of those Low Lifed
trifling Raskells.
Give my Complements to Mr. George Wood 1 Mr. Dohertey2
Mr. Frazor 3 and Except of myn to your Self.
Sprinohill Township, Aug t 14th, 1771.
1George Woods, a resident of Bedford, was, lit that date, a Justice of the
Peace, bis commission bearing date March 11, 1771. He was re-appointed
February 27, 1773, and was a member of the Assembly for that year. He
served as Treasurer of his county in 1773-4.
2Bernard Dougherty, a prominent citizen of Bedford, was one of the
Justices of the Pence for Cumberland county when the territory included
nil of what was afterward the county of Bedford —his commission ns such
bearing date May 23, 1770. At the date of Mr. Wilson s letter, he wus one
of the Justices of his county—receiving his appointment March 11, 1771.
He was reappointed Febnay 27, 1773, and was a member of the Assembly
for the years 1774 and 1775.
2John Frazer left Fort Cumbeiland about the year 1758, and came to the
fort at Raystown, now Bedford. He erected the first house outside the
Blockade, and his son William was the first white child born outside the
fort. This was in 1759. At the date of Colonel Wilson s letter, the father
was a Justice of the. Peace for Bedford, his appointment dating March 11,
1771. He was re-commissioned February 27, 1773.
This was one of the original townships of Bedford county; the others
were Ayr, Bedford, Cumberland, Banco, Dublin, Colerain, Brother s Val
2f,
Arthur St. Clair to JosErn Shippen, Jr 1
Bedford, Scpfr 24</t, 1771.
Sir:—I am favored with yours of the 22d of August inclosing
twelve Tavern Licenses; mine to you in April I find has miscarried.
I had a particular reason for wishing that letter safe, but I hope
soon to have the pleasure of seeing you in person.
I am sorry the papers I now enclose will contradict the favorable
account I have given of our county indeed I am apprehensive
there will be a great deal of trouble on our frontier. A ridiculous
story that Mr. Cressap2 has spread with much industry that this
Province did not extend beyond the Alleghany Mountain, but that all
to the westward of it was King s Land, has taken great hold of the
people, and together with Mr. Croghan s claims and surveys2 has put
ley, Fairfield, Mt. Pleasant, Hempfield, Pitt, Tyrone, Kosstrevor, Arm
strong, and Tullileaguc. Spring Hill took in a large part of what is now
Fayette county, the whole of Greene, and a portion of Washington.
1 "'Jd January, 1762. Memorandum. This day the Governor executed a
Commission appointing Mr. Joseph Shippen, Junior. Secretary and Clerk of
the Council, for the Province of Pennsylvania, etc."
"November the 1st, 176?•. Mr. Joseph Shippen. Junior, being continued
Provincial Secretary and Clerk of the Council, etc."
Thursday, 17th October, 1771. The Governor informed the Board that
he continued Mr. Joseph Shippen, Jun r, in the office of Provincial Secre
tary and Clerk i f the Council, etc.'' —Extracts /ram the Minutes o/ the (Pa.)
Provincial. Council.
'1 Micheal Cresap, a well-known citizen, at that time, of Old Town, Mary
land, which place was generally called Cresap s," and is so markeJ on some
of the maps of that period. He was frequently west of the mountains. He
was a native of the State in which he lived. The use of his name (though
wrongfully) in the celebrated appeal of Logan, the Mingo chief, has made
it familiar to' every school-boy.
•George Croghan (pronounced Crohen) was a native of Ireland. He first
settled upon the Susquehanna, where as early as 1746, he was engaged in
the Indian trade. Ho afterward was agent for Pennsylvania among the In
dians upon the Ohio and tributaries. He erected n fort at the site of the
present Shirleysburg, Huntingdon county Pennsylvania. Early in the
French War, he was a captain but, in 17JI5, he threw up his commission,
and repaired to Sir William Johnson, who appointed him a deputy Indian
agent of the Pennsylvania and Ohio Indians. After Pontiae s War, he
lived at his settlement upon the east side of the Alleghany river, four miles
above Pittsburgh, where, as Sir William s deputy, he continued very effi
cient. Here Washington visited him on the 19th of October, 1770; and
here he still resided at date of this letter.
Croghan s "claims and surveys'' were all in the vicinity of Pittsburgh.
Our friend, Mr. Croghan," said the Six Nations of Indians at a treaty held

numbers in a very doubtful situation, and will probably make it very
difficult to carry the laws into execution I wish it may not end
in a regulating scheme like what was lately in Carolina, certain it
will be impossible to collect the taxes in some parts of that coun
try. You will see by Col. AVilson s Letter 1 that he has been active
in suppressing a commotion in his neighborhood, and I hope you
will be so good to represent it to the Council2 in its proper light. There have lately been two Indians murdered near Fort Pitt;s the
person who committed it is now in our jail but denies the fact—
but he had owned it to several which with other circumstances I
hope will be sufficient to convict him. The Judges I doubt will not
be very fond of coming here to try him. I had the fellow sent to
Fort Pitt and confined there a few days, that the Indians might see
him and know that we were willing to do them justice, and went
up myself to his examination before them they seemed to be
pleased with it, but it is hard to tell what they really think.
I am very glad to hear of Mr. Per n's' safe arrival in England in
so short a time, and hope to hear soon of the Governor s arrival
here 5
I beg my Compliments to Mrs. Shippen.
V t
at Fort Stanwix (Rome, in the State of New York), in 1768, long ago i;ot
a deed for lands from lis, which may now be taken into Mr. Perm s land;"
and it was so taken. Notwithstanding this, Mr. Croghun was, at the writing
of this letter, "making out patents to such persons as will buy of him"
These facts, with Crosap s report that Pennsylvania did not extend beyond
the Alleghany Mountain," made it difficult, as the sequel shows, "to carry
the laws into execution," as St. Clair quaintly expresses it.
1 By this it will be seen that the previous letter—Wilson to St. Clair—was
forwarded to Shippen.
2The Provincial Council of Pennsylvania; of which body Mr. Shippen
was Clerk, as before noticed.
3 Pittsburgh. The fort, at this date, had a small British garrison.
'John Penn. "A Proclamation. Whereas, The Honourable Thomas'
Penn, and Richard Penn, Esquires, true and absolute proprietaries and Gov
ernors in Chief of the Province of Pennsylvania, and Counties of New
Castle, Kent, and Sussex, on Delaware, have been pleased, by their com
mission, under their hands and stals, bearing date the twenty-fourth day of
August last [176'.)] to constitute and rc-appoint me to be their LieutenantGovernor
of the said Province and Counties. John Penn."
5 Richard Penn was commissioned Lieutenant-Governor the 16th day July,
1771, by Thomas Penn and John Penn, which was approved by the King
August 16th following; but this fact was not known to St. Clair when his
letter was written hence his "hope to hear coon of the Governor s [John
Penn sJ arrival here [that is, in Pennsylvania]."

The recommendation I will send the first opportunity after I see
a few of the magistrates together.
Geo. Croghan to Arthur St. Clair.
June the 4th, 1772.
Dear Sir:—Your feaver of the 2d was Delivered me by Mr.
Eapy [Espy] Mr. Galbreath I observe the Contents, Mr. Collens
Did Write me Some Time ago, I Inclose me ye Copy of a
Leter from Coll. Crisap to ye Inhabitance there, Desier d my
opinion thereon, in my answer I tould him that my Leters from
England Did menshon that the Western bounds of Pensylvania
Could Nott Come any Distance on this Side ye Hills, that I made
No Doubt but Coll. Cresaps had been Well Inform d before he wrote
that Lcter, that is my own opinion, how farr itt may be Consistant
with the Good of Society for the King s Subjects to be under
the Regulation of Laws, Every one will agree, any Law is beter
than No Law, Butt when Laws are administered with two much
Severity wh have been two often Don fer three years past, it be
comes oppressife and unjust.
As I Conceave yr Leter and Infermation as an act of frendshipe,
that I have the highest opinion of yr upright Just Sence of
those maters, I Write you with freedom, as we are on this topect,
pray why did Not the proprietors prevent all those Disputes, by ascertaing
thire bounds, I will Submitt itt to yr Self how farr itt is
Cousistaut with the prinseples of Justice, forr thire agents to open
an ofese to dispose of Lands so Curcomstanced as to admitt of Dis
pute, without proscribing themselves any Limites, when they must
well Remember that itts Nott a Great Number of Years Sence the
aSembly Refused to build a Trading house or fort beer 1 aLcdging
itt to be out of Mr. Penn s Grant, after that ye Same aSembly
Refused Granting mony for the King s use, to aSist in the Reduc
tion of Fort Du quasne 2 I Dont Know that Ever Mr. Penn Tuck
any meshurs. Sence that Time to ascertain his bounds, or make itt
Known to the publick, as to any Right that Pensylvania has to
1 "Refused to build a Trading house or fort boor; that is, at the site of
the present city of Pittsburgh.
2 Fort I)u quasne; t. e., Fort Puquesne—the post, at what is now Pitts
burgh, built by the French, and nearly destroyed by them upon the arrival,
in 17')8, of General Forbes' army. Fort Pitt was afterward erected upon
the site.

have a Duridiction over ye King s Subjects Till the Limits of the
province is Ascertain d, as many of ye Subjects Comc from Veginea
Maryland, Settled under ye Ohio Company 1 those Calonya
has as Good pretensions as Pcnsylvania, and as to Extending ye
Line by Dixon-' beyond ye End of Maryland 3 its to well know that
was Nott Don by authority to Determine anything:' Considering
all those Curcomstances, I may Venture to say you will be of opin
ion that if any objections be made to the Laws or Taxes itt will be
Intirly oweing to ye meshurs Taken by Pensylvania in Not acertaining
the True Limits of thire Durediction, and publishing itt to the
peple.
I Can Truly Say, that I have Neaver advised any person to use
a Shereffe or Civil officer of the province, all such as have ask d
my opinion on these maters which I aShure you is butt very few,
1The Ohio Company was organized in 1748. Its members resided in
Marylund and Virginia, with nn associate in London—fourteen persons in
all. Its object was the settling of wild lands west of the Alleghany moun
tains and trade with the Indians. Its members obtained a grant of five
hundred thousand acres of land from the Crown, to be chiefly taken on the
south side of the Ohio River, between the Monongahela and Kanawha. The
Revolution put an end to the existence of the company.
2In August, 1763, Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon, of London, Eng
land, were selected by Lord Baltimore and the Penus to complete the boun
dary line between the provinces of Maryland and Pennsylvania. They
were both eminent suryeyoi-6. The line they run (which extended further
westward than the northwest corner of Maryland) has received Iheir names
—Mason and Dixon s line; figuratively, the dividing line between the
northern an 1 southern States of the Union. The work of Mason and Dixon
began late in the year 1763, and ended in October, 17U7.
Mr. Croghan means-by the words, l; beyond ye End of Maryland," to the
westward of the north-west corner of Maryland.
4That is, the running of the boundary line beyond the northwest corner
of Maryland was not done by autherity to determine any thing as between
I eiwsyl va nia mid Virginia. This point by Mr. Croghan was, certainly, well
taken, as Virginia took no part in the running of the line. As the back
line" between Maryland and Virginia had not been determined, it was to the
interest of the former province that Mason and Dixon should continue west
beyond the mountains, lor the reason that just how far westward her territory
extended had not been settled. Her back line" was, at that period n sub
ject of controversy between the provinces, depending upon the question of
the ligation of the 'first fountain of the Potomac;" as the line was defined
to be a meridian, extending Irom that point to the southern boundary line
of Pennsylvania. The province of Virginia claimed all the territory west
of the head of the south brunch, while Maryland insisted that her territory
extended as far west as the head of the north branch.

I have advised them to Comply. But with Respect to Lands or
Taxes I wili give you my opinion, which is, that I think the peple
are fools if they Dout Keep thire mony till they are fully satisfy d
that thire property is Shure, that they are under the Durediction
of Pennsylvania, when I have the Pleshur of Seeing you we may
talk more on this Subject, I will Shoe you the Copy of my Leter
to Mr. Tilghmau1 on those Subjects Last August, which you will
find fair open, for tho' I know I am much blam d by the agents
other officers of Goverment, yet I aShure you I have very Litle
Connections or Intercourse with any of the Setlers in this Cuntry.
R. L. Hooper, Jr.,2 to Arthur St. Clair.
Fort Pitt, July 10th, 1772.
Dear Sir:—I think it will be best todelay doing any thing about
the lot we were talking of, till I have the pleasure of seeing you
again. Two days ago I was informed of the determined resolution
of a considerable number of people in the Redstone settlement 3 to
oppose the jurisdiction of your court in that part of the country,
till the western bounds of Pennsylvania are run, and I apprehend the
measure will be productive of bad consequences, tho' it may bc the
means of having that boundary sooner established than it other
wise would be. It does not become me to speak freely of this mat
ter, but you know my sentiments respecting the western bounds of
Pennsylvania, and I do assure you that no part of this deip laid i-cheme
was communicated to me till within these two days past, and I hope
you will believe that I have not been instrumental in promoting an af
fair, which, if carried into execution, will be productive of many bad
consequences. If you hear me censured by any worthy persons, on
the score of friendship, I request you will declare my sentiments,
but don t shew this letter, as you know how I am circumstanced. I
shall be glad to hear from you.
1James Tilghman, member of the Provincial Council of Pennsylvania.
2 Robert Lettis Hooper, Jr.; was, afterward, during the Revolution, a
Deputy Quartermaster-General.
3 The locality of what is now Brownsville and vicinity, in Fayctto county,
Pennsylvania.

Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shitten, Jr.
Bedford, My 18th, 1772.
Sir:—A day or two ago a petition in the name of the people liv
ing to the westward of the Laurel Hill, signed by two hundred and
twenty persons, was presented to our court. It charged the Gov
ernment and the officers of the court with great oppression and
injustice and prayed that directions might be given to the sher
iffs to serve no more process in that country, as they apprehended
it was not in Pennsylvania.
You will remember that I formerly acquainted you that asso
ciations were forming to oppose the jurisdiction of the Province.
I then thought they would have died away, but they appear now
to be coming to such a head as threatens very dangerous conse
quences something more than the settlement of the western
boundary is certainly aimed at, tho' that is the pretense held forth
to draw in the people. I wish it may not be a design to throw the
whole Province into confusion, and may not turn out a second Car
olina affair.
Col. Cresap appears openly to be a prime mover in this matter,
as you will see by the inclosed copy of his seditious letter, for
warded to me by Col. Wilson, and Mr. Croghan is strongly sus
pected of giving it much encouragement privately. Our sheriff
lately informed me he had seen a letter of his to the people about
Red Stone, reflecting much on the Government, full of scurrility
against all the officers, and advising them to treat sheriffs or con
stables in such maimer as the worst of men would deserve. I took
the liberty to write to him about it, and remonstrated freely on the
consequences of such conduct. I inclose his answer to me 1 he
denies indeed the advising any act of violence, but in such a man
ner as seems to say acts of violence would be justifiable, and it is
certain that specious kind of stuff with which it is filled, is daily
dealt out to the people in great abundance, by the emissary of a
party, the members of which I don t know.
A gentleman who is unfortunately connected with them writes
me from Fort Pitt, the 11th inst., thus: "It does not become me
to speak freely of this matter, but you know my sentiments re
specting the western bounds of Pennsylvania, and I do assure you
that no part of this (lrop laid scheme was communicated to me till
within these two days past, and I hope you will believe that I have
JSee Croghan s letter to St. Clair, June 4, 1772, ante.
266 St. Clair Papers.
not been instrumental in promoting an affair which, if carried into
execution, will be productive of many bad consequences." 1 I can
not scud his letter as he writes to me in confidence, and requests
me not to shew it on account of his dependent situation.
The petition was presented by Mr. Brent, a gentleman from
Maryland, who practices in our county. He offered nothing in sup
port of it, but the uncertainty where Pennsylvania ends, and the
hardship it was on people to live under authority that was perhaps
usurped. He was answered by Mr. Wilson, and I assure you the
Proprietaries and the people are very much obliged to him. In a
very handsome speech of about an hour he opened the Constitution
of the Province, compared it with that of the neighboring Colo
nies, and pointed out where it excelled them. He explained to the
people the conduct of the Proprietaries in granting their lands
their great indulgence to settlers their singular lenity to their
tenants, and the peculiar mildness of the whole system of their
Government, and concluded with showing to them how fatal to
themselves the granting their request must prove. I think it was
lucky it was spoken so publicly, as many people from the doubt
ful part of the country were present, and seemed so pleased with
the conduct of the court in rejecting the petition.
If I might trouble you with a conjecture, I would say some peo
ple in Philadelphia are at the bottom of all these disturbances.
A certain ambitious set who would not scruple to wade to power
thro' the blood of their fellow citizens, have still a change of Gov
ernment in view by theiremissaries they may embroil the Province,
whilst at the same time, by their influence on a certain party in
Assembly, the hands of Government may be so weakened, that
order can not soon be restored, but this is all conjecture, and I am
no politician but certain I am messengers and expresses pass and
repass betwixt Philadelphia and Fort Pitt too frequently for any pri
vate transaction to bear the expense.
It were to be wished that the boundary was fixed and so all pre
tense taken away but if there are no orders to that purpose, per
haps it might answer a good end to divide this county and fix the
county town at Fort Pitt. I believe it is beyond a doubt the
Province will extend beyond it, and the people would perhaps think
in this manner that the 1 roprietaries would not take that step with
out being absolutely certain.
I don t know if it was the intention of the Governor, the special
1See preceding letlcr, H. L. Hooper to St. Clair, July 11, 1772.

commission of Oyer and Terminer, etc., should have extended fur
ther than for the trial of offenses that were then committed if it
was his intention it should extend farther, the gentlemen to whom
it was directed mistook, and by not adjourning have suffered it to
determine. We have a bill found for burglary which will oblige
the judges to come up, or give you the trouble of forwarding a
new commission.
I have other matters to write about, but I am fatigued with the
hurry of the court, which has been a busy one and will take a more
leisure opportunity; what I have wrote about I thought required to
be communicated immediately.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shippen, Jr.
[No Date.] 1
Sir:—Since I last wrote to you I have made a little excursion
into the country of our rioters, and find that the moderation of our
court has very much disappointed them. It seems the design of
the petition I mentioned in my last was, to have provoked the
court to have committed the attorney, and some of the petitioners
who were present, which was to have served as declaration of war,
a considerable number having engaged immediately to proceed to
Bedford, break the jail, and set them at liberty. Luckily, fear or
shame got the better of the worthy attorney, (who is a grandson
by marriage of old Cressap,) and the privileges of the Province were
so clearly pointed out by Mr. Wilson, that I trust it has had a good
effect, a great many people having since paid their taxes that had
before refused; however, there is still a mmi bar of people, ahetted
chiefly by Mr. Croghan, that refuse to submit to the jurisdiction of
this Province, and very lately the sheriff has been very ill treated
by a number of them about twelve waylaid him, and came upon
him and one of his deputies stark naked, and threatened to put them
both to immediate death, but after much abuse they consented to
let them go that time, but swore in the most dreadful manner, that
if they ever returned to attempt to serve process, they would sacri
fice them or follow them to their own houses and put them to the
most cruel death. The sheriff knew several of them, particularly
Abraham Tee Harden and William Tee Garden, the Younger, who
1 Although this letter is without dnte, the context shows it to have been
written shortly after the one to Shippen, of July 18, 1772—the last one
given.

are the ringleaders of this gang of villains, John Death, Andrew
Gudgell and Michal Cock they were all well armed with guns,
tomahawks, pistols and clubs and the sheriff is of opinion that
only for a pocket pistol which he produced he would certainly
have met with extreme ill usa^o if he had escaped with his life.
I have said these people are chiefly abetted by Mr. Croghan, and
I think I have reason to say s:i; for no longer ago than Friday last,
the collector and constable whom he had called to his assistance to
levy (Mr. Croghan s) his taxes, were drove off by his people, and
that Mr. Croghan himself threatened to put any or all of them td
death if they attempted to touch any of his effects, for that he was
not within the Province by thirty miles.
This will be handed you by William Lochry 1 Esqr., a magistrate
of this county, and treasurer. You will find him an intelligent
man, and can give you any further information about matters in
this part of the country. I suppose he will be desirous to wait upon
the Governor I will be obliged to you if you will please to intro
duce him however, he is a plain, honest man, and allowances must
be made for his address. I intend soon to have the pleasure of
seeing you, and am, etc.
Bernard Dougherty to Arthur St. Clair.
Bedford Augwst 18th, 1772.
Dr. Sir: —Having been in town yesterday I wrote you a few
hasty lines from thence. I remember to have mentioned that my
conduct with respect to the ensuing election should in some measure
be greatly dependent on the part you d act I can (with great sin
cerity) assure you, that 'twas neither to pay you a compliment, nor
to make you believe I did s:i, that I have expressed this manner.
It is entirely in consideration of the duty I owed myself, and the
friendship I always possessed for you (friendship that did not con
sist in professions only, and wanted p iwer, not will, to make it
truly serviceable) that I deal thus candidly with you; Thomp
son 1 having sp:ikc to me, has resolved not to oppose him, and I
am (and have always been) resolved not to appear on the opposite
side you would be on; therefore if you offer yourself for assembly1
"William Lochry; was afterward, upon the erection of Westmoreland,
commissioned a ju.-tico of the peace for that county.
1 William Thempson. He was elected to the Assembly from Bedford
county in 1771, and reelec ed in 1772.

man, I will decline poling for the sheriff s office1 for the reasons
above mentioned. If I do pole, I am not at all sanguine in my ex
pectations, but so resolved as neither to be joyous nor displeased at
either gaining or losing the election. I request you will let me
know as soon as possible what part you will take, and assure you
that (notwithstanding the many representations that have been
made to me of your having injured me in the most tender part) I
shall not appear against your interest.
Best compliments to Mrs. St. Clair and love to your little
family.
jEneas Mackay to Arthur St. Clair.
Fittsburcih, 3rd March, 1773.
Dear Sir:—Your esteemed favor dated Philada., the 12th ulto.,
I have had the pleasure of receiving. Every body up this way are
well satisfied there is a county granted on this side of the hills 2
altho' I fiud every body else as well as myself, observes with infinite
concern, that the point in question is not attended with so favor
able circumstance as wo at this place had reason to expect, from the
nature of things. I can not but express my surprise at the point
determined in favor of the courts of law first sitting at Raima s. 3
Pray may I ask you the question, Where is the eouvcniency for
transacting business on these occasions, as there is neither houses,
tables, nor chairs? Certainly the people must sit at the roots of
trees and stumps and in case of rain the lawyers' books and papers
must be exposed to the weather, yet to no purpose, as they can not
presume to write. Consequently, nothing can be done but that of
revising fees, by which means every body (the lawyers, only, ex1
John Proctor was elected sheriff of Bedford county for 1771-2 Jumcs
Piper lor 1773-5.
"Westmoreland county. It was taken from Bedford county by act of the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania, February 26, 1773. It lay west of the
Laurel Hill, and included the whole of tio south-west corner of Pennsyl
vania, as claimed by that Province; but a large portion was claimed by Vir
ginia as being in Augusta county ^Eneas Mackay, the writer of this letter
to St. Clair was one of the sixteen justices appointed for the new county,
February 27, 1773. Mr. Mackay was reappointed January 11, 1771. llo
resided in Pittsburgh.
••'Ilanna s," so called because of its being the residence of Robert Ilannn,
the fir-it Better, was on the "old Forbes road,'' a little over thirty miles cast
of Pi tsburgh, and about three miles northeast of the present Greensburg,
county-town of "Westmoreland. It wus better known as Hannastown.

ceptctl) going to or attending court, must be sufferers. No doubt but
Mr. Irwin l and a few more of his party, may find their interest in
this glaring stretch of partiality, yet we, at this place, in particular,
are too much interested to look over such proceeding in silence.
The whole inhabitants exclaim against the steps already taken to
the injury of the county yet in its infancy, and that too, before it
got its eyes or tongue to speak for itself.
My dear friend, if I had as much to say among the great as you,
I would declare it as my opinion that it would be absolutely neces
sary that the commissioners2 should be nominated in Philada., by
which means I think we could not fail to have the point in question
carried in our favor; whereas, should they be appointed up this
way, it is ten to one, if Joe Irwin and his associates will not prevail.
I am sorry for our disappointment in our hopes of being indulged
with a small garrison at this place, but in failure of that, nothing
could afford me greater satisfaction than the prospect of having you,
my friend, my neighbor at this place. This I will look for now
every day, and if you will send me word when you will set of from
Ligonier I will meet you half way and perhaps a Divine and another
friend to show you the way up here. As to Ross, he seldom speaks
as he thinks—for my part I therefore pay but little regard to his
declarations.
The peoplc of this place take great umbrage at the very thoughts
of being disappointed of the county town s not taking place here at
once, and are, to a man, willing to come to any measure or charges,
in order, if possible to frustrate the intrigues carried on by a certain
party. I think we can not exert ourselves too much on this occa
sion, and therefore would be very glad to receive your opinion of the
affiiir and your advice in regard to the most intelligible steps to be
pursued in the first setting off.
I would be exceeding glad how soon other affairs could admit of
your coming up here, by which means a plan might be concerted,
that in my opinion could scarcely fail of succeeding to our wish.
I daily inquire after the welfare of your family, and have the
pleasure of informing you that Mrs. St. Clair and the children are
well and in good health.
•Joseph Erwin, a resident of the Hanna settlement.
2 By "commissioners," Mr. Mnckay meant the trustees of Westmoreland
soon to be appointed —four in all.

Joseph Shippen, Jr., to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, 3rd August, 1773.
Dear Sir:—I received your favor of the 12th ujto. by Mr. Devx.
Smith 1 inclosing a letter from Mr. Mackay since which the Gov
ernor has been out of town, and I have not as yet had an oppor
tunity of acquainting him with the necessity there appears for
another magistrate at Pittsburgh, and with your recommendation of
Mr. D. Smith 1 but I shall take the first proper occasion of doing
it. We have just received news by the June packet that Mr.
John Peun is reappointed to the Government of this Province, which
will occasion the postponing of that and other business, except com
mon matters, of course, until the new Governor s arrival, as he is
expected so soon as the latter end of this month. He is to embark
at Plymouth the 25th of June, or 1st of July at fartherest, in a
large India ship for New York. A few days after the date of my
letter to you of the 15th May came to hand ycur recommendation
as Clerk of the Peace. The fees on the commission you paid, when
you received your other Commissions. The land I mentioned to
you in my last letter adjoins and lies below lands of Mathew
Kogers but I shall defer thoughts of disposing of it for the reasons
you give me. The reports you mention about blank warrants are
absolutely false, and the person who first propagated the story by
pretending he was possessed of a number of them, has confessed
before witnesses that he never had any, either with the Governor s
name or his seal tho' he had made some few ignorant people be
lieve so, by producing to them blank copies, such as the Surveyor
General fills up and directs to the deputies. I beg my compliments
to Mrs. St. Clair.
cEneas Mackay to Arthur St. Clair.
Pittsburg, lltt January, 1774.
Dear Sir —Here inclosed you will find a copy of Doctor Con
1 Devereux Smith, of Pittsburgh, was an early settler in the West, and a
prominent citizen. He was appointed one of the justices of the peace for
Westmoreland county, January 11, 1774.
27-1 T tc St. Clair Papers.
olly s1 advertisement 2 put up at different parts of this village, the
6th instant, several copies of which were dispersed through the
country at the same time. This impudent piece will, I am much
afraid, be the means of creating great confusion and disturbance in
this county, unless proper steps will bc taken to check it in time.
The Doctor informs us that Lord Dunmore has made applicaiion
to General Haldiman for a Serjeant and twelve men, to be sent
immediately to this place, in order to support his authority 4
The captain has already appointed six or seven magistrates, among
whom are Major Smallman 6 John Campbell 6 and John Gibson
1 John Conolly, a native of Lancaster county, Pennsylvania, was bred a
physician hence, his usual title of Doctor, He was a nephew of George
Croghan, and, according to the testimony of George Washington, n very
sensible, intelligent man." Ho had traveled over a great deal of the Coun
try watered by the Ohio and its tributaries, and was well known west of
the mountains. It may lie here premised that he was selected by the Gov
ernor of Virginia to maintain possession of Fort Pitt, as well as Pitt bur^h
and its dependencies, lor that Colony, and to put the militia and other Vir
ginia laws in force there, as against these of Pennsylvania.
2The Advertisement was as follows: "Whereas, his Excellency John,
Earl of Dunmore, Governor-in-Chief and Captain General of the Colony
and Dominion of Virginia, and Vice Admiral of the same, has been pleased
to nominate and appoint me Captain, Commandant of the Militia of Pitts
burgh and its Dependencies, with Instructions to assure His Majesty s Sub
jects settled on the Western Waters, that having the greatest Regard to
their Prosperity and Interest, and convinced from their repeated Memorials
of the grievances of which they complain, that he purposes moving to the
House of Burgesses the Necessity of erecting a new County, to include
Pittsburgh, for the redress of your Complaints, and to take every other Step
that may tend to afford you that Justice for which you Sollicit. In order to
facilitate this desirable Circumstance, I hereby require and command all Per
sons in the Dependency of Pittsburg, to assemble themselves there as a
Militia on the "Joth Instant, at which Time I shall communicate other Mat
ters for the promotion of public Utility. Given under my Hand, this 1st
day of January, 1774. John Conolly."
3 John Murray, 4th Karl of Dunmore, one of the representative peers of
Scotland, was, at this date, as explained in Conolly s Advertisement, Gov
ernor of Virginia.
Major-General Frederick Haldiman was in command of the British army
in America, also Colonel of the 60th Foot. Fort Pitt had previously been
evacuated and dismantled.
'Thomas Smallman.
•Mr. Campbell was a resident of Pittsburgh, and, during the Revolution,
was captured by the Shawanese. This was in 1779.
7 Gibson was born in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, May 23, 1740. He received

the rest I have not heard their names yet. There is no doubt but
all the disaffected and vagabonds that before evaded law and jus
tice with so much art, will now flock in numbers to the captain s
standard, if not prevented in time, the consequence of which we
have just cause to dread. I hope to have the pleasure of seeing
you soon here. I think your presence is absolutely necessary at this
time.
P. S. I have been greatly concerned that it has been out of my
power to forward the inclosed to you sooner, owing to the badness
of the weather, and besides, was at a loss for a person whose
fidelity could be depended upon. Polly joins me in compliments
to Mrs. St. Clair and the children.
Since I wrote the above, Mr. Espy happened in company with
the new captain, to whom Espy said he thought the next court for
Westmoreland would be held at Pittsburg to which the captain
replied in a rage, damn him if he would not oppose it 1 from
which, and many other circumstances of the like kind, it appears
how determined he will be to carry his designs into execution.
It s thought here that 'tis all Colonel Croghan s intrigues.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph SinppEn, Jr.
Ligonier, January 12th, 1774.
Sir:—Late last night I received from Pittsburgh the inclosed
copy of an advertisement, which I think of so dangerous a tend
ency that I have forwarded it by express, and to prevent all danger
of delay, have sent my own clerk with it, that if possible I may
receive the Governor s 5 directions before the 25th.
classical education. He was an excellent scholar at the age of eighteen,
when he entered the service. His first campaign was under General Forbes,
in the expedition of the latter to the Ohio in 1758. He then settled at Pitts
burgh as a trader. Upon the breaking out of the war with the Indians, in
1763, Gibson whs taken prisoner by the savages, but was given up in 1764
to Col. Bouquet, when he resumed his occupation of trading with the dif
ferent tribes beyond the Ohio, and was thus employed at the commencement
of 1774.
1That is, he (Conolly) would oppose the sitting of the Westmoreland
Court at Pittsburgh.
1On the 3th of June, 1773, Richard Penn, "Lieutenant, etc,'' was suc
ceeded by John Penn as Deputy or Lieutenant-Governor of the Province
"f Pennsylvania." by the "Royal Allowance and Approbation" of the
King. He was inaugurated in Philadelphia, with much ceremony, August
la

Should it so happen that Mr. Hoofnagle l can not return in time,
but which he will do if it be possible, what occurs to me is previous
to the day appointed for the Assembly 5 to demand such security of
Mr. Conolly for his good behavior as he will not be able to pro
cure, and in consequence to have him committed to direct the sher
iff3 to have a sufficient number of such as can be depended upon,
to protect the jail, should a rescue be attempted, which perhaps
may be the case, and to write to the magistrates 1 some to attend at
the jail, and some at Pittsburgh.
I have written to Mr. Wilson for his counsel on this thought, and
to know if there is any other legal way of securing Mr. Conolly,
and to desire he would suggest any other method to preserve the
peace of the county, which will certainly be greatly endangered.
I need not press you to dispatch Mr. Hoofnagle the shortness of
the time is too evident suffer me, however, to hint that this ser
vice is foreign to his engagements with me.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shtppen, Jr.
Ligonier, January 15, 1774.
Sir —This will be delivered by Mr. Hanna, one of the trustees
for Westmoreland county 5 To some management of his I believe,
the opposition to fixing the county town at Pittsburgh is chiefly
owing-—it is his interest it should continue where the law has fixed
the courts, pro tempore he lives there used to keep public house
30th. He remained in office until after the commencement of the Revolu
tion.
1Michael Huffnagle was, subsequently, judge of the Common Pleas of
Westmoreland county, and held several other offices. He was somewhat of a
distinguishea character west of the mountains during the Revolution. He
was, it will be noticed, at the date of this letter, St. Clair s clerk.
'1 Uy the Assembly," St. Clair has reference to the one proposed for the
25th of that month, by Conolly, and his advertisement.
2John Proctor.
'The magistrates of Westmoreland county, at that date, were William
Crawford, Arthur St. Clair, Thomas Gist, Alexander McKee, Robert Hanna,
William Lochry, George Wilson, William Thompson, ./Eneas Mackay, Jo
seph Spear, Alexander McLean, James Cavet, William Braeken, James
Pollock, Samuel Sloan, and Michael Rugh.
6 At the date of this letter, Robert Hanna was not only one of the trus
tees of Westmoreland county, but, also, one of its justices of the peace—
having been commissioned to the last-mentioned office February 27, 1773
The other trustees were Joseph Erwin, Samuel Sloan, and George Wilson.

there; and has now, on that expectation, rented his house at an
extravagant price. Erwin, another trustee, adjoins, and is also
public house keeper. A third trustee 1 lives in the neighborhood,
which always make a majority for continuing the courts at the pres
ent place. A passage in the law for erecting the county is, that the
courts shall be held in the foregoing place (the house of Robert
Hanna) till a court house and jail are built this puts it in their
power to continue there as long as they please—for a little manage
ment might prevent a court house and jail being built this twenty
years. This is explanation of a petition to the House, which was
sent down lately; it was begun and ended on the Friday of the
court week. An unexpected opportunity to Philadelphia offered
that day, by reason of which it is to the House only, and signed
but by a few people, but the few that have signed it are the princi
pal people and who acted more from their feelings for multitudes,
whom they saw suffering than from their own inconvenience. A
like petition to the Governor will soon be forwarded, which will be
countenanced, by, I am certain, five-sixths of the whole people.
Mr. Hoofnagle I hope will be almost home before you receive
this. I beg you will excuse inaccuracies as I wrote in the greatest
•Samuel Sloan. George Wilson, it will be remembered, resided in Spring
Hill township, in what is now Fayette county. On the 8th of October, pre
ceding the date of this letter, he wrote the Governor of Pennsylvania, John
Penn, as follows
"Honoured Sir —After Congratulating you on your Safe Arrivall to ye
Seate of your Govourment, I Beg Leave to acquaint you that Since ye Constetution
of ye New County of Westmoreland, We Who Ware appointed
Trustees Have Met twice in order to consult on Sum things Relative to ower
Duteys in that trust. I apprehend that it Was ye Sence of His Honour ye
Govournour and ye Asembley at ye time, that yo Courts Ware appointed to
Hold at ye Hows of Mr. Kobnrt Hannow, that they Should Hold there untill
the present unsettled State of ye Westrin Boundrey might be more per
fectly asertained, for Which Reason I could not Joyn With ye other trus
tees in Making a Report to your Honour, Which Report I presume is com
to Hand Beforo now. It Was My Advice that a Letter first should be sent
to your Honour to Know your Sence of ye mutter Whether it would be ad
visable (as there is a Goalo and a Sort of a Courthows in Which yo Coun
ties Busness may be Don in) To postpon the Fixing aney perticular place
for a Countey Seat for Sum time Longer untill at Least, We had your ad
vice in ye matter. But As They Rather chose to Make a Report, I Did not
Thinke proper to Joyn in that. I Gladly Would Do My Dutey for ye Best
Would be Sorey to Mistake it. I Would be Extremely Glad to know your
Sence of ye Matter am Sorrey to acquaint you of ye unhapey diferances
occasioned By Sum ill minded persons, As they Say By Reason of ye un
settled State of ye Westerin Bounderie. I am, etc."

hurry—Mr. Hanna holding his horse whilst I write. I will see you
early in the spring.
Governor Penn to Arthur St. Clatr.
Philadelphia, 20<A January, 1774.
Sir :—I am extremely obliged to you for your great attention to
the interest of this Government in transmitting, with so much dis
patch and care, the intelligence contained in your letter of the 12th
of this month, to Mr. Secretary Shippen, and the papers it in
closed.
I can not help being greatly surprised to find that Dr. Conolly
hath published au advertisement, asserting his appointment by
Lord Dunmore, Governor of Virginia, to act as Captain Commandant
of the Militia of Pittsburgh, and its dependencies and that in
consequence of such appointment, he had taken upon him to as
semble the people as a militia, under the Government of Virginia,
and to appoint magistrates of Pittsburgh.
As his Lordship must certainly know that the jurisdiction of
Pennsylvania hath been exercised at Fort Pitt, and in the neigh
borhood of it, for several years past, and hath not given me the
least intimation of any design to extend his Government there, I
am much inclined to conclude that Mr. Conolly hath, on this oc
casion, assumed powers which Lord Dunmore never gave him.
However, I shall, without loss of time, dispatch a messenger to
Williamsburg, with a letter to his Lordship 1 in order to obtain an
explanation of this very strange affair. In the mean time I would,
by all means, have you and the other magistrates of your county
assert the right of Pennsylvania, and protect the people in every
part within its known limits, as Fort Pitt3 most certainly is.
The meeting of a number of people under arms, in consequence
of Mr. Conolly s summons, will undoubtedly be an act of a crimi
nal nature, for which they may be indicted and punished, and
comes properly under the idea of an unlawful assembly, with an
intention to disturb the public peace you will, therefore, do right
in apprehending him and some of his principal partisans, after such
meeting, and holding them to reasonable security for their appear
ance at the next sessions, to answer for their conduct.
I expect the magistrates on this occasion, will do their duty with
1 See the letter following—Penn to Dunmore, dated January 31, 1774.
That Is, Pittsburgh. The two names were used by the people indiscrim
inately.

Spirit, in which they will be supported by the Government and if
any of Conolly s pretended magistrates shall presume to proceed ju
dicially within the known limits of the Province of Pennsylvania,
I desire that proper actions may be commenced by the party ag
grieved, not only against the officer who executes the process, but
the magistrate also under whose authority he shall act; and you
may be assured that such actions shall be prosecuted and supported
at the expense of this Government.
In order to strengthen the hands of the magistracy on this oc
casion, in the course of their duty, I send you a copy of the riot
Act made by the present Assembly, which has received my assent,
and will pass the seals before this comes to your hands, and ex
tends to all parts of the Province. But, as the execution of it may
be attended with the most serious consequences, the proceedings un
der it should be conducted with the utmost caution, and great care
must be taken to extend it only in such places as are certainly
within the limits of the Province, of which you can make the best
judgment of any body, by the share you had in running a line to
ascertain the situation of Fort Pitt 1
I have made an addition to the Bench of your county, and send
the commission for the new magistrates by this opportunity 2
I would have you get possession, if you can, of some of Conolly s
original advertisements.
Governor Penx to Lord Dunmore.
Philadelphia, 31st January 1774.
My Lord:—A few days ago I received by express, from the west
ern frontiers of this Province, the inclosed copy of an advertise
ment, lately set up at Pittsburgh and divers other places in that
quarter of the country, by one John Conolly, who has taken upon
him as Captain Commandant of the militia at Pittsburgh, and its de
pendencies, by virtue of your Lordship s commission as he says, to
command the people to meet him there as a militia on the 25th in
stant, and to exercise jurisdiction over them, as settlers under
your Government within the Dominion of Virginia.
1Concerning the efforts put forth previous to this date to determine the
southern and western limits of south-western Pennsylvania, mention is
hereafter made.
1 The additional magistrates commissioned were, Van Swearingen, Thomas
Scott, Alexander Ross, John Carnaehan, Andrew McKarlnnu, Oliver Miller,
Devereux Smith, and John Shepherd.

A step so sudden and unexpected could not but be matter of
great surprise to me, as well as very alarming to the inhabitants
of those parts, who have taken up, improved, and hitherto peace
ably enjoyed their lands under grants from the Proprietaries of
this Province.
Being, however, too well acquainted with your Lordship s char
acter to admit the least idea that you would countenance a measure
injurious to the rights of the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania or
which might have a tendency to raise disturbances within their
Province, I flatter myself that the laying before you a short state
ment of the limits of this Province, so far as regards the present
question and acquainting you with the steps which have been taken
to ascertain its western extent, and the situation of Pittsburgh, will
be abundantly sufficient to satisfy you that that place is, beyond
all doubt, within this Province.
The western extent of the Province of Pennsylvania, by the
Royal Grant, is five degrees of longitude from the river Dela
ware, which is its eastern boundary.
In the year 1768, an east and west line was run from Dela
ware, at the mouth of Cristiana Creek, to the crossing of Dunkard
Creek, a branch of the Monongahela, by Messieurs. Dixon and
Mason, two surveyors of distinction, who were sent over from
England to run the division line between Maryland and Pennsyl
vania. These artists fixed the latitude and extent of that line
with the utmost exactness and precision, to the satisfaction of the
Commissioners on both sides 1 From the 233d mile stone on this
line, a north line hath been since carefully run and measured to
the Ohio, and from thence up to Fort Pitt the several courses of
the river have been taken with all possible care. From the line
of Dixon and Mason to a known point in the south line of the City
of Philadelphia thetrue course and distance hath been discovered by
1The exact distance run by Mason and Dixon from the Delaware River
was 244 miles. 38 chains, and 36 links. This look them across the Monon
gahela to the second crossing of Dunkard Creek, a little west of what isnow
Mount Morris, in Greene county, Pennsylvania. At this point, they struck
the Warrior brunch of the old Catawba war path that is, the eastern edge
of lands claimed by the Six Nations, when their labors were given up. The
extreme western limit of the line run by them was about twenty-one and
one-half miles east of the south-west corner of Pennsylvania, as established
in 1784, by astronomical observations.
2 It was in the running of these temporary lines that St. Clair toik part,
as mentioned by Governor Penn, in his letter of the 20th of January,
1774, ante.

actual survey, as also from the point aforesaid, to that part of the
river Delaware which is in the same latitude as Fort Pitt; and
from these several data, the most exact calculations have been
made by Dr. Smith, Provost of our College, Mr. Rittenhouse, and
our Surveyor General, in order to ascertain the difference of longi
tude between Delaware and Pittsburgh, who all agree that the latter
is near six miles eastward of the western extent of the Province.
The better to illustrate this matter, and enable your Lordship to
form a judgment of the accuracy with which the work has been
done, and the calculations made, I have inclosed a map or draught
of the several lines above mentioned, with explanatory notes, as
delivered by them to me. Should your Lordship, however, con
trary to my expectation, still entertain any doubt respecting this
matter, I hope you will at least think it reasonable for avoiding
those mischiefs which must naturally arise in cases of clashing and
disputed jurisdiction, to defer the appointing of officers, and ex
ercising government in that neighborhood, and suffer the people to
remain in the quiet and undisputed possession of the lands they
hold under this Province, till some temporary line of jurisdiction
can be agreed on by commissioners, to be appointed by both Gov
ernments, to confer on this subject, or until the affair can be settled
by His Majesty in Council, before whom a petition, exhibited by
the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania, for the settlement of their west
ern as well as other boundaries is now depending.
I shall hope to recieve your Lordship s sentiments of this matter
by the first opportunity.
ARTnUR ST. CLAIR TO GOVERNOR FENN.
Ligonier, February 2, 1774.
I am honored with your letter of the 20th January, which
reached me the 28th, and am happy to find the method pursued at
Pittsburgh, on the 2."ith, did not very materially differ from that you
had been pleased to direct.
Doctor Conolly was arrested previous to the meeting, by my or
ders, on his avowing himself the author of the advertisements re
quiring the people to meet as a militia, and committed on refusing
to find sureties for his good behavior till next court.
I was in hopes the sending him out of the way1 would have put
1 Conolly was taken to llunnustown where there was a sort of jail and
there confined.

an end to it altogether but I was mistaken. About eighty per
sons in arms assembled themselves, chiefly from Mr. Croghan s
neighborhood, and the country west of and below the Monongahela,
and, after parading through the town, and making a kind of feu de
joie, proceeded to the Fort 1 where a cask of rum was produced on
the parade, and the head knocked out. This was a very effectual
way of recruiting. As a scene of drunkenness and confusion was
likely to ensue, I got the magistrates (who attended in consequence
of the letters I had sent them) together, and read the inclosed pa
per,' which we had concocted that morning, and, at the conclusion,
1 Fort Pitt.
The paper re ferred to was as follows
"As friends and fellow countrymen, which we ought all to consider each
other, from whatever different quarters of the globe we have met here, suf
fer that wo make you acquainted with some things of which you ought not
to be ignorant.
"We do not blame you for having an affection for the laws of the coun
tries and provinces in which you have been born 'tis a natural, 'tis a praise
worthy affection 1 And it requires a length of time and diligent application
to discover and give the deserved preference to different systems of laws
and forms of Government, for which but few have either leisure or oppor
tunity.
We do not tell you the plan of Pennsylvania is a perfect one. Such, no
human institution is or ever was; but the rapid progress Pennsylvania has
made, the numbers of people that flock to it from every part of the world,
and particularly the much greater value of landed property than in the ad
joining parts of the neighboring countries, evince that it is no very defec
tive one; evince that its laws are mild and salutary, and that property and
liberty, civil and religious, is well secured, and that it has some advantages
over its neighbors.
We doubt not but you will readily acknowledge these matters: but you
will reply, it is nothing to us; the soil we live on being no part of Penn
sylvania; we can have no part of the advantages or disadvantages arising
from its constitution.
We well know much pains havo been taken to persuade many of you
to a belief of this, and likewise that the Proprietaries have industriously de
layed to settle their boundary. There is not the least foundation for either.
The Proprietaries of Pennsylvania claimed the country about Pittsburgh,
and the settlers quietly acquiesced in that claim; and as soon as doubts be
gan to arise about it they took effectual pains to satisfy themselves whether
or not they were right in that claim, and actually found the country a con
siderable distance west of that place within their Province: And so far are
they from delaying the running their boundary line, we have the bo-^t au
thority for saying that a petition has been a considerable time before his
Majesty for that very purpose. You must be sensible it would be to little

when they were required to disperse, they replied they had been in
vited there, but came with peaceable intentions, and would go home
again, without molesting anyone; on which we left them; how
ever, towards night, their peaceable disposition forsook them, and I
should probably have felt their resentment, had I not got intimation
purpose to run it without the concurrence of the Crown certainly it would
never be conclusive.
"The jurisdiction of Pennsylvania has been regularly extended to Pitts
burgh, and exercised there for a number of years, as the records of Cum
berland, Iied ford, and Westmoreland counties testify; and you yourselves
have acknowledged it, by applying for your lands in that Province. Whether
that cxtention has been legally made or not, can be determined by the Crown
alone; but must be submitted to till it is determined. And it must be evi
dent to you that Lord Dunmore, as Governor of Virginia, can have no
more right to determine this matter than one of us, for this plain reason:
the charters of Pennsylvania and Virginia, both flowed originally from the
Crown; on that footing they arc perfectly independent of each other; but
they are both parties in this dispute, and consequently neither can be judge.
We would fondly hepe no person in this country would wish to be from
tmder the protection of law. A state of anarchy and confusion, and total
subversion of property must inevitably ensue. We can not help thinking
contending jurisdictions in one and the same country must produce similar
effects, and every attempt to introduce modes or regulations not warranted
by the laws or constitution of Pennsylvania will also do so in a certain
degree.
"Any grievances the inhabitants of this part of the country suffer, there
is no doubt the Legislature want only to be informed of to redress. Should
it be imagined the protection of a military force is necessary, the votes and
proceedings of the last winter session of Assembly will shew that, probably,
it was owing to the representions of the Indian Agent, that an Indian war
would certainly follow, establishing a military force at Pittsburgh, that such
protection was not then granted, and time seems to have shewn he was not
in the wrong.
"If that effect would have supervened at a time when his Majesty s troops
were just withdrawn, when the country was naked, defenseless, and
alarmed, and when the Indians were accustomed to the idea of troops in
their neighborhood, much more is it to be doubted the establishing a militia,
which is a military force, will produco that effect now when they have been
so long disused to it.
"As his Majesty s Justices and Protectors of the public peace of Penn
sylvania, it is our duty to tell you your meeting is an unlawful one, and
that it tends to disquiet the minds of his Majesty s lioge subjects. We do
in his Majesty s name require you to disperse, and retiro yourselves peace
ably to your respective habitations.
Present when this was read Alexander McKee, William Lochey, James
Pollock, James Cavet, ^Eneas Mackay, Van Sweringen, William Bracken,
Arthur St. Clair, K-q rs."

of their design. I thought it most prudent to keep out of their
way 1
I have no doubt the magistrates will do their duty with spirit,
and I shall take the earliest opportunity to make them acquainted
with the support your Honor is determined to afford them. In
some parts of the country they will have a difficult task, and I am
really afraid this affair will be productive of a "great deal of confu
sion. I shall not fail to give them the necessary caution with regard
to the Riot Act, and I think I can judge pretty nearly how far it
may be safely extended.
Mr. Conolly has most certainly a commission from Lord Dunmore,
expressly for Pittsburgh and its dependencies, and his subalt
erns are John Stephenson, a brother of Mr. Crawford, our Senior
magistrate 2 William Harrison, a son-in-law of his 3 and Dorsey Penticost,
who was lately in the commission of the peace here.' Mr.
Penticost has, I hear, been down to Mr. Conolly since his confine
ment, and taken the necessary oaths to qualify him for his military
office, and is to assemble the people at Red Stone, and take posses
sion of Fort Burd 3 I have written to the justices in that part of
1 On the 25th day of January last, a number of disorderly persons as
sembled themselves here in consequence of his [Conolly s] advertisements
(as Militia) who, when dispersing, wantonly or maliciously fired upon some
friendly Indians, in their Hutts on the Indian Shere, which Conduct, to
gether with So unexpected an Appearance of so many People in Arms at a
time that they expected no Hostile Intention on our parts, greatly alarmed
them, as appeared by a Camplaint made by them at a Courtcil with Alex
ander Me., [Kee], Ksij r, Indian Agent, and some of the Inhabitants of this
Place [Pittsburgh], a few days after." —Remarks on the Proceedings of Dr.
Conolly, Jane 25, 1774.
2 Mention will hereafter be made of William Crawford. He had a brother
Valentine, and five half-brothers, among whom was John Stephenson.
William Harrison married Crawford s daughter Sarah; he afterward
lost his life in the Indian country, being tortured to death by the Delawares.
4 Dorsey Pentecost lived, at this (lute, in the Forks of Yough that is,
above the junction of the Monongahcla and Youghiogheny. He was a jus
tice of the peace for Bedford County before Westmoreland was taken from
it, and was now a resident of the last mentioned county. He afterward had
his hemo on Chartiers Creek, Washington County.
6 Fort Burd was so called after Col. James Burd, who probably com
menced the building of the post in 1759. There was an old Indian fort on
its site and the place was known to hunters as "Old Fort," "Old Fort at
Redstone," or Redstone-OldFort, as it was near the mouth of Redstone
creek, now Brownsville, Fayette County, Pennsylvania.

the country to watch his motions. Mr. McKee1 is said to be ap
pointed a justice by Lord Dunmore, but I would fain hope without
his consent; at any rate he behaved very well on the late occasion,
and, as he was doubted, I made a point of having him there under
pretense of his being Indian Agent, but in fact, if he was a friend
or abettor of Conolly s measures.
It is, sir, extremely grateful to me that my conduct in any part
meets with your approbation but should I forget to be attentive
to any thing that may disturb the happiness of your Government,
or from which you may receive a personal injury, I should be guilty
of the grossest breach of duty, as well as the blackest ingrati
tude, neither of which, I trust, will ever be the case.
William Smith2 to Arthur St. Claik.
Phtlad a, Feb y 8th, 1774.
Dear Sir —About the breaking up of the Assembly, Capt. Thom
son went to the Governor and got the promise of Mr. McCrea s dis
trict to be added to his own. Mr. Woods hearing of this, got his
friends to represent to the Governor, that he had the first promise
from Mr. Lukens. Mr. Shippen and I likewise told the Governor
that you had the first promise during Richard Penn s administra
tion, and the Governor then declared that if you had the first prom
ise, no one else should have it, for that there was no person he would
sooner oblige than you. But, on the whole, as these matters were
before he came in as Governor the last time, he left Mr. Lukens to
declare who was the first applier to him, and to act accordingly. He
therefore certified to the Governor that Mr. Woods was the first ap
plier and he has got the district, and I undertook to make you easy
about the matter, which I was the more willing to do, as I believe
the district is now of very little value and I know of something
which you may have, of six times the value, tho' I dare not trust
1 Alexander McKee was a native of Pennsylvania and early became a
trader among the Indians, carrying on a large business from Pittsburgh in
conjunction with Alexander Ross, from 1768 to 1772, when he became Sir
"William Johnson s Deputy Indian Agent, resident at that place. He was,
upon the erection of Bedford county, made one of its justices; and, upon the
creation of Westmoreland, his commission was extended for that county.
He became a noted Loyalist during the Revolution.
William Smith was a prominent citizen of Bedford, a brother of Thomas
Smith, hereafter mentioned.

it to a letter but wish I might see you between this and next Spring,
viz in April if it might suit your other affairs. You must not
think that because this was suffered to go to Mr. Woods, that your
friends had forgot you. I shall be able to convince you that it was
all meant for your interest. I shall be glad to hear how matters go
at Fort.
Joseph Spear to Arthur St. Clair.
Pittsburgh, February 23, 1774.
Dear Sir:—I am just now informed that the Virginians up the
Monongahela have had two or three musters lately one at Red
Stone Old Fort, and one yesterday at Paul Freman s, on the other
side of the Monongahela; and I am also told they had a meeting at
Mr. Penticost s own house, in consequence of which Mr. Penticost
wrote to Mr. Swearingen to act no longer there as a Penusylvanian
magistrate at his peril. I therefore think it would be advisable to
endeavor to have a stop put to those proceedings, if possible, as it
creates the greatest disturbance, and very much retards the execu
tion of our civil process.
P. S. —This news has just come to hand, otherwise I would have
written you more fully. Dr. Conolly 1 is just now going over the run
to Red Stone, I know not what for.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shippen, Jr.
Ligonier, February 25, 1774.
Dear Sir —The disturbances that have begun in this country seem
still to be increasing, and, unless some effectual method is soon
fallen upon to put a stop to them, will soon come to a formidable
head. What that method should be it is difficult to say, but possi
bly the running a temporary line might quiet the people a little
though I doubt very much if even that would not now be opposed.
As much the greatest part of the inhabitants near the line have
removed from Virginia, they are inexpressibly fond of any thing
that comes from that quarter, and their minds are never suffered to
be at rest. Mr. Croghan s emissaries (and it is astonishing how
1 After Conolly was committed to jail at Hannastown, the sheriff let bim
go at large on his giving his word of honor to return to next Court. He
did return, but in a manner quite different from that expected by the sheriff,
as the sequel shows.

many he has either duped or seduced to embrace his measures) are
continually irritating them against Pennsylvania, and assuring them
they are not within its limits; so that unless Lord Dun more does
formally recede from what he has undertaken in this country, it will
be next to impossible to exercise the civil authority. From the
very beginning I foretold a second Carolina affair was intended, I
am now convinced of it.
I have letters from all the magistrates in that part of the country,
complaining of the difficulties they are exposed to, and the open and
avowed determination of the people not to submit to their jurisdic
tions. However, they are all still as yet, and I will do what in my
power lies to continue them so; as one step towards it, and to con
vince the others that we in some measure are in earnest, I intend
immediately removing my office to Pittsburgh, adjoining, there to
live the moment I can get my farm oft' my hands here.
I enclose you a letter from Mr. Spear 1 which I received by the
bearer. I shall immediately write to Mr. Swearingen to commit,
without ceremony, any person who shall attempt to oppose or molest
him in the execution of his office. Excuse the haste I am almost
always obliged to write to you in opportunities offer unexpectedly,
and the people waiting.
Lord Dunmore to Governor Penn.
Williamsburg, 3d March, 1774.
Sir:—I have been favored with your letter of the 31st January,
1774, and duplicate of the same, the occasion of which having been
the appointment of certain officers by me in a remote district of the
county of Augusta 2 in this Colony, which includes Pittsburgh, which
having been done, as is always my rule, with the advice of his Maj
esty s Council, I could not, till I had an opportunity of laying your
letter before them, return you an answer, and it is not till now that
I am enabled so to do.
From the opinion, therefore, of his Majesty s Council of this
1 See the previous letter—Spear to St. Clair, February 23, 1774.
1The county of Augusta was, at this date, an old one. but over of very
uncertain western limits. The "remote district," spoken of by Lord Dunmore,
was what was usually known as the District of West Augusta," in
cluding, besides, much other territory in what is now the State of West
Virginia, all the present State of Pennsylvania lying upon the waters of
the Monongahela, as well as the country surrounding Pittsburgh.

Colon)', I must inform you, that although the calculations on which
you rely in the plan accompanying your letter, may possibly be
found exact, yet they can by no means be considered, by us, as the
observation, on which they were founded, was made without the
participation of the Government, or the assistance of any person on
the part of the Crown and even if they were admitted, we ap
prehend they would decide nothing in the present case for the right
of the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania to the country about Pittsburgh,
must be founded on better authority than is there adduced to make
it valid, and we are strengthened in this opinion by the principles
you yourself adopt, and the opinion of Lord Camden, which you
have produced in your dispute with Connecticut. With respect to
the right of this Colony to that country, the transactions of the late
war show sufficiently what was ever the sense of the Government of
Virginia with regard to it. And it seems to me that the step which
I have taken ought not to have been either unexpected or surpris
ing, as you are pleased to say it was to you, when it is well known
that formal declarations were made by the Assembly of Pennsyl
vania, that Pittsburg was not within the jurisdiction of that Govvernment
at the time that requisitions were made to them for the de
fense of that place, the burden of which, on that account, fell on
this Government.
In conformity to these sentiments you will easily see I can not
possibly, in compliance with your request, either revoke the com
missions and appointments already made, or defer the opportunity
of such other officers as I may find necessary for the good govern
ment of that part of the country, which we can not but consider to
be within the dominion of Virginia, until his Majesty shall declare
the contrary and I flatter myself I can rely so far on the prudence
and discretion of the officers whom I have appointed, that the
measure which I have pursued may have no tendency to raise dis
turbances in your Province, as you seem to apprehend, and if any
should ensue I can not but believe they will be occasioned, on the
contrary, by the violent proceedings of your officers in which opin
ion I am justified by what has already taken place in the irregular
commitment of Mr. John Conolly for acting under my authority,
which, however, as I must suppose, it was entirely without your
participation, I conclude he is before this time released. But,
nevertheless, the act having been of so outrageous a nature, and of
a tendency so detrimental to both Colonies, that, with the advice
of his Majesty s Council of this dominion, I do insist upon the most
ample reparation being made for so great an insult on the authority
of his Majesty s Government of Virginia and no less can possibly

be admitted than the dismission of the clerk (St. Clair) of West
moreland county, who had the audacity, without any authority, to
commit a magistrate in the legal discharge of his trust, unless he
(St. Clair} can prevail, by proper submission, on Mr. Conollv, to
demand his pardon of me.
Governor Penn to Lord Dunmore
Philadelphia, 31st March, 1774.
My Lord:—I was favored with yours of the third of this month
by express, which arrived when several of the gentlemen of the
Council were out of town, and it being also my rule to consult the
Council upon all occasions of a public nature, I could not possibly
give your Lordship s letter an answer by the return of your mes
senger, who stayed but a very short time in town. I am sorry the
papers I enclosed you had not the desired effect. I never expected
they would be taken as decisive of the boundaries of Pennsylvania,
as conclusive upon your Government, but I had reason to hope they
contained such information as would show at least a very strong
probability that Pittsburgh, the place of dispute, was within this
Province, and not subject to the Government of Virginia, and from
them I concluded you would be convinced of the impropriety of a
step which I conceived must have been taken upon a supposition
that that place was certainly beyond our limits. But I perceive
your Lordship hath taken upon opinion that it is not material
whether it be within our charter bounds or not, and that the right
of the proprietors of Pennsylvania to the country about Pittsburgh
must be founded on better authority than the Royal grant And as
your Lordship seems to imagine yourself supported in this sentiment
by our own principles in Lord Camden s opinion upon our case with
Connecticut, the transactions of the late war, and the declarations
of our Assembly some time ago, I will take the liberty of endeavoring
to set you right in some matters which you do not seem to be fully
informed of, being persuaded that if I can be so happy as to place
them in a different point of light from what you have heretofore
viewed them in, you will be candid enough to change your senti
ments.
In the year 1752, the Proprietors of Pennsylvania understanding
that the Government of Virginia were about to erect forts upon the
Ohio, in order to repel the encroachments of the French on the
properties of the subjects of his Britannic Majesty, they instructed
their then Governor, Mr. Hamilton, to assist in any measures of r
288 The Clair Papers.
that sort, taking an acknowledgment from the Governor of Virginia
that such settlement should not be made use of to prejudice their
right to that country, and at the same time allowed him to give as
surances that the people should enjoy their lands they bona fide set
tled on the common quit rent. Of this instruction Mr. Hamilton
not long after gave notice to Governor Dinwiddie.
In the year 1754, Mr. Dinwiddie came to a resolution of raising
men and building forts to the westward, in order to repel the in
vasions of the French. He had fixed upon the forks of Monongahela
as a proper situation for oue of these forts, supposing it to
be on his Majesty s lauds, and issued a proclamation, expressing his
purpose of erecting a fort at that place, and inviting the people to
enlist in his Majesty s service against the French and as an en
couragement, promising that the quantity of two hundred thousand
acres of land should be laid out and divided amongst the adventurers,
when the service should be at an end one hundred thousand acres of
which to be laid out adjoining the fort, and the other one hundred
thousand acres on the Ohio.
Upon the appearance of this proclamation Mr. Hamilton wrote to
Governor Dinwiddie, the 13th March, 1754, reminding him of his
former intimation respecting these lands, and enclosing an abstract
of the Proprietaries' instructions, and also requesting from him such
an acknowledgment as the Proprietaries expected; to which Mr.
Dinwiddie, in his letter of the 21st March, 1754, answers: Your
"private letter of the 13th current, I have duly received, and am
"much misled by our Surveyors if the forks of Monongahela be
"within the limits of your Proprietaries' grant. I have for some
time wrote home to have the line run, to have the boundaries
properly known, that I may be able to appoint Magistrates on the
Ohio, (if in this Government) to keep the traders and others in
"good order, and I presume soon there will be Commissioners ap"
pointed for that service. In the mean time, that no hindrance
may be given to our intended expedition, it is highly reasonable,
if these lands are in your Proprietaries' grant, that the settlers
"should pay the quit rent to Mr. Penn, and not to his Majesty;
and, therefore, as much as lies in my power, I agree thereto, after
the time granted by my proclamation, to be clear of quit rent,
"ceases."
From this correspondence between the Governors of Virginia and
Pennsylvania, it appears beyond a doubt, that the terms upon which
forts were built, and settlements made in that country, by the Gov
ernment of Virginia, were well understood, and the rights of Penn

sylvania carefully guarded and these transactions entirely exclude
the idea of that kind of settlement, or acquiescence and agreement
of which Lord Camden speaks, and which are the only principles in
his opinion from which your Lordship can draw any conclusions in
favor of the right of Virginia.
From this view of the matter I flatter myself your Lordship will
readily perceive that the principles of Lord Camden s opinion do
not all apply to the present case. As to the opinion of our Assem
blies, on which you seem also to rely, the case is shortly as follows
When Governor Dinwiddie resolved to erect forts on the waters of
the Ohio, and to carry an expedition against the French, who had
fortified themselves in several parts of the country to the westward,
he applied to Governor Hamilton to procure him the assistance of
this Province. Unfortunately at this time there was no very good
un lerstanding between the Government and the Assembly, and
when Mr. Hamilton laid Mr. Dinwiddie s rccpuisition before them
they declined complying with it, and urged for reasons, that, by the
Royal orders to the several Governors, they were not to act as prin
cipals out of their own Governments. That they (the Assembly)
would not presume to determine upon the limits of the Province;
and that by the papers and evidences sent down to them, and re
ferred to by the Governor, the limits of the Province had not been
clearly ascertained to their satisfaction.
It is to be observed, that at this time there had been no real men
surations from Delaware to the westward, except the temporary line
between this Province and Maryland, which extends only one hun
dred and forty-four miles from Delaware. From this line, and from
sundry informations of Indian traders, founded on computed dis
tances, and mountainous and crooked roads, Mr. Hamilton con
cluded that the French forts were considerably within this Province,
and it hath since appeared with certainty that the fact was so,
though the Assembly were not satisfied with those proofs. And it
appears by a report of a Committee of Assembly, appointed to
examine those evidences, that they laid no great stress upon the
opinions of traders founded on computed distances.
Upon the whole I can not find that the Assembly ever made any
thing like formal declarations that Pittsburg was not within this
Government," but that they rather declined making any determina
tion upon the extent of the Province. But if their declarations had
been ever so formal or positive, I can not conceive how any proceed
ings of theirs would affect the state of the Province, control of tlw
jurisdiction, or prejudice the rights of the proprietors.
19

Your Lordship is pleased to say With respect to the right of
this Colony to that country, the transactions of the late war suffi
ciently show what was ever the sense of the Government of Vir
ginia with regard to it." I do not know to what particular trans
actions you allude, nor can I apprehend upon what principle the
sense of the Government of Virginia can prejudice the right of
Pennsylvania, especially when the Governor of this Province was so
far from concurring in any such sense, that he took the most effectual
measures to guard against any conclusions which might be drawn
from it and I may say, with the strictest truth, that the Govern
ment of Virginia, with great justice, concurred in this precaution.
Upon the whole, then, my Lord, I hope the papers I heretofore
had the honor of sending you, when properly attended to, will sat
isfy you that Pittsburgh is at least probably within the charter lim
its of this Province and I flatter myself that what I have now
urged will be sufficient to convince you that nothing can be inferred
from the transactions of the late war, the correspondence between
the Governors of the two Provinces, the proceedings of our As
sembly, or the principles of Lord Camden s opinion, to contract the
extent o f our charter bounds, or establish the right of Virginia to
any part of this Province. I therefore still hope that your Lord
ship will, upon a review of the subject, be induced to defer attempting
to extend the jurisdiction of Virginia within the bounds of this
Province, and thereby avoid the occasions of disturbances and disseutions
amongst his Majesty s subjects, which will probably ensue
from such a step, however prudent and cautious the Magistrates on
each side may be inclined to be, and the rather as a petition for a
commission to run out and mark the boundaries between us is now
depending before his Majesty. And to prevent the setting up claims,
and making conclusions of right by the Government of Virginia,
from the circumstances of settlement on the one side, and non-claim
on the other, I must take this opportunity of notifying to your
Lordship that the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania do claim, by their
said petition, as part of their Province of Pennsylvania, all the lands
lying west of a south line, to be drawn from Dixon and Mason s
line, as it is commonly called, at the westernmost part of the Province
of Maryland to the beginning of the fortieth degree of north lati
tude, to the extent of five degrees of longitude from the river Del
aware and I must request your Lordship will neither grant lands,
nor exercise the Government of Virginia within those limits, till
his Majesty s pleasure be known.
I am truly concerned that you should think the commitment of

Mr. Conolly so great an insult on the authority of the Government
of Virginia, as nothing less than Mr. St. Clair s dismission from his
offices can repair. The lands in the neighborhood of Pittsburgh were
surveyed for the Proprietaries of Pennsylvania early in the year
1769, and a very rapid settlement under this Government soon took
place, and magistrates were appointed by this Government to act
there in the beginning of 1771, who have ever since administered
justice without any interposition of the Government of Virginia till
the present affair. It therefore could not fail of being both sur
prising and alarming that Mr. Conolly should appear to act on that
stage under a commission from Virginia, before any intimation of
claim or right was ever notified to this Government. The adver
tisement of Mr. Conolly had a strong tendency to raise disturbances,
and occasion a breach of the public peace, in a part of the country
where the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania hath been exercised without
objection, and therefore Mr. St. Clair thought himself bound, as a
good Magistrate, to take a legal notice of Mr. Conolly.
Mr. St. Clair is a gentleman who for a long time had the honor
of serving his Majesty in the regulars with reputation, and in every
station of life has preserved the character of a very honest worthy
man and though perhaps I should not, without first expostulating
with you on this subject, have directed him to take that step, yet
you must excuse my not complying with your Lordship s requisition
of stripping him, on this occasion, of his offices and livelihood, which
you will allow me to think not only unreasonable, but somewhat
dictatorial.
I should be extremely concerned that any misunderstanding should
take place between this Government and that of Virginia. I shall
carefully avoid every occasion of it, and shall always be ready to
join you in the proper measures to prevent so disagreeable an in
cident, yet I can not prevail on myself to acceed in the manner you
require, to a claim which I esteem, and which I think must appear
to every body else to be altogether groundless.
William Crawford1 to Governor Penn.
Westmoreland County, April 8th, 1774.
Sir :—As some very extraordinary occurrences have lately hap
pened in this county, it is necessary to write an account of them to
1 Crawford, at this date, was President of the Court in Westmoreland.
He was the first to held that office. During the year of 1770, he was pa

you. That which I now give, is at the request and with the appro
bation of all the magistrates that are at present attending the court
A few weeks ago Mr. Connolly1 went to Stanton and was sworn in
as a justice of the peace for Augusta county, in which it is pre
tended that the country about Pittsburgh is included. He had, be
fore this, brought with him, from Williamsburg, commissions of the
peace for several gentlemen in his part of the Province, but none
of them, I believe, have been accepted. A number of new militia
officers have been lately appointed by Lord Dunmorc several mus
ters of the militia have been held, and much confusion has been
occasioned by them 2
1 am informed that the militia is composed of men without char
acter and without fortune, and who would be equally averse to the
regular administration of justice under the Colony of Virginia as
they are to that under the Province of Pennsylvania. The disturb
ances which they have produced at Pittsburgh have been contin
ually alarming to the inhabitants. Mr. Connolly is constantly sur
rounded with a body of armed men. He boasts the countenance
of the Governor of Virginia, and forcibly obstructs the execution
of legal process, whether from the court or from single magistrates.
A deputy sheriff has come from Augusta county, and I am told has
writs in his hands against Captain St. Clair and the sheriff, for the
arrest and confinement of Mr. Connolly.
The sheriff was last week arrested at Pittsburgh for serving a
writ on oue of the inhabitants there, but was, after some time, dis
charged. On Monday last, one of Connolly s people grossly in
sulted Mr. Mackay, and was confined by him in order to be sent to
jail; the rest of the party hearing of it, immediately came to Mr.
Mackay s house and proceeded to the most violent outrages. Mrs.
pointed one of the magistrates for the county of Cumberland, within the
limits of which was his home, as claimed by Pennsylvania. Upon the erec
tion of Bedford the next year out of a portion of Cumberland, his commis
sion was renewed for that county; finally, when Westmoreland, in 1773, was
erected into a county from Bedford, his office was continued; and, being
the first named, he became by courtesy and usage presiding judge of its courts.
1The spelling of personal names is preserved in the text of the letters.
Hence the lack of uniformity in that respect.
2 The visit of Conolly to Staunton was made after the sheriff of West
moreland county had given him his liberty upon his word of honor to re
turn to Hannastown at the next sitting of the court, which was to take
place early in April. He returned to Pittsburgh towards the latter part of
March, and prepared to make good his word to Sheriff Proctor. It will
now be seen in what way he kept his promise.

Mackay was wounded in the arm with a cutlass the magistrates,
and those who came to their assistance, were treated with much
abuse, and the prisoner was rescued.
Some days before the meeting of the court, a report was spread
that the militia officers at the head of their several companies would
come to Hanna s, use the court ill, and interrupt the administration
of justice. On Wednesday, while the court was adjourned, thev
came to the court-house and paraded before it sentinels were placed
at the door, and Mr. Connolly went into the house. One of the
magistrates was hindered, by the militia, from going into it till per
mission was first obtained from their commander. Mr. Connolly
sent a message to the magistrates, informing them that he wanted
to communicate something to them, and would wait on them for
that purpose.
They received him in a private room. He read to them the in
closed paper 1 together with a copy of a letter to you, which Lord
Dunmore had transmitted to him 2 inclosed in a letter to himself,
which was written in the same angry and undignified style. The
magistrates gave the inclosed answer 3 to what he read and he
1 The paper read by Conolly to the Westmoreland Court was in these words:
''Gentlemen: I am come here to be the occasion of no disturbances, but
to prevent them. As I am countenanced by Government, whatever you may
say or conceive, some of the justices of this bench are the cause of this ap
pearance, and not me. I have done this to prevent myself from being ille
gally taken to Philadelphia. My orders from the Government of Virginia,
rot being explicit, but claiming the country about Pittsburgh, I have raised
the militia to support the civil authority of that colony vested in me.
"I am come here to free myself from a promise made to Captain Proctor
[the sheriff], but have not conceived myself amenable to this court, by any
autherity from Pennsylvania, upon which account I can not apprehend that
you have any right to remain here as justices of the peace constituting a
court under that province; but, in order to prevent confusion, I agree that
yon may continue to act in that capacity, in all such matters as may be sub
mitted to your determination by the acquiescence of the people, until I may
have instructions to the contrary from Virginia, or until his Majesty s
pleasure shall be further known on this subject."
2This was the letter of March 3, 177-1—Dunmore to Penn—previously
given.
2The answer of the Westmoreland Court to Conolly s paper was as
follows:
"The jurisdiction of the court and officers of the county of Westmore
land rests on the legislative authority of the Province of Pennsylvania, con
firmed by his Majesty in council. That jurisdiction has been regularly
exercised, and the court and officers will continue to exercise it in the same
regular manner. It is far from their intention to occasion or foment dis

soon afterwards departed with his men. Their number was about
one hundred and eighty or two hundred. On their return to Pitts
burgh, some of them seized Mr. Elliott, of the Bullock Pen 1 and
threatened to put him in the stocks for something which they
deemed an affront offered to their commander. 8ince their return,
a certain Edward Thompson and a young man who keeps store for
Mr. Spear, have been arrested by them and Mr. Connolly, who,
in person, seized the young man, would not allow him time even to
lock up the store.
In other parts of the county, particularly those adjoining the
Monongahela, the magistrates have been frequently insulted in the
most indecent and violent manner, and are apprehensive that, un
less they are speedily and vigorously supported by the Government,
it will become both fruitless and dangerous for them to proceed in
the execution of their offices. They presume not to point out the
measures proper for settling the present disturbances, but beg leave
to recommend the fixing of a temporary line with the utmost expe
dition, as one step, which, in all probability, will contribute very
much toward producing that effect.
For further particulars concerning the situation of this country,
I refer you to Colonel Wilson, who is kind enough to go on the
present occasion to Philadelphia.'1
turbances, and they apprehend that no such intentions can, with propriety,
bo inferred from any part of their conduct on the contrary, they wish, and
will do all in their power, to preserve the public tranquillity. In order to
contribute to this very salutary purpose, they give information that every
step will be taken on the part of the Province of Pennsylvania to accommo
date any differences that have arisen between it and the Colony of Virginia,
by fixing a temporary lino between them.
1 William Elliott deposed that he settled and improved a plantation
about seven miles from Fort Pitt, on the public road, at a place called 'the
Bullock Pens,' by permission of Col. Reed, the officer command
ing at that place [Fort Pitt], dated Auyust 29, 1765, and is now [1777) in
possession of the same Vlrg. Col. State Papers, Vol I., p. 280.
2The reply of Governor Penn to Crawford s letter was dated April 12th,
at Philadelphia. It was directed to William Crawford, Enquire, and his
Associate Justices of Westmoreland County," and was as follows:
Gentlemen The present alarming Situation of our Affairs in Westmore
land County, occasioned by the very unaccountable conduct of the Govern
ment of Virginia, requires the utmost Attention of this Government, and
therefore I intend, with all possible Expedition, to send Commissioners to
expostulate with my Lord Dunmoro upon the Behavior of those he has
thought proper to invest. with such Power as hath greatly disturbed tha

Arthur St. Clair to Benjamin Chew 1
Carlisle, April 28, 1774.
Sir:—In conversation with Colonel Wilson the other day, he men
tioned a transaction in Virginia, which if it be as he represents it,
will throw some light upon what has been the "sense of that
Colony, with regard to the country about Fort Pitt." Colonel
Stephens 1 it seems, in the year 1764, when that fortress was bePeace
of that country. As the Government of Virginia hath the Power of
raising a Militia, and there is not any such in this Province, it will be in
vain to contend with them in the way of Force; the Magistrates, therefore,
at the same Time that they continue with steadiness to exercise the Juris
diction of Pennsylvania with respect to the distributions of Justice and
punishment of Vice, must be cautious of entering into any such contests
with the Officers of my Lord Dunmore, as may tend to widen the present
unhappy Breach; and, therefore, as Things are at present circumstanced, I
would not advise the Magistracy of Westmoreland County to proceed by
way of criminal prosecution against them for exercising the Government
of Virginia.
1 flatter myself that our Commissioners to Virginia will succeed accord
ing to our Expectations, and that our Affairs to the Westward will soon be
put upon a peaceable and quiet Footing. I am, etc."
It is necessary to mention, at this point, an occurrence which took place
two days subsequent to the date of the above letter, for the reason that it
has an important bearing on the events following; and, for the further rea
son, that, in the letters of St. Clair, no account is given of it:
On the 8th of April, the justices, jEneas Mackay, Devcreux Smith, and
Andrew McFarlane, returned from court at Hannustown to their homes in
Pittsburgh. The next day they were arrested by a Virginia deputy sheriff,
at Conolly s instigation, and, on refusing to uive bnil, were sent off under
guard to Staunton, county-town, at that period, of Augusta county, Vir
ginia. After traveling one day together, Mr. Mackay, one of the three
justices, got permission to go to Williamsburg to see Lord Dunmore. After
some conversation with his Lordship, the latter wrote to the sheriff, request
ing him to allow the prisoners to return home. Mackay immediately pro
ceeded to Staunton, and his fellow-prisoners were at once liberated.
1 Benjamin Chew was born in Anne Arundel county. Maryland, No
vember 29, 1722. He was a lawyer by profession, and settled in 17-13 on the
Delaware, but in 1754 removed to Philadelphia, where he held respectively
the offices of Recorder, Register of Wills, and Attorney-General. He became
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the day after the
above letter was written. He had been a member of the Provincial Coun
cil of Pennsylvania for a number of years, and as such was written to by
St. Clair at this date.
2Adam Stephen was a meritorious Virginia officer in the Colonial wars.
He was a captain in the Ohio expedition of 1754, serving with distinction
under Braddock. He became, afterward, a Virginia Brigadier-General.

sieged by the Indians 1 sent a detachment of the militia to escort
some provisions for the relief of the besieged for this he was com
plained of to the Assembly, and censured for sending the militia
out of the Government.
I have heard, sir, that you are to go to Williamsburg 2 and im
agined in that case, this hint would not be disagreeable. I wish
you a pleasant journey.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pejtn.
Ligonier, May 29, 1774.
I doubt not before this time you have expected some account
from me of the situation of this country, but as I could not write
with certainty respecting the intentions of the Indians I chose to
defer it 2
1This was during the so-called "Conspiracy of Pontiac." The siege
spoken of by St. Clair was in 1763.
2That is, St. Clair hud been informed that Chew was to be one of the
Commissioners appointed by the Government of Pennsylvania to treat with
the Governor of Virginia, on the subject of the disturbances in Westmore
land county; but the persons so appointed were James Tilghman and An
drew Allen —both members of the Provincial Council. They were "to
treat and agree with the Kight Honorable John, Karl of Dunmore, Governor
of Virginia, concerning the Settlement of the Western Bounds and Limits
of the Province of Pennsylvania, and preserving the Public Peace and
Tranquillity on the Borders," etc.
•This is the first hint, in this correspondence, of the animosity between
the Virginians on the one side, and the Mingoes and Shawanese on the
other, which finally brought on what is known in history as Lord Dunmore s
War." One of the causes of these troubles was the general antag
onism of the red and white races, then being brought nearer and nearer each
other as the Virginians continued to survey land and make settlements
down the Ohio. Concerning the first overt acts on each side, accounts of
that period differ somewhat, as shewn by the following (See The Waahington-Crawforil
Letters, By C. W. Butterfield. [Cincinnati, Robert Clarke
Co., 1877.] pp. 8ti, 87 and 47, 48)
I.
Dear Sir .-—I am sorry to inform you the Indians have stopped all the
gentlemen from going down the river. In the first place, they killed one
Murphy, a trader, and wounded another; then robbed their canoes. This
alarmed the gentlemen very much; and Major Cresap took a party of men
and waylaid some Indians in their canoes, that were going down the river,
and shot two of them and scalped them. He also raised a party, took canoes
and followed somo Indians from Wheeling down to the Little Kanawha;

In my last to Mr. Shippen I think I mentioned that Mr. Croghan
had sent a Delaware chief (White Eyes) with two of our traders
with a message1 to the Shawanese; their return had been impatiently
expected. Tired at last with the suspense, I determined to go to
Fort Pitt whatever might be the consequence, and am just returned
from thence. I was lucky enough to arrive there the day they
came in, and though their accounts are alarming enough, yet I
can not think they are equal to the panic that has seized the country.
The Shawanese message is insolent enough and we have a cer
tain account that twenty of their warriors are gone out, but we have
still reason to think they do not mean mischief to the people here,
as they lay all to the charge of the Big Knife, as they call the Vir
ginians. The substance of their speech is, that they think what
when, coming up with them, he killed three and wounded several. The In
dians wounded three of his men, only one of whom is dead; he was shot
through, while the other two were but slightly wounded. On Saturday last,
about twelve o clock, one Greathouse, and about twenty men, fell on a party
of Indians at [opposite] the mouth of Yellow Creek, and killed ten of them.
They brought away one child a prisoner, which is now at my brother
William Crawford s. This alarm has caused the people to move from over
the Monongahela, off Chartier s and Knccoon [Creeks], us fast as ever you
saw them in the year 1756 or 17o7, down in Frederick county, Virginia.
There were more than one thousand people crossed the Monongahela in one
day at three ferries that arc not one mile apart.''— Valentine Crawford to
Washington, May 7, 177-1.
II.
"Sir:— "The surveyors that went down the Kanawha, as report
goes, were stopped by the Shawanese Indians, upon which seme of the white
people attacked some Indians and killed several, took thirty horse-loads of
skins near the mouth of Scioto; on which news, and expecting an Indian
war, Mr. Cresap and some other people fell on some other Indians at the
mouth of Pipe Creek, killed three, and sculped them. Daniel Greathouse
and some others fell on some at the mouth of Yellow Creek and killed and
scalped ten, and took one child about two months old, which is now at my
house. 1 have taken the child from a woman that it had been given to. Our
inhabitants are much alarmed, many hundreds having gone over the moun
tain and the whole country evacuated as far as the Mononguhela; and
many on this [the cast] side of the river are gone over the mountain. In
short, a war is every moment expected. We have a council now with the
Indians. What will be the event I do not know."— William Crawford to
Washington, May 8, 1774.
1What Mr. Croghan sent in this message was, in substance, that the
outrages which had been committed, were done by some of our ill-disposed
people, and witheut the least countenance from Government." The Delawares,
at this period, had their homes upon the Muskingum; the Shawanese
had theirs upon the Scioto.

Mr. Croghan and Mr. McKee say to them is lies that they know
the path is open from Philadelphia, and that they will keep it so if
they please but that the Big Knife has struck them, and when
they have satisfaction they will speak to him, but not before that
now they have no King, and are all upon their feet, with other
threatening expressions in their way 1 There were several chiefs
of the Delawares, and deputy of the Six Nations, (Goyasutha)
with eight others of the Seneca tribe, at Pittsburgh, by Mr. Croghan s
advice. They were called together and I made a short speech to them J they received it with pleasure, and in return gave the
strongest assurances that they wished for nothing more than to con
tinue in peace with this Province, and to become as one people. I
think there can be no doubt of the sincerity of the Delawares they
have given substantial proofs of it in the care they have taken of
the traders that were to have gone to the Shawanese and if the Six
Nations are in the same disposition, the war will be of little conse
quence, but I fear it is to be doubted whether Goyasutha knows the
sense of the league or not.
One of the traders who went with White Eyes was detained at
1 White Eyes returned here [Pittsburgh] the 24th of May, and brought
with him ten white men, who had been protected by the Delawares eight
days in their towns, and guarded snfo to this place; he also brought a
speech from the Delawares, from which we have great reason to believe that
they are not inclined for war; we also believe that they will endeavor to
preserve the lives of the traders that are now amongst the Shawneese he
also brought from the Shawneese chief (called the hard man,) an answer to
a speech sent to them by Mr. Croghan, upon this occasion, in which he
signifies that the Shuwnees are all warriors, and will not listen to us until
they have satisfaction, for what injuries they have received from the Vir
ginians, etc." —Devereu v Smith to Dr. Smith, from Pittsburgh, June 10, 1477,
2 The speech made by St. Clair was as follows
"Brothers of the Six Nations and Delawares:
"The Governor of Pennsylvania has heard your good speeches, nnd I am
come from him to thank you for the care you have taken of our traders, and
the pains you have been at to preserve the general peace. Your brothers
of Pennsylvania are determined to maintain the friendship subsisting be
twixt the Six Nations and Delawares and them entire, but as they aro
alarmed at the threatenings of the Shawanese. we recommend it to you to
prevent your people from hunting on our side of the river for some time, as
our people will not be able to distinguish betwixt them and these who may
be enemies.
"We wish and will endeavor to keep the path open to our brothers, and
will on our parts keep bright that chain of friendship which has been so
long held fast by their and our forefathers. An. St. Clair."

Newcomers Town; 1 they, it seems, thought it imprudent that more
than one should go very soon after the others left it. They were
met by a Shawanese man who fired at Duncan, within a very small
distance, but fortunately missed him. White Eyes immediately
called to him to make back to the town, and he himself got betwixt
tho Indian and him, and came up with him where he had stopped
r., l iad his gun, and disarmed him; they both got safely back to
l!ic town, and were immediately shut up in a strong house, and a
guard kept on them day and night to preserve them from any at
tempt that might be made by the Shawanese or Mingoes (a small
part of these last live near the Shawanese, and are in a manner
incorporated with them) and this was continued till White Eyes went
down to the Shawanese town and returned, during all which time
they were furnished with provisions and every thing that could be
procured for them in the most liberal manner. This I think must
be an unequivocal mark of their disposition.
The mischief done by Cresap2 and Greathouse3 had been much
exaggerated when I wrote to Mr. Shippen, but the number of In
dians killed is exactly as I informed Mr. Allen, viz: thirteen.*
1The site of the present New Comerstown, in Tuscarawas county, Ohio.
2 The Pennsylvania account of "the mischief done by Cresap" was thisWilliam
Butler, a trader living in Pittsburgh, sent off a canoe from that
place on the loth of April, for the Shawanese towns on the waters of the
Scioto. This canoe was attacked by three Cherokee Indians, who killed one
white man and wounded another. About the 21st of April, Conolly, at
P tt-bnrgh, wrote a letter to the inhabitants at Wheeling, telling them that
I' I. a 1 been informed by good authority, that the Shawanese were ill-disp
.-id towards the white men. On the "24th of the same month, Mr. Butler
Mi:t another canoe down the Ohio in care of some Shawanese and whito
men. Cresap whe was below, hearing of the murder by the Cherokees, and
being informed of the contents of Conolly s letter to the inhabitants of
Wheeling, fell upon the Indians in Butler s second canoe, killing two; ho
also killed another Shawanese farther down the river.
•The ''Yellow Creek Massacre," as it is called, took place opposite the
mouth of Yellow Crock, April 30, 1774. It was then that Logan, the Mingo
chief, lost his relatives—mother, brother and sister; not, hewever, by "Colonel
Cresap," as he states in his famous speech, hut at the hands of a party under
the leadership of Daniel Greatheuse. Logan s brother, who was among the
slain was known as John Petty. His sister who was also killed had with
her a child two months old. It was this child that was subsequently tnken
care of by William Crawford, as previously stated.
Neither of these letters has been preserved. St. Clair gives thirteen as
the number of Indians killed by Cresap and his men and by Greathouse and
his party; but, it must be remembered that a portion of these were Shawa

Cresap has lately been in the neighborhood of Pittsburgh, with in
tention it appeared to pursue the blow he had before struck, but
Mr. Conolly sent a message to him forbidding him to attempt any
thing against the Indians; this he has taken in high dudgeon, and
declares publicly that what he did before was by Mr. Conolly s
orders so that it is to be hoped some of the devilish schemes that
have been carrying on here will come to light. I ventured to say
that an Indian war was part of the Virginia plan I am satisfied it
must at least be part of Mr. Conolly s plan, for he has already in
curred such an expense by repairing the fort1 and calling out the
militia that I think it is impossible that Colony will ever discharge
it unless disturbances be raised that may give his maneuvers the
appearance of necessity.
It is scarcely possible to conceive the distressed situation of this
country one day the spirits of the people are raised a little, and
some prospect of their being able to remain i :i their farms the
next a story worse than any they have heard before, and a thousand
times worse than the truth, sinks them in despair; and those about
Pittsburgh are still in a more pitiable state, being harassed and
oppressed by the militia, who lay their hands on every thing they
want without asking questions, and kill cattle at their pleasure
they indeed appraise them, wheu the owner happens to know of it,
and give him a bill on Lord Dunmore, which is downright mockery.
nese; so that the story tlmt thirteen Mingoes were to be revenged for by
Logan, so current in history, is n fiction; besides, it is well known, that he
and his braves put to death more than that number of Virginians before his
wrath was appeased.
1St. Clair has here reference to Fort Pitt, which Conolly had taken pos
session of, changing the name to Fort Dunmore—which name, by the way,
was never acquiesced in by Pcnnsylvanians. After the fortification had been
dismantled by order of the British government, in 177 2, it was taken charge
of by Edward Ward, a half-brother of Col. Croghan, whe had control ol the
grounds until Conolly with his militia took possession sometime in the spring
of 1774. In 1777, Ward s deposition was taken at Pittsburgh, a part of
which was in the following words:
"The deponent further saith that upon the evacuation*of Fort Duquesne,
by the French, on the approach of the British army General Forbes, by one
of the Deputy Agents of Indian Affairs, made a request to the chiefs of the
Six Nations for permission to re-establish a fort at the same place, for the
purpose aforesaid, and to prevent the French from returning, which was
granted; a fort executed and garrisoned, which continued in the possession
of the British troops till the year 1772, when it was evacuated by them and
taken possession of by the deponent, who occupied the same till taken pos
session of by Major Conolly, in 177-1, with the Virginia militia."
Correspondence, Aitt tresses, Etc, 301
From what I saw it was evident to me that the country must very
soon be totally evacuated unless some thing was done to afford the
inhabitants the appearance at least of protection. I therefore con
sulted with some of the inhabitants of Pittsburgh, and Mr. Mackay,
Mr. Smith, Colonel Croghau, Mr. Butlor and myself entered into an
association to raise victuals, and pay a ranging company of one hun
dred men for one month, to which a number of the inhabitants, as I
came down, readily acceded, and I think in a few days we will have
it completed. We flattered ourselves indeed that your Honor if
you approve the measure, would take such measures with the House
as would release us from the exjxmse; but as you may probably
want a formal requisition to lay before the House, I have acquainted
you with it in another letter. One thing further I had in view the
inhabitants of Pittsburgh propose stockading the town 1 when that
is done should your negotiation with Lord Dunmore miscarry,
throwing a few men into that place would recover the country the
Virginians have usurped.
I beg pardon for so long a letter, and yet I believe I should have
given you more but that I am detaining Mr. [John] Montgomery,
who charges himself with forwarding this to your Honor. I have
only to request that you will please to give us your directions as
soon as possible.
P. S. —An affair that has given me much trouble and vexation
had like to have escaped my memory, the murder of a Delaware
Indian, Joseph Wipey, about eighteen miles from this place. It is
the most astonishing thing in the world the disposition of the com
mon people of this country; actuated by the most savage cruelty,
they wantonly perpetrate crimes that are a disgrace to humanity,
and seem at the same time to he under a kind of religious enthu
siasm, whilst they want the daring spirit that usually inspires. Two
of the persons concerned in this murder are John Hinkson and
James Cooper. I had got information of their design some time 1«fore they executed it, and had written to Hinkson, whom I knew to
be a leader amongst them, to dissuade them and threaten them
with the weight of the law if they persisted but so far
from preventing them, it only produced the inclosed letter 2 The
body was discovered hid in a small run of water, and covered with
stones. I immediately sent for the coroner, but before he had got
1 The town was not stockaded as proposed, although considerable work wa»
done toward it.
2This letter has not been found.

a jury together the body was removed, so that no inquest could be
taken. I have issued warrants on suspicion, but they are so much
on their guard I doubt they can not be executed. Your Honor will
please to consider whether itmay be proper to proclaim them 1 it
is most unlucky at this time. The letter may perhaps be made use
of as evidence.
Mr. McJvee had not time to transcribe the speeches of the In
dians, but in a few days I shall probably receive them, and will for
ward them by the first opportunity. Nobody offered the arrest they
have threatened me so much with.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonter, May 29, 1774.
Sir:—The panic that has struck this country, threatening an en
tire depopulation thereof, induced me a few days ago to make an
excursion to Pittsburgh to see if it can be removed, and the deser
tion prevented.
The only probable remedy that offered was to afford the people
the appearance of some protection. Accordingly Mr. Smith, Mr.
Mackay, Mr. Butler, and some others of the inhabitants of Pitts
burgh, with Colonel Croghan and myself, entered into an association
for the immediate raising an hundred men, to be employed as a
ranging company, to cover the inhabitants in case of danger, to
which association several of the magistrates and other inhabitants
have acceded and in a very few days they will be on foot.
We have undertaken to maintain them for one month, at the rate
of one shilling and a sixpence a man per diem this we will cheer
fully discharge, at the same time we flatter ourselves that your
Honor will approve the measure, and that the Government will not
only relieve private persons from the burden, but take effectual
measures for the safety of this frontier, and this I am desired by
the people in general to request of your Honor.
2The Governor of Pennsylvania, in accordance with the suggestion made
by St. Clair, did "proclaim them." His proclamation offering one hundred
pounds for their apprehension was dated July 28, 1774. There is, however,
no evidence extant that either were ever arrested for their supposed partici
pation in the killing of the Delaware Indian. Ilinkson finally left the
Western country.

George Croghan to Arthur St. Clair.
June 4, 1774.
Sir:—The frequent reports brought from Hanna s Town, of two
hundred men being raising there, has alarmed Captain Conolly very
much, and though I told Mr. J. Campbell the whole reason and in
tention was no more than to have a number of men to scout between
the river Ohio and of inhabitants down to Ligonier, in order to pre
vent the flight of that part of said country and in case of great
necessity that those men would be offered to act with the Virginians
for the general defense of the country.
Now, as both Conolly and Campbell know this measure is the
only one to stay the people from flying, and see that the country
will condemn Conolly and his officers for not pursuing the same
measure, they want to make it appear in another light, and that the
intention is to invade the rights of Virginia.
Now, the greatest caution and prudence is necessary, and I re
quest that you will station those parties to scout back of the settle
ments between Turtle Creek and Ligonier, which was our intention
of having them, and take care that no threats against Virginia be
made use of by any person concerned, as, since Mr. Jo. Campbell
came up, I see the design is to create a fresh difference between Gov
ernor Penn and Lord Dunmore, which ought to be avoided with
the greatest care. Since Campbell came up affidavits are taken of
every information that is brought up, and spies employed though
when he was informed of the murders committed on the Indians,
he never took any measures to apprehend them. He has made two
attacks on me, by letters sent by a sergeant and twelve men, which
letters I answered, but would not gratify him to send them by his
party.
The truth is, they found this difference likely to be made up by
the Indians, and find that nothing but misrepresenting our measures,
and drawing on a fresh dispute between the Government of Penn
sylvania and Virginia, can keep this man in command wherefore
I have determined to go to Williamsburg myself, and represent the
state of the country, as soon as I hear the event of our last mes
sages to the Indians, by the deputies, which I believe will be in five
or six days, and I flatter myself entirely satisfactory to every wellwisher
of the peace and tranquillity of the country.
Before I go you and I must have a meeting, that you may be able
to inform the Governor what I am going about but I would have
you settle the scouting party so as to act with prudence, and give

no cause for suspicion of any design against Virginia, before you
come up.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pestn.
Laurel Hall, June 7, 1774,
Sir:—When I had last the honor to write to you, I acquainted ou
with a plan that had been fallen upon to raise some men for the defence
of this country. The day before yesterday about forty marched
from Hanna s Town to Turtle Creek, where they would be joined
by another party. The number I do not exactly know, but it is in
tended that that post should be sixty men strong and a number were,
at the same time, engaged for the other necessary posts, so that the
whole will form a chain of rangers on our frontier. The subscribers
requested me to take them under my direction, and in consequence
I did give them orders which I will send to your Honor by the first
opportunity—now I have not time to copy them and, as I know
the gentleman who carries this, I came here on purpose to see him,
for should this matter go farther, he has connections in town that
have weight with the House. Mr. Croghan s views I do not pre
tend to see, but this you may be assured of, he is at present a friend
to this country, and if it depends on him Ave shall yet have no war;
hitherto it has been my opinion we would have no war I now be
gin to think otherwise but my reasons for thinking so depend on
such circumstances as can scarce be communicated. The most alarm
ing one, however, is the retreat of the Moravian Minister. A great
town of the Delawares has been, in some measure, civilized by these
people, and spiritual guides in all countries have ways of knowing
the intentions of their flocks 1 another is, that on Sunday last a
council was intended with the Delawares and Six Nations at Mr.
Croghan s, but the day before they went off to prevent a party of
Shawanese, as they say, from falling on the white people. A little
time will show whether that was their design or not. Mr. Jennings,
the late sheriff of Northampton, who is now here, will, I believe,
be in town. It is not improbable he knows more than he discovers
to me. He is engaged in the Indian trade, and his partner is
1 Reference is here made to the Moravian missionary establishments among
the Delawares, upon the Tuscnrawns River, in what is now Tuscarawas
county, Ohio, under the charge of David Zeisberger. Rut this minister had
not retreated," as St. Clair supposed, and his converts were still at the vil
lages of Gnadenhiitten and Schonbrunn.

beloved by all the Indians. Your Honor will judge if you should
see him.
I will not give your Honor any more trouble at present and in
truth I am so fatigued with riding that I doubt much if what I write
is legible but it is necessary your Honor should be acquainted with
what is passing here, and I am not fond of sending expresses.
P. S. —In a very particular manner our soldiers are directed to
avoid every occasion of dispute with the people in the service of
Virginia.
Governor Pens to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, June ~th, 1774.
Sir:—I have received your letter of the 29th of May, by ex
press, inclosing your speech to the Indians, and think it an extra
ordinary letter. I shall consult my council upon the propriety of
issuing a proclamation for apprehending him 1 which is a measure I
dare say they will advise.
I am much pained to find your country is in so terrible a situa
tion as you represent it, and think you have acted very wisely in
entering into an association to raise men, which I hope will quiet
the minds of the people and answer the purpose of keeping them
from totally leaving the country.
You may depend upon my doing every thing that lays in my
power, to relieve you from the expense of maintaining the com
pany of men you mention. You will receive as soon as possible
two hundred muskets with powder and lead, which you will dispose
of in the best manner to such persons as will return them when
they are of no further use to them.
Those members of Assembly who live in town, approve much
of my doing every thing that may be necessary for your protection
and have sent summonses to all the members that live within twenty
miles of the town to meet on Friday next to consult upon what
will be proper to be done immediately and if by any further intelli
gence from your county it should appear necessary, I shall then call
the Assembly.
Wagons with the arms and ammunition will set off this after
noon or early to-morrow morning. They will be consigned to Mr.
Montgomery at Carlisle who will be desired to forward them to you.
1 Reference is lnire made to John Hinkson and James Cooper, who were
charged by St. Clair with having killed Joseph Wipey, the Delaware In
dian.
20

Mr. Lesley luis taken the charge of packing them up and has de
livered me the inclosed account of what he is to put up.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pexn.
Ligonter, June 8, 1774.
Sir —Since I wrote to you yesterday I have received two letters 1
from Mr. Croghan, which I now inclose. Though he seems to say
that peace may be continued, I believe it is not his sentiments; and
the circumstance of his going to Williamsburg, whatever design he
may avow, is to be out of the way of danger for he dare neither
trust the white people nor the Indians.
We have a certain account of some mischief having been done
up Cheat River. Eight or nine people are killed but whether it is
only designed as revenge, or is really the beginning of a war, we
can not yet judge 2 I shall, however take earliest opportunity to in
form you of what passes.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, June 12, 1774.
Sir:—In my last letter I had the honor to inform you, that in
consequence of the ranging company which had been raised here,
there was reason to hope the people would return to their planta
tions and pursue their labors and for some time, that is, a few
days, it had that effect; but an idle report of Indians having been
seen within the party, has driven them every one into some little
fort or other, and many hundreds out of the country altogether.
This has obliged me to call in the parties from where they were
1Only one of these letters—that of June 4, 1774, previously given —has
been preserved.
2 It was both, as it proved. The "mischief spoken of was the work of
Logan, the Mingo chief, in revenge for the killing of his relatives al Baker s
liottom, opposite the mouth of Yellow Creek, on the 30th of April previous.
It was on Dunkiml s Creek, ubout ten miles from the mouth of Client Kiver,
on the west side of the Munongnheln, that the irate chief began his work of
death—began, in fact, "Lord DunmoiVs War." Logan had with him a
small number of Mingocs and Shawanese from "W akatomiea, an Indian
town upon the Muskingum, near what is now Dresden, Muskingum county,
Ohio. At this time, about ten persons were killed. The whole country was
in forts; that is, what was left of them on either side of the Monongahcla—
the greater part having gone over the mountains for safety.
Comspondcnce, Addi esses, etc. CC7
posted, and have stationed them, twenty men at the Bullock Pens,
twenty men at Turtle Creek, thirty at Hauna s Town, twenty at
Proctor s, and twenty at Ligonier; as these places are now the fron
tier towards the Alleghany, all that great country betwixt the mad1
and that river being totally abandoned, except by a few who arc as
sociated with the people who murdered the Indians, and are shut up
in a small fort on Connymack [Conemaugh], equally afraid of the
Indians and officers of justice.
Nothing can be more surprising than the dread the people are
under, and it is truly shameful that so great a body of people should
have been driven from their possessions without even the appear
ance of an enemy for certain it is, as yet, no attempt has been
made on what is understood to be Pennsylvania, nor any other
mischief dine than the killing the family on Whitelick Creek, which
I informed you of before, and which, from every circumstance, ap
pears rather to have been private revenge than a national stroke.
A fresh report of Indians being seen near Hannn s Town, and
another party on Braddock s Road, set the people agoing again yes
terday. I immediately took horse and rode up to inquire, and found
it, if not totally groundless, at' least very improbable; but it was
impossible to persuade the people so, and I am certain I did not
meet less than a hundred families, and I think two thousand head
of cattle, in twenty miles riding.
The people in this valley still make a stand but yesterday they
all moved into this place, and I perceive are much in doubt what to
do. Nothing in my power to prevent their leaving the country
shall be omitted, but if they will go I suppose i must go with the
stream. It is the strangest infatuation ever seized upon men and
if they go off now, as harvest will soon be on, they must undoubt
edly perish by famine, for spring crop there will be little or none.
By a letter from Mr. Mackay, of yesterday, I had a very extra
ordinary piece of intelligence, that Lord Dunmore had empow
ered Mr. Conolly to settle a line of jurisdiction with the Pennsyl
vania magistrates." This, it seems, he gives out himself, but it is
too absurd to be believed. It would give much pleasure to the
friends of Government in this part of the country, to hear that
1The two principal roads leading out of Pittsburgh, at that (late, eastward,
were Forbes' Road" and Braddock s Road." Leaving Fort Pitt by the
fist-mentioned mute, the traveler would reach the Bullock Pens, in seven
miles; Hannastown, is something over thirty; Ligonier, in fifty-six; and
Bedford, in about one hurdred miles. It was this road that St. Clair refers
to. Braddock s Road wa« to the south of this.

your commissioners had succeeded in that business, as it seems to
be the only thing that can restore us peace and order 1
A very little time will discover the intentions of the Indians, and
if they shoilld proceed to further hostilities, I will give you notice
by express, if it appears to be necessary.
P. S.—I have just heard that Mr. Conolly has sent a party of
militia down to Wheeling, with orders to fall on every Indian they
meet, without respecting friend or foe 2
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penv.
Ligonier, June 16th, 1774.
Sir:—There is very little alteration in the afTairs of this coun
try since my last, which was a few days ago, only we have a certain
account of two more people being killed by the Indians, one Mr.
McClure, and Kincaid, the person for whom you lately issued a
special commission of the peace. They, it seems, were leading a
party of forty men to join Capt. Conolly at Wheeling, and were
attacked by four Indians who made their escape without so much
as being fired at 2
Before this accident Mr. Conolly had determined to march from
•On the 12ih day of May, 1774, James Tilghman and Andrew Allen,
commissioners of Pennsylvania, appointed to meet Lord Dunmore for a con
ference with regard to the Boundary Troubles, left Philadelphia, and arrived
in Williamsburg on the 19th following. The business was soon opened;
but, after a conference which lasted until the 27th of that month, it ended in
nothing whatever being accomplished; Lord Dunmore declaring that in no
event would lie yield jurisdiction over Fort Pitt, which put an end to the
meeting. St. Clair, however, had not received, at the date of the above let
ter, information of the failure of the commission.
1 Particulars of the mishap which befel this party are given by St. Clair,
in his letter to Penn, of June 16, 1774, which follows.
8 JuneI3th [1774], We have this morning received Certain accounts
from Ten-Mile Creek, (which Empties into the Monongahela ten miles above
Redstone Fort) that on the 11th Inst. Francis McClure was killed &one Sam
uel Kinkade badly wounded. These men were heading a Party in Pursuit
of Logan, McClure as Captain Kinkade Lieut., and Owcing to their bad
Conduct, they advanced some considerable distance ahead of their men and
were discovered by Logan, when the Party came up they found their Captn
kill d Lieut wounded; part of them stayed to take care of the wounded,
and the Rest pursued the Indians." —Drverenx Smith to From this
it would seem that St. Clair was mistaken in supposing the party were
marching to join Conolly at Wheeling.

Ft. Pitt, (which he now calls Ft. Dunmore,) with three or four hun
dred men he had embodied for the purpose of chastising the Shawanese,
to erect forts at Wheeling1 and Hockhocking2 to overawe
the Indians and from thence to carry war into their own country;
of this he was pleased to inform me by letter 3 and to desire I
would act in concert with him. You may be assured, sir, I shall
be cautious of taking any step that may have the most distant
tendency to draw this Province into active share in the war they
have had no hand in kindling, but I have since received accounts
that the above murders instantly changed the plan, and Mr. Couolly
remains in garrison.
'Tis said some of his parties discovered a very large party of In
dians crossing the Ohio below Wheeling. If that be true, as it is
not improbable, we may expect soon to hear of much mischief be
ing done, as there is not the least doubt of several small parties
being out at this time.
Tis some satisfaction the Indians seem to discriminate betwixt us
and those who attacked them, and their revenge has fallen hitherto
on that side of the Monongahela, which they consider as Virginia,'
but lest that should not continue, we are hiking all possible care
to prevent a heavy stroke falling on the few people who are left in
this country. Forts at different places so as to be more convenient,
are now nearly completed, which gives an appearance of security
for the women and children, and with the ranging parties, which
have been drawn in to preserve the communication, has in a great
degree put a stop to the unreasonable panic that had seized them,
but in all of them there is a great scarcity of ammunition, and sev
eral messengers have returned from below without being able to
purchase.
I am very anxious to know whether the ranging companies are
agreeable to your honor or not, both because the expense of con
tinuing them will be too heavy for the subscribers, and that I am
every day pressed to increase them. This I have positively re
fused to do till I receive your Honor s instructions, and I well know
how averse our Assemblies have been formerly to engage in the dc1
Thesite of the present city of that name, in "West Virginia.
2The Hockhocking (frequently written Hocking) enters the Ohio River on
the right, in the present State of Ohio, two hundred and three miles by course
of the latter stream below Pittsburgh.
3 It is a matter of regret that this letter has not been found. In the end,
the plan mentioned was carried out
That is, on the west side.

fense of the frontiers, and if they fire still of the same disposition,
the circumstance of the white people being the aggressors will
afford them a topic to ring the charges on and conceal their real
sentiments.
Last night I received petitions from several different parts of the
county, which I have now the honor to transmit to you by Doctor
McKenzie from Pittsburgh 1 The disturbance in this country has
ruined his business, but should the Province think of raising
1 Two, only, of the Petitions have been found, but this is a mutter of lit
tle importance, as it will be seen by the following that they were all sub
stantially alike: M
Pittsbi;egh, 14M June, 1774. '•To the Honourable John Penn, Esq r, Governour and Commander in
Chief of the Province of Pennsylvania, and of the Counties of Newcastle,
Kent, and Sussex upon Delaware. The Petition of the Inhabitants of
Westmoreland County, Humbly Sheweth,
"That there is the greatest Reason to apprehend that this part of the
Country will be immediately involved in all the horrors of an Indian War,
That our Circumstances at this Critical Conjuncture, are truly alarming.
Deserted by the tar greater part of our neighbours and fellow subjects, un
provided with places of strength to resort to, with Ammunitions, Provisions,
and almost every other necessary Store, Our houses are abandoned to pillage,
Labour and Industry entirely at a stand. Our Crops destroyed by Cattle,
Our (locks dispersed, and the minds of our people distracted with the terrors
of falling, along with their helpless and unprotected families, the immediate
victims of Savage Barbarity.
"In the midst of these scenes of Desolation and ruin, next to the Al
mighty, we look up to your Honour, hoping from your known Benevolence
and Humanity, such Protection and Relief as to your Honour shall seem
meet.
'And your Petitioners as in Duty bound will Pray. ^Eneas Mackay,
Devereux Smith, William Butler, James O Hara, Samuel McKenzie, John
Ormsby. John McCallister, Andrew Robeson. Edward Thompson, William
Evins, William McClellan, William I ea, Frederick Fenny, John Henery,
Christopher Miller, John Stewart, Richard Carson, David Sample, Thomas
Galbraith, William Elliott, Ar. St. Clair, James Pollock, Benjamin Setter,
James Carnahan, John Chillton, John Carnahan, Peter Eekley, Edward
Murray, William JleConnell, James Kyll, Benjamin Coe, Joseph Kyll.
John Work. Robert Patterson, Reuben Powell, Peter Coe, Michael Huflnagle,
Abel Fisher, and others."
[II]
Fokt Shipen, at Cav n John Proctors.
"To the Honorable John Penn, Esquire, Governour and Commander in
chief of the Province of Pennsylvania, and Counties of New Castle, Kent,
and Sussex upon Delaware. The Petition of the Inhabitants of Westmor
land County Iluml ly Sheweth,

troops, he would be glad I believe to be employed. I can, sir,
recommend him to your Honor, as an expert surgeon and gentle
manly man. He has served as surgeon in the navy.
I was mistaken in saying two people were killed on Ten Mile
Creek: McClure was killed, and Kinkaid wounded; however, it
would have been no great matter if ho had been killed, as he had
accepted a commission in the service of Virginia, soon after the
notice you had been pleased to take of him at the request of his
father-in law, Col. Wilson. I am afraid there arc some more of
our Virginia friends who do not play us fair, but it is not a time at
present for purgation.
Unless your Honor should forbid me, I shall continue to write
to you in this manner, whatever occurs, as it is the only way I
have at present to show you that I am with the greatest respect,
your obedient servant.
P. S. —For auy thing that has escaped me, I take the liberty to
refer you to Doctor McKensie.
The day before yesterday I had a visit from Major Ward. He
informs me that Mr. Croghan set out for Williamsburg the day be
fore, to represent the distresses he says of the people of this coun
try. At the same time he informed me that the Delawares had got
notice of the murder of Wipey, and that Mr. Croghan had desired
him to come to me on that occasion that he advised that they
"That thero is great Reason to rear that this part of the Country will
soon be involved in an Indian War That the Consequences will most
probably be very striking as the Country is in a very defenceless state,
without any Places of Strength, or any Stock of Ammunition or Necessary
Stores.
"That the abandoning the Country, must be attended with total Ruin to
great numbers who arc now in an easy Situation, but almost distracted with
the apprehension of seeing their Helpless Infants (all a Sacrifice to Savage
Cruelty, and this will certainly be the event unless they meet with some
protection.
"In these Circumstances, next to the Almighty, they look up to your
Honour, and hope you will tako their Case into Consideration, and afford
them such Relief as to your Honour shall seem meet.
"And your Petitioners as in duty bound will Pray.
"Lot Darling, Andrew Woolf, Gorg Hedingbau, Samuel Sloan, "William
Caldwell, Kobcrt Roulston, William Allison, "William Cortny, John l atriek,
Benjamin Coohra, James Gammel, James Forsyth, Robert Taylor,
John Leslie, William Anderson, George Henry. John Proctor, David Max
well, Will am Hughs, Ilias Peltet, and others.''

should be spoken to and some small present made to them as con
dolence and to cover his bones, as they express it. I do not well
know what to do such a present as some few of us would be
willing to contribute for, might be thought unworthy of the Province,
and such an one as might come up to my idea, would he great pre
sumption to offer. This however is certain, the Delawares are still
friendly and it may perhaps prevent a general war if they can be
kept in temper. I believe I shall go to Ft. Pitt, however, and will
consider well of it.
vEneas Maceay to Arthur St. Clair,
Pittsburgh, llth June, 1774.
My Dear Sir:—I have the pleasure to inform you that Butler 1
Blain 2 and several other traders, are just arrived with their skins,
guarded by three Shawauese chief s, and our greatest dread is now
that the militia will attempt to kill or otherwise abuse these princi
pal men, as they are so easy to come at; however we have some
trusty hands to lead them through the woods to Col. Croghan s, which
we look upon to be a place of safety. The traders inform us that
they have not been under confinement at all, and that they have
been exceedingly well treated by all the Shawanesc 2 We will have
no war yet, unless our neighbors will force them to it.
1 Richard liutler. He, in company with his brother William, whs engaged
as a trader, ut this period, with the Shawanesc. They had been doing u large
business for n number of years, from Pittsburgh. It may be here mentioned
that these brothers took an important part in the Revolution, and that Richard
was a Major-General in the Indian war which followed that contest.
2 Ephraim Iilaine.
Richard Butler, after his arrival at Pittsburgh, gave an interesting ac
count of his escapefrom the Indian country. It was in substance this: On
henring the news of the killing ol the Mingoes by Greathouse and his party
at Baker s Bottom, on the 30th of April, three men and a boy, who were
Mingoes, and one Shawanese, set off to the Hockhocking, with an intent to
revenge the deed upon the traders there. On bearing of this, the Shawa
nese bead men sent four of their own people nnd one Mohican to preserve
Butler and the residue of the traders at that point. This was faithfully done;
for when the war party came to the camp of the Pennsylvanians, they were
met 1 y the others, whe prevailed on them to return home. AVhen Butler
and the other traders were ready to start for Pittsburgh, the Shawanese
chief, Cornstalk, sent his brother to escort the whole of tl em to Pittsburgh,
although, before they left, the report that Logan and his friends had taken
up the batehet against the Virginians in revengo for his relatives slain,
reached the Shawanese before their departure. The Indian escort, composed

P. S. —Mr. Butler informs me, he has a speech for the inhabitants
of the forks of the Two Iiivers, meaning our Province; and Blain has
a speech to deliver to Mr. Connolly as representative for the Big
Knife, so that 1 hope you will be up before the speeches will be de
livered 4
James Tilghman to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, June 20th, 1774.
Sir —The Governor has received your dispatches by Mr. Hooper
and Mr. Jacobs who had by packet from Mr. Elder. I just take this
opportunity by a person going off to-day, to let you know that we
could not bring my Lord Dunmore to any reasonable temporary
lines. We offered the Monongahcla which he would not agree to
so that the peace and quiet of the country must in a great measure
depend on the confidence of those in command on both sides till we
can get orders from home to have the boundaries of Penn a settled,
which Lord Dunmore assured us he would use every endeavor to
expedite. I find you have raised some rangers to encourage the
people to continue their settlements; great care should be taken that
they give uo offense or umbrage to the Indians, who should be
made sensible that nothing is intended, but to keep the people to
the settlements, unless the Indians should' oblige them to act of
fensively. It seems as if there were no good understanding between
Croghan and Connolly. I do not know how sincere Croghan may
be, nor would I judge uncharitably, but his sentiments are just.
We had some intimation when at Williamsburg and I have
heard since I came home that Lord Dunmore has interested himself
in the lands about Pittsburgh. I wish you would inquire into that
of one Shawanese, one Mingo and u Mohican, proved faithful to their trust
and delivered their charges in safety at Pittsburgh.
The fears of Mnckuy that the militia would "attempt to kill or otherwise
abuse" the three Indians, were well-rounded. It required great raution and
considerable trouble on the part of the traders and Colonel Croghan to pro
tect them, so intense was the excitement among the Virginians at Pittsburgh
against savages in general at the time. On their way home, the Mohican
was actually wounded, near the mouth of Beaver, by a scouting party; how
ever, it is not certain that they had knowledge of the pacific intention of
these Indians.
*The speech brought in by Butler has not been found. The one intrusted
to Blaine was directed to Croghan and Conolly. It was from the chief,
Cornstalk. Ho sent his good intentions to the Governors of Pennsylvania
and Virginia; hoped that peace would be maintained, and that no more In
diana would be killed. r

matter, and transmit me what intelligence you 'can gain of it.
The Governor will write you by the first opportunity. He is out of
town to-day and knows not of this.
Conolly wrote Lord Dunmore a very flattering account of his ex
pedition against the court house for which we are informed he got
a sharp reprimand instead of the applause he expected. When we
applied for the discharge of the magistrates his Lordship told us
he had already given orders for that purpose.
Lord Dunmore told us he would instruct his people to be very
pacific and inoffensive, and not to give an occasion of difference.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pe>n.
Ligonier, June 22, 1774.
Sir:—In my last I informed you of Mr. Croghan setting out for
Williamsburg, since which I had a letter from him from his own
house. He therein informed me that he found the country so much
alarmed at his going down, that he chose to return, and trust his
business to letters, and desired to see me as soon as possible.
Accordingly I set out for Pittsburgh the 17th inst. and had the
happiness to find two of the principal traders arrived there with a
great quantity of peltry, and that they had been conducted there
by some of the Shawanese chiefs, and that the rest of the traders,
with their horses and skins, were got as far as the Newcomer s
Town, under the protection of another Shawanese party.
The traders inform us that they have met with no ill treatment
from the Shawanese but, on the contrary, they were at the great
est pains, to protect them from the Mingoes, who had suffered most
from the white people, and who came to their town several times,
with the intention to murder them. It seems they did not think it
prudent to bring the Shawanese to Pittsburgh, but conducted them
from some distance below that place, through the woods to Colonel
Croghan s. Mr. Conolly ordered out a party of forty men to make
them prisoners, as he says.
The people of the town were alarmed at seeing a party march out
the route they took, and suspected they were intended to attack a
partv of our people stationed at the Bullock Pens, about seven
miles from thence, which it seems has some time been threatened,
and acquainted me with what they feared. I immediately waited
on Mr. Conolly, and insisted, in direct terms, he should tell me if
he had any such design. He assured me he had not, but that, as

the Shawanese had committed depredations on his Majesty s subjects,
he had ordered out that party to make those prisoners who had
escorted the traders and that might have been his real intention
but I am convinced those who were to put it in execution would not
have made prisoners. We put it out of their power to do either, by
sending them over the river.
Your Honor will judge from this circumstance that the crew about
Fort Pitt (now Fort Dunmore), are intent on a war, for were not
that the case, honor, generosity, gratitude, every manly principle,
must have prompted them to be kind, and afford protection to those
poor savages, who had risked their own lives to preserve the lives
and property of their fellow-subjects. But why need I mention this
circumstance? One at least as strong is, that John Drinning, who
publicly acknowledged, or rather boasted, of having killed the In
dians, with Mr. Cresap, is one of Mr. Conolly s lieutenants, and is
at the present time out somewhere with the command of a party to
take scalps, from friends I suppose a murderer, I am sure, will
never meet an enemy on fair terms.
I mentioned something of a condolence in my last, and as the
Shawanese were up, I suffered myself to be pursuaded by Mr. Croghan
to collect a small present of goods for that purpose, which was
on Sunday morning to have been divided and sent to the three na
tions, the Six Nations, Shawanese, and Delawares but Mr. Con
nolly s frolic prevented it that day. Next morning, the Indians,
being some Six Nations, and some Delawares, were brought down
to Mr. Croghan s, and were shown the condolence, and acquainted
that it was ordered for them by you, and that when their chiefs
arrived they would be spoken to, and the present delivered, and a
messenger was sent after the Shawanese to acquaint them likewise.
As the Indians themselves made a distinction betwixt us and our
neighbors, it may perhaps he a means of keeping peace in our quar
ter at least. I hope your Honor will not be offended nt my taking
this upon myself. The value of the goods is but trifling, not ex
ceeding thirty or forty pounds. I have inclosed a list of them, but
the person from whom I got them neglected to affix the prices.
Whatever may Ie: Mr. Croghan s real views, I am certain he is
hearty in promising the general tranquillity of the country; indeed,
he is indefatigable in endeavoring to make up the breaches, and
does, I believe, see his mistake in opposing the interests of your
Government; and I doubt not but a very little attention would
render him as serviceable as ever. Real friendship you must not ex
pect, for, by his interest alone he is regulated, yet he may be useful,

as by and by you will probably want to make another purchase. I
purposely gave him an opportunity of opening a correspondence
with me, which he embraced, and from what I can see, he would be
glad to be on better terms with your officers than he has been but
this is only conjecture.
With this, your Honor will receive an extract from Mr. McKce s
journal of all the transaction* with the Indians, from the beginning
of the troubles, as also another of Mr. Connolly s advertisements 1
I know not well what he means by it, but I believe his design is to
distress the Indian trade.
It is true what I mentioned about the boundary. Mr. Connolly
read me a part of a letter from Lord Dunmore on the subject. He
says the demands of the Pennsylvania^ were so extravagant that
he could do nothing with them, but that he (Connolly) may settle
a line of jurisdiction with the magistrates of Westmoreland, ten
or twelve miles eastward of Pittsburgh, or a more convenient dis
tance, and cautions him at the same time not to give just cause of
offense to the magistrates acting under the authority of this Province.
I know not how the magistrates were to settle lines.
I received your Honor s favor of 7th inst., and am happy to
inform you the panic is in some measure over. The ammunition has
not yet come to hand, but a quantity arrived from Carlisle which
eased the people s minds a little, but the damage to the country by
the desertion of the people and the loss of the Spring crop is very
great, and if any thing should happen to interrupt the harvest we
must have an absolute famine. This I hope will not be the case.
Logan is returned with thirteen scalps and a prisoner, and says
he will now listen to the chiefs 2
1Onolly s advertisement wns in these words:
"Whereas the Shawanese have perpetrated several murders upon the. Inhabitants
of this Country which has involved this promising Settlement in
the moit calamitous distress; and whereas I have good reason to believe
that certain imprudent people continue to curry on a correspondence with,
and supply the said Enemies with dangerous Commodities to the infinite
prejudice of His Majesty s subjects, and expressly contrary to an Act of As
sembly prohibiting such unwarrantable intercourse: These are therefore in
His Majesty s Name, strictly to require and command all His Majesty s
Subjects, to take notice hereof and to deport themselves as the law directs,
as they may be assured that a contrary conduct will draw on them the
utmost severity thereof.
"Given under my Hand at Fort Dunmore this 18th June, 1774.
John Conolly.''
2 It has been taken for granted that he did so listen, and that he then

Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, June 26<A, 1774.
Sir:—I have the honor to transmit a memorial from the inhabit
ants of Pittsburgh to your Honor, with some remarks upon Mr.
Conolly s conduct in support of it, which came to my hands a few
minutes ago 1 It is most certain, sir, they are most injuriously
buried the hatchet, having slain just as nmny of the "Long Knives" as the
Virginians killed of Mingoes. But his rest was only temporary: he after
ward penetrated a considerable distance into Virginia—he and his brave*
killing as they went. Up to the last of June, or to the time of the date of
the above letter, he had already taken sixteen scalps.
1 The following are the Memorial and Remarks referred to by St. Clair:
[Memorial.] i. PiTTsnvon, June. 25, 1774.
"To the Honorable John Penn, Esq., Governor and joint Proprietor of tbo
Province of Pennsylvania, etc. '•The memorial of the subscribers, in behalf of themselves and the re
maining few inhabitants of Pitt-burgh who have adhered to the Governor
of Pennsylvania, humbly sheweth: That your memorialists have suffered in
an unprecedented manner by the arbitrary proceedings of Doctor Conolly,
sinci; the commencement of his tyrannical Government at Pittsburgh. The
principal facts we shall beg leaveto lay before your Honor, as followeth: Soon
after the return of the magistrates of this place from Staunton jail in Vir
ginia, Mr. Conolly being extremely enraged that Mr. Mackay should ac
quaint Lord Dunmore with bis tyrannical behavior, took all opportunities to
affront and use Sir. Mackay ill, so that in a few days after he ordered Mr.
Maekay s outheuses to be pulled down, and the materials to be carried to his
garrison; and when Mr. Mackay complained of such oppressive measures,
he was threatened by Doctor Conolly to be sent in irons to Williamsburg.
Mr. William Butler, (one of the subscribers,) and an eminent trader at
this place, has been cruelly treated by Mr. Conolly, nay, was threatened to
be shot down, for daring to refuse carrying arms at Mr. Conoliy s militia
array, etc. That your memorialists are of opinion that Mr. Conolly has
taken all the pains in his power to foment the disturbance between us and
the Indians, for several reasons, particularly when a number of the traders
arrived here lately from the Shawanese towns, escorted by three Shawanese
chiefs, who were sent to the care of Colonel Croghan, till a handsome
present was made for them, by the traders for their fidelity, Doctor Conolly
ordered out forty-one of his militia to take them at all events, and to send
them to his guard house, which hellish plot being discovered, Mr. Butler, and
some other friends, conveyed the Indians and their presents over the river,
just as the guards surrounded Mr. Croghan s bouse, for which Mr. Butler
has been severely threatened.
"That a number of the subscribers, etc., have been very severely treated

treated. The only piece of news from above, since my last, is,
that Mr. Conolly sent two parties down the river in pursuit of the
Shawauese who escorted the traders, who. intercepted them at Beaver
by Mr. Conolly fur our adherence to the Pennsylvania Government, which,
fur brevity sake, must be omitted.
"The premises considered, your memorialists most earnestly request your
Honor will f:iil upon some speedy method to relieve our distresses, and to
send us directions, as soon as possible, bow to act on this very critical occa
sion.
Kor a further explanation of our distresses we beg leave to refer your
Honor to the enclosed remarks, which are absolute facts.
".-Eneas Mackay, Frederick F any, William Evans, Devereux Smith, Rob
ert McCully, William Amberson, John Ormsby, George McCully, William
Hamilton, Richard Butler, John Shannon, James Smith, William Butler,
Gabriel Walker, John Irwin, James O Hara, John. Walker, Robert Elli
ott, James Fowler, Benjamin Elliott, Richard Carson, Joseph Spear, Al
exander Wayue, Joseph Carrel, Andrew Robinson, Ralph Nailer, Stephen
Groves."
[Remares.]
PiTTSBi RaH, June 25r7», 1774.
"The Distress d Inhabitants of this Place have just cause to Charge their
present Calamity Dread of an Indian War, Intirely to the Tyrannical
and mi precedent Conduct of Doctor John Connolly, whoso design, as we
conceive, is to better his alrrost desperate Circumstances upon the distress
of the publick and the Ruin of our Fortunes, as will appear (mm the fol
lowing Facts
1st. On the 'Joth day of January last, a number of disorderly persons as
sembled themselves here in Consequence of his advertisements, (as militia)
whe, when dispersing, wantonly or maliciously fired upon some Iriendly In
dians, in their Hutts on the Indian Shore, which Conduct, together with So
unexpected an Ap, earanoeof so many People in Arms at a time, that they
ex| cited no Hostile Infntion on our parts, greatly alarmed them, as ap
peared by Complaint made by them at a Council with Alexander Mc [Kee],
Ks'|' r, Indian Agent, and some of the Inhabitants of this Place, a few days
alter.
"2ndly. Michael Cresip[Cresap].in vindication of his own Conduct, alledges
that it was in Consequence of a Circular Letter from said Connolly, directed
to the Inhab tants of the Ohio, that be murthered the Indians, and that in a
mui ner that Savage Ferocity could scarce equal in Cold Blood, without
the le i.-t Provocation, amongst whom was some Delawares that had been
employed by Mr. William Butler to Carry Goods tend to the Relief of
his brothers, who was at that time in the Indian Country, all of which prop
erty they have been deprived of to a Considerable amount; also, every part
of said Connolly s conduct to our friendly Indians convinces us that he
menus to force them to a war, as he both Refuses to protect endeavors to
murder these that, at the Risque of their lives Came with our Traders to
p-otect them to deliver assurances to the publick, which can be produced
if required.

Creek, fired on them, and wounded one, and then ran off in the
most dastardly manner. What may he the consequence God knows,
but it is well if the traders do not suffer; their horses and peltry
are not yet arrived.
"3dly. A large body of Armed men broke open Mr. McKay s Mr Smitlis
Back-yard Gates Rescued the Villiau Welly, who was sworn constable for
Westmoreland County at that time, and was confined for abusing said Mc
Kay in his own House; five; of those men presented their Guns at Mr. Mc
Kay Mr. Smith, also one of the Party struck at Mr. McKay with bis
Gun and broke it into pieces, whilst another presented his rifle through his
Parlour window, Swearing that he would shoot down Mrs. McKay if she
did not immediately set open the doors of her House, ujion which she fled,
but was Immediately assaulted by one Aston (a Caj tain in sad Connolly s
Appointment) with a drawn Sword, whe stabbed her in the Arm. Mr.
Spear was also Abused Scratched by said Aston, at the same time.
'••Hlily. Said Connolly, with an Armed force of two hundred men, sur
rounded the Cc urt House, &c &c.
"uthly. He sent YEneas McKay, Devereux Smith, Andrew MeFarlane,
Magistrates, under an Armed Guard to Stan town [Staunton] jail, in Vir
ginia, then proceeded to shoot down our Cattle, Sheep and Hogs, takeing by
force of Anns any part of our property he pleases, also Pressing our Horses
without applying for them or rendering any satisfaction to the sufferers for
so doing.
"(itbly. He sent an Armed Guard to Town to Plunder the House of Mr.
Devereux Smith, but was prevented by Mr. William Butler, at the Risque
of bis li(e.
"7thly. He, Connolly, with bis whole Force came to the House of Mr.
McKay Broke open bis Gates, Pulled down a Log Stable Sheep
house, threatening to Pull down bis Dwelling House if he theught proper;
be came again, accompanied by one of his Officers, to Mr. McKays
abused him in a Blasphemous, outrageous manner, threatening to send him
in Irons to Virginia, next day.
'•8thly. He sent an Armed Guard to Town, with a General Search War
rant, to search every House in Town, without Exception, for the Effects of
amon that died the evening before in their Fort, that some of themselves had
Robbed his Corpse off. In the Course of their Search they Broke Open a
Chest in a Mans hrnise, that bears a Good Character here, and took out sev
eral Articles, and at the same time Insulted the owner.
"'Jthly. He sent a party who Robbed Mr. Joseph Spears s Carriers of Oni
Horse load of Gun Powder about Six miles from Town, which was sent bj
said Spear for the use of the Inhabitants of this Country, if necessity re
quired; thus Robbery was committed by a Party beaded by the afloresaii
Aston who beat and Insolently abused the Person who had said Powder in
Cliarce, when he Demanded a Receipt for the same.
"These are but a few of the many Distresses we labour under, and with
out Protection Speedy Redress, cannot long support ourselves under
such Greiveous Persecution Tyranny

Mr. MeFarlane has just arrived from Virginia, and reports that
four companies are on their march to Pittsburgh. I think he must
be mistaken, both as their militia law is expired, and that it is not
an easy matter to conduct so large a body through au uninhabited
country, where no magazines are established. Any occurrences
worthy of your nutiee shall be intimated by every opportunity.
Governor Penn to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, June 28, 1774.
Sir —The accounts which you have transmitted of the temper of
the Indians, and the murders they have already perpetrated, are
truly alarming, and give every reason to apprehend that we shall
not long be exempt from the calamities of a savage war. The de
sertion of that country in consequence of the panic which has seized
the inhabitants, on this occasion, must be attended with the most
mischievous effects, and prove ruinous to the immediate sufferers,
and distressing to the Province in general. Every measure, there
fore, should be attempted to stop the progress of this evil, and to
induce those who have already gone off, to return to their habita
tions; and, I must rely on you to exert all your prudence and ac
tivity fir this purpose. The steps which have already been taken
appear to me very proper, and I have no doubt, but that you will
continue your endeavours to restore the drooping spirits of the peo
ple, and inspire them with a resolution to stand their ground, at
least till they arc satisfied of the intentions of the Indians towards
this Province. You may assure thom that Government sensibly
feels the distresses of their situation—that it will be attentive to
their interests, and affjrd them every assistance and protection in
its power to give. With this disposition, I have issued writs for
convening the Assembly, on the 18th of next month and shall
immediately on their meeting, lay this matter before them, and
have reason to expect that such measures will be adopted as may
effectually enable the Government to extend to them a relief, ade
quate to its wishes, and their wants. In the mean time I shall give
orders fir such further supply of ammunition to be sent up as will
be sufficient for the present occasion.
I have written to Sir William Johnson, informing him of the in
telligence we had received of these transactions, and requesting his
interposition with the Six Nations, to use their influence with the
Shawanese and Delawares, to prevent further hostilities on their

part, and to assure them of the sincere intentions of this Govern
ment to continue their pacific disposition towards all our Indian
brethren. I have also written to Lord Dunmore, complaining of
Conolly s outrageous and tyrannical behavior at Pittsburgh, and re
presenting the dangerous tendency his military operations may have
to involve the Colonies in a general Indian War.
P. S. —My Commissioners who attended Lord Dunmore, could
not induce him to come into any reasonable temporary line of juris
diction, and therefore things must remain in the disagreeable situa
tion of interfering jurisdictions. In this unhappy situation I am
satisfied, you and the other magistrates will act a prudent part. It
is impossible in such a case to give particular directions. With re
spect to the keeping up the rangers you have raised for the security
of the inhabitants, I shall recommend it to the Assembly to defray
the expense that shall accrue in that necessary measure and I can
not have the least doubt that they will approve of what has been
done on this occasion, as also the continuance of the same forces,
until their sentiments can be known.
R. L. Hooper to Arthur St. Clair.
[No date.] 1
Dear Sir :—Yesterday I forwarded three letters for you by Mr.
Ross3 of Pittsburgh, and now I am in hopes of sending you the re
solves of council last evening which was held in consequence of
your letters, etc., by Doctor McKinney. I have hunted Mr. Tilghman
faithfully to day, but can not meet with him. I am now going
in search of him to get the Governor s letter for you; but I will first
tell you that the Assembly is called to meet the 18th of next month,
and a considerable quantity of powder and lead is ordered to be sent
up immediately and this is all—except the full approbation of your
conduct—and it gave me great pleasure to hear one of the gentlemen
of the council express his sentiments of you on this occasion. I
think there does not remain a doubt but your measures will be adopted
by the Governor and Assembly, and your requests fully answered, but
]The letter, by referring to the time when the Assembly of Pennsylvanin
was to meet, shows that it was written some time in June, 1774.
2Alexander Koss. He was, for a number of years, engaged largely in
trade with the Indians from Pittsburgh, in connection with Alexander
McKee. He was, on the 11th of January, 1774, commissioned a justice of
the peace of Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, as previously indicated. 21

the delaying time must be of very bad consequence to the country. I
intend to take up a certain Bond if I can, but as yet, I have not
had it in my power. I shall be ready on every occasion to serve you
and the inhabitants. You know I am diligent and active, and per
haps you may have it in your power to turn the eyes of these peo
ple on me. I have had frequent conversation with Mr. Tilghman,
who is friendly.
I have just seen Doctor Smith who says an express is to be sent
off to you. I can not find the Secretary—he is attending the balL
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, July 4th, 1774.
Sir:—I have the honor to inclose the last piece of Indian
Intelligence, which came by Captain White Eyes a few days ago,
and am very happy that affairs have so peaceable an aspect 1 yet
I can not suppress my fears that it will soon be interrupted, as a
large body of Virginians are certainly in motion. Colonel Henry
Lewis is ordered to the mouth of Kenhawa to build a fort there
and Major McDonald with about five hundred, is to march up Braddocks
road and down to Wheeling to build another there and Cresap,
with three others, are appointed to raise ranging companies. With
such officers as Cresap, no good can be expected, so that it is very
doubtful all attempts to preserve the tranquillity of the country
will be fruitless.'1
1The intelligence brought by White Eyes was, in effect, that he was re
turned from transacting the business which ho had been sent upon by his
brethren, the English j and that he now had the satisfaction to tell them that
he had succeeded in his negotiations with all those tribes of the several nations
of Indians whom he had since seen and conferred with, upon the unhappy
disturbances which unfortunately had arisen in the Spring between the fool
ish people of both parties, and that he had found all the nations fully dis
posed to adhero to their ancient friendship and the advice of their wise
men.
2 In n proclamation issued by Lord Dunmore, April 25, 1774, he recognized
that Pittsburgh and its dependencies were in some danger of annoyance
from the Indians," and he ordered and required the officers of the militia
in that district to embody a sufficient number of men to repel any insult
whatever," referring not only to the Indians, but to the Boundary Troubles
as well.
Early in May, William Crawford, President of the Court of Westmore
land County, under Pennsylvania appointment, having accepted a captain s
commission from Lord Dunmore, embodied, up the Monnngahela and
Youghiogheny, one hundred men, and proceeded down to Chartiers' Creek to

The men that have been raised here we have thought proper to
continue another month, as the harvest will, by that time, be over.
They have orders to assist and protect the people in the different
quarters where they are posted, and I hope by that means that it
will be secured.
The arms and ammunition are not yet arrived, but I hear they
will reach that place to-morrow or next day.
Last week Mr. Conolly issued an order to prevent any skins
being removed from Pittsburgh, till they paid duty as in Virginia.
There has been some appearance of the old seed of the Black
Boys, a number of the people had assembled to stop Mr. Somons s
goods, but I had got notice of it and sent a party to protect them,
and have issued warrants against them. Their ring-leader will cer
tainly be taken this day.
William Smith to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, July 5th, 1774.
Sir:—The proceedings of Conolly are shocking and a high disgrace
to the Government from which he pretends his authority, as well as
to this Government, for suffering such flagrant acts within its known
jurisdiction. No pains shall be spared you effectual and imme
diate relief. When any thing falls in the way, Dr. McKenzie will
guard the people while they got their stock away. He then went down the
Ohio as far as Grave Creek to wateh the motions of the Indians, but, seeing
none, returned home with his command. St. Clair seems not to have been
advised of this, the first expedition down the Ohio, in Lord Dunmore s
War."
It will be remembered that early in June, Conolly proposed to send a con
siderable force down the river to build a stockade at Wheeling, and another
at Hockhocking (St. Clair to Governor Penn, June 16th, ante). Captain
William Crawford headed the force, which reached Wheeling without acci
dent, and commenced the erection of a fort there. Meanwhile, Lord Dunmore
planned two expeditions: one to march down the Kanawha, under
Col. Andrew Lewis, to erect a fort at its mouth, and the other under Col.
Angus McDonald, to build one at Wheeling (which had already been an
ticipated by Conolly; and the work was actually begun by Crawford). •'The Virginians, from their conduct, appear determined on a war. Col
onel Lewis is supposed to be at the Canawes [mouth of the Great Kanawha]
with 1500 men and several parties have gone from this place to join him.
Major McDonald, Mr. Cresap and others, are expected here shortly, who, it is
said, are goinc; down the river [Ohio] to build forts and station men at dif
ferent places." —JEntas Mnckay to Joseph Shippen, Jr^ from Pittsburgh,
July 8, 1774.
32not be forgot. Something concerning your Fort Pitt affairs will be
published from time to time, as we can produce intelligence.
James Wilson1 to Arthur St. Clatr.
Carlisle, July 1th, 1774.
Dear Sir:—I was favored with your letter2 by Mr. Anderson.
My connection with the county of Westmoreland, and the regard I
have for some valuable friends there, lay me, in my opinion, under
an indispensable obligation to do them every little service in my
power. The sentiments of the gentlemen who joined with me
in sending up the ammunition 3 are, I believe, upon this subject, the
same. We only did our duty, therefore, upon that occasion. It
will always give me a very sensible pleasure to testify these senti
ments and if any opportunity shall occur in which you think I
can be of the least use, I shall esteem it friendly in you to give me
notice of it.
The Governor has summoned the Assembly to meet on the 18th
of this month. What measures that body will adopt in order to se
cure and protect the frontiers of the Province, it is impossible to
foretell.'
In the interior parts of the Province the public attention is much
engrossed about the late conduct of the Parliament with regard to
America 5 and the steps which the Colonies ought jointly to take to
maintain their liberties against which, to say the least of the mat
ter, a very dangerous blow seems to be aimed. A general Congress
1 Native of Scotland, lawyer of distinction, and afterwards signer of Dec
laration of Independence, etc.
2This letter has not been found 
2Supplies sent to Westmoreland for use of the rangers raised by St.
Clair to protect the frontiers.
'When the Assembly met, Governor Penn communicated the facts set
forth in the foregoing correspondence, asked that an appropriation be mado
to meet expenses incurred in arming the rangers, and that some method be
devised for accommodating the Indian troubles. Appropriation made by
the Assembly, and the Governor advised to renew the peace with the In
dians, and offer to act as a mediator between the Indians and Virginia. A
reward of one hundred pounds was offered for apprehending John Hinkson
and James Cooper for the murder of the friendly Indian, Joseph Wipey.
6 Meetings to express sympathy with Boston were held in June at Lan
caster, Chester, and other interior points.

from all the different Provinces will certainly be appointed. With
regard to the propriety of entering into a non-importation and nonexportation
agreemeut, the opinions of the people in this Province,
as well as the opinions of those in the other Provinces, are not, as
far as I can learn, unanimous.
A meeting of deputies from the several counties in this Province
is to be held at Philadelphia on the loth inst., in order to concart
the preparatory steps to a general Congress 1 Letters from the com
mittee of the city and county of Philadelphia are, I presume, sent
up to you, informing you of this.
Please to offer my best compliments to Mrs. St. Clair.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Hanna s Town, July 12, 1774.
Sir:—On Friday last I was honored with your letter of the 28th
tilt., and I have now the satisfaction to acquaint you that the panic
seems entirely over, and that numbers of people are returning
daily.
It must be very grateful to every person concerned, as it is in a
very particular manner to me, that their endeavors on this occasion
has met with so full approbation from your Honor, and will most
certainly induce them to exert themselves on future ones. I had
yesterday an opportunity to acquaint them, as also a very respectable
body of people who were assembled here in consequence of a letter
from the Committee of Philadelphia, of your determination to af
ford them every necessary assistance and protection. I read to them
that part of your Honor s letter, and they received it with great
satisfaction and thankfulness.
1The meeting on the 15th was attended by the distinguished citizens of
Pennsylvania: John Dickinson, Joseph Keed, Thomas Fitzsimmons, and
Thomas Mifflin attended from Philadelphia; James Wilson, Kobert Magaw,
and William Irvine from Cumberland. The last two served as Colonels un
der St. Clair during the war. James Wilson was a member of the com
mittee to prepare instructions to the delegates appointed to attend a general
Congress. The Assembly, on the 22d, voted that a Congress of Deputies
ought to be held for obtaining redress of American grievances, ascertain
ing American rights, upon the most solid constitutional principles, and for
establishing that union and harmony between Great Britain and the Colo
nies, which is indispensably necessary for the welfare and happiness of
both."

I shall probably have occasion to write you again to-morrow, as I
had, yesterday, a letter from Mr. Croghan 1 desiring a conference
on matters of great importance to the Province, which he would not
trust in writing. I believe, however, it is a proposal to open some
trading place that is, to form a town some where up the Alleghany,
as the trading people must leave Pittsburgh. Hinkston 1 with
about eighteen men in arms, paid us a visit at court last week, and,
I am very sorry to say, got leave to go away again, though there
was a force sufficient to secure two such parties at the sheriff s
directions. I had got intelligence that they were to be there, and
expected to be joined by a party of Cresap s people, for which rea
son the ranging party that were within reach had been drawn in,
but none of the Virginians appeared. It is said a commission has
been sent him from Virginia certain it is, he is enlisting men for
that service.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, July 17th, 1774.
Sir :—The business Mr. Croghan had to communicate was this
That the Virginians are determined to put a stop to the Indian
trade with this Province, and that Messrs. Simons, Campbell, and
Conolly have obtained an exclusive privilege of carrying it on,
on the frontiers of Virginia. He recommends the laying out of a
town up the Alleghany at the Kittanning, to which the traders
might retire, as they will certainly be obliged to abandon Pitts
burgh, and from which the trade might be carried on to as much
advantage, as the distance from thence to Kuskuskies3 is much the
same as from Pittsburgh, and a very good road. He further re
commends the building of a small stockade there, to afford them
protection in case of a war. The Indians will certainly quit Pitts
burgh, ps it is at the risk of their lives they come there, to which I
was an eye-witness.
1See St. Clair s letter of the 17th, to Governor Penn, following.
2This is the same Hinkston that was charged with being one of the party
who murdered the Delaware, Joseph Wipey.
s A Delaware Indian town, of the Monsey tribe or clan, situated at the
Junction of the Shenango and Mahoning rivers, in what is now Lawrence
County, Pennsylvania. The place was nearly north-west from the site of
the proposed now town at "the Kittanning," upon the Alleghany—the spot
where the present Kittanning, county seat of Armstrong County, is located.

Croghan further says, that unless somebody is sent up by the
Government to speak to the Indians very soon, that we shall see no
more of them, and that the Delawares, who are still friendly, will
be debauched.
I beg you to excuse this incoherent scrawl, as I am obliged to be
held up whilst I write it.
Hinkston has left the country.
John Conolly to Arthur St. Clair.
Fort Dunmore 1 July 19th, 1774.
Dear Sir —A report, which has too generally prevailed in this
quarter, of the pacific disposition of the Indians, has unluckily lulled
the inhabitants into supineness and neglect, the effects of which have
been dismally experienced on the 13th inst. upon Dunkard Creek,
where six unfortunate people were murdered by a party of thirtyfive
Indians. I have also received a letter from Colonel Lewis,
acquainting me that the Shawanese had attacked a body of men
near to his house, and had killed one and wounded another. What
ever may be said of the cause urging the Indians to these steps will
be little to the advantage of these suffering people some immediate
steps most undoubtedly ought to be pursued to check their insolent
impetuosity, or the country in general will be sacrificed to their re
venge. The people of the frontiers want nothing but the counte
nance of Government to execute every desirable purpose, and your
Province appearing backward at this critical juncture will most
indubitably be highly displeasing to all the western settlers. I am
determined no longer to be a dupe to their amicable professions, but,
on the contrary, shall pursue every measure to offend them whether
I may have the friendly assistance or not of the neighboring coun
try will, I expect, depend much on your just representation of
matters.
Arthur St. Clatr to John Conolly.
Ligonier, July 22d, 1774.
Sir:—I received your favor of the 19th, yesterday, by Doctor
1 The new nnmo given by Conolly to Fort Pitt. He not only had pos
session of the fort, with a body of Virginia militia, ns he termed them, hut
had made considerable repairs upon the fortress.

McKenzie, and am extremely sorry for the misfortunes that have
happened upon Dunkard Creek.
It is very true, the assigning this or that cause for the inroads
which the Indians are frequently making will be of no manner of
advantage to the sufferers but I think the security into which the
people had fallen arose, not so much from an idea of the pacific
disposition of the Indians, as that the great armed force sent down
the river would effectually cover them in that expectation they
were certainly wrong it was an effect coidd never follow from such
a cause.
I agree with you, something ought to be done to prevent the dep
redations the Indians may still make upon the inhabitants that is,
ample reparation ought to be made them for the injuries they have al
ready sustained, and an honest open intercourse established with them
for the future. This, I imagine, would be found a more cheap, easy,
and expeditious manner of re-establishing the peace of this country
than any offensive measures whatsoever for, be assured, the rest of
the nations will not sit tamely by and see a people who have long
been aiming at taking the lead amongst themselves cut off, or even
much depressed, by the English.
The councils of this Province will, I hope, continue to be founded
in justice, whether that may be displeasing to the western settlers
or not but you are certainly wrong to imagine my representations
have any influence in the matter. I slmll, however, represent mat
ters as they occur to those in Government in the light they appear
to me, as I have done hitherto, and have uniformly declared that I
saw not the least probability of war, unless the Virginians forced it
on. The different maneuvers up and down and across the river
have now probably brought that event about who may see the end
of it God only knows.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, July 22d, 1774.
Sir :—For some days by-past we had a flying report that some
people were killed upon Dunkard Creek, on the 15th instant, but
that a story of that kind should come so slowly through a country
exceedingly on the alarm, induced me to give no credit to it, and
to endeavor to prevent its gaining credit in the country. I con
sidered it as raised^n purpose to prevent the execution of Conolly s
orders to Cresap not to annoy the Indians, which I knew had been

given, but it was put beyond a doubt yesterday by letters from Mr.
Mounby, Mr. Mackay, and the inclosed deposition 1
Mr. Mackay writes me the friends of Pennsylvania are determined
to abandon Pittsburgh, and to erect a small stockade somewhere
lower down the road (I suppose about Turtle Creek 2 where he has a
fine plantation), to secure their cattle and effects till they see further
what is to be done.
I had a letter from Conolly yesterday, in a style of familiarity I
should not have expected, but of itself a very extraordinary one
if you should think it worth your while to look over it, I have
inclosed it, and a copy of my answer 3
1 am still sanguine enough to hope this Province will escape the
mischiefs of a war, as all the operations of the Indians are evidently
aimed at the Virginians, and seem designed to show them how
much they despise the notion of their carrying the war into thenown
country. They have, however, a number of men at Wheeling,
and Conolly was to march this day to reinforce them. One of his
parties who had crossed to the Indian side fell in with the last of
our trader, peltry, escorted by some Delawares. They took the
trader and the Indians prisoners, and carried them to the mouth of
Beaver Creek, where their captain (Hogland) lay. He was exces
sively enraged to see them alive, and they were kept all night in
that state of suspense that every moment would be the last in the
morning, however, they discharged them, on the trader s giving a
bond of five hundred pounds, to satisfy Captain Conolly that the
1The following is the deposition referred to:
"(Copy) July 15th, 1774.
Personally appeared before me George Willson, a justice of the peace,
John Pollock, David Shelvey and George Sbervor, and made oath on the
Holy Evangelist, that they were personally present in the Corn Field on
Dunkard Creek, where the late Murder on the 13th Instant happened, and
saw the corpse that was Buried, who ware sadly Massacred, and Scalpted and
farther eayeth not.
"Sworn to before G. Willson.
"N. B.—The above is incorrect, but I give it you as I got it, (that is,)
nine persons were working in a field, four was killed and sadly mangled. 3
escaped, the other two is missing. Cresaps is in Chace of them, but they
had a day s start of him."
2 Turtle Creek flows from the north-east into the Monongahela, a short
distance beyond Braddock s field, in Alleghany County, east of Pittsburgh.
8 See the two previous letters—Connolly to St. Clair, and the latter s re
ply.

Indians were Delawares. I took the trader s deposition on it when
last at Pittsburgh, which I also inclose.
I was very ill when I wrote last, of a bilious fever, but am hap
pily recovering. I can not well recollect what I wrote, as it was
not copied, it being Sunday and my clerk abroad but unless mat
ters are likely to be soon settled about Pittsburgh, it will be abso
lutely necessary to erect a town at the Kittanning the trade must
else take its course by the lakes, which will carry it quite away
from this Province, and the communication with Philadelphia will
in time become very easy that way, and may now be done with very
little land carriage. There is an old trading path from thence to
Frank s Town 1 on the Juniata, and another to the head of the West
Branch of Susquehanna.
I have distributed the arms all over the country in as equal pro
portions as possible.
Captain Crawford, the President of our Court, seems to be the
most active Virginia officer in their service. He is now down the
river at the head of a number of men, which is his second expedi
tion. I don t know how gentlemen account for these things to
themselves 2
Sneas Mackay to Arthur St. Clair.
Pittsburgh, July 25, 1774.
Dear Sir:—The last accounts brought in here from the Indian
country by Captain White Eyes I have transmitted to you yester
day by express. I have there informed you that you should be fur
nished with White Eyes s speech as soon as it could be procured
from Captain McKee, from whom we have since obtained a copy,
which will be delivered to you by Richard Butler, who is kind
enough to go to Ligonier at the request of Messrs. Spear, Smith,
and myself, as well with these papers as consult you about other
matters that we are all equally interested in 2 You know Mr. But1The
site of an Indian village, in the present county of Huntingdon,
Pennsylvania.
2Reference is here made to William Crawford, at that time, as before
mentioned, President of the Court of Westmoreland County. He was, at
this date, busy in erecting a fort at Wheeling.
8 See letter of St. Clair to Governor Penn, July 26, 1774, following.

ler to be both a man of sense and a faithful Pennsylvanian there
fore his reports are to be depended on. We are of opinion that
it is absolutely necessary that immediate application should be
made to Government in favor of the Delawares, that some steps
may be taken to reward the fidelity of that people, especially such
of them as will undertake to reconnoiter and guard the frontiers of
this Province, which they say they will do, from the hostile de
signs of the Shawanese and as by that means they will be prevented
from following their own occupations, it would be no more than
right to supply their necessary wants, while they continue to de
serve it so well at our hands.
There is nothing but the dread my family are in of the Indians
approaching this place in my absence that would prevent my going
in person to see you at this time, in your present dangerous in
disposition. I hope to hear by the bearer on his return of your
getting the better of your disorder.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, July 26, 1774.
Sir:—I have enclosed a letter I received last night from Mr.
Mackay, of Pittsburgh, together with the speeches and intelligence
brought by White Eyes, and a deposition respecting some Indians
having been seen in the country 1 I thought them of consequence
1The "speeches and intelligence," referred to by St. Clair, were as fol
lows: I.
[White Eyes s Speech.]
Pittsburgh, July 23, 1774.
We are glad to hear from you the good speeches which you have now
spoken to us, and it also gave us great pleasure to hear from our brethren
of Pennsylvania, when they reminded us of that ancient friendship made
by our wise forefathers, which they have at this time handed to us, desiring
us to take fast hold of it.
Brethren, Sir William Johnson, with our uncles, the Fivo Nations, the
Wyandots, and all the several tribes of Chcrokees, and Southern Indians,
have spoke to us of peace and friendship and you, our brethren of Vir
ginia, have likewise desired us to be strong in holding fast the chain of
friendship; and we now tell you that we strictly observe to do it. And now,
brethren, I inform you that we will sit still here at our towns, Kakelellamato be quickly communicated to you, and have forwarded them by
express, as it was quite uncertain when a private opportunity might
peking, Gnaddenhutten, and Tupickcong, upon the Muskingum, to hold fast
that chain of friendship between you and us.
Brethren, you desired us that the road between us and you might be kept
clear and open, that the traders might pass and repass safe, which we also
have done, and we wish that it may continue further. We desire, therefore,
that you will not suffer your foolish young people to lie on the road to watch
and frighten our people, by pointing their guns at them when they come to
trade with you; for some of our people have been so seared that the}came
home and alarmed our towns, as if the white people would kill all the In
dians, whether they were friends or enemies. (A string of while wampum.)
Brethren of Virginia, we now see you and the Shawanese in grips with
each other, ready to strike; and we do not know what to say between you
further; you will be the best judges yourselves of what is to follow, as we
can do no mora to reconcile you. But in the struggle between you, when
you have thrown down the Shawanese, brethren, we desire you to look no
further, nor set down there, but return to the Kenhawa or south side of the
Ohio, the place that you then rise from; and when you have so concluded
this dispute, brethren, we will expect to hear from you, that we may
acquaint all other Nations of it, but hope that you will be strong, brethren,
and renew the ancient friendship with all other Nations, when you have
ended your dispute with these people. (A string of black wampum.)
[Intelligence received from Captain White Eyes:]
On my return to Newcomer s Town with the speeches you charged mo
with, I found that several parties of Shawanese had set out to war against
you, contrary to their promise before to the Chiefs of the Delawares, whe
desired me to return and inform you of it, as it would be to no purpose to
treat further with thern upon friendly terms, but that they should be in
formed of your speeches; thejcame forwarded by two of your people.
Brethren, we have now to acquaint you that the Shawanese are all gone
from Wagetomica to Hssemble themselves at the Lower Towns; if there
was one yet remaining we would tell you. But as this is not the case, and
some of our people may be yet on their way up from amongst them, we
would have you consider and cross to them from the mouth of the Big Kenflawa,
as our women and children may now be frightened when you come
near them, and the Shawanese are all gone.
Brethren, one of the Shawanese that has headed a party against you, has
sent us word that he was going to strike you, and when he had done it, he
would then blaze a road from the place he would do the mischief to New
comer s Town, by which he would see whether the peace was so strong be
tween the whites and the Delawares as they pretended. Keesnateta has
likewise sent us word that he now saw his grandfathers, the Delawares, had
thrown them away, for which reason they were now rising to go away,
though, he said, he was sure no other Nation had done it; and that it had
been an ancient custom with their Nation, that when they left any place in

offer. All prospect of accommodation with the Shawanese and Vir
ginians is certainly over for some time, but yet it does not appear
they have any hostile intentions against this Province. The en
gaging the service of the Delawares to protect our frontiers would
undoubtedly be good policy, if it did not cost too dear. I am afraid,
however, they will be very craving, but as they have offered it, it
should not be altogether overlooked. At the same time their friend
ship should be secured on as easy terms as possible.
I doubt, with the utmost prudence that can be exerted, but these
Indian disturbances will occasion a very heavy expense to the
Province. The necessity of establishing some place of security for
the trade (if it is considered as advisable to carry it on at all), is inthe
manner they were doing, whoever remained behind them, they always
turned about and struck them.
Brethren, the day we got into Newcomer s Town n party was discovered,
whose intentions were to come to Fort Pitt to put Colonel Croghan and
Alexander McKce, with Guyasutha, to death, and also waylay us, which we
passed; as by killing us, they say, no more news will be carried between the
white people and the Indians. I could inform you of a great deal more, but
these are the most material occurrences and facts, which you may depend
upon.
My brother is lately como from the Wabash Indians, who told him they
would expect to hear the truths of the accounts from that quarter on his re
turn; and I havfl sent a message by him to them, desiring them not to listen
to the Shawanese, who would only endeavor to draw them into troubles and
leave them by themselves, which had been their constant practice.
[Mr. Croghan addressed Captain White Eyes as his particular friend.]
Brother, I now speak to you as a friend to both parties, your Nation and
the English, and not by any particular authority, and I am convinced from
the speeches you have now delivered, that your Nation has the sincerest in
tentions of preserving entire that friendship subsisting between you and us;
and I observo from your intelligence that the Shawanese are withdrawn
from one of their towns in your neighborhood, which is an evident proof
that they do not moan to be friends with you or us; therefore, brothers, I
would have you consider well whether you would not in the present cir
cumstance think it prudent for some of your people to accompany ours when
they go to chastise the Shawanese, in order to enable them to make a proper
distinction between our friends and our enemies.
[Captain White Eyes' answer to Colonel Croghan:]
I am glad to bear you, and I will consider what you have said, but cannot
immediately return you an answer. I will send your message to our Chiefs at
Kaskaskia, and as soon as I have their sentiments and advice will speak to
you, which I expect in two days in the meantime, you may be assured that
their sentiments will not deviate from that strict friendship subsisting
between us.

creasing daily. A small parcel of goods which Mr. Spear has sent
to one of the Delaware towns has enraged the commandant at Pitts
burgh to an exceeding degree, and he threatens the persons who
carried them shall be tried for their lives on their return." I men
tioned the Kittanning; it is certainly a proper place, both on account
of some natural advantages of situation with regard to the interior
part of the country, and that its being in one of your manors, the
settlers would have an opportunity of procuring lots on easy terms
at the same time it would not be foreign to your interest. I find,
however, they-—the traders at Pittsburgh—would wish to fix upon
some place nearer that town, for which I can see no reason, unless
they imagine the property they leave behind them will be more un
der their eye, or which, I think more probable, Mr. Croghan directs
them to some spot where he has a right, and which may serve his
interest for though I believe he is zealous in the service of the
public at present, he will never lose sight of his own particular in
terest. If they do remove, I will endeavor to persuade them to the
Kittanning at once but if they are unwilling, your ordering a town
to be laid out there, and a small stockade to be built, will effectually
determine them before they have gone far in another settlement.
Captain White Eyes and John Montaur are preparing a party to
join the Virginian militia if they cross the river to attack the lower
Shawanese and I have been solicited to order some of the rangers
to join them. This I have positively refused, and have sent orders
to the person intended, on no account whatever to attempt to pass
either of the rivers. So far from joining the Virginians, who have
taken such pains to involve the country in war, it would, in my
idea, be not improper that the Shawanese should know this Gov
ernment is at peace with them, and will continue so, provided they
do not infringe it themselves, and that a boundary be given them,
the doing mischief on the east side of which would be considered a
declaration of war and bring all the weight of this Government
upon them.
We begin to be impatient with respect to the rangers their second
month is just expiring, but whilst the country is in such commotion,
and the harvest not yet got in, they can not be dismissed. I have
not the least fears about the expense, and the Association may safely
depend on the generosity of the Government, more especially as
they have such assurances from your Honor of your approbation
of the measure, and your assistance towards relieving them from
the expense.
P. S. —If you should think proper to allow some presents to be

made the Indians, I would be very glad the sum were specified. I
am very little acquainted with Indian affairs, and I do not trust Mr.
Croghan too much he has been used to make expenses, and would
not be very sparing where he thought he had the purse of a Province
to make free with, and too great parsimony might spoil all. I have
agreed with the express for six shillings a day. Mr. Croghan says
he expects some of the Six Nations to join White Eyes' party.
Governor Penn to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, 6th August, 1774.
Sir:—I have received your letters of the 22d and 26th ulto.,
inclosing several depositions and letters relative to the present sit
uation ofaffairs in Westmoreland.
As I find by all intelligence you have from time to time commu
nicated to me, that the Shawanese, as well as the Delawares, have
discovered a strong aversion to entering into a war, either with
Virginia or this Province, and, on the contrary, have given repeated
proofs of their sincere disposition to live in peace and harmony with
both colonies, I have, with the advice of my council, thought it
expedient to send messages to those tribes, expressing the great
concern of this Government at the late unfortunate disturbances
between them and some of His Majesty s subjects belonging to the
Colony of Virginia, at the same time declaring our resolution to
preserve the treaties of peace and friendship existing between us
inviolate, and earnestly advising the Shawanese not to strike the
people of Virginia, as they, as well as the people of this Province
are all subjects of one and the same great King, who will be as
much offended at any injury committed against any one part of his
subjects as another, but to exert their best endeavors to settle the
differences that have arisen between the Virginians and them, and
to continue to live in friendship with all His Majesty s subjects 1
1The messages to the Shawanese and Delawares were in these words:
[To the Shawanese.]
By the Honorable JOHN PENN, Esquire, Governor and Commander-in.
Chief of the Province of Pennsylvania, and Counties of Newcastle, Kent, and
Sussex, on Delaware.
A Message to the Chiefs and Warriors of the Shawanese Indians.
Brethren:—"When I had heard that you had taken care of our traders,
and had sent some of your young men to conduct them home in safety, it
made my heart glad, because 1 was satisfied that you kept fast hold of the

As to the proposal of engaging the services of the Delawares to
protect our frontiers, I would only just observe that it is a matter
chain of friendship which was made between our forefathers, and renewed by
us, and you may be assured that 1 shall always remember this instance of
your kindness, and that I shall hold fast that end of the chain which is in my
hands, so long as you hold yours. But, brethren, it gives me great concern,
and my heart is grieved to hear of the difference between you and our
brothers, the people of Virginia. If any of the wicked people of Virginia
have murdered any of your people, you should complain of it to the Gov
ernor, and he will have them punished. You should not, in such cases, take
revenge upon innocent people whe have never hurt you. It is a very wicked
thing to kill innocent people because some of their countrymen have been
vicked and killed some of you.
"Lirethrcn, if you continue to act in this manner, the people of Virginia
must do the same thing by you, and then there will he nothing but war bef vcen
you. Consider, brethren, that the people of Virginia are like the
leaver upon the trees, very numerous, and you aro but a few, and although
you should kill ten of their people for one that they kill of yours, they will
at last wear you out and destroy you. They are able to send a grout army
into your country, and destroy your towns, and your corn, and either kill
your wives and children or drive them away Besides, brethren, the Vir
ginians, as wel as our people and you, are children of the Great King who
lives beyond the great water; and if his children fall out and go to war
among themselves, and some of them are wicked, and will not make peace
with the others, he will be very angry, and punish those who are in fault.
Therefore, brethren, let me advise you to forget and to forgive what is past,
and to send to the Governor of Virginia, and offer to make peace.
I shall write to the Governor of Virginia, and endeavor to persuade him
to join you in mending the chain of friendship between you, which has
been broken, and to make it so strong that it may never be broken again;
and 1 hope, brethren, if he be willing to do this good thins;, that you will
be of the same mind, and then we shall all live together like friends and
brothers."
Given under my hand and the lesser seal of the said Province, at Phila
delphia, the sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord, 1774."
[To the Delawares.]
By the Honorable JOHN PENN, Esquire, Governor and Commander-inChief
of the Province of Pennsylvania, and Counties of Acucastle, Kent, and
Sussex, on Delaware.
A Message to the Chiefs and Warriors of the Delaware Indians.
"Brethren:—1 was grieved at my heart when I heard that some of our
foolish young men had killed our brother, Joseph Wipey, and that the Vir
ginians had killed some of your people below Fort Pitt. I was fearful that
you would suffer your youne men lo take revenge upon our innocent people,
hut when I heard that you had a good heart, and viewed these things in
their proper light, and that you remembered the chain of friendship made
by our forefathers, and would not take revenge upon us for what the Vir

in the present situation of Indian affairs too delicate for me to in
termeddle in.
Since my last letter to you, I have considered of what you men
tioned in a former letter, and now repeat, respecting the establish
ment of some place of security for carrying on the Indian trade, as
you say that Pittsburgh will certainly be abandoned by all our
people and I am now to acquaint you that I approve of the meas
ure of laying out a town in the proprietary manor of Kittanning,
to accommodate the traders and the other inhabitants who may
choose to reside there and, therefore, inclose you an order for that
purpose. But I can not, without the concurrence of the Assembly,
give any directions for erecting a stockade or any other work for
the security of the place which may incur an expense to the
Province.
With respect to the continuance of the two hundred rangers in
the service, it must altogether depend upon the intelligence we reginians
or some of our foolish young men had done, it gave mo the greatest
satisfaction, and made my mind easy.
Brethren, you may depend that so long as you aro inclined to peace and
friendship you shall find mo in the same mind, for why should we fall out
and go to murdering one another for what our foolish young peoplo do, and
what neither of us approve of? In such cases, let us endeavor to find out
such foolish young me and punish them for their wickedness. I have offered
a reward of fifty pounds apiece for those two wicked people, who, it is said,
murdered Joseph "Wipcy, and, if they can be taken, I shall do every thing
in my power to have them punished.
"I am very sorry to hear that your grandchildren, the Shawanese, have
a difference with our brothers, the Virginians, and I wish I could make
them friends. I shall write to the Governor of Virginia, and recommend it
to him to endeavor to make peace with them; and I would advise you to
go to the Shawanese, and persuade them to forget every thing that is past,
and mako up all their differences with the people of Virginia, so that wo
may all live together in peace and quietness, like friends and brothers, for
what can they get by being a war with one another? wheever of them gets
the best, both will be very much hurt.
Brethren, 1 live a great way from you, and have a great deal of busi
ness to do with my people at home, otherwise I would go to see you, and
shake hands with you, and smoke a pipe with you under the tree of peace,
as we and our forefathers used to do. By all means, brethren, be strong,
and keep fast held of "ne end of the covenant chain, and you may be as
sured I will keep Cast hold of the other, and when any of our people are so
wicked as to kill any of yours, or do you any harm, let me know it. and I
will do every thing in my power to have justice done.
Given under my hand and the lesser seal of the said province, at Phila
delphia, the sixth day of August, in the year of our Lord 1774. 22

ceive of the situation of our affairs with the Indians. At present I
think it very improper to discharge them and it is not improbable
that if the commotions between the Virginians and the Indians
should not soon be at an end, it may be necessary to keep them ou
foot for the protection of our people till the meeting of the Assem
bly on the 19th of September.
I herewith send to your care the messages above mentioned, with
a belt of wampum accompanying each, and desire you will engage
some trusty, intelligent person to carry them, and interpret the
messages to the Indians. A young man of the name of Elliot, who
has been trading at the Shawanese to\vns, and lately came from
thence, has offered his services to carry any messages from Govern
ment to the Indians, and may probably be a very proper person to
employ on this occasion. He was to leave this place yesterday, on his
return to Westmoreland. I should be glad to have his deposition
taken as to what he knows respecting the late disturbances between
the Virginians and the Indians, from the beginning of them.
You hint something in your last letter about making presents to
the Indians, but though such a step at some future convenient time
might be useful and proper, I am of opinion it would be very unadvisable
under the present circumstances.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, August 8, 1774.
Sir:—I am just returned from Pittsburgh, where the Pipe,
Guyasutha, and the White Mingo are arrived, and bring favorable
accounts from the Indian Nations about the lakes. They say they
are all disposed to continue in friendship with the English; but the
Wyandotts, the Hurons, and the Tawas have been waivering. The
Shawanese had applied to them, and it was so long that they heard
nothing from our people, that they were inclined to assist them, but
these chiefs have persuaded them to sit still, and to send to the
Wabash Indians to be quiet likewise so that it is probable they
arrived amongst them in a favorable time.
Some deputies from the Six Nations are also arrived. They have
brought a very large belt to Mr. Croghan and Mr. McKee, inform
ing them of the death of Sir William Johnson, and of their inten
tions, notwithstanding, to adhere firmly to the treaties subsisting
betwixt the English and them, and to endeavor to retain the other
Nations in peace. They also have sent a belt by these deputies to

the Delawares, and to the Wabash Confederacy, recommending it to
them to remain in peace, and to inform them that though their
great friend is dead, the council-fire kindled by the English and
them continues to burn as bright as ever such is their mode of ex
pression. From these circumstances it is to be hoped that the fracas
with the Shawanese will blow over without any very bad conse
quences, though that depends upon others, which must be brought
about in a very little time, as five hundred of the Virginians
are marched to destroy Wakatomica, the town the Shawanese lately
abandoned 1
Should these meet with any check, which is not improbable, some
of the Western Nations will certainly join them but if they re
turn without, and are satisfied with destroying that town, matters
may probably be made up; but I doubt they will not stop there, as
you see by the inclosed copy of a letter from Lord Dunmore to Mr.
Conolly, which accidentally fell into my hands, that his Lordship
is very full of chastising them and the twenty-fifth of next month
is fixed for attacking the great Shawanese town on the Scioto. Your
Honor will please to take notice, that the hint I gave you before of
a design to interrupt the trade of this Province, however improbable
it might appear, was not without some foundation.
Mr. Hauna returned from Philadelphia yesterday, and gives an
account that the Assembly have provided for the men that were
raised for the defense of this county to the tenth instant, or longer
if necessary, and that he himself is appointed Senior Captain, ab
initio, Mr. Caret the next, and a number of others who have never
served an hour. The last part of his intelligence I gave no credit
1In July, 1774, Major Angus McDonald arrived over the mountains,
with a considerable force of Virginia militia, which, when embodied with
those already raised in the West, amounted to seven hundred men. Mc
Donald went down to Wheeling, in order to take command, as there the
whole force rendezvoused. A stockade fort (Fort Fincastle) was erected
under the joint directions of Major McDonald and Captain William Craw
ford.
On the twenty-sixth of July, about four hundred men, having left Wheel
ing, arrived at the mouth of Fish Creek, on the east side of the Ohio, twentyfour
miles below. Hero they determined to move against the Shawanese
villages upon the Muskingum River, in what is now Muskingum county,
Ohio. The men were led by Major McDonald. Captain Crawford re
mained at Fort Fincastle. The expedition proved successful. Wakatomica,
near what is now Dresden, Ohio, and other Shawanese towns, were destroyed,
and considerable plunder secured. This was the first effective blow struck
by Virginia troops in Lord Dunmore s War.—Rutlerfiebts WashingtonCrawford
Letters, p. 96.

to, as he has no commission, nor any letters from any person about
Government and I do imagine, that as the command of them had
been originally committed to me, without giving me some intima
tion of it. Nor is it reasonable that these men should take rank of
the officers who have, in former wars, faithfully, as I am told,
served this Government. Trifling as this affair is, it is likely to
create much uneasiness; but I am certain your Honor will not al
low those who have done no service, to rob those who have, of their
just reward besides, the Association is bound to pay those they
emplo3 ed. I must own I have been remiss in not fully informing
your Honor who they were but I beg you to reflect upon the
severe sickness I have just passed through. Some of them, had
there been the least prospect of its being a permanent affair, I
should not have recommended to you; but we were under the
necessity of employing such people as had influence amongst
the me ib and could get the men; and you will please to consider
that it is by such acts that they must still be managed, as there are
no laws by which obedience or discipline can be enforced. I have
told Mr. Hanua peremptorily, that I should retain the direction of
the troops till I had your orders to the contrary; and I fondly
hope this explanation will not disoblige you.
Notwithstanding what I said to Mr. Smith on the subject of join
ing the Virginians, he thought proper to join a small party of Delawares
and Mingoes, with eight men, in the character of volunteers,
aud proceeded to Wheeling. The Virginia detachment had marched
two days before they arrived and Captain Crawford, who com
mands them (the President of our Court), told him it would fatigue
them too much to overtake the party, and that they had better re
turn, which accordingly they did; and by what I learn from him,
they seemed equally jealous both of him and the Indians.
I can recollect nothing else at present, and your Honor may propably
think I might have spared a great part of what is already
written.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
LroonieR, August 25ih, 1774.
Sir:—Agreeable to your request, I now euclo se you the deposi
tions of some of the inhabitants of Pittsburgh, respecting the treat
ment they have met with from the Virginian officers 1 Not any of
1 From the 22d to tlio 21th of August, inclusive, St. Clair took depositions
of seven residents of Westmoreland County—James Fowler, Samuel St.

the persons who saw the Shawanesc after they had been fired upon
on their return, are now there, so that I would not inquire into that
circumstance.
The message to the Delawares, with the belt of wampum, I de
livered to some of their principal chiefs, at Mr. Croghan s, on (Sun
day last. Mr. Croghan and Mr. MeKee were of opinion it would,
perhaps, be taken ill by the Six Nations that they were not in
cluded. I therefore took the liberty to add them in the address to
the message, and had a fair copy made out ami given to them with
a belt. They were received seemingly with great satisfaction by
both, and they declared the firmest purposes of remaining in peace
themselves, and restoring it between the people of Virginia and the
Shawanese. At the same time I acquainted them with your orders
for erecting a trading place at the Kittanning, for which they are
very thankful, as they are in want of many things already, and can
not come to Pittsburgh and purchase and a number of them will
probably be there on Monday next, which is the time I have ap
pointed for laying out the town. Mr. Ppear and Mr. Butler set out
this day with their goods and other effects.
Instead of sending the message to the Bhawanese by a white man,
I procured the Pipe, a faithful and sensible Delaware chief, to go
and acquaint them with the message his nation had received from
your Honor that you had recommended it to them to speak to the
Shawanese not to strike the Virginians, and that he had seen a mes
sage and belt for them, which, if they were well disposed, some of
their people might come and receive it at Appleby. I thought this
the most advisable way, as the people at the fort are extremely jeal
ous of any person going amongst them, and had threatened the
young man you mention to go with them; and some proposals of
accommodation, I understand, have been made them by Mr. Conoily,
to which, if they should not listen, they would be very apt to
allege it was owing to their hearing from this Province.
It is impossible to tell what will be the consequence of the Vir
ginia operations. I still hope they will not be able to bring on a
war. I think Lord Dunmore must soon see the necessity of peace.
Clair, Eneas Muckay, William Amberson, John Shannon, Eichard Butler,
and GeorgeAslit.'n. They recount the annoyances they and others had
suffered because of Conolly s oppressive flcls—such as pressing of horses
from their owners, threatening to send various parties in irons to Virginia,
searching houses, assaults upon 1 ennsylvanians, killing of sheep and hogs,
and taking other property, ronfincm-nt of citizens in Fort Dunmore, and
other outrages.

The season is now far advanced, and the country is exhausted of
provisions. Should another body of men be drawn together, they
could not be supported and I believe their last exploit has not
given them much stomach for another. There was, indeed, such
confusion amongst the troops, and dissension amongst the officers,
that had they met with any number of the enemy, they must cer
tainly have been cut off. Preparations, however, are making, and
his Lordship is hourly expected. The 10th of August, which was
the time your Honor fixed for keeping up the rangers, was passed
before your letter reached me but as you were pleased to gay their
Standing till the 19th of September would depend upon that intelli
gence you might receive from Captain Thomson and myself, we
thought it best to continue them, being both of opinion that, at this
time, it was very necessary, it being, in some measure, the crisis of
the dispute with the Shawanese and that great numbers of people
are now gone down to bring back their families, which they removed
when they thought themselves in more immediate danger.
I am sorry I troubled your Honor with my foolish grievances. I
hope I shall always feel the spirit of the station I may be called to
act in but particular circumstances, I believe, had, in that case,
set it rather too much on edge. I will not often offend in the same
manner. I must do Mr. Caret the justice to say he is a very good
man, and would fill that or most other places with reputation.
An express arrived a day or two ago from Detroit. Mr. Conolly
had applied to the commanding officer at that post to stop the trade
with the Shawanese; but this he refuses, both as they have no pros
pect of war, and that for such a step he must have the orders of the
Commander-in-Chief at least. He says all the Indians in that coun
try seem to be peaceably disposed. A letter by the same messenger,
from a merchant at Detroit to a merchant at Pittsburgh, gives a
quite contradictory account of matters says the Indians in that
country will all join the Shawanese that some of them have come
in from the frontiers of Virginia, and have brought scalps; that the
general rendezvous is appointed on the Wabash, and that they ex
pect but a very short time to have any intercourse with them, and
desires him to write to Simons, at Lancaster, not to send the goods
he had ordered.
This moment I have heard from Pittsburgh that Mr. Spear s and
Mr. Butler s goods, that were going to Appleby, arc seized by Mr.
Conolly s orders and that Mr. Butler, with three young men, his
assistants, are in confinement in the common guard-house and that a
woman who kept house for Mr. Butler has been drummed all around the

town, for the great crime of going to see him in his distress. This
is a degree of tyranny and oppression beyond every thing that has
yet happened. I shall be able to give you a more circumstantial
account to-morrow, when Captain Thomson will be here, who, I un
derstand, was present when it happened. It will oblige me to put
off my journey to Appleby, as all my stores, provisions, etc., were
with Mr. Butler s goods.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, AuguM 27, 1774.
Sir :—The very extraordinary news from Fort Pitt, that I men
tioned in my letter of the 25th, proves too true. Captain Thomson
was there, and informs me that Mr. Butler was not only made a
prisoner, but treated with every instance of in sult and abuse. The
crime it seems they arc charged with, is a suspicion of trad
ing with the enemy Indians but for this there can not be the least
foundation, as their destination was no secret, and I had given pub
lic notice, in writing, of the design of laying out a town up the
river, and the time when. It seems this is the act of Captain Aston,
Conolly being gone to meet Lord Dunmore but, in truth, it is the
act of Mr. Campbell, who is their Counsel-General, and whose plan
the removing any of the trade from Pittsburgh broke in upon.
Captain Thomson ottered any security they pleased to demand, but
they would accept of none, and for some time would not permit any
of their acquaintance to visit them, and jostled Mr. Smith and Mr.
Mackay out of the fort in the most insulting manner imaginable.
The treatment these people have met with, for a length of time, has
been sufficient to break their spirit but it has not succeeded, and
those at that place, who are friends of this Province, will meet me
at Appleby to-morrow, and are making up another cargo, that they
may have something to keep the Indians easy that will be there.
^Eneas Maceay to Arthur St. Clatr.
Pittsburgh, 4th Sept., 1774.
My Dear Sir:—On my return to this place, last Friday evening, I
received the disagreeable information of two friendly Delaware In
dians being massacred on their way from this place to Mr. Croghan s,
in cool blood, by notorious villians that premeditated the matter be
fore hand, and stationed themselves behind brush near the road

side upon the occasion. It is impossible to discover the murderers at
this time, and much more so to bring them to condign punishment,
because they have all the force and power the place can afford in
their favor, but there is strong presumption for pointing out the per.
pctrators by name.
Happily for this place, about an hour after the murder was com
mitted, Lieut. Colonel Angus McDonald 1 of Virginia, arrived here,
with a small party escorting stores for the intended expedition
against the Shawanese, and was greatly exasperated at the authors
of that cruel murder, and exerted himself both as an honest man
and a man of experience and judgment, in order to repair the dam
age done to our friendly Indians, and promised them further satis
faction on my Lord Dunmoie s arrival here, who is expected hero in
a few days. Colonel McDonald has no other business to detain him
here at this time, but his own humane disposition to protect both
the friendly Indians and the unhappy inhabitants of this place from
the insults of the militia, so long the oppressors of this quarter, now
under the command of George Aston, and I may say Walter Gra
ham, two of the greatest miscreants that ever drew the breath of
life, except the black gang that are influenced by their example
and counsel. Because Col. McDonald signifies his disapprobation
of their hellish plots and conduct, he is hourly insulted and threat
ened by them, as well as we are, although their superiors in every
degree. Matters must soon come to a crisis, for, notwithstanding
the repeated acts of tyranny we have already experienced, what we
now feel far surpasses all.
We dare not venture to enjoy the comfort of peaceable rest or
sleep at night for fear of our houses being broke open about our
ears, and our persons maltreated. As to poor Mr. Butler, he looks
upon himself in hourly danger of his life, although still confined in
their common guard-house, and Col. McDonald is greatly distressed
that it is entirely out of his power to render him the least relief, for
they will obey no orders from him, and the very advertisements he
put up on the gates of the fort, offering £50 reward to any person
that would discover the murderers of the Indians, although given
in charge by himself to the officers then upon guard, and also to
the sentries then upon duty, these advertisements were pulled off
and destroyed in the same night.
I am greatly concerned to hear that Mrs. St. Clair is so indisposed.
I hope by this time she found relief, which, I pray God, may be the
1 It would seem hy this that McDonald had been promoted from major to
lii ntsmuit-colonul, after his arrival in the West.

case. My Lord Dunmore is expected here about the middle of this
week, when I wish, from my heart, Mrs. St. Clair s state of health,
and other circumstances, would admit of your waiting on his Lord
ship.
Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shipped, Jr.
Ligonier, October 17, 1774.
Sir:—Having accidentally met with my friend, Mr. MacKay, at
this place, I take the liberty to introduce him to you. He has an
answer to the messages the Governor sent to the Shawanese and
Delawares not unfriendly, but which you will very well under
stand 1 Mr. MacKay is one of the magistrates that was sent to
Virginia. He is a warm friend to this Government, and has some
idea of his own importance. I wish you would please to introduce
him to the Governor, and let him tell his story. I need not tell
you how far a little attention will go with people of a certain char
acter; but this you may depend on, he is an upright, honest man.
Excuse my mentioning it, but these gentlemen s expenses on that
Virginia trip should certainly be paid them. I know, however, he
will not mention it, nor would he forgive me if he knew that I had
done it. I don t know how it is, but I am very apt to get into mat
ters I have no sort of business with, and which, indeed, does not
become me.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Pexx.
Hanna s Town, November 2, 1774.
Dear Sir:—A hasty opportunity just offers whilst we are in an
adjourned court, and as the person is returning, I will beg the favor
that you will send us the last taxation and insolvent acts, neither
of which we have, and have occasion for at this present juncture,
and our board can not do business without the taxation act.
We have no news of Lord Dunmore that can be depended on,
since his departure from Hockhocking for the Shawanese town but
a report prevails that Colonel Lewis has been attacked at the mouth
of the Kenawha, and had one hundred and twenty men killed and
wounded, notwithstanding which he got the better of the Indians.*
1 The answer hero mentioned has not been found.
•Lord Dunmore loft "Williamsburg, Virginia, July 10, 1774, for the fron
tiers, reaching Fredericksburg on the fifteenth, and Winchester some days
after. Here he remained some timo, to get in order as many men as possiI hope I shall soon be able to send you some authentic intelligence
of the operations of the Virginia troops, and request you will exble
for service agamst the savages. Such as were raised in the counties of
Frederick, Berkeley, and Dunmore, were put under command of Adam
Stephen as Colonel. About the end of August, they marched for Pittsburgh,
accompanied by his Lordship. In September, while Dunmore was in the
last mentioned place, he succeeded in getting together a few individuals of
the different nations of Indians living beyond the Ohio River, to hold a
treaty with them. They promised to meet him at the mouth of the Hockhocking
River to make peace. Captain William Crawford had returned
homo from building the fort at Wheeling, and having received a Major s
commission, again moved down the Ohio, this time at the head of five hun
dred men. He marched by land, while Lord Dunmore, with seven hundred
men, floated down the river. The army reached Wheeling, September
30th, and Crawford was dispatched with his detachment of five hundred to
erect a stockade at the mouth of the Hockhocking—Dunmore arriving with
the residue of the army in time to take part in its construction. Mean
while, Colonel Lewis, with the southern division of the army, was moving
down the Great Kanawha. It had been determined by his Lordship to have
that officer, on his arrival upon the Ohio, move up stream and join him at
the mouth of the Hockhocking. The savages who, at Fort Pitt, promised to
meet Dunmore down the Ohio, with additional members of their respective
tribes, failed to arrive. Only two chiefs made their appearance, and both
these were Delaware*. But that nation, it was well understood, was not
hostile; so no treaty could be made with the enemy.
At this time, Dunmore was ignorant as to whether Lewis had reuclvd the
Ohio or not, a message sent by him having arrived at the mouth of the
Great Kanawha in advance of that officer. Another express was thereupon
dispatched, which, on the eighth of October, found him at Point Pleasant
(the mouth of the Great Kanawha), whero he arrived two days previous.
But it was impossible for him to move up the Ohio to meet Dunmore, on ac
count of the non-arrival of supplies and ammunition, and of a portion of
his troops. Meanwhile, scouts had been sent to Dunmore by him, who re
turned 0:1 the thirteenth, with an order from his Lordship to march directly
toward the Shawaneso towns on the Scioto, and join him at a certain point
on the way. Governor Dunmore now put his division in motion for the
same destination. On his way to the Indian villages, ho was overtaken by
a courier from Lewis, acquainting him with the hard-fought battle of the
tenth of October, at Point Pleasant, where his army contended all day long
with a largo forco of Shawanese and other savages, only to claim the victory
at nightfall, after a severe loss in killed and wounded. On the seventeenth,
Lewis crossed the Ohio, and took up his line of march for the Scioto, to join
Dunmore.
His Lordship was met, before he reached the Indian villages, with a depu
tation from the enemy, anxious for an accommodation; for a peace 1 ad al
ready been conquered by the Virginians, at a sacrifice of many vnluablo
lives, in the battle at Point Plea-ant. So the Governor found little difficulty
in arranging for a treaty. But the arrival of Lewis and his gallant troops,

cuse this scrawl, which I am obliged to make, surrounded by a
number of not the best bred men you ever saw, one of whom is
peeping over my shoulder.
The proclamation has done some good already 1
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, December 4</i, 1774.
Sir:—The war betwixt the Indians and Virginiaus is at last over.
I promised myself the pleasure of giving your Honor the earliest
account of its issue, but I have not yet been able to get at a true
state of the Treaty of Peace a peace, however, is certainly made
with the Shawanese, one condition of which is the return of all
property and prisoners taken from the white people, and for the
performance of it they have given six hostages 2 The Mingoes that
live upon Scioto did not appear to treat, and a party was sent to
destroy their towns, which was effected, and there are twelve of them
fresh from the red field of conflict, breathing revenge against the savages,
was an element difficult to control. However, no order of Dunmore was
intentionally disobeyed by Lewis, who was commanded to return to Point
Pleasant. A peace was negotiated by Dunmore with the Shawanese,
which put an end to the war.—Bidterfield s Washington-Crawford Letters,
p. 96-99; •This was dated October 12, 1774, and was intended to counteract the ef
fect of one issued by Lord Dunmore, at Pittsburgh. September 17th. (See
letter from St. Clair to Penn, December 4, 1774, post.) It required all per
sons west of the Laurel Hill to retain the settlements made under the Pro
vince of Pennsylvania, and to pay due obedience to the laws of that Gov
ernment; also, all magistrates and other officers were to proceed as usual in
the administration of justice, etc.
2 The treaty wus entered into at what was called "Camp Charlotte," in
what is now Pickaway county, Ohio, whither Lord Dunmore had marched
his army from the mouth of the Hockhecking. The Shawanese villages
were in the immediate vicinity. The terms of the agreement were these:
The Shawanese were to give up all the prisoners in their possession ever
taken by them in that and previous wars with the white people; aTso, all
negroes and all the horses stolen or taken by them since the war of 1763.
No Indian, for the future, was to hunt on the east side of the Ohio, nor any
white man on the west side, as it was acknowledged that it had been the
cause of disturbances. As a guarantee that the Shawanese would perform
their part of the agreement, they gave up four of their chief men to be kept
as hostages, who were to be relieved yearly, or as they might choose.

now prisoners in Fort Pitt 1 It is probable, from these circumstances,
we shall have no more trouble with them, and things have come to
1 The Mingoes did not like the terms agreed upon between Lord Dunmore
and the Shawanese, though their chief, Logan, sent in his acquiescence in
his world-renowned speech. But his chm determined to run away, and thus
avoid giving their assent to the agreement. What happened them is best
related by one who took part in pursuing them:
"The Shawanese have complied with the terms [of the treaty], but the
Mingoesdid not like the conditions, and had a mind to deceive us; but Lord
Dunmore discovered their intentions, which were to slip off while we were
settling matters with the Shawanese. The Mingoes intended to go to the
lakes [Lake Krie]. and take their prisoners with them and their horses which
they had stolen.
Lord Dunmore ordered myself, with two hundred and forty men, to set
out in the night. We were to march to a town about forty miles distant
from our camp, up the Scioto, where we understood the whole of the Min
goes were to rendezvous upon the following day, in order to pursue their
journey.
Because of the number of Indians in our camp, we marched out of it,
under pretense of going to Hockhocking [where Fort Gower had been
erected] for more provisions. Few knew of our setting off anyhow, and
none knew where we were going to until the next day. Our march was
performed with as much speed as possible. We arrived at a town called the
Salt-Lick Town [within the present limits of Franklin county, Ohio], the
ensuing night, and at daybreak we got around it with one-half our force, and
the remainder were sent to a small village half a mile distant. Unfortu
nately, one of our men was discovered by an Indian, who lay out from the
town some distance by a log, which the man was creeping up to. This
obliged the man to kill the Indian. This happened before daylight, which
did us much damage, as the chief part of the Indians made their escape in
the dark; but we got fourteen prisoners, and killed six of the enemy, wound
ing several more. We got all their baggage and horses, ten of their guns,
and two white prisoners. The plunder sold for two hundred pounds sterling,
besides what was returned to a Mohawk Indian that was there. The whole
of the Mingoes were ready to start, and were to have set i ut the morning
wo attacked them. Lord Dunmore has eleven prisoners and has returned
the rest to the nation. The residue are to be returned upon compliance with
his Lordship s demands."—Major William Crawford to Washington, in the Washington-Crawford Letters," p. r)4-!)6.
The destruction of the Salt-Lick Town, by Major Crawford, was the only
actual fighting done by that part of the army which was under the com
mand of Lord Dunmore in person. It was the last fighting done by Craw
ford until the Revolutionary War came on, in which he took an active part;
but, in leading a force from Western Pennsylvania and North-western Vir
ginia, in 178:2, against the hostile Wyandots upon the Sandusky river, he
was taken prisoner and tortured to death by the Delawares, within the
present limits of Wyandot county, Ohio. —Crawford s Campaign Against
Sandusky. By C. AV. Butterfield. Cincinnati: Kobert Clarke Co., 1873.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc 349
a much better cud than there was any reason to have expected.
But our troubles here are not yet over. The magistrates appointed
by Lord Dunmore, in this country, seem determined to enforce the
jurisdiction of Virginia, and have begun with arresting one of your
Honor s officers.
The 12th of November, Mr. Conolly sent a warrant for Mr. Scott
to appear before him, or the next justice, to answer for a number
of offenses committed by him under a pretended authority from
Pennsylvania. The warrant Mr. Scott did not choose to pay any
regard to, and the same evening a number of armed men came to
his house to take him by force to Fort Burd 1 There he found Lord
Dunmore, Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Peuticost, ready to sit in judg
ment upon him. Much passed amongst them, but the event was
that he was obliged to enter into recognizance, with two sureties,
to appear at the next court, to be held at Pittsburgh, for the county
of Augusta, on the 20th day of December, if the court should
happen to be held there that day, or at any further day, when the
court should be held there, to answer for having acted as a magis
trate of Pennsylvania, contrary to Lord Dumnore s proclamation 2 or
•Fort Burd, it will be remembered, was at Bodstone, now Brownsville,
Pennsylvania.
2 Lord Dun mores proclamation was, in effect, that the rapid settlement
mado to the westward of the Alleghany Mountains by His Majesty s sub
jects within the course of a few years had become an object of real concern
to His Majesty s interests in that quarter; that the Province of Pennsyl
vania had unduly laid claim to a very valuable and extensive quantity of
His Majesty s territory, and the executive part of that Government, in con
sequence thereof, had most arbitrarily and unwarrantably proceeded to abuse
the laudable adventures in that part of His Majesty s dominions, by many
oppressive and illegal measures in discharging of their imaginary autherity,
and that the ancient claim laid to that country by the Colony of Virginia,
founded in reason upon pre-occupying, and the general acquiescence of all
persons, together with the instructions he had lately received from His Maj
esty s servants, ordering him to take that country under his administration;
and as the evident injustice manifestly offered to His Majesty, by the immod
erate strides taken by the Proprietors of Pennsylvania, in prosecution of the
wild claim to that country, demanded an immediate remedy, he did thereby,
in His Majesty s name, require and command all of His Majesty s subjects
west of the Laurel Hill to pay a due respect to bis said proclamation, thereby
strictly prohibiting the execution of any act of authority on behalf of the
Province of Pennsylvania, at their peril, in that country. A counter proc
lamation was issued by Governor Penn, October 12, 1774. (See the previous
letter—St. Clair to Penn, November 2, 1774.) r

be committed to jail. He chose the recognizance, the circumstances
of his family and health rendering the other very inconvenient.
There is no doubt that the recognizance is in itself a mere nul
lity, but, after what has been done already, it is hard to say what
may not be attempted, and it is very certain the people Lord
Dunmore has clothed with authority pay little regard to the rules
of law or the dictates of reason. It would be exceedingly satis
factory if your Honor would please to give us directions for our
conduct, and this case of Mr. Scott requires it particularly. I have
wrote to Mr. Wilson 1 of Carlisle, for his advice, fearing it would
]xi impossible to know your mind in proper time, and for the nec
essary legal steps. I believe he may be depended on, but it is very
doubtful if his answer can arrive before the time they have appointed
for their court at any rate, we must endeavor to prevent a trial
until you can have au opportunity of writing, if it should be by re
moving the indictment to Williamsburgh.
I account it a fortunate circumstance that they began with Mr.
Scott, who, with a great deal of firmness, possesses a good share of
natural understanding. In the course of an examination, which
continued near two hours, he told Lord Dunmore that he had only
one short answer to all his questions, which might save his Lordship
a good deal of trouble, that he acted under commission from your
Honor and in obedience to your proclamation." His Lordship was
pleased to reply, that you had no right to give any such commission
or authority to issue such proclamation. Mr. Scott told him that
was a matter of which he was not a proper judge, and would abide
by the consequences.
I am sorry to be obliged to give your Honor so much trouble on
so very disagreeable a subject, but I hope 'the time is not far distant
when it will be put to an end.
Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Hannastown, Dec. 18</i, 1774.
Sir:—Being this far on my way to Pittsburgh, I found a consta
ble from Virginia here who had made two men prisoners by virtue
of a warrant from Major Smallman. The offense they had been
guilty of, it seems, was assisting the constable in executing a judi1
James Wilson, lawyer, and intimate friend of St. Clair s. In a letter
ante, he is referred to as having made an argument in behalf of the claims
of Pennsylvania.

cial warrant. Mr. Hanna had committed the constable, which I
could not help approving of; but as there is some danger of his
being rescued by force, I have advised the sending him to Bedford,
or, at least, the sheriff should remove him to some other place pri
vately.
The Court, it is said, will certainly be held at Pittsburgh on the
20th. I am personally threatened, but I promised Mr. Scott to be
there at that time, to give him some countenance, at least, if I can
not give him assistance at his trial. I had the honor to give you
an account of his arrest a short time ago 1
Your Honor will judge from these circumstances what a shocking
situation we are in; to add to the distress of which, the militia are
plundering the people within the neighborhood of Pittsburgh of the
very subsistence for their families.
I met with this opportunity of writing accidentally, and would
not let it slip, as I thought it of consequence that you should be
early acquainted with what is passing.
James Cavet to Arthur St. Clatr axd Others.'
Pittsburgh, May 13, 1775.
Gentlemen :—I am sorry that it is so much in my power to doubt
the Governor s attention to this unhappy country. We have not
1 In his previous letter of December 4, 1774.
The time between the date of this letter and the previous one was largely
taken up in the Western Country with stirring events, caused by the con
flict of jurisdiction between Pennsylvania and Virginia concerning which
so much has already been given. The proceedings o{ the Pennsylvania
Provincial Council for one day, will give an idea of the troubles that beset
the trans-Alleghany region during the winter of 1774-75:
At a Council held at Philadelphia, on Wednesday, 25th January, 1775,
present, the Honorable John Penn, Esq., Governor; William Logan, An
drew Allen, Benjamin Chew, Edward Shippen, Junior, and James Tilghman,
Esquires. 1 he Governor laid before the Board two papers delivered to him by
C sijitain St. Clair, which were read, and are as follows, viz:
Westmoreland County, ss:
Before us, Robert Hanna and Arthur St. Clair, Esqs., two of His Maj
esty s Justices for Westmoreland county, personally appeared Samuel
Whitesill, keeper of the jail of the said county, and, being duly sworn,
according to law, deposeth and saith, that, on this instant, 24th of Decem
ber, a number of armed men came to the iail of said county, and ordered
him to open the prison doors, and turn out a certain William Thomas then

had, since our confinement, the least account from him, and I think
it is beyond doubt he got our packet. Our express is returned, aud
he says he gave the letters to Doctor 1 luuket, at Susquehannab,
who would certainly send them. Our situation, and that of the
well-affected inhabitants of this place, is become almost intolerable;
it is impossible for any person to conceive the cruel mode of proceed
ings at this place, unless those who are unhappy to be eye-witnesses
thereof. Mr. Smith, in particular, will, (if not by some means pre
vented), in a short time be absolutely ruined. Mr. Hanna and
myself will, at this court, be confined in the guard-room of Fort
Dunmore, if we don t give bail, and God knows whether it will
in his custody on sundry executions; that lie believes a certain "William
Christy and Simon Girty, who seemed to he officers, from their dress, were
at the head of their party. That he, this deponent, refused to deliver his
prisoner, or open the door where he was confined; tliat they then talked of
throwing down the house, and stripping off the roof, on which he (this de
ponent) being afraid of ill consequences, both to his person and property,
did open the door to allow the prisoner to speak to the party, and one of
them rushed in, seized him, and dragged him out, and also turned out a cer
tain William Dawson, who was likewise in his custody on execution; and
and that it was Conolly himself whe laid hands on Thomas and dragged
him out; and further saith not. Samuel Whitesit l.
"Sworn and subscribed, December 24, 1774, before us.
Robert Hanna,
"Arthur St. Clair."
Whereas, I am well informed that certain persons, by written instruc
tions, directed to different people through this country, under the denomina
tion of collectors, are apparently authorized to break open doors, cupboards,
etc., and to commit sundry acts of violence, in order to extort money from
the inhabitants, under the appellation of taxes; these are therefore to ac
quaint all His Majesty s subjects, that, as there can be no authority legally
vested in any persons, for such acts, at this juncture, that such attempts to
abuse public liberty are unwarrantable, and that all persons have an un
doubted natural, as well as lawful right to repol such violence, and all His
Majesty s subjects are hereby required to apprehend any person whatever,
whe may attempt the seizure of their effects, in consequence of such imag
inary authority, to be dealt with as the law directs.
"Given under my hand at Fort Dunmore, this, 30th day of December
1774. John Conolly."
Captain St. Clair, appearing at the Board, and representing that Wil
liam Crawford, Esquire, President of the Court of Westmoreland county,
hath lately joined with the Government of Virginia in opposing the juris
diction of Pennsylvania in that county, the Board advised the Governor to
supersede him in his office as justice of the peace and common pleas. A
supersedeas was accordingly ordered to be issued."

be in our power so to do, for we are informed by some of our
friends that none other will be acceptable but those who will come
into open court and swear they are worth whatever sum is in the
recognizance, and no doubt it will be an enormous sum. Mr. Smith
was this day taken with a writ of one hundred thousand pounds
damages. But I need not descend into particulars every part of
their conduct appears that they not only want the jurisdiction of
this quarter, but also to rob every man of his property.
And, gentlemen, it is by your friends here thought advisable that
the sheriff, with a party of fifty men, or thereabouts, should come
up and take us who are in confinement, and also as many of these
rascals as possible, as there will be no strength to oppose you, there
being but eighteen men in Fort. It is surprising what a pusillani
mous temper must prevail amongst the people in general to suffer
the peace and welfare of a whole country to be destroyed by such a
handful of villains. But let the people be called upon by the
sheriff, and certainly they will not refuse to come. If such a step
be thought best, it ought to be managed with secrecy and dispatch.
Pray send oft' the express by Tuesday night to us with advice, for
if we are not taken off we must give bail, if it can be had, and the
thoughts of so doing is no small mortification after hanging out so
long. I have no time to say any more, but acknowledge myself
your humble servant.
P. S. I must beg your pardon and patience also, for writing so
long an epistle, but I had almost forgot to acknowledge the receipt
of your favor of the 9th, and also to inform you that Mr. Scott is
bound by the sheriff to appear here next court, and I suppose will
share the same fate of Hanna and myself.
Arthur St. Clatr to Joseph SnippEn, Jr.
Liqonier, May 18, 1775.
Dear Sir:—I yesterday received the enclosed letter from Mr.
Cavet, with the contents of which I request you will make the Gov
ernor acquainted 1 You see Hanna and he are very uneasy, which
is really not to be wondered at, as they have been now upwards of
three months in confinement, for paying obedience to his Honor s
proclamation, and have not had a single line from any person about
government, or any direction how to conduct themselves. The Gov
ernor in these times must be occupied by objects of much greater
1See the previous letter—Cavet to St. Clair, May 13, 1775.

magnitude; but I wish he could spare a few minutes for their
affairs, which is truly a business of the last consequence to them,
threatening them with no less than absolute ruin.
We have an account that Lord Dunmore has been obliged to
abandon his government; it is the only piece of good news that has
reached us since the disputes with Great Britain took so serious a
turn but I doubt the truth of it.
The Pittsburgh Court is now sitting whether they do business or
not, I have not heard. The proposition for the relief of Cavet and
Hanna, though I believe it practicable enough, I would do nothing
in without the Governor s concurrence, as it might be attended with
serious consequences.
Yesterday, we had a county meeting, and have come to resolu
tions to awe and discipline, and have formed an Association, which
I suppose you will soon see in the papers. God grant an end may
be speedily put to any necessity for such proceedings. I doubt their
utility, and am almost as much afraid of success in this contest as
of being vanquished.
Arthur St. Claie to Governor Penn.
Ligonier, May 25, 1775.
Sir:—An express from Pittsburgh, with despatches for your
Honor, having called here this morning, I embrace the opportunity
to inform you that a commission is come up from Virginia to
collect the Colony duty on all peltries exported froni that place,
and that notice has been given to the traders there to conduct them
selves accordingly. I think they will find some way to evade pay
ing it, and those that are not yet come in will certainly carry them
past. Tis a shocking thing that people should be obliged to such
shift, and the trade of the Province be destroyed, by the obstinacy
and caprice of one man. I flatter myself, however, it will not be
of long continuance. Lord Dunmore s seizing the magazine has
raised such a ferment that he will not probably visit the frontiers
soon 1 and by the prorogation of his Assembly, the invasion law,
under which it seems the garrison of the fort was kept up, will ex
pire I think the ninth of next month is its period, and I am in
formed Conolly is preparing to decamp.
1 Before news arrived of the battle of Lexington, Lord Dunmore had or
dered (April 21st) the powder belonging to Virginia to be taken from the
public store at Williamsburg, and placed on board an armed vessel in the
river. This caused great excitement, which was increased by the news from
Lexington.

We have nothing but masters and committees all over the coun
try, and every thing seems to be running into the wildest confusion.
If some conciliating plan is not adopted by the Congress, America
has seen her golden days they may return, but will be preceded
by scenes of horror. An association is formed in this county for
defense of American hberty. I got a clause added, by which they
bind themselves to assist the civil magistrates in the execution of
the laws they have been accustomed to be governed by 1
Hanna and Cavet are still pressing me to do something for their
relief, and are very desirous they should be brought off by force
their project was, that writs should be issued against them, and that
the sheriff should take a posse with him and bring them away, and
make prisoners at the same time of their persecutors. I believe 'tis
very practicable, but I gave them to know that without positive di
rections from your Honor I would advise no such step, and that I
thought you would not direct any that might have a tendency to
embroil the Provinces. However, it is no wonder that they are un
easy they have been long confined, and must have suffered consid
erably by it.
Lord Dunmore has issued a proclamation, disclaiming the pro
ceedings of the surveyors in taking entries of lands, and ordering
them to return the money received for them, but has spared their
names but I have seen none of them they were spirited away, it
seems, as fast as they appeared.
If the Fort should be evacuated next month, pray, sir, would it
be proper to endeavor to get possession of it, or to raze it? That
may possibly be done by themselves.
Mr. Conolly has sent out for some of the principal men of tho
Indians to come and receive the prisoners, and the Pittsburgh com
mittee has petitioned the General Congress to hold a treaty with the
Western tribes.
1This clause was the fourth one, and read as follows:
"ith. That we do not wish or advise any innovations, but only that things
may be restored to, and go on in the same way as before the era of the
Stamp Act, when Boston grew great, and America was happy. As a proof
of this disposition, we will quietly submit to the laws by which wo have
been accustomed to be governed before that period, and will, in our several
or associate capacities, be ready when called on to assist the civil magistrate'
to carry the same in execution."
This was the first step taken by St. Clair as a Revolutionary patriot. It
shows a conservative spirit, and an unwillingness to do any thing that might
tend to anarchy or violations of just laws.

356 St. Clair Papers.
Valentine Crawford to George Washington 1
Jacob s Creek, June 24, 1775.
Dear Sir —I am very sorry to inform you I received a letter
from Mr. Cleveland, of the seventh of June, wherein he seems to be
in a good deal of distress. Five of the servants have run away,
and plagued him much. They got to the Indian towns, but by the
exertions of one Mr. Duncan, a trader, he has got them again. He
has sent three of them up by a man he had hired, with a letter to
my brother William or myself, to sell them for you; but the man
sold them himself somewhere about Wheeling, on his way up, and
never brought them to us. He got £20 Pennsylvania currency for
them, and gave one year s credit. This was very low, and he did
not receive one shilling. This was contrary to Cleveland s orders,
as the latter wanted to raise some cash by the sale to purchase pro
visions. I think it would be advisable, if the men they arc sold so
low to are not good, to take them from them, and sell them again.
But the man shall not be stopped for want of money, for I will
furnish him, and will assist Mr. Simpson in getting started as quick
as possible with his canoe and provisions. Mr. Cleveland left some
corn at Mr. Simpson s when he went down, and I will get him some
flour to load his canoe.
Mr. Cleveland sunk a canoe going down, and lost five or six casks
of corn and several other things. James McCormick and Charles
Morgan found a bag of clothes and several other things, a few days
after, as they were going down the river. They delivered them to
Mr. Cleveland again, as they knew they belonged to his company,
by some pajiers they found in the bundle.
Cleveland does not mention of his getting any but the three
servants he sent to be sold, but Mr. Duncan told me yesterday, at
Fort Dunmore, that he got the whole five who ran away. Dr.
Craik s manager has had very bad luck for, in the canoe that was
sunk, he lost all his papers. He was much at a loss to find his
land, or at least, to find the corner trees; but I have sent him all
the plats and junctions I had from the doctor; and lest a letter I
have written to the latter should miscarry, you can inform him of
that fact. I hope to be down in Fairfax as soon as ever I reap my
harvest, and will then settle all my accounts with you.
We have chosen committees out here, and arc raising an inde
pendent company—regulating matters the best we can but an un1
The reason why this letter is here inserted, is given in a note to the next
letter—St. Clair to Shippen, July 12, 1775.

happy confusion happened the other day. The Pennsylvanians
came to Fort Pitt with the sheriff and about twenty men, and took
Major Conolly about midnight, and carried him as far as Ligonier,
the very night before we were to have the talk with the Indians 1
Several of the Pennsylvania traders, by the Indians' story, were
endeavoring to put ill into their minds. On Major Conolly being
taken, the people of Chartier s came in a company and seized three
of the Pennsylvania magistrates, who were concerned in taking off
Conolly George Wilson, Joseph Spear, and Devereux Smith.
They were sent in an old leaky boat down to Fort Fincastle under
guard. Our court 2 however, had no hand in this. It was done by
a mob or set of Conolly s friends who live on Chartier s Creek.
The members of our committee wrote a very spirited letter to the
gentlemen of the Pennsylvania committee, demanding Conolly
back. All signed it, and sent it with an express. On its receipt,
they immediately sent Major Conolly back. Things now seem to
be a little moderated. I believe the Indians want nothing but
peace but it seemed to alarm them very much to hear our great
man was stolen. Indeed, it alarmed us all, as Major Conolly was
the man that had transacted all the business with them before. No
other person was so able to settle business with them as he. I hope
you will excuse the length of my letter.
P. S. —Please« give my compliments to Mr. Lund Washington.
Tell him his people are well, and in a very good way to make a good
crop of corn."
1In the treaty made at "Camp Charlotte," in October, 1774, between
Lord Dunmore and the Shawanese, it was arranged that u supplemental
treaty should be held in the ensuing spring, at Pittsburgh, llis Lordship
was to inform the chiefs by a message when it would suit him to meet them
there, to settle somo minute matters that could not well be attended to at
the first meeting. Trouble with the Colony put it out of the power of Dunmore
to again visit Fort Pitt. So Major Conolly was deputed to take
charge of affairs with the Indians. Only a few Del a wares and Mingoes
could be induced to attend upon his call. While engaged in preparations
to have a "talk" with the assembled chiefs, he was arrested as above
stated.
•That is, the Courts of West Augusta—a Virginia Court held at "Fort
Dunmore," Pittsburgh—the justices being appointed by the Virginia Gov
ernment. The records of this Court have been preserved. In the fall of
1 77G, the District of West Augusta was separated from Augusta County,
and three counties—Yohogania, Monongalia and Ohio—erected out of it.
The Court of West Augusta was continued as the Court of Yohegania, but
the place of its meeting was removed from Pittsburgh.
2From Th* WinhingtonCraiojord Letters, pp. 101, 103.

Arthur St. Clair to Joseph Shippen, Jr.
Ligonier, July 12th, 1775.
Dear Sir —In my last I gave you an account of the taking of
Mr. Conolly, and mentioned some of the consequences I appre
hended from it 1 They have since been disagreeable enough to Mr.
Smith, Mr. Speare, and Colonel Wilson, who were immediately
made prisoners by way of reprisal, and sent off in a flat to Wheel
ing, where they were detained till the news of Conolly s return,
and in the mean time were exposed to every species of insult and
abuse. An attempt has since been made to carry off the sheriff,
but miscarried, which probably saved us another visit at court, as
they found we were provided for them, but I have certain informa
tion that process is in the hands of the Virginia sheriff against our
sheriff and many of the magistrates, and the Committee at Pitts
burgh have resolved that Lord Dunmore s proclamation resecting
the country west of Laurell Hill shall be complied with, so that we
may exjiect fine work.
Whilst Connolly was at my house endeavoring to procure bail, I
treated him with a good deal of civility, by which, with the help
of a cheerful glass, I got at some of his designs. He is immediately
to go England with White Eyes and some other Delaware chiefs, to
solicit for them a confirmation of the country which they now live
in, great part of which is within the bounds of this Province, and
Lord Dunmore is to back it with all his interest. They are to repre
sent to the King s ministers that they have received the Christian
religion, have got notions of property, and in a "great measure
changed their way of life, and can not change their place of abode
as they have heretofore done, and which (hey must again do if
Pennsylvania is allowed to extend beyond the Ohio. Ridiculous as
this may appear, I thought proper to mention it, for though the
Proprietary s rights can not be injured by any such proposal, it may
raise difficulties in the way of a future purchase or further settle
ment of the Province. Lord Dunmore has also some design on the
Islands in Delaware, and he (Conolly) has been procuring all the
information he could respecting them if you please acquaint the
Governor if you think it worth while.
'The letter referred to has not been found. In its place is given the one
preceding—Valentine Crawford to George Washington, June 21, 1775
covering, as to Conolly s arrest, the fame ground, probably, as the missing
one from St. Clair.

I have not a word to say about public matters, the people are all
mad, and I hate even to think of the consequences. Heaven restore
peace to this distracted country
William Smith to Arthur St. Clair.
Bedford, Sept. 4th, 1775.
Dear Sir:—I have just seen yours of the 2d inst. to my brother.
Copies of the calculations by Mr. Rittenhouse and myself, signed
with our names, were sent to Virginia. I wish I had known that
they would have been of any use on the present occasion 1 But you
know the line or parallel to Delaware, at five degrees distant, crosses
the Ohio near the mouth of Charles Creek 2 and includes Fort Pitt,
near six miles—of this there can not be the least shadow of a doubt.
If the Virginia delegates choose to attend to this point, we shall en
able Mr. Wilson to satisfy them at Philadelphia. In the meantime,
it is but just that the possession of Fort Pitt should continue where
it was before, viz., under the government of Pennsylvania.
The Indians, I hope, will have no applications about land mat
ters made to them now. This is not the time for such things.
I am sorry you have had such a bad look-out for foreign flour.
I wish it may fall in my way as I go down to hasten some. God
grant that the Indians may be persuaded to a strict neutrality, and
may not Britons on either side ever employ Indians against Britons,
or make them a sort of arbiters of our differences, if it be possible
to avoid it 3 Mr. [John] Ormsby contracted with Messrs. Fisher,
Carmick, and myself, in the year 1770, for some lands. We have
long since paid his order to Capt. Little for every acre surveyed,
agreeably to the contract, and he sent us down the conveyances as
made to himself from the persons in whose name the lands were
taken up, but when we sent him the conveyance he ought to make
to us, he neglected executing it. I inclose a copy for him to exe
cute, and I beg you will get it done, and take the acknowledgment,
and send it carefully to my brother. I hope Mr. Ormsby will not
decline fulfilling his contract, or force us to any disagreeable meas
ures. We have paid the surveyor, and fulfilled our part in every
respect.
1Why St. Clnjr was desirous of obtaining these copies, appears evident in
his letter to Governor Penn, of September 5, 1775, hereafter given.
Chartier s Creek.
2Reference is hero made to a treaty with the Indians to be held at Pitts
burgh on the 10th of that month.

Thomas Smith to Arthur St. Clair.
Bedford, Sept. 5th, 1775.
Dear Sir:—I am just favored with yours, and am sorry it is not
in my power to comply with your request but I have neither of
the papers or calculations you mention. I have just asked my
brother (who is here), and he has none of them with him. How
far it might be expedient in one point of view for the Congress, yet
to settle even temporary boundaries, might, perhaps, deserve some
consideration. If such a thing could be done with propriety, it
would be of the greatest utility to the peaceable inhabitants in your
county, and I have always thought, since the dispute began, that it
was set on foot by a designing tool, with a more insidious view than
was at first generally imagined, viz., m order to set the Colonies
at variance with one another. Could it be viewed in that light, it
would at presen; have a greater tendency to a speedy settlement
amongst the people themselves of a temporary boundary, without the
interposition of the Congress, than any other argument that could
be used. If they shall judge it proper to intermeddle in the mat
ter at all, and if the Virginia delegate has a real intention of settlbig
it in any reason, the Monongahela will be greatly in favor of
the Virginia, even by Mr. Hooper s map, which I have before mo,
but which 1 Tin not venture to send up without his permission, and
since he made that map, which is doneby actual survey of the Mo
nongahela, he has got the camps of Delawares, by which it appears
that Fort Pitt lies three or four miles farther east than he has placed
it. By comparing his map and your and Bittenhouse s lines, Fort
Pitt is at least four and at most not much above six miles within
this Province, as nearly as I can recollect the distance you made it.
Mr. Hooper may be considered as an undoubted authority on the
side of Virginia. I believe he is a gentleman of candor and veracity,
and you know be was a warm and violent Croghanite at the time
when he made it. I am going to the woods to-morrow morning. I
need not tell you that I write now in haste.
P. S. There is not one barrel of flour in or about town, and Mr.
O Hara requests you would endeavor to supply yourselves, which he
thinks you can now, after the rain, easily do.

Arthur St. Clair to Governor Penn.
Pittsburgh, September 15th, 1775.
Sir —Curiosity led me to this place, to be present at the treaty
with the Indians, which was appointed for the 10th instant, and
that I might have it in my power to give you the earliest notice if
any thing happened that appeared necessary for you to be apprised
of. The treaty is not yet opened, as the Indians are not come in,
but there are accounts of their being on their way, and well dis
posed 1 We have, however, been surprised with a maneuver of
the people of Virginia that may have a tendency to alter their dis
position. About one hundred men marched here from Wmchester,
and took possession of the Fort on the 11th, which has so much
disturbed the delegates from the Congress that they have thoughts
of removing to some other place to hold the treaty. They did every
thing in their power to prevent their coming to the Fort, but to no
purpose 2 This step has already, as might naturally be expected,
served to exasperate the dispute between the inhabitants of the
country, and entirely destroyed the prospect of a cessation of our
grievances, from the salutary and conciliating advice of the dele
gates of the respective provinces, in their circular letter 3 and they
are so sensible that, if something is not soon done to prevent it, the
dispute must end in open violence that they have warmly recom
mended to the Congress, without loss of time to direct a temporary
•Efforts were made, in 1775, to hold a treaty with the Western Indians,
at Pittsburgh. It was proposed that the meeting should take place Septem
ber 10th. To forward the movement, Capt. James Wood was sent beyond
the Ohio to various tribes, inviting them to Pittsburgh at that time. The
object was conciliation, and to obtain their neutrality. The result to the
15th of September is detailed above.
2On the 11th of September, Captain John Neville took possession of Fort
Pitt, for the purpose, avowedly, it seems, to "cover and protect the border,"
in the event hestility should be brought on in the Western country with the
Indians, at the instigation of the British. The fears expressed by St. Clair,
and entertained by others, seem not to have been well founded. Neville
took no part in the boundary controversy.
2The continued collisions and disorder at Pittsburgh could not (ail to at
tract the attention of all the patriotic citizens of the two States, and on the
25th of July, 1775, the delegates in Congress united in a circular urging the
people in the disputed region to mutual forbearance. The circular had
these words: We recommend it to you that all bodies of armed men, kept
up by either party, be dismissed; and that all those on either side who are
in confinement, or on bail, for tukini; part in the content. be discharged."

line 1 It may be necessary, if that measure meets with your appro
bation, to furnish some of your delegates with the draughts and
calculations respecting the western extent of the province. I take
the liberty to mention this, that, supposing agreeable to you, the
proper officer may be directed to supply them that the Congress
may have it in their power to take the matter up, with a prospect
of at least no disadvantage to the Province. I am sensible, Sir,
this is out of my way but the regard I have for your interests, and
the gratitude I feel for your favors, must plead my excuse, as they
are my only motives.
1 Although Congress took no authoritative action to settle the boundary
botween the two States, mutual forbearance during the opening scenes of
the Revolution had the effect to allay the excitement concerning the conflict
of jurisdiction. This continued until 1779, when proceedings were com
menced which, finally, ended in an amicable arrangement and the comple
tion of the boundary line. But an element of discord was already removed
by the disappearance of Conolly from Pittsburgh. On the 8th of June,
1775, Lord Dunmore abandoned his palace in Williamsburg, and took refuge
on board a man-of-war. On the 'iijth of July. Conolly left "Fort Dunmore,"
on a visit to his Lordship, already plotting in the interests of
the mother country against the colonies. He never returned; his rule was
at an end, greatly to the relief of South-western Pennsylvania. St. Clair,
who had so ably championed the interests of Pennsylvan n, was soon called
to take part upon a broader stage of action. This letter closed his corre
spondence with Governor Perm.
THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR.
CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN ST. CLAIR AND WASHINGTON,
SCHUYLER, REED, WILSON, AND OTHERS.
Resolutions Adopted at Hanxastown.
"Word reached the inhabitants of the western part of Pennsyl
vania, in the second week of May, 1775, of what the patriots of
Lexington and Concord had dared for liberty on the memorable
19th of April, and they met at Hannastown, on the 16th, to take
into consideration the alarming situation of the country. The fol
lowing resolutions, drawn up by Arthur St. Clair, Esq.,1 were unani
mously adopted
Resolved, That the Parliament of Great Britain, by several late
acts, have declared the inhabitants of the Massachusetts Bay to be
in rebellion, and the ministry, by endeavoring to enforce those acts,
have attempted to reduce the said inhabitants to a more wretched
state of slavery than ever before existed in any state or country.
Not content with violating their constitutional and chartered priv
ileges, they would strip them of the rights of humanity, exposing
lives to the wanton and unpunishable sport of a licentious soldiery,
and depriving them of the very means of subsistence.
Resolved, That there is no reason to doubt but that the same
system of tyranny and oppression will (should it meet with success
in Massachusetts Buy) be extended to other parts of America; it is
therefore become the indispensable duty of every American, of every
man who has any public virtue or love for his country, or any
bowels for posterity, by every means which God has put in his power,
to resist and oppose the execution of it; that for us we will be ready
to oppose it with our lives and our fortunes. And the better to en
able us to accomplish it, we will immediately form ourselves into
a military body, to consist of companies to be made up out of
the several townships under the following association, which is de
clared to be the Association of Westmoreland County
1The conservative and temperate character of this declaration at Ilannastown,
to which no exception was taken by any person present on that occa
sion, was in harmony with the loyalty of the views St. Clair held at that
time. These are more fully set forth in a letter written by him a year later
to Lieutenant-Colonel Allen. See p. 375. (86S)

Possessed with the most unshaken loyalty and fidelity to His
Majesty, King George the Third, whom we acknowledge to be our
lawful and rightful King, and who we wish may long be the be
loved sovereign of a free and happy people throughout the whole
British Empire we declare to the world, that we do not mean by
this Association to deviate from the loyalty which we hold it our
bounden duty to observe but, animated with the love of liberty,
it is no less our duty to maintain and defend our just rights (which,
with sorrow, we have seen of late wantonly violated in many in
stances by wicked ministry and a corrupted Parliament) and trans
mit them entire to our posterity, for which we do agree and asso
ciate together
1st. To arm and form ourselves into a regiment or regiments,
and choose officers to command us in such proportions as shall be
thought necessary.
2d. We will, with alacrity, endeavor to make ourselves masters
of the manual exercise, and such evolutions as may be necessary
to enable us to act in a body with concert and to that end we. will
meet at such times and places as shall be appointed either for the
companies or the regiments, by the officers commanding each when
chosen.
3d. That should our country be invaded by a foreign enemy, or
should troops be sent from Great Britain to enforce the late arbi
trary act* of its Parliament 1 we will cheerfully submit to military
discipline, and to the utmost of our power resist and oppose them,
or either of them, and will coincide with any plan that may be
formed for the defense of America in general, or Pennsylvania in
particular.
4th. That we do not desire any innovation, but only that things
may be restored and go on in the same way its before the era of the
Stamp Act, when Boston grew great and America was happy. As
a proof of this disposition, we will quietly submit to the laws by
which we have been accustomed to be governed before that pe
riod, and will, in our several or associate capacities, be ready when
called on to assist the civil magistrate in carrying the same into ex
ecution.
5th. That when the British Parliament shall have repealed their
late obnoxious statutes, and shall recede from their claim to tax us,
and make laws for us in every instance, or some general plan of
uniou and reconciliation has been formed and accepted by America,
this our Association shall be dissolved but till then it shall remain
1 Conditions mentioned by St. Clair in his letter to Lieut.-Colonel Allen
as alone justifying taking up arms. See p. Tt75,

in full force and to the observation of it, we bind ourselves by ev
ery thing dear and sacred amongst men. No licensed murder No
famine introduced by law
Resolved, That on Wednesday, the twenty-fourth instant, the
towuship meet to accede to the said Association, and choose their
officers 1
Colonel St. Clair to President of Congress.
March 2Uh, 1776.
Sir:—I observe that, in the vote of Congress for raising five bat
talions in Pennsylvania, there is no provision made for surgeons'
mates, sergeant-majors, or quartermaster-sergeants. I beg leave to
represent to you that each of these officers is very necessary to a
battalion. Part of a battalion may frequently be detached to a
1 The Assembly of Pennsylvania, on the 30th of June, 1775, passed an act
creating a Council of Safety, whose duties wore the raising of troops, fur
nishing supplies, eU.\, for defense. On the 18th of July, the Council recom
mended the enrolment of all able-bodied men into regiments or battalions,
with proper officers. Agreeably to this, the militia of Westmoreland county
wero enrolled, and Arthur St. Clair was elected Colonel. September 26th,
Council ordered £100 to be sent to Westmoreland county towards the pay
ment of arms, accoutrements, etc.
At a meeting of Council, November 29, 1775—"The commissioners and
assessors of Westmoreland county returned the order sent them some time
past, signed by Benja. Franklin, or Jlichael Hillegas, Esq., Treasurer of this
Board, for one hundred pounds, dated 2!)th September last, and informs this
committee that they have purchased from Colonel St. Clair 100 firelocks for
the use of said county, at 40s. each for the payment of them they have
drawn an order on this Board for two hundred pounds; this Committee in
formed them by letter that they would take the said firelocks for the use of
the armed boats, and requested they would get new ones made for their
county, agreeably to the Kesolve of Assembly.
"Resolved, That the committee of accounts do pay Colonel St. Clair two
hundred pounds, and take his note, conditioned to return said money, in case
the above mentioned firelocks are not delivered to this committee; an order
was accordingly drawn in his favor on Thomas Wharton and others, the
committee of accounts, for said sum of two hundred pounds."
January 3d, 1776, Robert Morris, by direction of Congress, waited on the
Council of Safety, and informed them that Congress "had received the
recommendation of the eight gentlemen sent up yesterday, as suitable per
sons to fill the offices of Colonels, and that they agreed to appoint Arti ur
St. Clair, Esqr., Colonel of the 2d Battalion; John Slieo, Colonel of the 3d
Battalion; Anthony Wayne, Esqr., Colonel of the 4th Battalion; Robt. Alagaw,
Colonel of the 5th Battalion, of the four battalions of Pennsylvania
troops to be raised for the Continental Service." —Proceedings oj Council.

distance, where it may be impossible for the surgeon to attend them
without neglecting the rest of the regiment. And as to mates being
readily found in Canada, I do assure you it is scarcely possible to
find a person that has any knowledge, either as physician or sur
geon, in that country, some few excepted who have left the army
and settled there. The duty of the adjutant would be insupporta
ble without the assistance of a sergeant-major, and the quartermas
ter-sergeant is also very necessary, as not only the quarters or en
campment of the corps falls under the quartermaster s direction, but
the receiving and issuing the provisions and the care of all the reg
imental stores, which it is impossible one man can at all times exe
cute and these men ought to be acquainted with accounts.
I also beg leave to mention to you the necessity of providing
tents for the troops in Canada. The season of year is at hand when
they must occupy other grounds than they have been confined to in
the winter, or be exposed to have their posts insulated, and, perhaps,
carried by a force much inferior to theirs, were they encamped in
one body, or in such manner as to be capable of supporting each
other. And tents will become still more necessary, if there should
be a necessity to attack Quebec in force, which may probably be
the case 1
1 Soon after this letter was written, St. Clair started with his regiment to
Canada. On the 12th April he was at Fort Edward, waiting for Lake
Champlain to open so that boats could descend. Ho was detained until near
the oiose of the month before he reached the command of Major-General
Thomas. On the 10th of May his regiment was at Fort Deschambault.
Three days before his arrival —May 7—a council of officers, presided over
by General Thomas, had voted to retreat to the river Sorel. This was be
cause of the reported arrival of several British vessels at Quebec, and the
disgraceful flight of the American troops from before that place, who left
three hundred sick, cannon and stores in the hands of the enemy. When
General Arnold heard of this decision, he proceeded to Sorel to see if he
could secure a reversal and a return to Deschambault, where there was still
a considerable force. Colonel St. Clair reached the Sorel on the 16th May.
and directly aided in preparing measures for the retreat of the army from
Canada—a measure declared to be necessary by the Commissioners of Ccngress,
unless there was speedy relief,-who wroto to the President of thai
body with great plainness. May 11th, Dr. Benjamin Franklin returned to
Philadelphia to personally present the case to Congress. Samuel Chase and
Charles Carroll, the other Commissioners, wrote from Montreal, May 17, to
President Hancock, "we want words to describe the confusion which provails
through every department relating to the army. Your troops live
from hand to mouth; they have, of late, beer, put to half allowance in sev
eral places, and in some they have been without pork for three or four days
past. Although there is plenty of wheat and flour in the country, it was

General Thompson1 to Colonel St. Clair.
Camp at Sorel, June, 2, 1776.
Sir —You are immediately to proceed with the detachment under
your command to Three Rivers, where you will endeavor to surprise
with difficulty that either could be procured a few days ago, for ready spe
cie "In our present critical situation, few, very few, will accept of the
Continental paper money in pay. A prosperous turn in our affairs would,
we think, give it a currency in that part of the country which we possess, tile
most valuable and plentiful in Canada. We think it impossible to subsist
your forces in Canada in any other manner than by contract
Your Generals are now obliged to be contractors and commissaries; and
your Commissioners, whe have neither ability nor inclination, are con
strained to act as generals. Such is the confusion which now prevails, and
will prevail till a totally new arrangement takes place, and a strict discipline
is introduced into the army; of the latter you must despair, unless soldiers
can be enlisted for a term of years, of for the continuance of the war. Tho
enlisting men for a year, or for a less time, occasioned the death of the
brave Montgomery. TJie recent disgraceful flight is the principal source of
all the disorders in your army. The sending soldiers into Canada, whoso
times expire in a month or two after their arrival, is only putting the Colo
nies to an amazing expense, to corrupt and disorder the rest. No duty
must be expected from soldiers whose times are out, let their country stand
ever so much in need of their services; witness the unfeeling flight and re
turn, at this critical juncture, of all the soldiers, and a greater part of the
officers, who are entitled to be discharged."
General Themas was unable to ascertain the strength of his army, such
was the confusion which enlisting men for a shert time created. This offi
cer was taken down with the small-pon, and removed to Chambly, where he
died 2d June. Before the 27th May, however, he had, on learning of the
arrival of reinforcements for the enemy, ordered Colonel Maxwell to re
treat from Three Rivers to Sorel. He had also, without consultation with
the other general officers, given orders for the removal of all the artillery
and artillery stores from Sorel. These facts were communicated to the
President of Congress by the Commissioners under date of the 27th May.
They declared General Wooster, who had been invited by General Thomas
tT take command, as totally unfit to conduct the war, and advised his recall.
The Commissioners added that thero was no discipline among the troops,
and cbulcl not be while short enlistments continued. Your army is badly
paid, and so exhausted is your credit that even a cart can not be procured
without ready money or force The army is in a distressed con
dition, and is in want of the most necessary articles—meat, bread, tents,
shees, stockings, shirts, etc. The greatest part of those who fled from
Quebec left all their bag&nge behind them, or it was plundered by those
whose times were out, and have since left Canada." They added that the
1 See note 1, next page.

the enemy posted there, making prisoners of as many as possible,
and cutting off all who oppose you at the same time you will be
careful to secure yourself a retreat. In executing this order, you
will march to St. FrancisEiver, where a sufficient number of bat
eaux will meet yon, and from thence it is left to your own judgment,
from the information you may receive, to proceed either by laud or
water to Nicolet, and from thence to Three Rivers, or directly from
St. Francis to that place, in whichever way the design of your party
may be best concealed. If you march to Nicolet, it will be proper
to detach one or more bateaux, well armed, to watch the mouth of
the lakes, and prevent any boats or canoes carrying intelligence.
Artillery, ammunition, arms, and public stores must be brought
off, if possible but should that be found impracticable, th v ere to
be destroyed.
I need not point out to you the necessity of your business beirg
army did not exceed four thousand; above four hundred were sick, and
three-fourths hau not yet had the small-pon. Such was the extreme want it
was found necessary to seize flour by force, and give receipts for the quan
tity, tor the payment of which they had pledged the faith of the United
States. They Had advised this step to prevent a general massacre. "We can
not conceal our concern that six thousand men should be ordered to Canada,
without taking care to have magazines formed for their subsistence, cash to
pay them, or to pay the inhabitants for their labor in transporting the bag
gage, stores, and provisions of the army. We can not find words strung
enough to describe our miserable situation. You will have a faint idea of
it if you figure to yourself an army broken and disheartened, half of it
under inoculation, or other diseases; soldiers without pay, without discipline,
and altogether reduced to live from hand to mouth, depending on the
scouts and precarious supplies of a few half-starved cattle and trifling quan
tities of flour, which have hitherto been picked up in different parts of the
country."
1Brigadier-General William Thompson was a native of Ireland. He em
igrated to America, and settled at Carlisle, Pa., where he died September 4,
1781. He was captain in the cavalry service during the French war in Can
ada, and made the acquaintance of St. Clair in that country at Quebec. He
resided for a time at Pittsburgh, and was one of the purchasers of old Fort
Pitt when it was abandoned by the British. In June, 1775, he was ap
pointed colonel of a regiment of riflemen, joined the American forces at
Cambridge, and, November 10th had a skirmish with the British at Lechmere
Point. He was appointed brigadier in the Continental service, March
1, 1776; soon after succeeded Lee in command at New York, and in April
was ordered to Canada to join General Sullivan, whe had been placed in
command of that department. He arrived before General Sullivan, and
about the same time as St. Clair with his Pennsylvania reinforcements.
When General Thomas was prostrated with smallpon, in the latter part of

executed with vigor, and that the most proper time for it is before
day. I wish you success and honor.
May, General Wooster declining to assume the command, General Themp
son, as the ranking efficer, took charge of the forces. At this time the move
ment to Three Kivers, which was made under the order above given, was
planned. The Canadians had variously reported the British, who had taken
possession of that point after Colonel Maxwell had abandoned it and re
treated to the mouth of the Sorcl, as numbering not more than from three
to eight hundred. This was a misstatement, but the movement would have
been successful against a larger force, if a guide had not misled the Ameri
cans, so that when they arrived at Three Kivers it was broad daylight, and
the enemy, who had been apprised of the attempt, were prepared for them.
General Thompson was himself in command, having been sent by General
Sullivan to reinforce St. Clair, and had the misfortune to be taken prisoner
in the first action. He was permitted to return to Pennsylvania on parole,
but it was two years before he was exchanged. A letter from him to St.
Clair, after his return, will be found on page 379.
For an account of the battle of Three Kivers, the reader is referred to pp.
18—21 ante. The credit for the successful withdrawal of the American
army from Canada, in the face of a superior British force, thoroughly ap
pointed in every respect, is very largely due to General (then Colonel) St.
Clair. The following extract from a letter of an officer at Fort George to
his friend in New York, taken from the files of* the Neir Hampshire Gazette,
August 3, 1776, will give the reader a striking picture of the condition of
the army as it withdrew to the Isle aux Noix:
I never knew the fatiguo of a campaign until I arrived at Canada. The
most shocking scenes that ever appeared in a camp were constantly exhib
ited to view. When General Sullivan arrived in Canada, the army was torn
in pieces by sickness and other unaccountable occurrences. A whole regi
ment was not to be found together. General Sullivan, with his usual activ
ity and alertness, collected together a debilitated, dispirited army; tried the
strength of the enemy, who were at least four to one, and performed one of
the most remarkable retreats that was ever known. No person who was not
present can conceivo a tenth part of the difficulties attending it: the enemy at
our heels; three thousand of our men sick with the small-pox these whe were
most healthy like so many walking apparitions; all our baggage, stores, and
artillery to be removed; officers, as well as men, all employed in hauling
cannon, etc. Our loaded bateaux wero all moved up the rapids six miles;
one hundred of them were towed by our wearied men, up to their arm-pits
in water. This was performed in one day and a half; our sick and baggage
all safely landed at St. John s, and from thence to Crown Point, with the
lo6s of only three cannon, which were but poor ones."
The fightmg was done by Thempson and St. Clair, but General Sullivan,
after the way was pointed out to him by St. Clair, showed great energy in
the conduct of the movement towards Crown Point. Thence, by order of
General Schuyler, the army retired to Ticondcroga.
24

Thomas Smith1 to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, August 3, 1776.
Dear Sir:—I was favored with yours by Colonel Allen, and 1
thank you for that unreserve with which you communicate your
sentiments. I need not say that when I found what turn affairs
were like to take in Canada, I was anxious for my friend. I felt for
your situation before you wrote. I sincerely believe that the badsuccess
there is owing to the cause to which you ascribe it in your let
ters to our common friend 2 for he does me the honor to show me
them sometimes he is a fine fellow, but has enemies—created, I
sincerely believe, by his superior talents. Their malice has hitherto
been impotent but they are such industrious, undermining, de
tracting rascals, that I hardly think they will rest till they have got
him out 3 and a ready tool in his place.
I have been in town ever since May. I was then chosen Repre
sentative for our county. Immediately on my coming to town I loll
sick with a very severe bilious colic, which had well nigh done for
me. I relapsed so frequently that I was obliged at last to undergo
a very severe course of physic, which confined me for two months,
and reduced me to a perfect skeleton but I have every appearance
of enjoying a more perfect state of health than I have for some
1Thomas Smith, n nntive of Scotland, who camo to America at an early
age, and settled at Bedford, Pa., studied law and became distinguished at the
bar. February 9, 1769, was appointed Deputy Surveyor, and soon after be
came Protbonotary, Clerk of the Court of Quarter Sessions, and Keoordei
of Bedford County. In 1775, was appointed Colonel of the militia, and in
tbo year following was chosen a member of the State Constitutional Con
vention. In 1780, was elected a member of the Continental Congress
From 1791 to 1794, ho was President of the Judicial District of Cumberland,
Mifflin, Huntington, Bedford and Franklin Counties; and from 1794 to 1809,
he was Judge of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. He died in Juno of
the last named year. Judge Smith was one of the most intimate friends St.
Clair had; acted as his legal adviser, m which capacity he often told St.
Clair he ought to choose him guardian to look after his finances—so liberal
was St. Clair in all money transactions—and held the same political views.
Although u member of the convention that framed the Constitution of 1776.
he was never reconciled to some of its provisions, and afterward united with
James Wilson and Arthur St. Clair in moving lor a new Constitutional Con
vention.
2 James Wilson, the distinguished statesman and jurist.
2Out of Congress. The opposition succeeded for a time, but Mr. Wilson
was afterwards returned.

years. Hardly was I able to walk about when the convention met 1
I was chosen one of them—a pretty solon you will say. No matter,
we have now sat three weeks, and agreed upon the fundamental
principles of our Government. They are somewhat singular, how
ever. The most of us have not had our judgment warped in favor
of any other, and not a sixth part of us ever read a word on the
subject. We are only to have one Legislative branch, viz: the
Assembly, who are to be chosen annually, and a rotation to take
place every three years. Instead of having a Legislative Council,
it seems we are to have a convention every three, five, or seven
years 2 (it is not yet settled which), who are to inquire into and sup
ply defects, deviations or abuses in the Constitution. In what
manner the executive and judicial are to be chosen I can not
yet say, as we only settled the other points last meeting. I
was in a small minority 2 I believe we might have at least
prevented ourselves from being ridiculous in the eyes of the
world were it not for a few enthusiastic members who are totally un
acquainted with the principles of government. It is not only that
their notions are original, but they would go to the devil for popu
larity, and in order to acquire it, they have embraced levelling
principles, which you know is a fine method of succeeding. Don t,
therefore, be surprised if in the next letter I write to you, I should
inform you that we had passed an Agrarian Law.
With regard to any thing in the civil line that may concern you,
I hardly think the convention will do any thing, but it must rest
over until the government is formed and the supreme executive ap
pointed. Should any thing of the kind come upon the carpet while
I am present, I hope you will not be overlooked. I am in hopes a
temporary line between us and Virginia will be soon settled by the
two conventions. I am one of a committee to confer with their
delegates on the subject. They are authorized by their convention,
and made the proposal—the bearer will inform you what line they
proposed.
Mrs. St. Clair came soon to Bedford after I went up and before
1 The Stato Constitutional Convention of 1776.
2The Council of Censors. The first was chosen by the electors of the
State seven years after the adoption of the Constitution. St. Clair was
elected from Philadelphia, and was one of the most active and influential
members of it.
3 Mr. Smith opposed the Constitution. He found fault especially with
those clauses which put the legislative power in a single branch, and which
restricted the power of the executive.

you went away. You know there is nothing coming in from the
office however, the bearer will mention that matter to you. I
really wish to see you again. I have some reason to hope that you
will soon be advanced to a higher rank.
President of Congress to Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, August 10, 1776.
Sir :—The Congress having yesterday been pleased to promote
you to the rank of Brigadier-General1 in the Army of the Ameri
can States, I do myself the pleasure to enclose your commission,
and wish you happy.
General St. Clalr to the President of Congress.
Camp at Ticonderoga, Sept. 2, 1776.
Sir:—I received your favor of the 10th August, enclosing my
commission as Brigadier-General, and return you thanks for the
trouble you took to transmit it.
I am extremely sensible of the honor conferred upon me by the
appointment, and it shall be my study to convince Congress that
they have not misplaced their confidence.
My most respectful compliments wait upon Mrs. Hancock.
1For some weeks prior to the 9th August, St. Clair had been commanding
a brigade under General Gates, whe had recommended his promotion in
strong terms to Congress. On the 26th July, Colonel Matt. Ogden, in writing
from Ticonderoga to Major Aaron Burr, *aid: "We are in great want of
brigadier-generals—threo at least; I mean for the men whe are now here.
General Arnold will command the water crnft on the lake iu person. There
are three brigades commanded by the Colonels Reed, Stark, and St. Cluir.
The last of these, I sincerely wish, was appointed u brigadier by Congress.
There is no better man. The other two have full enough, already." The
promotion of St. Clair was announced by General Washington in General
Orders August 12th. His brigade was the fourth, and consisted of his own,
DeHaas s, Winds s, Wayne s, and Nelson s independent regiments. The
promotion excited the jealousy of Arnold who, although a brigadier, did
not like to see any other officer of ability placed on the same plane with
himself; and Colonel Maxwell, a very meritorious officer and friend to
St. Clair, thought it hard he should be overlooked for the benefit of a junior
officer. At this time the army at Ticonderoga numbered over nine thousand
effective men. After the destruction of the fleet under Arnold, Generals
Gates, Schuyler and Arnold called lustily for several thousand more troops.
See correspondence of these officers with Washington (Sparks), and with
President Hancock (Force s American Archives').

Thomas Smith to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, 22d August, 1776.
My Dear Friend :—I was favored with yours 1 last night by Cap
tain Rippy. I now know by experience, what I always believed,
that elevation does not make you forget your friends. You will,
perhaps, be of opinion that I am not that sincere friend you take
me to be, when I inform you that the intelligence you gave me on
that head gave me far less pleasure than you supposed it would
the reason is, I knew it long before, for no sooner was you appointed
Brigadier-General but our worthy friend Wilson communicated the
agreeable news to me, upon which I wrote to most of our friends to
whom I knew the news would give pleasure.
It is not your elevation alone that I congratulate you upon but
I can assure you, from undoubted authority, that your military
character stands as high with Congress as that of any general on
the continent, and I flatter myself that you have as good a chance
for even a more elevated rank than that to which you are lately
raised. Whatever has been said, or whatever may be said to the
contrary, I think every man s own heart will tell him that self has
a considerable share in the direction of all our thoughts and actions.
I feel an instance of it upon this occasion, for though I do sincerely
rejoice at the elevation of a much esteemed friend, yet I am not
without my fears that I shall by that means be deprived of the
pleasure which I enjoyed in the company of that friend.
I feel the truth of your sentiments with regard to the Constitution
that we are about forming. In several sects of religionists in the
different ages of the world, and in some even now, inspiration was
supposed to have a considerable share in the direction of their ac
tions, and they very gravely supposed themselves gifted with it. I
believe we shall have the honor of first introducing the same doc
trine into modern polities. A motion was made, without a blush,
by a member, that whatever might require the consideration of the
House might be printed before any resolve was passed upon it, for
the use of the members, as several of them could read print better
than writing. Our principle seems to be this: that any man, even
the most illiterate, is as capable of any office as a person who has
had the benefit of education that education perverts the under
standing, eradicates common honesty, and has been productive of
all the evils that have happened in the world. In order that inspire1
The letters of St. Clair to Judge Smith have not been found.

tion may be our only guide, every person who is to be chosen into
any office that was formerly supposed to require some degree of
human knowledge and experience to enable the person to execute it
with justice —every such person, I say—is to be turned out before
he cau possibly acquire any experience—e. g., in the form of gov
ernment now debating in the House. The committee have brought
in one article, that the justices of the peace shall be chosen by the
people in the respective districts wherein they reside turned out
every seven years and a new set chosen in the same manner. We
are not come to it yet, but by the complexion of the House I have
reason to think it will pass. We are determined not to pay the least
regard to the former Constitution of this Province, but to reject
every thing therein that may be proposed, merely because it was
part of the former Constitution. We are resolved to clear every
part of the old rubbish out of the way and begin upon a clean
foundation. You know that experimental philosophy was in great
repute fifty years ago, and we have a mind to try how the same
principle will succeed in polities! You learned fellows who have
warped your understandings by poring over musty old books, will
perhaps laugh at us; but, know ye, that we despise you.
The situation of this country, as well as that of blind Britain,
must give great anxiety to every person who is not callous to the
feelings of humanity. They seem to have been in the same situa
tion for some time past with regard to their intellects as the builders
of Babel were in respect of their [out]. God knows how the de
structive dispute will end. I think the ruin of Britain is inevitable,
and her existence as a powerful kingdom is near at an end. We
will undoubtedly feel sorely the effects of the dispute; but I can
not help being of opinion that, according to the course of human
affairs, we must, in the end, prevail.
As to your verbal intelligence, you will have heard before this
can reach you that part of it is true and part false, as is always the
case. No news here. Mr. Woods came down last night. Your
family are well —not increased when he came away.
As for myself, I have the honor to serve the public and receive
nothing for it but that it puts it out of my power to serve myself
by going to the woods, for, as there is at present, and like to be
through our great wisdom, a suspension of all law for a considera
ble time, nothing is to be done in that channel, and from the temper
of the times no person has any security, let his conduct have been
what it will, that he will not be superseded by any being of a day.

General St. Clair to Lieutenant-Colonel Allen 1
Ticonderoga, September 1, 1776.
Dear Sir:—This is my third to you since yours of the25thof
July. Whether the former have reached you or not is doubtful, as
our communication seems not to be much more open than hereto
fore how that happens, God knows, but certain it is few letters to
or from this army get on.
I wish you had returned to the regiment. Though I well know
your sentiments, I really expected you would have come back. "The
osier keeps its footing when the dak is torn up by the roots." You
know my way of thinking, and you know likewise the obligations I
have to your family—obligations which no change of circumstances
can ever cancel. But you will excuse me, my dear sir, when I say
that I believe it would have been true policy to have given some
way to the temper of the times.
If I remember rightly, there were two points on which we were
perfectly agreed First, that independence was not the interest of
America if the liberties of America could be otherwise secured;
Secondly, if foreign troops were employed to reduce America to ab
solute submission, that independence or any other mode was justifi
able. There is now no doubt about the employment of foreign
troops, which I own I think was the watchword to every man of
property in America for I doubt very much whether, if Great
Britain should succeed by force, if much odds would be made by
the lordly conquerors betwixt friends and foes, or if nature and ior1
William Allen, n Pennsylvania Loyalist, son of the Chief Justice of
Pennsylvania, belonged to one of the wealthiest and most distinguished
of the old families of that Province of the Penns, and, after the first year
of the revolution, espoused the British cause. He was a lieutenant-coon
in the Continental service in the early part of 1776, and served under St.
Clair in Canada. After the retreat of the Americans to Crown Pomt, lie
returned to Philadelphia, and, in common with other friends of n
at this period, concluded that the only safety for the country was m a
burence to the mother country. He obtained leave to resign his c
in the Continental service, and, at the close of 1776, joined Lord ^iwe.
endeavored to enlist a regiment of Pennsylvania Loyalists in i
was disappointed. Less than three hundred joined him. *118
part in the defenseof Pensacola against the French and Spaniarc 9ot Clair, mmdful r r in New Brunswick in 1783. In the letter above given, &ifrom obligations to Chief-Justice Allen, endeavors to diasundo the so t-\\e>
step which he had avowed it his purpose to tnko in the o n.\a
is the reply.

eign avarice and rapacity would not be glutted with the indiscrimi
nate spoil of both. I am persuaded many worthy men would not
have wished times to go as they have done, because they thought it
not consistent with the true interest of America, which might have
long been happy in a regulated (not an absolute) subordination to
Great Britain, amongst whom I think I may reckon your venerable
father;but that fatal proceeding1 has cast the die.
Do not, my dear sir, imagine my late promotion has altered my
sentiments. I will own to you I am pleased, not flattered, with it.
I have come to that time of life (and some how or other have always
had a way of thinking what some people call philosophy, but it is
nothing but constitution,) that puts me out of danger of that flutter
and emotion that sudden and unexpected elevation gives some peo
ple. I assure you I would rather experience the heartfelt satis
faction of discharging one social duty, one debt of gratitude, than
have as many "Honours" and Excellence s" affixed to my name
as would fill a quire of paper. To your father and brother, and Mr.
Penn, I have obligations that I must ever feel—that I will never
forget. You know I am a bad politician, but if you have not al
ready taken too decisive a part, I can not say one word more about
the matter; and when I reflect on your own good sense and the
superior understanding and experience of many of your friends, it
would be insolence to you to offer advice.
We have made this a very strong post. The old French lines are
repaired and redoubts upon redoubts constructed, and men enough
to defend them. If they come we shall certainly give a good ac
count of 'them. General Arnold is down the lake with the fleet,
three schooners and a sloop, and, I think, ten gondolas, mounting in
all above one hundred guns. The time is certainly near now, and I
wish you were here to share the honour, for we shall certainly beat
them. We shall make up for the Three Rivers but wherever you
are, my best wishes shall ever attend you.
Your baggage Major Scull takes to Albany—all but your lidding.
Your mattress and blankets I let Mr. Clason have, his having beeu
stolen one day out of the General s house; the rest I will keep; let
me know the price, and the money shall be remitted for the whole.
I thank you for the marquise. I will take all the care I can of it,
and bring it with me when I return; if I return not, you do not
1 Many hoped for an honorable accommodation with the British governmeiit
after a shew of resistance, but the Declaration of Independence dis
pelled that hope.

want friends here who will do me the kindness to send it. Next
time I will tell you all about the money.
Colonel Joseph Wood1 to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, September 3, 1776.
Dear Oeneral:—I this moment received yours of the 2d inst., and
return you many thanks for your kind concern for my health, which
I am sorry to say is not so well as I could wish or expect, consider
ing the length of time, from so small a wound but one reason is,
I can t get quit of the fever two or three days I seem perfectly
well, after that comes on an inflammation in my leg which spreads
all over it, then I am forced to keep my bed five or six days, and
bathe and poultice it, and so I go on. God knows when I shall
have the pleasure of being in the field again. I long to be with
you. I intend setting off next week, sick or well, making all the
haste my health will permit. I am more easy that I have two such
field officers as Craig3 and Butler; their commissions I have, and
shall bring them with me. I hope they will do well—hojie, did I
say ?—I am certain they will do every thing possible for the good
of the regiment.
I am in doubt about our army at New York—a letter from an
officer of rank this day says they are in want of ten thousand men;
if so, the Lord have mercy on them all. The militia going and re
turning with such speed smells strong of cowardice, and dispirits
1Joseph Wood succeeded St. Cluir as Colonel of the Second Pennsylvania.
He was commissioned as major, and was ordered to Canada with the first
companies of the regiment, in January, 1776. He was promoted to lieuten
ant-colonel, viceWilliam Allen, July 22, and colonel 7th September, 1776.
He died in March, 1789.
2 "Wound received at the battlo of Three Rivers.
'Themas Craig, commissioned as captain in St. Clair s regiment, January
6, 1770; lieutenant-colonel, September 7, 1776; appointed colonel Third
Pennsylvania Regiment, 1777. Died at the age of 92, January 14, 1832.
♦Thomas Butler, third of the famous brothers who were conspicuous dur
ing the Revolutionary war. Was studying law with Judgo Wilson when
the war began, and enlisted a company for St. Clair s regiment, in which lie
obtained the majority. At the battlo of Hrandywino he received the thanks
of Washington for gallantry, and nt Monmouth ho defended a defilo in tlio
face of a heavy firo while his brother, Colonel Richard Tutler, withdrew his
regiment. He was present at tha defeat of St. Clair in 1791. He was born
in Pennsylvania, 1754, and died at New Orleans, September 7, 1805.

the troop. I dined yesterday with five or six of the Congress they
think a few days will decide the matter one way or the other. It
may, for us, but not for the enemy—they can retreat to their lines.
You must know, before this, we have given up New York, and
must do what they wish for—fight them in the open field. You
know how we are provided for that. Some of our men are brave—
must be to make a stand against double their numbers, and six
times better armed. We can only hope that God will fight our
battles, as in old times.
Mr. Wilson, with his lady, started for Carlisle to-day. He de
sired me to give you his best compliments, and, when he returns,
will send you a letter a mile long, to make up for the short ones, or
the very few he has wrote you.
God bless you. All the family join in good wishes for your pros
perity in every form, but none more so than, dear sir, your affec
tionate friend, etc.
Colonei, Robert H. Harrison to General Schuyler.
Neware, November, 26, 1776. —3 o clock p. m.
Sir:—By command of his Excellency, I have the honor to trans
mit you the inclosed resolve1 of Congress, the original of which this
1 Remind—That General Washington be directed forthwith to order under
his immediate command such of the forces, now in the Northern Depart
ment, as have been raised in the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey,
and that the commanding officer in the Northern Department be directed
to apply to the Legislatures of the Eastern States, to afford him such assist
ance as they may stand in need of.—Journals of Congress, Saturday, No
vember 23, 1776.
This resolution was in consequence of the movement of General Howe
toward Philadelphia in force. General Washington had but few troops to
interpose, and his situation was very critical. It was at this time that St.
Clair was directed to join him with his brigade. Scarcely any halt was
made at Albany. As soon as boats were procured St. Clair proceeded south
ward, but was intercepted by an order from General Lee to join bis divis
ion, which was following in the rear of the British army, notwithstanding
Washington had ordered him several weeks before to join him.
After the capture of General Lee (see p. 28), General St. Clair proceeded
immediately to join General Washington. On the 10th December, we find
the latter proposing to send him to command the New Jersey militia that
had been recruited in that part of the State where General Lee had been
operating. The time of service of General St. Clair s own troops being
about to expire, and they promising to re-enlist for the war if furloughed, he
permitted them to return home, and out of his own private funds supplied

minute came to hand and I am to request you, in his name, to
have the purport of it complied with, by sending down, with all
possible expedition, the whole of the troops belonging to the States
of Pennsylvania and Jersey which are in the Northern Depart
ment, to join the army under his immediate command. You will
please to order them to fall in on the communication leading from
New York to Philadelphia, at Brunswick, or between that and
Princeton, and to direct their march by a back and secure route,
that it may not be liable to be interrupted by the enemy. I have
mentioned Brunswick, supposing and hoping that we shall be able
to make a stand there however, his Excellency begs you will di
rect the commanding officers of the troops to send him frequent ex
presses, to advise of their approaches, and by which means their
destination may be explicitly pointed out. At present it is conjec
ture. It must depend on several circumstances. I have not time
to add much, therefore Bhall only inform you that the enemy are in
possession of Hackensack, and are now pushing this way.
James Wilson to General St. Clair.
Baltimore 1 December 30, 1776.
My Dear Sir —With peculiar pleasure I congratulate you on the
victory at Trenton 2 I take it the tide is now turning, and will soon
run high in our favor.
I have written to General Washington, recommending Colonel
Irvine to a regiment, and Mr. Robert Smith (a young gentleman of
great merit, who studied law with me), to a troop of horse. You
will oblige me much by adding your influence to the recommenda
tion, and by letting me know the result of it as soon as possible.
General Thompson to General St. Clair.
Carlisle, January 11, 1777.
My Dear General:—This will be handed to you by your old and
some of the money necessary to pay expenses of ro-enlistment. General
St. Clair entered actively into the work of the campaign.
1 Congress was holding sessions at Baltimore.
For an account of the victories of Trenton and Princeton, and St. Clair s
brilliant part in them, see pp. 30 to 44 of this volume.

very worthy friend, Major Dick Butler 1 who longs much to see
you. The bad treatment the Major and some other officers of the
regiments have met with, requires the notice of every General in the
army who wishes to serve his country, and as I know well your
steady attachment to both your friends and country, make no doubt,
when you are informed how matters stand respecting the officers in
Colonel Mackay s regiment, but you will take such steps as will en
able those who think themselves injured to vindicate their characters,
and purge the army, as soon as possible, of those who have acted
out of character as gentlemen and officers.
The good of the service bus obliged me to make use of arguments
with the Major and Mr. HufTnagle, to engage them to continue in
the regiment after they can have a hearing before a court-martial.
I must confess they have suffered much, but they must be prevailed
on to continue, or the usefulness of the regiment will be lost. We
both know the Colonel to be a good officer, and a man of strict honor
and great goodness of heart, but it will be impossible for him alone
to manage the regiment or get duty done, if the Major and Mr.
Huffnagle leave him. From what I have been well informed of, I
think some of the officers must go to the left about, and Huffnagle
will make an excellent Major, and as the ranks of the captains are
not yet fixed, it can t give any great uneasiness to them but in case
it should, I don t know any of them fit to be raised a step higher—
two only excepted—that ought to mount a ladder.
My dear St. Clair, when last I had the pleasure of seeing you 1
I even envied you the fatigues you had then to encounter. I now
most heartily rejoice on account of your successes, and more and
more wish to share the dangers and honors that may await you.
P. S. —If you can t possibly reconcile Butler and Huffnagle to
stay in Mackay s regiment, you must see and provide for them in
one of the new ones. Good officers must not be lost.
1 Richard Butler, the most distinguished of the fighting Butlers. He was
soon promoted to he Lieutenant-Colonel of Morgan s rifle corps, and subsequently
Colonel of the Ninth Pennsylvania. He was agent for Indian
affairs in 1787-88, and in 1791 was commissioned a Major-General, com
manded the right wing of St. Clair s army moving against the Indians, and
was killed November 4, of that year.
2 At the battle of Three Rivers, where General Thompson had the mis
fortune to he captured. He was permitted to go on parol, hut the delay in
his exchange bore hard on his spirits. He blamed Congress with it in a let
ter to St. Clair, written in April this year, in which he said that as he was
not permitted to curse that body, he would turn his wrath against the Con.
stitution of Pennsylvania, which he cursed with great heartiness.

James Wilson to General St. Clair.
Carlisle, January 14, 1777.
My Dear General —It is long since I have had the pleasure of
hearing from you but am sensible that you have as good, if not
better, reasons for not writing than ever I had. The active and
glorious scenes in which you have lately borne a share are a sufficient
apology to your friends for not being favored with your letters. It
comforts me to hear of you when I can not hear from you.
I have enjoyed nine days at home and in that time have seen
my family increased by the addition of a line young boy. The sit
uation of public affairs is so interesting that I find myself' incapable
of fixing upon those tranquil pleasures in my library, of which I
have often formed such fond ideas when perplexed and distracted
with business.
While I can not forbear thinking of the public, I believe it will
be best for me to continue acting in it (provided that can happen
with propriety), and return to Baltimore as soon as I can leave Mrs.
Wilson.
I feel very sensibly for General Mercer s misfortune and for the
loss the service will sustain in being deprived for some time of his
valuable talents. I hope, however, he will, recover and do well 1
Colonel Mackay and Major Butler will inform you of the very
extraordinary proceedings of the Captains and subalterns in the
Westmoreland regiment. They have gone so far as even to sus
pend the Major 2 You know his worth and character. From all
the accounts I have had from gentlemen upon whose judgments I
can rely, I am satisfied that he has great merit as an officer and
that his merit has been the cause of the persecution raised against
him. But I need not stimulate your own friendship for him.
These committee appointments play vengeance. If the Captains
and subalterns succeed in this stroke against their Major, I have no
doubt but that the next one will be aimed at the head of the Colonel.
Indeed, I have good reason to conclude that this is part of the plan
originally laid.
1This refers to the battle of Princeton, in the curly part of which General
Mercer was mortally wounded. As ho was left in the care of the Quaker
family named Clark, where he fell, his fate was not known at the time this
letter was written.
2This is the same difficulty referred to in the letter of General Thompson.
On account of appointments being made on recommendation of committees,
the subordinate officers attempted to dictate who should be field officers.

General Arthur St. Clair to James Wilson.
Morristown, February 10, 1777.
Dear Sir:—I was favored with a letter from you yesterday. I
heartily congratulate you on the addition to your family. As Mrs.
Wilson has recovered, such a nine days was worth an age. I wish
it was possible that you could enjoy the tranquil pleasures of retire
ment, but it is not a time to think of them and believe me, my
dear friend, although it is not much to your taste, your figure is at
least as respectable in public as amiable in private life.
Colonel Mackay is not yet come up, and I have just heard that he
lies sick at Trenton, but I have made the General1 acquainted with
the confusion and the causes of it that prevails in that regiment,
and I have no doubt that the authors will meet with their deserts.
This will be handed you by Major Ollendorf, an officer, I believe,
of merit, and who, it seems to me, has been sent here upon a wild
goose chase. Most of the foreigners that have yet been employed
are mere-adventurers, but I do not believe that in his case he has
behaved well here. After all this preface, I don t know what should
follow, but it is next to impossible that an utter stranger, and one
who has not the language of the country, should succeed in raising
a corps, and the e.\'iienses attending frequent journeys are so much
greater than the allowance that it can not but disgust those who
have no attachments but the profession of a soldier. If some of
ficers were appointed to him who have connections, his corps might
be raised, and I am fully persuaded it would not be long before he
would discipline them.
This moment I received yours of the 28th ultimo. I am very
sorry that neither Colonel Irvine nor Mr. Smith have succeeded,
which I informed you of before. The General does not choose to go
so largely into the horse as Congress has empowered him; at least
until he sees the regiments he has already officered nearly complete
when that happens, and more horse should be thought necessary,
Colonel Irvine has, I believe, his promise, and I have it likewise for
Mr. Smith; and the general has pleased to express uneasiness that
application had not been made earlier.
The enemy are still in Jersey, but they have very little rest. We
give them a brush every other day, and we are certain that they
are in great want of both forage and provisions. They can not
possibly stay here. But where will they go to? Perhaps to Dela1
General Washington.

ware River. That is, however, my way of thinking and had we
somebody at the head of the army in New York, they would soon
be obliged to go somewhere else but I must not speak ill of my
superiors, and indeed I do not know the man at all.
Major Ollendorf waits for this letter. I assure (you) I have not
ceased to write by every opportunity. You will get them all by
and by, and I shall continue to do so, for I know but few things in
this world that gives me greater pleasure 1
Tom Smith is here, and I write this at Colonel Biddle s office, who
sends a whole bundle of correspondence.
St. Clair Promoted for Gallantry at Trenton and
Princeton.
Baltimore, February 22, 1777.
Sir —The Congress having been pleased to promote you to the
rank of major-general in the army of the United States, I do my
self the pleasure to inclose your commission. Confident of your
ardor in the cause of America, and of your attachment to her liber
ties, I am persuaded you will, on all occasions, show yourself every
way deserving the honor your country has now conferred upon you.
With the warmest wishes for your health and prosperity, I have
the honor to be, sir, your most obedient and humble servant,
John Hancock, Pres t.
You will please to acknowledge the receipt of this letter and com
mission.
Hon. Major-General St. Clair.
James Wilson to Major-General St. Clair.
February 20, 1777.
My Dear Sir:—Yesterday, Congress proceeded to the promotion
of general officers. There was much difficulty and delicacy in set
tling the principles on which the promotions ought to he founded.
I expressed my sentiments in favor of adhering to the line of action
before marked out, but said that if it were proper to deviate from
that line, you were the officer in whose favor the alteration ought to
be made. Lord Sterling, General Mifflin, yourself, General Ste1The
original letter is in the possession of Lewis J. Cist, Esq Cincinnati.

phen, and General Lincoln were chosen major-generals. I neecl not
express my satisfaction at your promotion. I feel peculiarly
pleased that I have seen the event take place before I leave Con
gress.
I am exceedingly hurt that our deserving friend, General Tlxompson,
was passed over. It is a misfortune sufficient to be a prisoner.
I am, however, willing to believe that the only reason with xxiany
gentlemen for omitting him was an apprehension that a prom otion
would increase the difficulty of his exchange.
If you have not already engaged yourself, you will much ol)lige
me by appointing Billy Bird your aid-de-camp. You will rec?<_>Hect
that, when he first entered into service, I was solicitous he sla ould
be formed under you. You know, however, of his activity. He
is young, but he is far from being perfect in sense and judgmea tIf
he is not yet exchanged, I hope his exchange will soon take £:>Xace.
I have been informed that he has either obtained, or has a pro>ssjiect
of obtaining, a lieutenancy in the Light Horse. But I woul<i on
every account, prefer what I now recommend him to. I have good reason to believe, and think it not improper to i*int,
that the important command of Ticonderoga is destined for your
next campaign 1 I presage it a theater of glory.
Colonel Wayne2 to President of Congress.
Ticonderoga, February 2, Y7 7*
Sir:—Inclosed is the return of this garrison, together witla.
appraisement and receipt for goods sent to the public store. J-0
1 Judge Wilson s prediction was correct. But, after St. Clair s jjronr*"^
and before his appointment to the Northern Department, he contin*-1*3
serve under Washington. On the 10th of March, General Washington
General Gates, who was in command at Philadelphia, to resume the «->1 A St. adjutant-general, and notified him that lie should send Major-Gen e r ti e
Clair to take his place. Gates was looking for something else; deel iT* j-, n_
place of adjutant-general, and on the 25th of March was appointed V>^
gress to the command of the Northern Department, in place of 4-^ n\
Schuyler. On the "2d of May following, he was superseded by om.
Schuyler. General St. Clair had been selected to servo as second 5 pier s mand, but he did not leave his post at Philadelphia until General Scl* m-x~
restoration.
xnson 2Colonel Anthony Wayne had been placed in command of the pC xr^ 4nloat
Ticonderoga in the latter part of the preceding November, with 5 "~-*«ant
tions to complete the fortifications. Little could be done at that, as If

will observe that only two small regiments of militia have yet ar
rived to relieve the old garrison, and that the Second and Fourth
regiments of Pennsylvania, whose times were expired near a month,
have marched for Philadelphia the Sixth regiment, belonging to
the same State, will also march the 8th instant their times expired
the 9th of January, so that if troops don t shortly arrive, this gar
rison will be left very weak indeed. I have wrote timely and fre
quently to General Schuyler on the occasion, and have once more
urged him to push up troops and provisions with all possible dis
patch. I am sorry to say that this post has been much neglected,
and unless speedy and vigorous measures are used in gathering in
supplies, the season will be lost in which it can be done and per
haps, after all the expense and trouble in endeavoring to render the
post tenable, it will be left an easy prey to the enemy, owing to a
lack of troops and supplies. I shall omit nothing in my power to
guard against a surprise, and although our numbers are few, yet I
am under no apprehension but I shall be able to maintain this post
(unless provisions fail) until a sufficient reinforcement can have time
to arrive. I hope soon to have it in my power to give you some in
formation of the motions or intentions of the enemy in this quarter.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to Major-General Gates. 0
Ticonderoga, February 4, 1777.
My Dear General:—This garrison now consists of only four weak
regiments—one Pennsylvania, one New Jersey, and two regiments
of militia from the State of the Massachusetts Bay, amounting in
the whole to about twelve hundred, sick and well. That from Penn
sylvania will march the day after to-morrow we shall then be re
duced to nine hundred. I have not been able to prevail on the
Eastern troops to stay one hour longer than the expiration of their
time.
I have done every thing that lay in my power to render this post
tenable, by surrounding the works with wide and good abatis.
I have also provided timber for the block-houses, which wiD be
erected in a few days, and dropped the notion of pickets, as we
of clothing and hospital stores rendered the condition of the men so wretched
as to preclude all other thought but that of trying to preserve life until
spring should come.
25
38«
could not man them. Cumberland Bay is yet open otherwise we
should, in all probability, have received a visit long since from the
enemy, who, as I learn, had collected all the sleighs in Canada for
the purpose.
I have a prospect of being soon reinforced from the eastward. In
the present debilitated state of the garrison we can do little more
than mount the proper guards, keep out the usual scouts, and find
firewood, a stock of which I wish to have beforehand in case of an
attack, which probably will not be before the lake breaks up, unless
Cumberland Bay should close soon. I should esteem it as a particular
favor if you could get me relieved, my health being much impaired.
I have been necessitated to act as quartermaster, commissary, en
gineer and commandant, and worried with wretches applying for
discharges or furloughs, as you wed to be, until I am become a mere
skeleton.
I am next to inform you that this post has been too much ne
glected, and I fear, notwithstanding all the expense and trouble we
have had last summer and this winter to render it tenable, it will be
left an easy prey to the enemy for want of proper supplies to main
tain an army in the spring, owing to a supineness somewhere.
Present my most respectful compliments to General Washington
and Generals Mifflin and St. Clair.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, February 4, 1777.
Sir:—I have the pleasure to inform you that an officer, with part
oi Colonel 's regiment, arrived here last evening from Num
ber Four, and says the whole regiment, consisting of upwards of
three hundred men, may be expected in two or three days. They
are from the State of New Hampshire, and enlisted during the war.
They are coming at a very seasonable time, as the Sixth Penn
sylvania Battalion are just about to leave the ground, and our gar
rison so debilitated that we were hard pushed for men to furnish the
necessary guards, scouts, and fatigues.
I have a scouting party down the lake as far as Gillilaud s Creek,
where it is said some Indian tracks have lately been discovered.
The enemy have given out that they intend paying us a visit,' but
that they can not do so unless Cumberland Bay shuts up as yet it
i.< open, and probably will continue so during the winter, unless
there comes very severe weather indeed.

I have been necessitated to stop a number of sleighs to haul the
abatis, treating them with kindness and paying them for their
labour. I have heard no complaint, and conclude they are well
content.
I have in view a project of driving piles across the channel oppo
site one of the redoubts, to which a boom may be fixed that will be
a sufficient barrier against the enemy s vessels. This will require a
good deal of labour.
If it should meet your approbation, please to order up one of the
engineers to superintend the work.
I shall be able to communicate to him the plan and manner in
which it may be executed.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, 23rd March, 1777.
Dear General —It is the opinion of those who are best acquainted
with Lake Champlain, that it will be navigable in the course of two
or three weeks at farthest. It is, therefore, my duty to inform you that
we have not more than twelve hundred men, sick and well, officers in
cluded, on the ground four hundred of which are militia, whose times
expire in ten days nor from what I can learn, by the best authority,
is there any probability of a sufficient number of troops arriving
from the eastward, for a very considerable time, as few, if any of
their regiments arc near full, and great part of those who were en
listed have deserted or are straggling through the country. Add to
this, that their officers seem seized with a general torpor (which can
not be accounted for), especially at a time when every effort is ab
solutely necessary to push on the troops, and to give them some idea
of duty and discipline previous to their entering into action.
I must beg, sir, that you would once more endeavor to rouse the
public officers in those States from their shameful lethargy before it
be too late. I do assure you that there is not one moment to spare
in bringing in troops and the necessary supplies. The few men I
have on the ground are put to hard, very hard duty but they go
through all with a ready cheerfulness, conscious of the pressing ne
cessity.
Whilst I am writing, Mr. Adams, who lives at Lake George
landing, has arrived almost spent. He, with Captain Baldwin of
the Rangers, belonging to Stillwater, and twenty-one men, were
made prisoners at Sabl>ath-dav Point by a party of Coc-hnawago In
dians and Canadians, amounting to about twenty, under the com

maud of Captain McCoy, of the Regulars. Lieutenant Henry,
with five others belonging to Colonel Van Schaiek s regiment, are
killed. Adams and two of the soldiers were taken last Wednes
day afternoon. Captain Baldwin and the other prisoners were sur
prised and taken asleep, at the Point, about three o clock the next
morning. Lieutenant Henry defended himself with great bravery
for a considerable time, dangerously wounding two of the Indians
with his navy. He at last fell, worthy of a better fate. Adams
says he informed him of another party hovering round this post;
but, if that was true, I believe they would not have mentioned it.
He further says that the Indians came by the way of Omergotchy,
and that he was set at liberty on account of being weakly and a
former acquaintance of Captain McCoy, who also informed him that
the enemy are collected at St. John s, Chambly, and Montreal, and
their vicinity. I have sent Captain Whitcomb, with a party of
Rangers, to bury the dead, and hope soon to retaliate on the Brit
ish butchers.
Colonel Wayne to Governor Bowdoe* and Council of
Massachusetts Bay.
Ticonderoga, 25th March, 1777.
Gentlemen:—A party of Cochnawago Indians, under the com
mand of a Captain McCoy, of the British forces, have killed sev
eral of our people, and taken Captain Baldwin, with twenty-one
men, prisoners, at a place called Sabbath-day Point, on the 20th
instant, by which means the enemy, who are now all collected at Mon
treal, Chambly, St. John s, and their vicinity, will be but too soon
informed of the debilitated state of this garrison, which at present
does not consist of more than twelve hundred men, sick and well,
officers included, four hundred of which are militia from Berkshire
and Hampshire, in your State, whose times expire in ten days—but
this in confidence.
It is the opinion of those who are best acquainted with the Lake
Champlain, that it will be navigable in the course of two or three
weeks at farthest, so that we have every reason to expect that the
enemy here in full force as soon as that happens, being ready pre
pared for the purpose.
It is my duty, therefore, to request you, in the most pressing
manner, to use every possible means in pushing on the troops—
properly equipped. Nearly one-half of those who arrived are destitute
of arms and accouterments, and sent on without any officers, except
a few subalterns. For God sake, rouse your field and other officers

from their lethargy. It is their duty to be on the spot, in order
to maneuver their people, and to give them some idea of discipline
previous to their entering into action.
I would beg leave to suggest that the most speedy way of for
warding the baggage and other necessaries, through these hid rocuh,
will be by pack-horses you can not use too much dispatch there
is not one moment to spare
I am confident that you have too just a sense of the importance
of this place to suffer it to be lost for want of timely succors, when
in your power to throw them in. I shall, therefore, say no more on
the subject, than just to assure you that nothing shall be wanting
on my part to render the post tenable, and to defend it to the last
extremity.
Captain Reyman, a gentleman well acquainted with this lake, and
a worthy officer, who is charged with this express, will be able to
give you such other information as you may require.
Just as Captain Reyman was setting off, he was taken violently
ill. Lieutenant McLean is, therefore, charged with the express.
He is another trusty officer 1
COLONKL ANTHONY WAYNE TO PRESIDENT JOHN HANCOCK.
Ticonderoga, 2d April, 1777.
Sir:—The enclosed return will clearly show you the debilitated
state of this garrison. It has been very fluctuating of late. The
militia are now all gone, and those contained in the return are raised
on the new establishment. I hope soon to receive a considerable
reinforcement, as General Schuyler has dispatched expresses to the
neighboring States for that purpose. I have also sent to the State
1 This letter, the first draft of which was retained by Colonel Wayne, and
is included  is also found in the Massachusetts
Archives, Vol. 196, p. 324, and bears on it the following official indorsements,
which show that great care was taken to read Colonel Wayne s communica
tions, if nothing was done worth mentioning for the relief of Ticonderoga:
In Council, March 30, 1777. Read and sent down
Jno. Avery, Dpy Secy.
In the House of Representatives, March 31, 1777. Read and committed
to Mr. Speaker Benj. Preble, Mr. Story, and Col. Bliss, with such as the
Honorable Board shall join. Sent up for concurrence.
J. Warren, Spkr.
In Council, March 31, 1777. Read and concurred, and Jabez Fisher, Jno,
Taylor, and Wm. Phillips, Esq rs, are joined.
Jno. Avert, Dpy Secy.

of the Massachusetts Bay, urging the Council to push on the troops
and necessary supplies with all possible dispatch.
There will be an open navigation on Lake Champlain before this
reaches you, and I have reason to expect the enemy here in full
force as soon as the ice will permit. We are preparing to receive
them. The ready cheerfulness with which officers and men un
dergo all fatigue and difficulties, I take as a happy presage that
they are determined to defend the post to the last extremity. I
can t forbear mentioning my surprise at the total neglect of the
navy. You may rest assured that the enemy have not more than
four vessels of force on the lake, exclusive of two taken from us,
and about twenty-five or thirty flat-bottomed boats. It is said that
they are building four more. Even then they will have but ten,
and I am well convinced that in the course of eight weeks we could
build vessels sufficient with those we already have to command the
lake and as to rigging, strip but the one-third of the prizes taken
from the enemy, and now laid up to the eastward, they will be more
than sufficient for the purposes this once done, an army of two
thousand or three thousand men will be sufficient not only to gar
rison this post, but put the enemy in constant alarm and oblige them,
to put a large army of observation in Canada.
On the contrary, let them remain in command of the lake, they
need not more than one thousand land forces, with what savages
and Canadians they can raise, to oblige us to maintain an army of
at least five thousand men to watch their motions, whilst the re
mainder of their forces may be sent round and act in conjunction
with their troops to the southward. But was a fleet to be created,
they dare not show one man from Canada. The very expense of
paying and maintaining three thousand extraordinary for six months
would give you the command of the lake. You must at one day
have it the sooner, therefore, the better.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to Colonel Van Schaick 1
Ticonderoga, 13?A April, 1777,
Sir:—Your favor of the 7th inst. I have just received. I wish
1 Gozen Van Schaick, son of Mayor Van Schaick of Albany, and one of
the best soldiers in the American army. He participated in the French
war, being advanced from lieutenant, by regular promotion, to lieutenantcolonel
in the First New York regiment. On the breaking out of the Rev
olution, he was made colonel of the Second New York regiment Nov.

that the arms and cash were arrived. There were two howitzers at
Half Moon; if they are not yet sent forward, pray order them with
such ammunition, ordnance and ordnance stores as are at Albany
(for this post) to be sent forward with all possible dispatch, let the
expense be what it will. If the roads are bad, it s only adding a
sufficient force of horses to the carriages. Our situation admits of
no delay.
I have reason to believe the enemy are advancing. A strong
party of them were discovered three days ago at the Four Brothers
and some of their boats were plying between that and Gilliland s
Creek. Previous to the receipt of this intelligence, I had sent a de
tachment under Lieutenant-Colonel Bassett to that place for prov
ender. I have since ordered another party in armed boats to try
to bring him off and cover his retreat. I hope they will effect it.
Colonel Anthony Wayne to Major-General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, 14th April, 1777.
Dear General :—A scouting party returned yesterday from Onion
River, with advice that the enemy have a strong detachment on the
Four Brothers, and that their boats were seen plying between that
and Gilliland s Creek. Previous to the receipt of this intelligence,
I had sent a party under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Bas
sett to that creek for provender, and have since dispatched another
detachment in armed bateaux to bring him off and cover his re
treat. I hope they will effect it, as the loss of his party would be
too sensibly felt. We have received but a very small reinforce
ment since the last return I made you.
I can t account for the happiness of the Eastern States with re
spect Ui this post on any other principle but the general received
notion that no attack will be made here. However, a few days will
probably reduce this matter to a certainty, as the lake has been nav
igable about a week.
22, 1776, was placed in command of the First New York battalion, and af
terwards sent to Cherry Valley toprotoct the inhabitants against the Indians;
served as brigadier-general under Lord Stirling at the battle of Monmouth,
and in April, 1779, at the head of a select force, destroyed the Onondaga set
tle ients, and received vote of thanks from Congress Appointed brigadiergeneral
by brevet October 10, 1783. He was born 1737; died July 4, 1789.

James Wilson to Major General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, Tith March, 1777.
My Dear Sic —I have been favored with two letters from you
since my return to Philadelphia. Your promise to write to me
once a week gives me great pleasure, but it will give me still greater
pleasure to see you soon. This, I have some hopes, will lie the
case, as General Gates is now appointed to the command at Ticonderoga 1
I can more than conceive what you feel at your long ab
sence from your family.
You particularly oblige me by reserving a place for Billy Bird.
As some late difficulties are now removed from the cartel, his ex
change, I hope, may soon take place.
I have resumed my seat in Congress. My reason is, that if at
any time I can be useful to my country, I can at this. Pennsylvania
is in the greatest confusion perhaps order may, at last, arise from
it. The very critical situation of public affairs is of much advan
tage to the Assembly and their friends.
I shall write you more fully, soon.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, 18th April, 1777.
Dear Sir:—I am favored with yours of the loth 2 I have wrote
•"The Congress hnvo directed General Gates to take General Fermoy
with him to Ticonderoga, and such other French officers as he may think
proper. General St. Clair being ordered to Ticonderoga, b t previously to
repair to this city to await the further order of Congress, you will please to
direct him to repair hero accordingly as soon as possible."—Prcsuient Han
cock to General Washington, April 4, 1777.
'-3The return of Mr. Wilson to Congress was in compliance with the ear
nest entreaties of General Washington, who greatly needed at this time the
support of the best men of the country. 1 he situation in Pennsylvania is
described by the Commander-in-Chief in a letter to General Schuyler, writ
ten at Morristown. in March (See Sparks, Vol. IV., p. 360): "The disaffec
tion in Pennsylvania, which I fear is much beyond anything you have con
ceived, and the depression of the people of this State, render a strong sup
port necessary to prevent a systematical submission besides, the loss of
Philadelphia would prove a very great injury, as we draw from thenco al
most all our supplies."
2This letter has not been found  but the sub
jects on which it treated are indicated in the above reply. The communi

fully to Congress upon the inexpediency and indeed danger of form
ing a camp at Bristol before I am reinforced more strongly here,
and I hope they will accord with me.
I am of opinion, with you, that General Howe will never attempt
Philadelphia without first making a stroke at the army collected
here. At the same time that I thank you for the desire you express
for serving in this department, I applaud your resolution of submit ting
cheerfully to whatever post is assigned you 1
President Hancock to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, April 30, 1777.
Sir —The Congress having received intelligence of the approach
of the enemy towards Ticonderoga, have thought proper to direct
you to repair thither without delay. I have it, therefore, in charge
to transmit the enclosed resolve, and to direct that you immediately
set out on the receipt hereof 2
Colonel Anthony Wayne to General Gates.
Ticonderoga, 25th April, 1777.
Dear General:—Our force is so very small that, after furnishing
the necessary guards—garrisoning the block-houses and half man
ning the vessels, together with the usual scouts—we have very few
cation of Washington to Congress, referred to in the above letter, is not
included in Sparks s collection.
•St. Clair had expressed a desire to be under Washington, but, while not
being pleased with the resolve of Congress assigning him to Ticonderoga,
he proceeded to that post with the alacrity of a good soldier.
sGeneralSt. Clair s appointment to the command of Ticonderoga gave
great umbrago to General Sullivan, who thought he should have been first
preferred. On the 16th March GeneraI Washington took notice of his
pique in a kind but severe letter, which opened in these words: Do not,
my dear General Sullivan, torment yourself any longer with imaginary
slights, and involve others in the perplexities you feel on that score," and
then proceeds to justify the assignment of St. Clair and other officers, and
concludes: But I have not timo to dwell upon a subject of this kind. I
shall quit it with an earnest exhortation, that you will not suffer yourself to
bo teased with evils that only exist in the imagination, and with slights that
have no existence at all; keeping in mind, at the same time, that, if distant
armies are to be formed, there are several gentlemen before you in point of
rank, who have a right to claim a preference."
f

men left for fatigue. Our whole force, officers, artificers, sailors,
marines, artillery, rank and file, sick and well, don t amount to
nineteen hundred—one-fourth part of whom are destitute of arms,
so that I have been necessitated to substitute spears in their place.
And, from what I can learn, there is not much probability of our
having any great addition to this force, for a very considerable
time —so that the militia are absolutely necessary to assist in putting
the place in some better position of defense, as we can t out of this
debilitated army furnish fatigue men sufficient for the purpose. I
have sent Lieutenant Barber to Albany for four hundred stand of
arms, as it will require that number to complete those who are now
on the ground without any. You will please to order them, on
with all possible dispatch. We have secured the pass between
Mount Independence and Ticonderoga in such a manner that the
enemy s ships can not get through below and, in case of an at
tack, you may rest assured that this post shall be defended until
succours can have time to arrive.
State of New Hampshire dj Committee of Safety to Dele
gates in Congress.
May 10th, 1777.
Gentlemen:—About one-half of the troops proportioned to this
State to raise as their quota for the Continental Army have marched
for Ticonderoga, and most of them, we suppose, are at that place by
this time. Another quarter will be ou their march in a very few
days, and the remainder as soon as possible. Every nerve is exert,
ing among the friends of the country to engage and forward them.
They are but very ill clothed, and, as cloth can not be procured
on any terms for that purpose, unless Congress will order Colonel
Laugdon to let the State have some out of those in his hands, which
we desire you to endeavor to procure. We have scarce any stock
of lead and flints, and only three small field pieces in the State
therefore would have you solicit orders to Colonel Langdon to keep
in this State three or four field pieces, and such quantity of lead and
flint as the general concern will admit of; a company of artillery
men will voluntarily engage in this town. A great number of our
militia are without fire-arms, and the greater part they have are but
ordinary—if there is such a supply ou the continent that consist
ently a small magazine might be left in this State, to be used only
in case of an attack, it might be of great advantage. We have

many circumstances come to hand which make it probable a descent
will soon be made on our coast. We have made several discoveries
of combinations made by the Tories in Hillsborough and western
parts of Massachusetts Bay, and upper part of this county we
have reason to believe, by information of persons on oath, that
some have combined to take arms and join the enemy, when an op
portunity offers though we hope their numbers are not large. We
have just heard a hogshead of entrenching tools is discovered under
a barn in Holies, and a considerable of liquors, some provisions and
firearms in and about Groton in the Massachusetts. Interesting
matters are opening, and it is probable all our jails will soon be
filled with these more than monsters in the shape of men, who
would wreck their native country, in hopes to have some of the
plunder. Although our difficulties are great, and appear to be in
creasing, yet a spirit seems to rise with the difficulties among most
of our people which we hope will not easily be crushed.
General Gates to General Washington.
Albany, 30th May, 1777.
Sir:—Late last night the inclosed from General Poor 1 was
1 Ticonderoqa, Mny 27, 1777.—10 o clock at night.
Dear Sir:—Preparatory to the execution of a plan to surprise any ports
which the enemy may have established on the lake. I thought it proper
yesterday to dispatch a reconnoitering party, with orders to proceed to Split
Eock, last night, to spend this day in observation, and return in the evening
to an established rendezvous, and make his report. It has returned to this
place in the moment of the embarkation of the detachment, and informs us
that they, this morning, landed at Split Rock, about break of day, within
one hundred and fifty yards of the enemy s advance boat, which the ap
proach of day discovered, together with two schooners and six gondolas, all
within three hundred yards of them. He observed on the west shore about
forty bateaux, but as there wus a thick fog, he could only discover the form
of the vessels, a number of fires. A very heavy morning gun wus dis
charged lower down the lake—he thinks at Schuyler s Island. As this re
port induced the strongest suspicions of the enemy s approach, I thought it
my duty to forward it to you as speedily as possible, and shall be proud to
receive your commands.
You know the strength of the garrison by the Inst general returns. If
the post should be invested, which I firmly believe, 1 much dread we shall
Buffer for provisions. I am, dear sir,
Your most obedient and ready humble servant,
Enoch Poor.
11 ajor-Geneeal, Gates. r

brought me by express from Ticonderoga. I also inclose your Ex
cellency a general return of the garrison at that post, dated the 24th
instant, by which you will perceive the shameful deficiency in the
numbers proper for its defense 1 Artillerists are likewise much
wanted. I always expected six companies two is as many as can
be said to be there. The bad weather of late has so cut up the
roads that the transportation of stores, cannon, and provisions has
been extremely delayed. I am this moment sending expresses to
the Eastern States, with a copy of General Poor s letter to each,
and a pressing requisition for an immediate reinforcement of men,
either by corps of militia or a draught to complete the regiments
now at Ticonderoga.
Your Excellency and Congress may be assured that every thing
possible for the safety and preservation of that important post shall
be attempted—but, at the same time, it is to be wished the means
may be found adequate to the end.
General St. Clair2 to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 13, 1777.
Dear General:—Here follows the substance of the information
given by two men from Canada, taken prisoners by one of our par
ties on Onion River:
1May 28th, General Poor wrote to General Follows that the garrison of
Ticonderoga consisted of two theusand two hundred and forty, rank and
file. On the 30th, General Gates inclosed copies of the above letters to the
President and Council of the Massachusetts Bay, and added: "The fifteen
hundred militia ordered from the County of Hampshire, are not one-third
arrived, and from what I hear they are likely to be very deficient. I beg
leave to assure you that there is not a moment to be lost. The safety of the
Northern frontier of the Eastern States requires the spirited exertions of
the powers of Government to save them from invasion." Sixth of June, the
Massachusetts Legislature directed that the various officers in the counties
charged with raising troops be required to provide the same, by draft if
necessary, by the 20th of the month. Very little attention seems to have
been paid to these orders.
2 General St. Clair arrived at Ticonderoga and assumed command on the
12th, the day before the above letter was written. He bad been instructed
by Congress as to the manner of completing the fortifications, and bad been
assured that the British would transfer the larger part of their forces by
water to aid General Howe in taking Philadelphia, which all, including
General Washington, thought to be the objective point of the present camConThat General Burgoyne is arrived in Canada, but has brought no
troops with him that the British army is assembling as fast as pos
sible at St. Johns that the light infantry, which they call the flying
army, commanded by General Fraser, is already advanced to Pointau-Fer;
that the whole army is said to consist of about ten thou
sand men, a part of which, with Indians under the, command of Sir
John Johnson, and Canadians under Captain Mackay, are to pene
trate the country by the Mohawk River, whilst the rest of the army
under General Burgoyne, crosses the lake to attack this place that
their fleet (a particular account of which is in the inclosed letter to
General Sullivan) is all in the lake, and we may depend on their
being here in a fortnight at farthest.
From the nature and circumstance of the pass granted to one of
the two, which I here inclose, and his own account of the manner
in which he was sent from Montreal, viz. to search for plans of the
country which he pretended to know were hid at Metcalfs, and his
being possessed of a considerable sum of Continental money, and
some gold and silver, I have the strongest suspicion of his being a
spy 1 and have secured him as such and sent him down to you, both
paign, and that to coyer that movement a feint would be minu lowm-ds
Tieonderoga. This the Board of "War had received from reliable authority.
St. Clair was to prepare for the reception of a small British force, designed
to prevent any Enstern troops from being sent to the relief of Washington,
and this he was to do behind fortifications erected on ground commanded by
eminences within cannon shot. The British vessels controlled the lakes
and the only way he could procure information of the enemy was by send
ing scouts through an almost impenetrable forest lining the shores of the
lakes.
On his way to his post of duty, General St. Clair stopped at Albany to
confer with General Schuyler. The instructions of that officer were given
under date of Juno 5th. By those he was informed that As the whelo of
our force in the Northern Department, if collected at Tieonderoga, would
not be capable of properly manning the extensive works on both sides of the
lake," it would be advisable to devote his first care to Mount Independence
which was the most defensible, and might be made to sustain a seige; that
frequent scouts should be kept out as far as Crown Point; that the boom
should be strengthened by driving piles, so as to prevent the passing of ves
sels to the south end of the lake; that as provisions were scarce, great
economy should be exercised; that attention should be given to requiring
the men to be cleanly in order to preserve their health and gave him ten
thousand dollars for contingent expenses.
1 Amsbury, the supposed spy, when examined by General Schuyler, con.
firmed the story related to St. Clair. He stated that the British forces
were approaching St. John s, and were to advance under General Burgoyne,
and also that a detachment of British troops, Canadians and Indians was to

that you might have an opportunity to examine him yourself, and
that, if you should think of him as I do, he might be tried at Al
bany, where, should he be found guilty, the sentence will probably
be more adequate to the crime than here; for I find the officer, who
lately suffered a spy he had in charge to escape, through grossest
misconduct, has been honorably acquitted by a court-martial.
You will likewise find a letter from Colonel Bailey, containing
the intelligence brought by two Frenchmen sent down by General
Gates. Though their intelligence differs very materially, they agree
penetrate the country by the way of Mohawk River. He added otrmer par
ticulars respecting the strength and arrangements of the British army, which
turned out to be nearly accurate, but of which no intelligence had before
been obtained or anticipated; for it hud been a favorite idea with Congress
nnd the Commander-in-Chief that the British would not operate in force
l rum Canada during the present campaign, but that the troops would be
chiefly brought round by water to reinforce General Howe. Hence the
small preparations for the defense of Ticonderoga, and for fornning a
Northern army."—Sparks, Vol. IV., p. 467.
General Washington commented on this information in a letter t«J Gen
eral Schuyler, under date of Juno 20th: "Supposing the plan mem tioned
in Amsbury s evidence to be true, I can not conceive that it will be in the
power of the enemy to carry it into execution; but to provide agai list all
events, I have ordered General Putnam to hold four Massachusetts regimen 8
in readiness at Peekskill to go up the river at a moment s warning, tand to
order sloops from Albany, which are to be kept for that purpose. I t does
not appear that Burgoyne has brought any reinforcements from Europe. If
this is so, he can not move with a greater force than five theusand men. He
certainly will never leave the garrison of Ticonderoga in his rear; t«nd if
he invests it to any purpose, he will not have a sufficient number left t«J sen^
one body from Oswego and another to cut off the communication be*wecn
Fort Edward and Fort George. As the garrison at Ticonderoga is sufficient
to hold it against any attack 1 I do not think it politic, under your i epresentation
of the scarcity of provisions, to send up troops to consume what
ought to be thrown into the fort I draw a very favorable omen
from the intercepted letter to General Sullivan 2 It shews that they d^sPair
of carrying their Bchemc by force, and are reduced to the necessity of h^*vin£
recourse to the arts of flattery, bribery and intimidation."
1 General Washington did not have a clear conception of the nature of the -*^'or" at Ticonderoga, which he theught the enemy would have to assail directly in ^ront.
as in former wars; nor dkl he seem to understand that the troops ordered froir»"*s"
sachusetts had not come in, notwithstanding the representations of General St. and, before him, Generals Gates and Wayne. 2 Amsbury related that before leaving Montreal a Judge Levins had given t»-'m a
canteen, with instructions to give it to General Sulliv:tn, whem he supposed to i:on1' maud at Ticonderoga. and to request General Sullivan to remove a false botte^ro in the canteen, under which he would find a letter. Tho bottom was removed, &^K
letter found as described.

in the circumstance of General Burgoyne s arrival and if these
fellows have really been sent by him to see what we are about, there
was no method more likely to procure them an easy reception than
that of giving an account of the preparations in Canada, and car
rying, or pretending to carry, letters from our friends. The letter
to General Sullivan may, notwithstanding, be genuine, and Amsbury
says it was written by one Michael Shannon. This name is
found upon a separate piece of paper, in a fair hand, which he
seemed unwilling to part with, and which I suppose to have been a
private signal by which he was to be known upon his return.
If the enemy intend to attack us, I assure you, sir, we are very illprepared
to receive them. The whole amount of Continental troops,
fit for duty, is fifteen hundred and seventy-six, rank and file, ex
clusive of Baldwin s artificers and Whitcomb s fifty-two rangers.
Besides these, there are three regiments of Hampshire militia, en
gaged for no particular term, and who go off whenever they please.
One hundred and fifty are gone since last return two regiments of
Massachusetts militia, of two hundred and fifty rank and file, fit for
duty, engaged for two months from their arrival, three weeks of
which with some of them is already expired.
Among the number returned sick there is no doubt but many
would be useful in case of necessity, but, at any rate, we can not
reckon upon more than twenty-two hundred men.
I am very much concerned to give you this disagreeable detail,
but I have something worse to add to it. We can not increase our
numbers by calling in the militia without ruin for, by the com
missary s return and the account of his weekly expenditure, there is
meat for seven weeks only on the ground, and he has no prospect
of any supply of salt meat, but from some place near Stillwater,
nor of fresh, but by sending to New England for it. This I have
desired to do, but must own I have little prospect of advantage from
it; for be assured that, and indeed every other communication,
may and will very easily be cut off. I have heard of some cattle
below Crown Point, which I shall send for to-morrow.
The bridge goes on tolerably well, but, indeed, is a very heavy,
troublesome job. The caissons, Colonel Baldwin says, will be all
sunk by the end of next week. In the meantime, I have ordered
the floating bridge to be removed to the lower side of them, which
will serve as a kind of second boom, and retard at least, if not pre
vent, the enemy s vessels from passing, should they attempt it.
A magazine of wood should be laid in immediately, but how to
effect it I know not, as there are no teams here of any kind, and

not a stick Upon the Mount. All of the timber for the bridge is
hauled out of the woods by hand, and employs a much greater num.
ber of men than would otherwise be necessary and might be employed,
and are wanted, for other purposes. What can the quartermaster
mean by leaving this place, where so many works are to be carried
on, without so necessary an article as draught-cattle?
The tents here are, in general, very bad. I must beg you, my
dear general, to hasten up the new tents, for I shall get no good of
the troops here, in any way, whilst they remain in barracks.
Our powder-magazines are in so wretched a state, that I am told
near fifty pounds of powder a week is damaged. In short, every
thing is so much out of order, that I will add no more to this list
of grievances, than to tell you we have no cartridge paper.
When I write again, I hope to have something more agreeable to
entertain you with.
P. S. I forgot to mention a paper in which Amsbury s money was
wrapped, and is also inclosed it is blurred and blotted, but you
will observe it contains a letter from Eph. Jones to his brother,
dated June 2d, about the time Amsbury left Montreal, and is a cor
roborating circumstance of the fellow s evil design.
I should have called upon the militia1 but for the state of our mag
azine. Should they come in fast, which I believe they would, they
might eat us out before either the arrival of the enemy or the sup
plies. Please give your direction on this head as soon as possible.
The bateaux are in ruin for want of pitch and tar, which Colonel
May says he has often wrote for.
Adams, the other of the prisoners, seems to be an innocent fellow,
and whom Amsbury brought off with him without knowing his er
rand he was taken by Mackay at the Sabbath-day Point.
•"It is evident from General St. Clair s letter that it will not be proper
to order up the reinforcement before it is really wanted; for he very judi
ciously observes that they will consume the stores. I can not conceive what
occasions the delay of the Massachusetts and New Hampshire Continental
troops; I have repeatedly written in the most pressing manner to have them
sent on, but in vain."—Washington to Schuyler in Utter before quoted.

General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 18, 1777.
Dear General —Inclosed you have the returns of the troops and
stores at this place, all except the clothier s, which is so drained, I
thought it needless to ask any from him, as he has almost literally
nothing.
Since my last, I have had constant scouts out, but have made no
discovery of the enemy, save that four of their vessels are lying
about a mile on the hither side of Split Rock they consist of two
ships and two gondolas; and on Friday last a schooner beat up
within four miles of Crown Point, but, without landing any of her
people or coming to anchor, returned down the lake.
Yesterday, about noon, we had two men, who had strolled out of
camp without arms, taken by a party of savages, who had stolen
down to the roadside by McIntosh s and the bridge, and concealed
themselves in the bushes they were immediately pursued as far as
Putnam s creek, but could not be overtaken unluckily, however,
they fell in with a scouting party I had sent down to discover the
motions of the enemy, but were upon their return, and fired upon
them unexpectedly. The officer is wounded, one man killed and
scalped, and one missing, but whether taken or not is as yet uncer
tain. Another party, that I had ordered to proceed to Point-auFer,
or wherever the enemy might be, returned last night, on dis
covering a large party of Indians on the east side of the lake, about
four miles above Crown Point. I think of sending to feel their
pulse to-night, as I am sure it would be of consequence to give
these fellows a drubbing.
I am at a loss to form a judgment of the design of the enemy.
If they mean to attack us, one would think it indiscreet to put us
on our guard by such a trifling affair; and yet I can not think they
could prevail with any number of the savages to come on, unless
they had an army not far off to support them. Be that as it will, I
shall use every precaution possible against surprise, and will en
deavor to penetrate their designs. The same reason, notwithstand
ing our weakness, still prevails against calling for the militia as
when I wrote last, having as yet received no supply of meat, either
fresh or salt.
Do you know, sir, any thing about the terms upon which Captain
Whitcomb s corps was raised? He informs me that by General
Gates s orders he promised his people that they should have the 26

same bounty as the troops of the State in which they were raised,
notwithstanding they were not part of their quota. This promise
has not been complied with, and they are held by a conditional
agreement only, which expires this day. I shall be able to retain
them, however, until you favor them with your answer.
I am making some improvements on the Mount, but that and the
Ticonderoga side have such dependence upon and connection with
each other that, in my opinion, it will be very dangerous to give up
either, and yet it is certain we can not, with our present numbers,
hold both. I design, however, to make the appearance of doing it,
and after defending Ticonderoga as long as possible, retreat to
Mount Independence.
Our guards are crowded with Tories they are dangerous here^
and can not be properly tried. I have ordered them to Albany.
The bridge goes heavily on the caissons not all sunk yet, but
the timber is almost all cut and in the water. The officers of the
fleet have not received commissions, and are very uneasy about it.
General St. Clair to James Wilson.
Ticonderoga, June 18, 1777.
Dear Sir:—This is the first time I have wrote to you since I left
Philadelphia, and am very sorry to make any complaints, but I am
much disappointed in the strength of the garrison and the state of the
fortifications at this place. Instead of their having been improved
during the winter, which was expected, they are much worse than
when I left them, a very strong abatis, in which the security of
Mount Independence chiefly consisted, having been almost entirely
burned up in the winter, and a great part of the breastwork de
stroyed.
This would be a matter of little consequence should it turn out
that the enemy have no designs upon us 1 that, however, is
l From the enemy s situation in Jersey, collecting their force at Amboy
and Brunswick, and from their intentions last fall, confirmed by every piece
of intelligence we obtain this spring, it scarce admits a doubt that Philadel
phia is the object in view at the opening of this campaign. If this be their
aim, it appears to me highly probable, their army being greatly reduced
since the commencement of the last campaign, that they will bring round
all the troops from Canada to reinforce those here. What serves to confirm
me in this opinion is the facility with which a junction can be made in this
way, the necessity they are under of a reinforcement, and the great security

doubtful, though, by some intelligence I have received, I am
induced to think they are meditating an attack. Should this
be the case, I fear they will be but too successful, as our num
bers are greatly unequal to the vast extent of ground we must oc
cupy. I shall do the best, however, I can, and if they should not
be repulsed, I hope to see them so crippled as not to be able to pur
sue their journey. In serious earnest, this place has been too much
neglected, and it is disagreeable enough for a man to see himself in
a place from whence a retreat is impossible, with a force insufficient
for the defense of it, and that you will readily perceive. Our
works would demand ten thousand men, and I have not more than
twenty-two hundred. I shall endeavor, however, to support both
sides of the lake as long as it can be done, and finally retreat to the
Mount. Men, however, might be got here had we provisions, but
we are so short in that article that I dare not call in the militia, as
in a couple of weeks they would eat up the whole stock of meat.
We had one man killed and two taken prisoners by a party of In
dians yesterday, within sight of the out guards. They had con
cealed themselves in the bushes, and rushed suddenly upon some
unarmed men, who had strolled out a fishing. They were immedi
ately pursued, but without success, though their flight was so pre
cipitate that they dropped their packs and blankets. In their retreat
they fell in with a party that had been sent to make discoveries,
with whom they exchanged several rounds. The lieutenant that
commanded the party and one man are wounded, one killed and
scalped, and one missing. What injury they sustained is not known,
but it is probable they must have met with some loss, as they were
not more than ten steps distant when they fired. Another party
of Indians were discovered last night encamped on the east side of
the lake about four miles above Crown Point. I mean to speak
with them to-night, and if we can but give them a dressing it will
render them more cautious.
It is hard, with the little information we have, to form a judg
ment of the enemy s designs. This is certain, that General Burgoyne
has been arrived in Canada for some time, and he has not
the command of the lakes gives them against our incursions into Canada.
Under these considerations, I can not help thinking much too large a part
of our force is directed to Ticondoroga. Peekskill appears to me a much
more proper place, where, if the troops are drawn together, they will be ad
vantageously situated to give support to any of the Eastern or Middle
States."—General Washington to General. Schuyler, March 12, 1777. Sparks,
Vol. IV., p. 858.

come to pass the summer inactive. Perhaps he may take the troops
around to General Howe certain he will either take them there or
bring them here.
My dear friend, if you should not hear from me again, which
may probably be the case, remember that I have given you this ac
count of our situation, and do not suffer my reputation to be mur
dered after having been sacrificed myself.
The prospect may clear up yet, for all this.
Council of General Officers, held at Ticonderoga, on
Friday, the 20th of June, 1777.
Present—Major-General Schuyler, Major-General St. Clair, Briga
dier-General Roche de Fermoy, Brigadier-General Poor, and Briga
dier-General Patterson.
General Schuyler requested the council to take into consideration
the state of this post, with respect to the number of troops necessary
for its defense, the disposition of the troops and mode of defense,
the state of the fortifications, and the quantity of provisions that
may be depended upon.
The council having taken into their most serious consideration
the several matters stated in the first article, are clearly and unani
mously of opinion
First—That the number of troops now at this post and Mount
Independence, which are under two thousand five hundred effective
rank and file, are greatly inadequate to the defense of both posts.
Second—That both posts ought, nevertheless, to be maintained as
long as possible, consistent with the safety of the troops and stores.
Third—-That if it should become necessary to evacuate one or the
other of the posts, and that it remains in one election which, that it
ought to be the Ticonderoga side.
Fourth—That such cannon and stores as are not immediately nec
essary on the Ticonderoga side, be removed without delay to
Mount Independence.
Fifth—That the fortifications and lines on Mount Independence
are very deficient, and that the repairing the old and adding new
works ought to claim immediate attention and that the engineers
be direected to repair and make the necessary fortifications.
Sixth—That the obstructions in the lake, to prevent the enemy s
naval force from getting into our rear, and thereby cutting off all
supplies, or preventing a retreat, if such a measure should unhap

pily become indispensably necessary, ought to be completed with all
imaginable dispatch.
Seventh—That so much remains to be done effectually to complete
the obstructions, that, with the few troops we have, there is no
great probability it can be done in less than six weeks.
Eiglrfh—That, although our forces may be adequate to maintain
our ground on Mount Independence, yet, unless a sufficient stock of
provisions can be thrown in before the arrival of the enemy, we
having now only thirty-nine days' provisions of meat kind, we think
it would be imprudent to expose the army to be made prisoners by
the enemy and that, therefore, it is prudent to provide for a re
treat to effectuate which, that all the bateaux now at this post be
immediately repaired, and as many as can be spared out of Lake
George be brought hither.
Ninth—That a quantity of provision of the meat kind should,
if possible, be immediately forwarded from Albany or elsewhere.
Tenth—That immediate application be made to his Excellency
General Washington, for a reinforcement to be sent on with all pos
sible expedition.
(Signed,) Philip Schuyler,
Arthur St. Clair,
Roche de Fermoy,
Enoch Poor,
John Patterson,
General Schuyler to General St. Clair.
Fort George, June 24, 1777.
I arrived here yesterday afternoon, and am now busied in arrang
ing matters a little, that stores may be forwarded with more regu
larity than heretofore.
In a day or two you will receive all the pork and salted beef now
at this post, fifty barrels only excepted. Eighteen barrels are only
come from Albany since March last. When the pork and other
articles are sent on, the flour will come in the large schooner only,
until you can have more time and spare cattle to transport it from
the landing to the saw-mills. Seven barrels of tar go over to-day,
and two of iron, with all the tents that are arrived here, together
with four boxes of axes, and about three hundred bushels of peas,
and about twenty new bateaux. These should be carried across the
soonest possible, and not suffered to be used. The remainder will
come on from day to day.

Pray, oblige me with your commands for whatever you may need
for public or private use.
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 24, 1777.
Dear General:—Sergeant Heath, who I sent down the lake to
make discoveries, returned last night, and informs me that on Tues
day last he saw two birch canoes going down the lake with sixteen
Indians and three white men in them, and supposes it was the party
that had done the mischief near the lines the day before. That
from a place near the mouth of Otter Creek, he saw three vessels,
under sail, beating up, one at anchor about one mile above Split
Rock, and the Thunderer behind it. From this place he likewise
descried an encampment of the enemy on both sides of Gilliland s
Creek that, from the appearance of it, and the extent, he thinks it
must contain a great body of men, and that number of smokes arose
at a distance back, which he supposes was from the encampment of
the Indians. That on Friday last, from Pointon, he saw twenty bat
eaux come out of Gilliland s Creek, and sail up the lake past the
Split Rock towards Ticonderoga that one of the inhabitants, iri
whom he could place confidence, informed him that the Indians
were very numerous that they frequently cross to the east side of
the lake, and that a party of them had been at his house a few min
utes before his arrival that he then returned to Otter Creek, where
he proposed to have halted to refresh his party, but, on being in
formed that a large party of Indians were at one Briton s, he made
the best of his way here. One of his party this day fell behind a
little, and was either taken or deserted he suspects the latter, be
cause he both waited for him, and sent back to look for him that
one Webb, another inhabitant, informed him that the enemy had
been four or five days at Gilliland s that they came up with a vast
number of bateaux and some gondolas that some of the troops
come over frequently, and say their whole army is there, and that
they are only waiting the arrival of the rest of their vessels and
stores, when they are to attack this place.
I have no doubt that a party of the enemy are at Gilliland s, nor
that their design is to come here, but not in my opinion to attack,
but to harass us, and give confidence to their savages, who, it is
more than probable, would not have been prevailed upon to under
take it without being joined by some regular troops.
Were they in force, it is improbable they would waste time at

such a distance, in a part of the country where they can find
nothing to refresh themselves and I do not find that they have
made any depredations on the east side.
It is not easy to judge of a force at a distant view of an encamp
ment, and Heath must have been six miles or more distant from
that on Gilliland s Point, a distance too great to determine any thing
with precision, although he had a glass to assist his eye. Besides,
I think the ground is not capable of encamping a great number (for
he insists on it they are not on high ground, but upon the beach
only), but of this you arc a much better judge than I, as I never
saw it but once. Be the matter as it may, I shall endeavor to guard
against surprise, and to discover both them and their designs and,
if opportunity offers, feel their pulse a little.
I had all the ground between this and Crown Point, from the
lake some distance over the mountains, well examined yesterday
with a heavy scout, but they discovered no enemy, nor appearance
of any. Whitcomb says he is certain that there has not been any
Indians, but three, in that quarter since the prisoners were taken,
and that it was three or four days since these three had been there;
so that the Indians said to have been about us were, I believe, the
children of a disturbed imagination.
You had an exceedingly bad time to cross the lake, but I hope you
got well over, and without any injury to your health, though it
must have been exposed, as I doubt if you were not obliged to be
out a second night. I shall write again to you by express the mo
ment I make any farther discoveries.
Colonel James Wilkinson to General Gates.
Ticonderoga, H. Q., June 25th, 1777.
My Dear General —I have not as yet, nor shall I in future, omit
one opportunity of communicating to you every material occur
rence in our department if my letters, therefore, should not roach
you, do not accuse mo of negligence or ingratitude, but ascribe this
circumstance to that insatiable gulf, which has ever swallowed up
all intelligence either to or from this post.
The enemy by gradual movements, which have been duly trans
mitted to General Schuyler, last evening arrived at Crown Point
with some vessels and a part of their army, who have encamped
on Chimney Point. We are induced to believe from a morning
gun, which was repeated down the lake, that their whole force is at

Land, and as they have lately taken several prisoners, and the neigh
boring inhabitants have had free access to this camp, I am persuaded
they will obtain a true state of our weakness, which will indubitably
precipitate their operations in which case the post is inevitably lost,
for if we risk a battle the inferiority of our numbers (without a
miracle, which we sinners have no right to expect) will subject us to
defeat and captivity and if we retire to Mount Independence, the
scantiness of our provisions will subject us to reduction by famine,
as the enemy, when in possession of this side of the lake, can easily
remove the obstructions up the south bay, and by their fleet cut off
our communication from Skenesborough. The militia are at our
command, but should wc call them in, immediate starvation is the
consequence, as General Schuyler has lately assured us that we have
no right or reason to expect more than three hundred barrels of
meat in addition, and we can not subsist our present small garrison
longer than seven weeks with what is on the ground. The distance
from whence our supplies arc derived, and the difficulty of trans
portation, both tend to embarrass us. In this cruel situation what
can be done? The most laudable measure, in my opinion, would
be to remove our heavy artillery and stores, and the convalescents
and invalids of the army, to Fort George. Being then light and
unincumbered, we might, if hard pushed, effect a retreat to that
post, which would enable us to check the enemy s progress on the
contrary, should we attempt to support this place in our present de
ficient situation, we lose all, and leave the country defenseless and
exposed. What, then, will there be to obstruct their favorite scheme
—a junction by the North River Nothing that I can discern. You
remember the state of arms I transmitted you on my first arrival
here I am sorry to inform you that they are not now better in
quality, or superior in number. Our men are harassed to extreme
weakness by fatigue, and the strong guards which we are now
obliged to establish will in a little time quite break up their spirits
and constitutions. If fortitude, if enterprise, if perseverance or
temerity could avail, I would not complain but, in the name of
Heaven, what can be expected from a naked, undisciplined, badly
armed, unaccoutercd body of men, when opposed to a vast superior
ity of British troops?
What can be done, the great St. Clair will effect but such is the
weakness of our numbers, that he can not form any plan of defense.
Of the two, I prefer death to captivity but be the event as it will,
I shall not disgrace my acquaintance.
General Schuyler has been here a few days, but is now in Albany.

General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderooa, June 2bth, 1777.
Dear General:—I informed you yesterday that an encampment
of the enemy had been discovered at Gilliland s Creek last night
two of their vessels came up to Crown Point, and this morning
there are seven lying at that place the rest of their fleet is proba
bly but a little lower down, as we hear their morning guns distinctly
at different places they also debarked some troops, and encamped
upon Chimney Point whether they have landed at Crown Point or
not, my scout-boat did not discover, not daring to venture far
enough down the lake, on account of the shipping but I have sent
out a scout on this side, which, I doubt not, will bring a just ac
count of their situation. I can not help repeating to you the disa
greeable situation we are in, nor can I sec the least prospect of our
being able to defend the post, unless the militia come in and,
should the enemy protract their operations, or invest us, and eontent
themselves with a simple stockade, we arc infallibly ruined.
I have thoughts of calling for the Berkshire militia, which are
nearest to us, and will probably be the most alert to come to our as
sistance, because they are in some measure covered by this post, but
on that I shall consult the other general officers. This, however, is
clear to me, that wc shall be obliged to abandon this side, and then
they will soon force the other from us, nor do I see that a retreat
will, in any shape, be practicable. Every thing, however, shall be
done that is possible, to frustrate the enemy s designs, but what can
be expected from troops ill armed, naked and unaccoutered
I shall write you again as soon as the scout returns.
General Schtjyler to General St. Clair.
Saratoga, Thursday Morning, June 2&th, 1777.
Dear General —Your favor of the 24th was delivered to me last
evening. If the enemy should not mean a furious attack on your
post, their movement is probably calculated to cover an attempt on
New Hampshire, the Mohawk River, or to cut off the communica
tion between Fort George and Fort Edward, or, perhaps, all thesi
I wish you, therefore, to keep a small scout on the east side of the
lake, near the road leading from St. John s to New Hampshire, and
others as far west as the road leading to the north branch of Hud
son s River.
r

I have dispatched an express to Congress, to General Washing
ton, and have entreated the latter to afford us a reinforcement.
Pray let nothing be left at the landing, and the bateaux be brought
over as soon as possible, that your retreat may not be cut off, should
you be unable to maintain your post. I can not learn that any
troops are arrived at Albany. I shall hasten to that place to for
ward on whatever I can, and to be in the way to bring up the mili
tia, if necessary. God bless you, and believe me, etc.
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 26th, 1777.
Sir :—This moment I have received information from Hoite, of
Otter Creek, that a large party of Indians and Tories are gone up
that creek, supposed to be five hundred, and are designed to cut off
the communication by Skenesborough. They took a pair of oxen
from oue of the inhabitants, and drove them about two miles above
Middlebury Falls, where they halted the day before yesterday, and
killed and dressed the cattle; and it is supposed that to-night they
will be at the new road, near Castletou, which is twenty-eight miles
from hence, and twelve or fourteen from Skenesborough. They re
ported that a very large party were gone on the west side of the
lake, tti fall upon Fort George. They are said to consist of a thous
and Indians and Canadians. We have also had, just now, another
attack at the mills. We have two men killed, two taken, and two
wounded—one mortally. The scene thickens fast, and Sunday
next, it seems, is fixed for the attack on this place. Wc must make
the best of it we can, and I hope at least to cripple them so as they
may not be able to pursue their fortune, should it declare in their
favor. I sent a party down last night to reconnoiter them, who
are not yet returned, which gives me some uneasiness. I hope, how
ever, they are safe, and will bring me some intelligence of conse
quence. I have some thoughts, if they are not numerous, of
attacking them. If they get the worst, it will oblige them to recall
their parties if not, there will be too many left to become prison
ers. I have sent to the Grants, to inform them of the Otter Creek
party, and to desire that all they can possibly spare of the militia
may be ready to march at a minute s warning.

General St. Clatr to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 28, 1777.
Dear General:—My scout on which I depended much for intelli
gence, is not yet returned, nor, I fear, ever will now. It consists
of three men only, the best of WhitcombV people, and picked out
by him for that purpose. The woods are so full of Indians, that it
is difficult for parties to get through. I shall send off Whitcomb
himself presently, for intelligence I must have, although I am very
loath to put him upon it, lest he should fall into the hands of the
enemy, who have no small desire to have him in their power. I
sent Colonel Warner to the Grants, yesterday, to raise a body of
men to oppose the incursions of the savages that are gone by Otter
Creek, and have ordered him to attack and rout them, and join me
again as soon as possible. I am very happy to find that the country
have been apprised of the march of that party, before Warner got
to Skenesborough, as it may probably prevent their success, and
may end in their ruin. We are going on with the necessary works
on the Mount as fast as possible, and have removed the most val
uable of the stores and provisions on the other side. The bridge is
in very little more forwardness than when you left this place, to appearance,
though they tell me that to-day will finish getting timber
for it. The boom is likewise placed, but very feebly secured for
want of rope for the cables. A party of Bradford s arrived yester
day in good season, and had a pleasing effect upon our people, who,
never the most lively or gallant, began to show signs of dejection
already. How they may hold out, God knows, but this has raised
their spirits a little. I could wish that Jbe bateaux were all over
soon, or that you would not send them. I am extremely apprehen
sive that the enemy will possess themselves of the landing; in
which case they may fall into their hands. We can not venture the
teams now without a strong guard, and so many parties as we are
obliged to make with the fatigues, will very soon wear down our
men. We can do nothing but form conjectures about the force of
the enemy, for I can not find a single person on whom I can depend
to venture amongst them for intelligence but from their manner
of beginning the campaign, I conclude they are either in full force
or very weak, and hope, by letting loose the Indians, to intimidate
1 Captain Whitcomb was a noted scout, and was relied on to select men tn
act as spies, etc.

us. I in-lme Jo believe the last, but have, as yet, no certain rule
to go by; however, we must know soon, and it is said they have
marked to-morrow to attack. I beg leave to refer you to Colonel
Varick for further particulars, who takes the charge of this letter.
General Schuyler to General St. Clair.
Albany, June 28, 1777. —11 o clock a. m.
Your favor of the 2oth instant is this moment delivered to iue.
It seems as if the enemy mean a real attack on your post. I shall
move the militia of this State as soon as I can collect them, and dis
patch messengers to the Eastern States for as many as they can
send 1 The militia from Tyrone county I shall order to be kept in
readiness to protect the Western frontiers, having just received in
telligence that Sir John Johnson is on his way to attack us in that
quarter.
God bless and protect you, and the troops under your command.
I shall exert myself to afford you every assistance I possibly can.
Your favor of the 2(Sth is just come to hand. I have dispatched
a copy of it to General Washington, and to the Council of Safety
of this State. The orders for the militia to march up are already
expedited.
General Schuyler to General Washington.
Albany, June 28th, 1777. —11 o clock a. M.
Dear Sir:— I am this moment favored with a letter
of the 25th instant, from Getieral St. Clair, a copy whereof I
herewith transmit. Should an accident happen to the garrison of
Ticonderoga, and General Burgoyne make a push to gain the south
part of the lake, I know of no obstacle to prevent him compara
tively speaking, I have not a man to oppose him the whole unm1
General Sehuyler wrote on the same day to the President of Massa
chusetts Bay, saying: "Our garrison at Ticonderoga is greatly inadequate
to the defense of the extensive works on hoth sides of the lake, and I have
unhappily no troops to reinforce them." "I have written to the committee
of Berkshire, and requested them to call upon the adjacent counties and dis
tricts in that State and Connecticut. Should (he militia turn out with spirit,
I am in hopes we shall be able to baffle the enemy." But the militia did not
turn out, and nothing was done to aid in defense until after the evacuation
of the posts, and the people feared the British more than they regarded their
own comfort.

ber at the different posts at and on this side of the lake, including
the garrison s of Fort George and Skenesborough not exceeding
seven hundred men, and these I can not draw away from their
several stations; in every one of which they are already much too
weak. It is, therefore, highly necessary that a strong reinforce
ment should, without delay, be sent ue. If the sloops are not yet'
sent to bring the troops, your Excellency has ordered to be kept in
readiness at Peekskill, I shall push them off without delay. As it
is not probable that we shall in time be supplied with field pieces
from the eastward, I must entreat that the reinforcements may
bring some up with them. I have this moment also received a let
ter from Mr. Dcane, the Indian interpreter, extracts whereof I in
close you. As the information tallies exactly with what I had be
fore, it leads me to conclude that an irruption will be made from the
westward. I shall apply for the aid of the militia of this and the
neighboring States, but I fear it will not be very powerful, as many
must be necessarily left at home. I have received a letter from the
Commissary-General, which I think neither so temperate or decent
as it should be. I shall take the first leisure hour to transmit 3 ou a
copy, with my answer, in which I believe it will be evinced from
authentic returns, that the scarcity of provisions in this department
is, in a great measure, if not altogether, to be imputed to a want of
attention in the persons whose duty it was to supply this depart
ment.
P. S.—I have sent express to General Putnam to hasten on the
troops your Excellency had ordered to be in readiness for this quarter.
Since writing the above, I have received another letter from Gen
eral St. Clair, a copy whereof is inclosed. I am in pain about Fort
George, but have no troops to throw in, and some time will neces
sarily elapse before the militia can be got to march.
General St. Clatr to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, June 30, 1777. —1:30 o clock.
Dear General :—This morning some of the enemy s gun-boats ap
peared at the Three-Mile Point, when the alarm was given. We
could see them disembark a number of men, and the boats in
creased to eighteen, which are now lying abreast from the hither
side of the Point to about half-way across the lake. The bateaux
in which they transported their troops are not come in sight, lying
on the far side of the Point, under cover of it.

Soon after their landing, a party, chiefly Indians and Canadians,
pushed towards our lines. As we had a scout down the lake at the
time of their arrival, I immediately sent out two parties to support
them and bring them off. The scouts fell in with the enemy, and
after a few shots, in which they say some of the Indians were
killed, they, being overpowered by numbers, dispersed, and part of
them have got in, and I have little doubt but the greatest jmrt of
them will yet make their appearance. It is probable, however, that
some of them have fallen into their hands. We have had one or
two alarms before this, but it was occasioned by their boats coming
up near our guard-boats, and their firing upon them.
My people are in the best disposition possible, and I have no
doubt about giving a good account of the enemy, should they think
proper to attack us and if the person I mentioned to you in my last
pursued the opportunity that now presents itself, they will go back
faster than they came on. He has above a thousand men.
General St. Clair to Lieutenant-Colonel Hay.
[Instructions.] TlCONDEROGA, July 1, 1777.
Sir —I wish you to go with the party ordered to escort the wag
ons to-morrow to Lake George Landing, and direct the loading of
the most valuable and necessary articles first, which will be deliv
ered at the hither landing and embarked on board the scow, which
must be sent up for that purpose, and forwarded to this place. The
wagons will then return, and bring what remains to camp, under
the convoy of Colonel Cockburn, who I wish to consult with you
about every thing necessary. You will order Captain Hutchins,
who commands at the landing, after every thing is removed, or can
he removed, to fit out and man all the bateaux at the landing, or
as many of them as his and Lieutenant Lyford s party can manage,
and proceed with them to Fort George, taking for the signal of their
departure the burning of the block-housed and mills at the hither
landing, which you will direct the officer commanding there to exe
cute and retreat to the lines, forming the rear guard for Colonel
Cockburn. I wish as many of Lieutenant Lyford s party to re
turn here as possible but if the landing of the bateaux demand
them, they must all go, and they and Captain Hutchins' party re
turn to this place by Skenesborough or the lake, as either commu
nication may be open.

Any bateaux that can not be carried off from the landing must
be destroyed.
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
TlCONDEROGA, Jah) 1, 1777.
Dear General:—Not finding a convenient opportunity to send off
my letter, I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of the 28th. The success of General Washington over Gen
eral Howe is an event of such importance as must destroy every
prospect of the enemy s carrying their plans into execution, should
they succeed here. I have ordered a feu-de-joie upon the occasion,
and will find some way to communicate the intelligence to the en
emy. They have now two ships, eighteen gun-boats, and three
sloops, lying off the Three-Mile Point, and they are forming a camp
upon the point, and retrenching it. This does not look like their
being strong. Other matters I hope to manage to-morrow morning,
but can not be particular, for fear of accidents.
P. S. This moment I have discovered that they are throwing a
boom across the river. Bravo 1
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, July 2, 1777.
Dear General:—Yesterday at noon, in the very instant of the
feu-de-joie, which consisted of thirteen pieces of cannon (the mus
ketry might have discovered to the enemy our numbers), forty-one
bateaux appeared off the Three-Mile Point, crossed the lake, and
landed troops on the east side, in the bay formed behind the Long
Point, opposite to the Three-Mile Point. I observed them very at
tentively, and am certain they did not contain, en an average, above
twenty men. It is not improbable, however, that part of the troops
transported in them from Canada may have landed on the western
side, so low down as to be out of our sight, and I am rather inclined
to think this the case, from their camp extending a considerable
distance down the lake, and its being much too large for the number
of men we saw embark at the Point.
1 The hope now was that Burgoyne had few troops with him (and the great
precaution taken in throwing up works gave color to the theory), in which
case the defense of Ticonderoga would seem to be practicable.

I am in great pain for the bateaux and stores at the landing. We
can not possibly got them over (the enemy having possessed them
selves of Mount Hope), without risking such large detachments as
must oblige us to come to action in the open field, which would not
be altogether prudent. I had ordered a party to bring them off
this morning, but the escape of some of the cattle, and the stupid
ity of the drivers, retarded us so much that day appeared and it
was then too late to attempt it. The design was, therefore, laid
aside, and a party sent to reinforce the party at the landing, with
orders to take back the stores to Fort George, and all the bateaux,
destroying the block-house and such bateaux as they might not be
able to carry off. At the same time, I sent orders to the block-house
at the mills, which has been attacked several times, and was sur
rounded yesterday all day, for the officer to set fire to it and the
mills, and to retire to camp, which he has this moment effected.
The party gone over with the boats I have desired to return to
Skcnesborough. It will be of the utmost importance to secure that
communication, which I have no doubt of your being able to do
and when the Grant people come in, I hope to keep open that by
Castleton. A party of them, with cattle, should have been here
yesterday. I hope no accident has happened to them.
The inhabitants who live between this and the bridge, I found it
necessary to bring within the lines, and have now sent them to
Skenesborough, with directions to Captain Grey to forward them to
Albany by the first opportunity. I do not know that they are our
enemies, but they are certainly not our friends, and when the enemy
first presented themselves they were through their houses, and they
gave us no intelligence of them.
I am still of opinion that the enemy have no great force here, but
whether the whole of their army may as yet come up I am not cer
tain, but last night they fired their evening gun from three different
places, further down the lake than their post at Three-Mile Point.
A little time will clear up this matter. I am not sufficiently ac
quainted with this country to form any judgment how a body of
men can be sent out to our relief, in case the enemy possess them
selves of the shores of the lake above Mount Independence, which
they certainly will by means of their savages but if they can be
brought by land in their rear, a small party would oblige them to
quit the lake, and consequently leave the communication open.

James Wilson to General Arthur St. Clair.
Philadelphia, M July, 1777.
My Dear General:—Doctor McKenzie sets out for Ticonderoga;
I embrace, with pleasure, the opportunity of writing to you by him.
Some time ago, the enemy advanced from Brunswick as far as
Somerset Court-house. It is probable that their design was to push
for Philadelphia; this, at least, was believed, and the belief pro
duced the best effects. The militia of New Jersey turned out with
the greatest rapidity and, to a man, the citizens of Philadelphia
agreed to suspend their disputes about the Constitution and to join
unanimously in every measure proper for repelling the enemy and
defending the State. General Washington kept his strong encamp
ment at Middlebrook. The body under General Sullivan, consist
ing of militia and reinforcements of Continental troops from the
southward, was increasing very fast at Coryell s Ferry. General
Howe thought it proper to retire from Somerset to Brunswick, from
Brunswick to Amboy and lately, from Amboy to Staten Island.
These different movements have produced frequent skirmishes, with
the advantage generally on our side once, on that of the enemy, if
gaining three field-pieces from us and losing, according to the best
accounts, a much greater number of men than we lost, can be called
an advantage. Concerning the future views of the enemy the sen
timents expressed here are very different. Some think they mean
to push up the North River others, that they will make an irrup
tion into New England others, that they will come round by sea
to Delaware others, that they know not what to do. Indeed, I
think it probable that their plan for the campaign, if they had a
plan, is very considerably deranged. We hear of no reinforcements
worth mentioning being arrived from Europe.
As to the polities of Pennsylvania, they are not in the situation I
would wish. If a regular system was formed between General
Howe and the friends of our Constitution, his motions could not
have been better timed for them than they have been in two dif
ferent instances. When an opposition has been twice set on foot,
and has twice proceeded so far as to become formidable, he has
twice, by his marches toward Delaware, procured a cessation. The
Assembly have twice taken advantage of it to promote tlieir own
purposes, though those in the opposition generously, and like true
patriots, have suspended it, while the approach of the enemy were
dreaded. The Assembly, just before their adjournment, and just
after their laudable instance of conduct was exhibited, have branded 27
418 The St. Clair I apers.
themselves in a public address to the people, with carrying on thenopposition
in a manner improper under any government. They
have agreed, however, at last, to take the sentiments of the people
with regard to a convention 1 What will be the event, I am un
certain. They have one useful quality it would be a virtue if ex
erted for a good purpose. I mean, industry. This is much wantod
on the other side. As the sense of the people will not be taken till
after the next election, I have some expectation that their eyes may
be opened to see their true interest by that time.
I long much to hear from you. What I intimated to you long
ago has happeued. I hope you will be happy. I know you will
be useful at Ticonderoga. A good correspondence, I have every
reason to believe, will subsist between Geueral Schuyler and you.
If he is at Ticonderoga, please to present my compliments to him.
Colonel Seth Warner to the Convention of the State op
Vermont at Windsor.
Rutland, the 2d of July, 1777.
Gentlemen —I have last evening reciev d an Express from the
General Commanding at Ticonderoga who informs me the Enemy
have come on with seventeen or eighteen Gun Boats, two large
Ships, several Sloops and other Craft, and lie at the three Mile
Point, and the General expects an attack every Hour. —the Enemy
put to land on sd Point, and they have had a skirmish, but the
General informs me to no great purpose. Orders me to send for
the Militia to join him as soon as possibly they can get there, from
this State, and the Massachusetts and New Hampshire. I have
sent an Express to Col. Simons, went off last night. Col. Robinson
and Col. Williams is now at Hubbardton waiting to be join d by
Col. Bellows who is now with me. When the whole join they will
make in No. about 7 or 800 Men. I know not where to apply but
to you to raise the Militia on the east side of the Mountain 2 Shall
1 Popular sentiment was averse and compelled a rescinding of the resolu
tion. A convention was not secured for several years.
2 The Vermont Convention took immediate action to apprise New Hamp
shire and Massachusetts. After an explanation of the express, Governor
Howker added: "Therefore, as the matter nearly concerns the liberties of
the United States in general, this House flatter themselves that their for
warding this intelligence may not prove unacceptable. The militia from
this State are principally with the officer commanding the Continental army

expect that you send on all the men that can possibly be raised, and
that you will do what lies in your Power to supply the troops at
Ticonderoga with Beef, as, if the siege should be long, they will ab
solutely be in want of meat kind except the country exert them
selves—if 40 or 50 head of cattle could be brought on with the Mi
litia they will be paid for by the Commissary on their arrival. The
safety of that consists much on the exertions of the Country, them
lines are so much in want of Men. I should be glad a few hills of
corn unhoed should not be a motive sufficient to detain men at
home, considering the loss of such an important Post can hardly be
recover d. I am, Gentlemen, in the greatest respect your most obe
dient and very humble serVt, Seth Warner.
P. S. —I am this moment a going to mount my Horse in company
with Col. Bellows for Ticonderoga. I left Col. Robinson at Hubbardton
this morning.
That you may have wisdom to conduct in the business for which
you are called together is the prayer of S. W.
General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Ticonderoga, July 3, 1777.
Dear General :—Our picket was attacked yesterday two or three
times, in which we lost five men killed and two or three wounded.
The enemy s loss we are not apprised of, but we have one prisoner
of the FoVty-Seventh regiment, and two deserters from the corps of
Jagers. The prisoner was very sulky, and would give no informa
tion whatever but by disguising an officer, a countryman of his,
and confining him in the same room with him, with the help of a
little rum, we got out all he knew, which we have here inclosed, as also
the examination of the deserters. Two men came in from the
Grants last night, and returned. I have wrote very pressingly for
the people to come on, and for the present leave the cattle to be
brought up by those who succeed them. I think it is probable
Warner will fall in with the foreigners, who are all on the east side
Ht Ticonderoga; the remainder on their march to that distressed post. It
appears to this House from the various information from thence, and the
personal acquaintance of many of the members thereof of the particular
circumstances which attend our friends there at this present time, that every
prudent step ought to be immediately taken for their relief." Vermont s
quota, led by Warner and Francis, reported promptly, but nothing was
heard from the other States.

of the lake the British troops upon the west. Excuse this scrawl
I am so much in want of sleep that I am nodding as I write.
The Evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence.
At a council of general officers, held at Ticonderoga July 5, 1777,
present, Major-General St. Clair, Brigadier-Generals Roche de Fermoy,
Poor, Patterson, and Colonel-Commandant Long:
General St. Clair represented to the council that as there is every
reason to believe that the batteries of the enemy are ready to open
upon the Ticonderoga side, and that the camp is very much exposed
to their fire, and to be enfiladed on all quarters and as there is also
reason to expect an attack upon Ticonderoga and Mount Independ
ence at the same time, in which case neither would draw any sup
port from the other he desired their opinion, whether it would be
most proper to remove the tents to the low ground, where they
would be less exposed, and wait the attack at the Ticonderoga lines—
or whether the whole of the troops be drawn over to Mount Inde
pendence, the more effectually to provide for the defense of that
post. At the same time the General begged leave to inform them
that the whole of our force consisted of two thousand and eightynine
effectives, rank and file, including one hundred and twenty-four
artificers (unarmed), besides the corps of artillery, and about nine
hundred militia, who have joined us, and can not stay but a few
days.
The council were unanimously of the opinion that it is impossible,
with our force, to defend Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, and
that the troops, cannon and stores should be removed this night,
if possible, to Mount Independence.
Second—Whether, after the division of the army at Ticonderoga
have retreated to Mount Independence, we shall be in a situation to
defend that post, or, in case it can not be defended, if a retreat into
the country will be practicable.
The council are unanimously of opinion that, as the enemy have
already nearly surrounded us, and there remains nothing more to
invest us completely but their occupying the neck of land betwixt
the lake and the East Creek, which is not more than three quarters
of a mile over, and possessing themselves of the narrows betwixt
that and Skenesborough, and thereby cutting off all communication

•with the country, a retreat ought to be undertaken as soon as possi
ble, and that we shall be very fortunate to effect it 1
Arthur St. Clair,
Roche de Fermoy,
Enoch Poor,
John Patterson,
Pierse Long.
General St. Clair to Joseph Bowker, President of the
Convention of the State of Vermont.
Colonel Mead s, At Otter Creee, July 1th, 1777.
Sir:—I was honored with your favor of the 2d instant this day.
The exertions of the Convention to reinforce us 'at Ticonderoga,
merit my warmest thanks, though they have been too late to answer
the good purpose they intended. Finding that the enemy were
ready for the attack, and it was morally impossible we could main
tain the post with our handful of troops, and at the same time con
sidering how necessary to the Slates it was to preserve our army,
small as it is, it was determined in a council of the general offi
cers that the posts on Ticonderoga and Mount Independence should
be evacuated, and a retreat attempted to Skenesborough, by the way
of Castleton, and that every thing we could remove, with the sick,
should be takeu by water to the same place, covered by the armed
1 Soon after I had despatched the letter, which I did myself the honor
to address to your Excellency from Stillwater, I met with Lieutenant-Colo
nel Hay, Deputy Quartermaster General, who was at Ticonderoga. He in
formed me that on Saturday it had been agreed upon to retreat from
Ticonderoga and Mount Independence; that between two and three o clock
on Sunday morning, General St. Clair, with the rest of the general officers
and the army, marched out of the lines at Mount Independence; that Colo
nel Long, with about six hundred men, embarked aboard our few vessels,
and in bateanx; that just before they arrived at Skcnesborough they were
overtaken by the enemy s vessels and gunboats, and were obliged to abandon
the vessels, in which we lost all our ammunition. The troops of
Colonel Long are arrived at Fort Ann. Where General St. Clair is, with the
main body, I have not yet learned. Colonel Hay imagined he would come
by the way of Skenesborough. If so, he will fall in with the enemy, who
have taken possession there."—General Schuyler to General Washington, July
7, 1777. Sparks' Corresp. of Rev.,Vo\. I., p. 393.
General St. Clair, hearing of the enemy being at Skenesborough, changed
the direction of his march, as will be seen by the letter following, but for
several days both General Washington and Schuyler, receiving none of the
letters sent by messengers, were in great anxiety as to bis fate.

vessels. This was accordingly attempted the night of the sixth,
and in part executed, though not so perfectly as I could have
wished, with respect to the stores, owing to the confusion that
naturally attends operations in the night, and to the want of that
regularity that nothing but discipline and experience can give troops,
and just at break of day the army got on their march, unperceived
by the enemy, although they were all around us, and should have
effected it perfectly, had it not been for the burning of a house,
whether from accident or want of thought I can not say, but it
served to inform the enemy of our retreat, and a party of them
were on the Mount before the whole of our people had got off
of it. They did not attempt, however, to pursue us, but only fired
a few shots from the heights, which did us no damage. We pur
sued our route to Castleton, which we reached last night, with the
main body, having met on our way a party of the enemy, who had
been collecting cattle in the country. These were immediately dis
persed, and a few prisoners taken. Colonel Warner, with about a
thousand men, stopped six miles short of Castleton, where he was
attacked this morning. The event of the action I can not as yet
ascertain, the accounts are so various from the persons who have
come in but I believe it has been pretty severe on both sides. I
am now on my march to Bennington, which place I am obliged to
make on account of provisions, the enemy having last night posses
sed themselves of Skenesborough, of which I got intelligence this
morning, which determined me to take the road for that place, and
there I beg that the reinforcements coming on by Number Four
may be sent, as I shall immediately march from thence for the North
River, and endeavor to throw myself betwixt the enemy and the in
habitants, and prevent Mr. Burgoyne from penetrating into the
country.
I must beg that all the flour that can be got may be sent for
ward.
I have wrote to the first commanding officer of the militia to take
the shortest road to Bennington, with directions to send the same
orders to such others as may be already on this side Number
Four.

General St. Clair to General Schuyler.
Dorset, 8th, July, 1777.—9 o clock.
Dear Sir:—About an hour ago I received your favor of yester
day. I wrote you from Ticonderoga, the night before we left it, to
inform you that I intended to march to Skenesborough by way of
Castleton, and from thence to Fort Edward but when I got to
Castleton I found the enemy were in possession of Skenesborough,
which obliged me to change my route.
On the march to Castleton, we fell in with a party, commanded
by Captain Fraser, who had been collecting cattle in the country.
These were immediately dispersed, and a few prisoners taken; but,
being reinforced by a strong detachment from Ticonderoga, they
attacked, in the morning, the rear-guard of our army, who had
imprudently stopped six miles short of the main body, and were, I
believe rather surprised;1 notwithstanding which, they made a very
1 ".is soon as General Burgoyne discovered our retreat, he dis
patched Brigadier-General Fraser, supported by Major-General Riedesel and
a German corps, in pursuit of the main body. General Fraser,
after a vigorous pursuit, encamped several miles in the rear of Warner, but
renewed his march the next morning, and about sever, o clock reached Hubbardton,
just as Warner had paraded his men to follow General St. Clair,
who was under arms, waiting his arrival, when the firing commenced,
which was confined to small arms. Two militia regiments, which were ex
ceedingly insubordinate and seditious, had, the preceding evening, taken a
diverging path, and encamped three or four miles in our rear. The first
thought of the general was to support Warner by those corps under the com
mand of Colonel Bellows; for which purpose his aids-de-camp, Majors Dunn
and Livingston, were hurried off with positive orders and assurances of sup
port. He then ordered the troops to be told off, and the officers posted for
action, and he was exhorting them to courageous conduct, when I perceived
a manifest repugnance in a corps to turn about and march upon the enemy.
Even one of the brigadiers was open in his opposition to the measure. In
the meantime, Majors Dunn and Livingston met the militia under Bellows,
hurrying away from the scene of the action to the main body, and, finding
them equally deaf to commands and entreaties, they pushed forward towards
the field of battle, which they had nearly reached, when they met our troops
flying from the enemy, and were informed by Captain Chadwick, a gallant
officer who had been engaged, that the conflict had terminated, which, be
ing warranted by the cessation of the fire, they returned to the general and
made report.
Colonel Warner was a hardy, valiant soldier, but uneducated, and a
stranger to military discipline. His insubordination at Hubbardton exempli
fies the danger and misfortunes which attended the disobedience of military
commands; for, if he had obeyed the orders he had received, our corps

obstinate defense, and, I have good reason to think, killed and
wounded a great number of the enemy. As they were at too
great a distance from me to support them, I sent orders to Colonel
Warner, who commanded the party, in case he found himself too
hard pressed, to retreat to Rutland and join me. He is not yi i
come in, though I have heard that he is coming in with ahout
hundred men and a great part of the other regiments, except
Hale s, have already joined us.
I am in great distress for provisions. If I can be supplied at
Manchester, I shall proceed directly for Fort Edward, or Saratoga,
as circumstances may direct if not, I shall be obliged to go to
Bennington. I account myself very happy in effecting this retreat,
as the loss of the army, small as it is, would have been a blow
that this part of the country would have felt severely, and that
must inevitably have happened in a very few days. Adieu, my
dear general I hope to see you soon, or things in a better train.
General St. Clair to Jonas Fay, Secretary State of Ver
mont.
Colonel Marshe s, July 9<A, 1777.
Sir:—I have just now received a letter from General Schuyler,
directing that Colonel Warner s regiment, with the militia of your
State, should be left for the protection of the people; and I have
by this conveyance wrote to the Colonel to acquaint him thereof.
The General also desires that all the cattle may be drove further
down than where it may be thought proper that Colonel Warner
take post, and that all the carriages which may be of use to the
enemy be brought off or destroyed. He also desires that all the
cattle in condition for killing may be sent out by a safe route to
Fort Edward, where he now is with some Continental troops and
militia. A large reinforcement from Peckskill arc on their march
from Albany to join him, and, if I can be supplied with provision
at Manchester, I shall also join him with the utmost expedition,
where we shall have force sufficient to check the progress of the
enemy. Your Convention have given such proofs of their readiness
to concur in any measure for the public safety, that it would be im
pertinent to press them now I will only repeat the request I made
would have been united, ittid. ns the discipline of the enemy could have
availed them little in a mountainous country covered will) wood, we should
infallibly have dismembered, and, probably, captured the flower of the Brit
ish army."— Wilkinson! s Memoirs, Vol. I., p. 187.

before, that the militia from the eastward, marching by No. 4, may
be directed to take the shortest route to join the army.
P. S. —Previous to the receipt of your letter of the 6th inst., I
had directed the militia of your State that were with me to remain
at Rutland for the protection of the people, until your Convention
should direct otherwise, and am pleased to find myself in sentiment
with them, and with General Schuyler. The militia that can be
raised in your country will, I think, keep the people in security, for
in my opinion they have little to fear except the depredations of a
few Indians. Fort Ann was attacked the day before yesterday, and
the enemy repulsed with considerable loss.
[True copy, examined by Isracl Allen, Secretary.]
General St. Clair to Governor Bowdoin.
Manchester, July 9, 1777.
I have just time to mention the receipt of your obliging letter of
the 20th ult., which came to hand this moment. As the evacuating
Ticonderaga must have alarmed the country, and raised their curi
osity at the same time, permit me to give you some account of that
matter, with the reasons that induced me to propose it to the other
general officers.
The garrison consisted of about thirty-three hundred men, of whom
two thousand and eighty-nine only were fit for duty, many of those
mere boys, altogether incapable of sustaining the fatigues of a soldier,
naked and ill-armed, not above one bayonet to every tenth man the
place nearly invested, and their batteries completed and, from the
intelligence of my spies, the investiture was to be completed on
Sunday last, the day we left it, when all possibility of retreat or
support would be cut off. The loss of this army, small as it is, was
the inevitable consequence, and would have been a very great mis
fortune, much greater, in my opinion, than the loss of the past, as
there would have been nothing left for the militia to collect to, in
this quarter, to stop the progress of an enemy flushed with con
quest. I therefore determined to attempt a retreat whilst it was
practicable, but previously consulted the other general officers, who
were unanimously of opinion that it ought to be attempted without
loss of time.
We accordingly prepared for it that night, and having, in the
course of the night, embarked as many of our stores and provisions

as possible, marched off at break of day. "We should have got off
altogether imperceived by the enemy, had it not been for the acci
dental burning of ahouse, and the desertion of two men, of the
artillery, who, hi the hurry, went off with a small boat to the enemy.
The rear of our army evacuated Mount Independence as the front
of the enemy entered. They exchanged a few shots, but did not
offer to pursue, which I ascribe to their being the Brunswickers that
took possession. A considerable body,however, were sent up a
creek that enters some distance in the country, who, next morning,
attacked our rear guard they defended themselves very well, and,
though obliged to retreat, killed and wounded a great many of the
enemy since which we have seen nothing of them. My design
was to have marched to Skenesborough, but the enemy had got be
fore me, which obliged me to change my route, and bear this way,
on account of provisions, which I shall be able to obtain to-iraorrow,
when I shall proceed, with every possible dispatch, to join General
Schuyler at Fort Edw:ard, where I hope we shall soon have an army
of force sufficient to stop the progress of Mr. Burgoyne.
The force of the enemy is seven British regiments, eight foreign
ones, and a number of Indians and Canadians. On the wlole, I
think myself very happy to make my retreat from under theixnose.
General St. Clair to John Hancoce, President of Congress.
Fort Edward, WthJuhj, 17*77.
Sir:—Congress may probably think it extraordinary that so much
time has elapsed before they heard from me, after a step of so much
consequence as the evacuation of the posts that had been entrusted
to my care; but it was not in my power to write whilst »n the
march to this place. I am sorry to find that my letter to General
Schuyler, the night the evacuation took place, has not come "*o u19
hands, as, for want of that, though he has, doubtless, informed Con
gress of the event, he could not give them the reasons that inc3uced
it—they were these: Seeing the posts of Ticonderoga and J lount
Independence were nearly invested, and having intelligence bj?i m7
spies, that they would be completely so in twenty-four hours, when
we should be cut off from the possibility of succor that the5 bat
teries of the enemy were ready to open, and the whole of oi« c n"
campment on the Ticonderoga exposed to their fire. Conside Jmgi
at the same time, the weakness of the garrison that the effe-*uve
numbers were not sufficient to man one-half of the works, and "*hat>

consequently, the whole must be upon constant duty, which they
could not possibly long sustain, and that, of course, the places with
their garrisons must inevitably, in a very few days, fall into the
enemy s hands, I saw no alternative but to evacuate them and
bring off the army whereupon, I called the general officers to
gether, to take their sentiments. They were unanimously of opinion
that the places should be evacuated without the least loss of time;
and it was accordingly set about that night, the fifth instant. After
embarking in the boats as much of our cannon, provisions, and
stores as was possible, the boats were ordered to Skenesborough, and
I sent Colonel Long, an active, diligent, good officer, to take the
command there, with his regiment and the invalids, until I should
join him with the army, which was to march to that place by the
way of Castleton. The body of the army reached Castleton the
next evening, thirty miles from Ticonderoga, and twelve from
Skenesborough but the rear guard, under Colonel Warner, which,
with the stragglers and infirm, amounted to near twelve hundred,
stopped short of the place six miles, and were next morning at
tacked by a strong detachment the enemy had sent to hang on our
rear and retard our march. Two regiments of militia, who had left
us the evening before, and halted about two miles from Colonel
Warner, were immediately ordered to his assistance, but, to my
great surprise, they marched directly down to me at the same time
I received information that the enemy were in possession of Skenes
borough, and had cut off all our boats and armed vessels. This
obliged me to change my route, that I might not be put betwixt
two fires, and, at the same time, be able to bring off Colonel War
ner, to whom I sent orders, if he found the enemy too strong, to re
treat to Rutland, where he would find me to cover him, that place
lying at nearly equal distances from both. Before my orders
reached him, his party was dispersed, after having for a considerable
time sustained a very warm engagement, in which the enemy suf
fered so much that they pursued him but a small distance. Our
loss I can not ascertain, but believe it does not exceed forty killed
and wounded. About two hundred of the party joined me at Rut
land and since, but great numbers of them are still missing, and I
suspect have gone down into New England by the way of Number
Four. After a very fatiguing march of seven days, in which the
troops suffered much from bad weather and want of provisions, I
joined General Schuyler the twelfth instant.
It was my original plan to retreat to this place, that I might be

between General Burgoyne and the inhabitants, and that the militia
might have something round which to collect themselves it is now
effected, and the militia are coming in, so that I have the most
sanguine hopes that the progress of the enemy will be checked and
I may yet have the satisfaction to experience that, by abandoning a
post, I have eventually saved a State.
Perhaps I may be censured by those who are unacquainted with
the situation I was in for not sooner calling the militia to my assist
ance. I think I informed Congress that I could not do that for
want of provisions; and as soon as I got a supply I did call for
them, and was joined by near nine hundred the day before the
evacuation but they came from home so ill-provided that they
could not, nor would not, stay with me but a few days. The two
Massachusetts regiments of militia likewise, which composed part
of the garrison, gave mo notice that their time expired in two days,
and then they intended to go home. In vain did I beg of their
officers to exert every influence they had over them, and from their
subsequent behaviour, I am fully persuaded the officers were most
to blame. They kept with me, however, for twt day; but their
conduct was so licentious and disorderly, and their example begin
ning to affect the Continental troops, I was constrained to send them
off.
Inclosed you will find a copy of the council of war, in which is
contained the principles upon which the retreat was undertaken.
As I found all the general officers so fully of opinion that it should
be undertaken immediately, I forbore to mention to them many cir
cumstances which might have influenced them, and which I should
have laid before them had they been of different sentiments; for I
was, and still am, so firmly convinced of the necessity as well as the
propriety of it, that I believe I should have ventured upon it had
they been every one against it.
I have the utmost confidence in the candor of Congress, and
persuade myself that, notwithstanding the loss they have sustained,
when they have impartially considered I was posted, with little more
than two thousand men, in a place that required ten thousand to
defend it that these two thousand were ill-equipped and worse
armed (not above one bayonet in ten, an arm essential in the de
fence of lines) that with these two thousand I have made good a
retreat from under the nose of an army at least four times their
numbers, and have them now between the country and the enemy,
ready to act against them, my conduct will appear, at least, not de
serving of censure.

P. S. —The enemy s force, from the best accounts, is three thous
and five hundred British, four thousand Brunswick and HesseHanau,
two hundred Indians and two hundred Canadians.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Fort Edward, 11th July, 1777.
Sir:—Your Excellency s letters of the 12th and 13th instant 1 to
General Schuyler, have been by him communicated to me. Con
sidering that my letter to him of the 5th, the day before I left Tieonderoga,
was not delivered, and one I wrote to him whilst on the
march to this place has miscarried, and that your Excellency has
had no intimation of the motions and destination of our army, I
do not wonder that you should have some doubts about the propri
ety of my conduct, though it gives mo a very painful sensation to
know myself, but for a moment, the subject of a doubt with you.
I have, however, the strongest hopes, when your Excellency comes
to be fully informed of our situation and force, you will not con
demn me and, although I am not solicitous about the opinion of
the world (though very far from disregarding it), I wish to hold a
character with your Excellency something more than merely nega
tive. Returns of the strength of my garrison were regularly trans
mitted to General Schuyler, and by him, no doubt, to you. By
them, your Excellency will see that our force consisted of little more
than two thousand effectives. With these, I had lines and redoubts
of more than a league in extent to defend. Judge how poorly they
could have been defended by these numbers, had they been per
fected, which they were very far from being. In fact, they were
not defensible at all from the Ticonderoga side, unless the enemy
would have been so complaisant as to attack us in front of the old
French lines, and take no notice of the flanks of them, which were
both open. We had, last year, nine thousand men at these posts,
1 "It is astonishing, beyond expression, that you have heard nothing of St.
Clair and the army under him. I am totally at a loss to conceive what has
become of them. The whole affair is so mysterious that it even baffles con
jecture." Washington to Schuyler, July lZth.
"Joined to the unfortunate reverse that has taken place in our affairs, I
am happy to hear that General St. Clair and his army are not in the hands
of the enemy. I really feared they had been prisoners."— Washington to
Schuyler, July 15th.
If the evacuation had not taken place, St. Clair and his troops would have
been prisoners—the thing Washington most feared.

and they were found barely sufficient for the defense of the works.
The system was a little altered this season, but not so as to make a
smaller number answer, but to make a greater number necessary.
The enemy had nearly invested us, nothing being wanted to com
plete it but their occupying a narrow neck of land betwixt East
Creek and the lake, on the Mount Independence side. This, I had
information, would certainly take place in the course of the next
twenty-four hours, and had been left open so long only with a view
to intercept any cattle that we might bring in from the country,
and then our communication would have been effectually cut off.
We could have received neither supplies of provisions nor reinforce
ments for, depend upon it, Sir, the militia of this country can not
yet be brought on to raise a siege. But it may be asked why I had
not called in the militia to assist in the defense of the posts? For
this plain reason —I had not provision for them, and very little pros
pect of an effectual supply. When I first had notice of the ap
proach of the enemy, there w:as no more than ten days' provisions
in store for the troops then upon the ground. To have called in the
militia in that situation, would have been certain rvin. So soon as
a supply arrived, although but a scanty one, I did call for them,
and about nine hundred joined me the day before the resolution to
evacuate the posts was taken. They had come out in such a hurry,
and almost entirely without clothes, they did not propose to remain
but a very few days at the utmost. The term of Learned s and Wells'
regiments, which made part of the garrison, expired also in two
days, and the commanding officers had acquainted me that they
could not prevail upon the men to remain beyond the time they
were engaged for. Your Excellency knows, but too well, the dispo
sition of these people on such occasions. The batteries of the
enemy were ready to open in three different quarters, and our
whole camp, on the Ticonderoga side, was exposed to the fire of
each and, as soon as they did open, every man I had must have
been constantly on duty, as, from our weakness, of which the
enemy could not be ignorant, I had reason, every moment, to ex
pect an assault. Judge, Sir, how long we could have sustained it,
or whether our resistance must not have been a very feeble one in
deed, especially when you take into the account that a great num
ber were mere boys, and that not more than a tenth part were fur
nished with bayonets. Revolving these circumstances in my mind,
I was at no loss to determine what part I ought to take but I
thought it prudent to take the sense of the other general officers.
A copy of the council has been transmitted to your Excellency by

General Schuyler. They were unanimously of the opinion that the
posts ought to be evacuated immediately wisely, in my judgment,
considering that a retreat, even with the loss of our cannon and
stores, if it could he effected, would be of infinitely greater service
to the country, and bring less disgrace upon our arms than an army,
although a small one, taken prisoners, with their cannon and stores.
I was fully in sentiment with them, and believe I should have or
dered the retreat, if they had been of a contrary way of thinking.
But here, again, it may be asked why, when I found myself in the
situation I have described, I did not retreat sooner, when every
thing might have been saved. I have only to answer that, until
the enemy sat down before the place, I believed the small garrison
I had to be sufficient. The intelligence that Congress had received,
that no serious attempt in that quarter was intended, as it gained
credit with them, I never doubted, and was unwilling to be the oc
casion of drawing off any part of your army, as your operations
might thereby be rendered less vigorous and I knew, too, that you
could ill spare them. Besides, until the case became so urgent that
I had no alternative but the evacuation of my posts, or the loss of
the army, it did not lie with me to determine upon. The retreat
was begun a little before day, on the 6th instant, unperceived by
the enemy, after having embarked as much of the stores and pro
visions, and as many of the cannon as was possible in the course
of one very short night and our march would probably have been
unperceived for some time, if General Fermoy s house had not been
set on fire. How that happened, I know not. I had previously
given orders against burning any of the buildings, that our march
might be the longer concealed but it served to the enemy as a sig
nal of our leaving the place, and, in consequence, they were uponthe
Mount before our rear was clear of it, and fired a few times
upon it, but without effect.
Colonel Long 1 with his regiment and a detachment from the
other regiments, and the invalids with the hospital, were sent to
1Pierso Long, a shipping-merchant, of Portsmouth, N. H., where he was
horn, in 1739. He was a delegate to the Provincial Congress in 1775, and
Colonel of the First New Hampshire Regiment 1776. Ho performed the
part assigned him by General St. Clair upon the occasion of the evacuation
of Ticonderoga, faithfully, and repulsed the pursuing enemy successfully.
Ho was a delegate to Congress 1786-89; delegate to the State Constitutional
Convention in 1788, and was the first Collector of the port of Portsmouth,
appointed hy President Washington. Ho died while the incumbent of the
office, April 3, 1789.

Skenesborough by water while I took the road to the same place,
through Castleton, with the body of the army. As the enemy
were at least four times my numbers, I had nothing for it but a
forced march, and I pressed it as much as possible, and reached
Castleton that night, thirty miles from Ticonderoga, having, on our
way, fallen in with and dispersed a party of the enemy, from whom
we took twenty head of cattle, three British prisoners, and five
Canadians.
The rear-guard, under Colonel Warner, which, with those that
had failed upon the march, amounted to a thousand, imprudently
halted six miles short of Castleton, and wasted so much time in the
morning that they were overtaken and surprised by a strong detach
ment from Ticonderoga, which had been sent up the East Bay,
which runs into the country very near the place where he was.
They sustained the attack with great bravery, but were finally
obliged to give way, with the loss of about fifty killed and wounded.
On the first of the firing, I sent orders to two regiments of militia,
who had left me the night before, and were lodged within two miles
of Colonel Warner s post, to move up to his assistance, which, had
they done, that party would have been cut off. But, instead of
that, they made all possible haste to rejoin me, and, at the same
instant, I received the account of the enemy s being in possession of
Skenesborough, and having taken and destroyed every thing that
had been sent there.
I was then constrained to change my route, both that I might
avoid being put between two fires, and that I might be able to bring
off Colonel Warner. I, therefore, sent him orders to retire to Rut
land, where he would find me to cover him. A considerable part
of his detachment joined me at that place, and he, with about
ninety more, two days afterwards, at Manchester. A great many
are still missing, though few, I believe, have fallen into the enemy s
hands, as they did not pursue Colonel Warner but a very small dis
tance, and, from all accounts, suffered much in the action. The
Ninth Regiment followed Colonel Long towards Fort Ann, and were
almost entirely cut off. I have dispatched officers to Bennington, and
Number Four to pick up the stragglers, who, I suppose, have taken
these routes to New England and, on the 12th instant, I joined
General Schuyler at this place, after a very fatiguing march. Thus,
Sir, I have laid before you, without the least reserve, every thing I
can recollect respecting Ticonderoga, and the retreat from thence.
Happy should I be if my conduct therein meets with your approba
tion; and I can, with the strictest truth, affirm I was actuated by

no motives but what sprang from a sincere regard for the public
welfare.
General St. Glair to John Jay.
Moses s Creek, July 2 Ah, 1777.
Sir:—Geueral Schuyler was good enough to read to me part of a
letter he received last night from you. I can not recollect that any
of my officers ever asked my reasons for leaving Ticonderoga but,
as I have found the measure much decried, I have often expressed
myself in this manner: That as to myself I was perfectly easy;
I was conscious of the uprightness and propriety of my conduct,
and despised the vague censure of an uninformed populace but
had no allusion to an order from General Schuyler for my justiiication,
because no such order existed.
The calumny thrown on General Schuyler, on account of that
matter, has given me great uneasiness. I assure you, Sir, there
never was any thing more cruel and unjust, for he knew nothing
of the matter until it was over, more than you did at Kingston. It
was done in consequence of a consultation with the other general
officers, without the possibility of General Schuyler s concurrence
and had the opinion of that council been contrary to what it was,
it would nevertheless have taken place, because I knew it to be im
possible to defend the post with our numbers.
In my letter to Congress from Fort Edward, in which I gave
them an account of the retreat, is this paragraph: "It was my
origina design to retreat to this place, that I might be betwixt
General Burgoyne and the inhabitants, and that militia might have
something in this quarter to collect to. It is now effected, and the
militia are coming in, so that I have the most sanguine hopes that
the progress of the enemy will be checked, and I may have the sat
isfaction to experience that, although I have lost a post, I have eventu
ally saved a State."
Whether my conjecture is right or not, is uncertain; but, had
our army been made prisoners, which it certainly would have been, the
State of New York would have been much more exposed at present.
I proposed to General Schuyler, on my arrival at Fort Edward,
to have sent a note to the printer to assure the people he had no
part in abandoning what they considered their strongholds. He
thought it was not so projier at that time, but it is no more than what
I owe to truth and to him to declare that he was totally unac
quainted with the matter; and I should be very glad that this let '26

ter, or any part of it you may think proper to communicate, may
convince the unbelieving. Simple unbelief is easily and soon con
vinced, but, when malice or envy occasions it, it is needless to at
tempt conviction.
John Jay to General St. Clatr.
Kingston, 28th July, 1777.
Sir:—Your letter of the 25th of July, which does no less honor
to your candor than justice to the reputation of General Schuyler,
was very acceptable. Agreeably to what I apprehended to have been
your intention, I have sent it to the press, and flatter myself the
purposes for which it was written will be fully answered.
The evacuation of Ticonderoga was an event very unexpected, as
well as important, and has given occasion for much speculation and
discontent. How far it was necessary or prudent can only be de
termined by gentlemen acquainted with the forts, grounds about
them, and strength of both parties, and many other circumstances
essential to a proper discussion of that subject. I hope the expedi
ency of the measure may, contrary to general expectation, derive
proof from the event; and that the determination of the general
officers on that head may, on inquiry, be found undeserving the
censure it at present meets with.
General St. Clair to Governor James Bowdoin.
Camp at Moses s Creee, July 28, 1777.
(About Five Miles below Fort Edward.)
Sir:—I see, by the Boston paper, that you have given my letter1
to the public; though I am sorry to see, at the same time, some
very illiberal reflections upon it 2 It is often the lot of people in
1 Letter dated from Manchester, ninth of July, giving hurriedly nn nocount of the evacuation. It was printed in The fioalon Gazette and
Country Journal."
2 The editorial comments were such as al^e editors nre wont to make on
ex parte evidence when impressed that their journals are the palladium of
the liberties of the people. "Notwithstanding what has been said of the
small number of our troops there," said the Gazette, "wo have ground to
believe, upon authority of gentlemen of capacity and character, and who
had the best opportunity of knowing, that there were upwards of four
thousand effective men in the garrison." Having thus, upon anonymous

trust to meet with censure where they have really merited praise,
if events have not answered the public expectation. I do not pre
tend to say whether this was my case or not but it is very un
generous to take it for granted that it was otherwise. However, the
public, I hope, will be soon satisfied in a more eligible method than
discussing the matter through the channel of a newspaper, which is
seldom a proper one; in the present instance highly imprudent, as
it lays our weakness open to the enemy, and if the Generals are
blameless, destroys the public confidence in them, and may go a
great way towards having the same effect upon the army. I thank
God this has not yet happened with the army, who are so perfectly
sensible of the integrity and propriety of my conduct, that the field
and other officers have, almost to a man, (although they were not
consulted upon the evacuations), declared if I was censured for the
measures I had takeu, that they would quit the service. I knew
the genins of them too well to intrust them with a design, the suc
cess of which depended entirely upon the secrecy with which it was
executed. This may look like a reflection upon the officers; but
there is so much familiarity betwixt them and the soldiers, that there
is nothing comes to their knowledge but is very soon after in every
quarter of the camp.
The colonel who complained so bitterly of his marching two days
in the rear is Marshall, and has sent his correspondent a parcel of
infamous falsehoods 1 The troops never wanted provisions. Beef
they had in plenty. We brought off with us some cattle that had
arrived the day before; and we took twenty from a party of the
enemy the first day s march. A man that can not live two or three
authority, disproved the statement of the commanding general, and con
victed the muster officers of false returns, the editor wants to know why (the
enemy being known upon the same undoubted authority to be less than six
thousand) a pass, exceedingly ttrong by nature, and ereatly fortified by
art, should have an army to defend it equal in number to the assailants?"
And judgment is at once proncuneed against the Generals. What matter
if the post, instead of being a strongly fortified pass, consisted of irregular
breastworks very extensive, and indefensible except by having fifteen
thousand men to man the lines; and that t e enemy were in possession of
heights overlooking these completely, were such facts to stand against the
"authority of gentlemen of capacity and character?"
1A correspondent of the Qazrttc, writing from Manchester, claimed that
he held a command at Ticonderoga; that he received no warning to leave,
and that he marched in the rear of the army for two days and nights with
out victuals or drink, except brook water." These falsehoods were exposed
in a caustic communication to the Gnzetfr, by Colonel Wilkinson. The
reader will find it in full in hU Memoirs, Vol. I, p. 199.

days on plenty of good beef is very unfit for a soldier. It, perhaps,
does nut become me to say it, but the retreat was made in as
orderly and soldier-like a manner as was possible with raw, undis
ciplined troops. As to the attack upon Colonel Warner, who com
manded the reafr-guard, he halted, without my knowledge, six miles
short of Castleton which was the place marked for the halt of the
whole army that night. At such a distance, it was impossible for
me to support him; but the moment the firing began I ordered
Bellows' and Alcott s regiments of militia, who had left me the
night before and halted two miles from Colonel Warner, to move up
to his assistance. Had they obeyed my orders, it is probable the
enemy might have been repulsed though we now know the party
that attacked him consisted of two thousand men, composed of the
grenadiers and light infantry of the army, commanded by General
Fraser. The inquiries about the arms of the troops I should think
General Heath could very well satisfy. He must know in what
situation he sent them off, and whether they were clothed or not 1
Public jealousy is a virtue but it may be earned to An extreme,
and then it becomes a vice. If it is not vicious, it is extremely uncandid,
to condemn a man upon mere assumption, when they have
neither proper information, nor, it may be, are capable of forming a
judgment upon military matters. However, I bear all the abuse
that is very plentifully poured forth upon me, with as much gang
froid as possible, happy in the consciousness of my own innocence,
and a full persuasion that my character and conduct will soon be
put in its true point of view, as I have demanded an inquiry both
from General Washington and Congress. I must own, however,
that I am hurt by the accusation of treachery. As to want of
spirit, no man in command that wanted spirit ever possessed the
confidence of his troops and in that respect I am bold to say, I
have always been fortunate enough to be both. beloved and respected.
I beg pardon for troubling you with so much about myself; but the
first painful sensation undeserved censure occasions is not yet quite
worn off; and I have given you the former detail, that you might
1 I join the view in thinking there ought to be an inquiry after the arms
and clothes you mention, for they really never reached Tieo ideroga; though
your interrogations on that bead are improperly directed and maliciously
pointed.
Believe me, air, if virtue or justice has existence, the man who stands
Condemned for retreating from Ticonderoga, will, ere long, be thanked for
the salvation of three thousand men, whe, instead of being in captivity, are
now opposing our enemy."—Cohmr l James Wilkinson in reply to the lloston
Gazette.

be able to make some answer to well-meaning people, who may be
glad to be truly informed. The numbers, however your people may
be imposed upon, will be found exactly as I stated them; as I have
been lucky enough to save not only the general returns, but those
of the individual regiments, under the signature of their respective
Colonels though I don t know whether I mentioned three regiments
of militia, making about nine hundred men, officers included, who
joined me the night before I left Ticonderoga, but who did not pro
pose to stay more than two or three days at the utmost; nor that
two militia regiments of your State, which composed part of my
garrison, were to leave me the day I retreated, their times being ex
pired, and they could not be prevailed on to stay any longer.
We are here tolerably posted, waiting the approach of the enemy,
though fiir inferior in numbers. It was found necessary to dismiss
one-half of the niilitia on account of the harvest and a great part
of the remaining half have followed them. Those from Connecti
cut are gone, to a man but in a day or two we shall be joined by
General Glover s brigade, when we shall be able to make some head,
if the enemy should come on in force, which I think they dare not
venture, as Colonel Warner has now a respectable body at Man
chester, which may fall either upon their rear or flank. The am
munition was, every ounce, sent off from Ticonderoga, and as mifch
of the provisions as we had boats for but a great part of the
ammunition fell into the hands of the enemy by the vessel on board"
of which it was unluckily running aground. Colonel Long deserves
all the praise he receives. He is an active, vigilant, brave officer.
I beg the favor that you will present my best compliments to
Mrs. Bowdoin.
Colonel Thomas Hartley to General St. Clair.
Camp Howell s Ferry, New Jersey, July 31, 1777.
Dear General:—Your friends here are very sorry you have lwen
so ill-supported in the Northern Department. Your garrison was
too small to maintain the important pass of Ticonderoga. A few
battalions of your Southern friends, who served with you the last
campaign, might have been of consequence. It is the practice of
the world to censure our misfortunes and point out defects, when
the censurer would not have acted so well had he been in the same
situation. I believe but few gentlemen in the army blame you 1
•It is not practicable to find room fur all of tlio messages of indorsement

but the pen of the malignant and envious has been made use of
against you. Some of their performances I send you in a newspa
per. Were you present, mauy doubts could be cleared up. It is
cruel to asperse the character of such a gentleman, at such a dis
tance, unheard. So much noise has been made that you will doubt
less think it prudeut to have a public examination. As you have
some enemies, you can not be too careful in having any facts alleged
well attested, as you are conscious yourself of having acted for the
best. I hope you will not be uneasy. Should the army march to
ward Philadelphia, some of your friends will make a few queries.
We have, as yet, no certain intelligence of the place where the
fleet has sailed to, but suppose it to be southward. If they attempt
Philadelphia we shall be apt to finish the campaign with them
there. I make no doubt you will be able to stop the approach of
Burgoyne and his savages.
General Schuyler to General St. CLArn.
Albany, August iMh, 1777.
Dear Sir:—The situation of affairs in the western quarter will
detain me 1 at least until to-morrow. Fort Schuyler [Stanwix] is in
vested, and has been for some days.
I can not learn that a man is moved from the Massachusetts or
Connecticut to our assistance 2 although they are preparing to come.
Mmi good-will sent to St. Clair at this time by the best soldiers of the differ
ent armies. The following, however, under dute of July 23, from the
"General Hospital," deserves a place:
Dear Sir:—I received yours of the 20th inst. I am very happy you made
your eseap_ in time from Ticonderoga, as I am well assured from the small
number cl tr ops you had under your command you must have fallen a
victim t i Briti>h barbarity. Let the censorious rabble talk as they please,
lam happy you don t give yourself any uneasiness about them. You have
your enemies, but you have friends innumerable; friends that at any lime
would willingly share your fate. Your sincere friend.
S vmi. McKbnzie."
1 During the absence of General Schuyler, General St. Clair was in com
mand of the army, which then lay at Stillwater. General Arnold had been
dispatched to the relief of Fort Stanwix, which was besieged by St Leger.
2In the official correspondence of Artemas Ward and other New Kn in
landers, after the evaluation of Ticonderoga, mention is made of reinforcemets
for the army ready to march, but alter the lapse of a month surprise
is expressed that they had not yet appeared.

General Lincoln lay at Bennington last night, and will, probably,
join us to-morrow; a few militia from below are coming up.
I have ordered up more bateaux to the forts, to assist in bringing
down the stores that are there.
If the enemy are not more numerous than the deserters say, we
should repulse them if joined by some more militia. Adieu.
General St. Clair to John Hancock.
Philadelphia, August 2oth, 1777.
Sir:—Your letter of the 5th, inclosing a resolve of Congress of
the 30th of Juiy 1 I had the honor to receive at Stillwater, and in
consequence thereof repaired to headquarters.
However disagreeable it was to be obliged to leave the army at
so critical a time, it gave me pleasure that Congress had determined
to inquire into my conduct 2 My character will thereby be placed
in its true light, and a stop put, I hope, to that tide of popular
abuse that has run high upon me, and been kept up by very disin
genuous and base means.
I beg, sir, that you will make my request to Congress that the in
quiry be ordered immediately 3—you must be sensible that, until it
is over, my situation is a very awkward one.
1 lirsolrcd, Tliat Major General St. Clair, whe commanded at Ticonderoga
and Mount Independence, be, and he is hereby directed forthwith to repair
to headquarters.—Journals of Cungmt.
General Washington to General Putnam, Oth August, 1777:
"Congress have theught proper to call down General Schuyler and Gen
eral St. Clair, to give an account of the causes of our misfortunes to the
northward, and General Gates goes up to talie the command."
2General Washington to President of Congress, Oth August, 1777:
"I perceive by the resolves for recalling Generals Schuyler and St. Clair,
that they are directed to repair to headquarters. I also And that a com
mittee had been resolved on, to digest a mode for inquiring into the reasons
for evacuating Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, and into the conduct
of the general officers in the Northern Department at the time of the evacu
ation. As these gentlemen have received the letter upon this subject by
this time and will probably be down in the course of a few days, I shall be
glad to be informed what I am to do with them when they arrive. I may
be then at a great distance from this, and. in such case, should be ut a loss
what to ray, or how to conduct myself respecting them, witheut receiving
some directions, which I request to be favored with by the earliest oppor
tunity."
3 That was just what certain members of the Hoard of AVar were deterColonel Wilkinson to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Van Schaick s Island, September 1th, 1777.
My Dear Sir:—Your agreeable and very satisfactory favor of the
26th July, has just reached me. I am not at all astonished at the
long faces made you, but I very much wonder how they are able to
make any face; for I think the man who can sustain the eye of the
person he has much injured, is devoid of both sensibility and candor,
and I much fear our councils are not exempt from such characters,
else not one moment s hesitation could be made as to the mode of
inquiring into your conduct.
I am distiessed and enraged to observe in the public prints, which
you must have seen, a letter from General Schuyler to the Council
of this State, wrote at Fort Edward previous to our joining him, in
which he reprehends the evacuation of Ticonderoga, and asserts
that the garrison was five thousand strong 1 What a strange du
plicity of heart does he manifest. He yesterday informed me,
that he had written to Mr. Duane, desiring him to publixh the game-,
that you ought not to be blamed for not leaving Ticonderoga earlier,
but he had not left that in your power; and so far was he from
condemning your conduct, that he heartily applauded it, and should,
had he lieen in your situation, have pursued the same steps which
you did." This palpable contradiction to his letter did he utter to
me. Make what use of it you can, and be assured I shall be ever
willing and ready to support it. I wonder public inquiries had not
been made into preceding public misfortunes—such as the loss of
Fort Washington, a division being surprised and losing three pieces
of artillery, etc. However, God s will be done. I trust the period
is not very distant when justice will be done us, and many will be
reduced to their former nothingness.
Affairs in this quarter wear the most favorable aspect. The Benmined
should not be done. It was their purpose to drive both Generals St.
Clair and Schuyler out of service. The hitter beenme disgusted, Hnd ex
changed the army for Congress. St. Clnir, however, was kept busy in the
field by General Washington, and had the sat efaction of serving his coun
try despite the malcontents. The inquiry was not granted until compelled
by a majority of Congress under the leadership of Gouverneur Morris. For
particulars, see pp. '.i 2 to
1Schuyler s attention was called to this misrepresentation by General
Washington, under date of July 10, 1777. See Writings of Washington,
Vol. IV, p. 493.

nington success1 has relaxed Mr. Burgoyne s ardor, and has left him
less than thirty Indians, the rest having returned home. Since that
event he has remained stock still, with his advance on the heights op
posite Saratoga, and his main body at Fort Miller. His army, after a
moderate deduction for his losses and war posts, can not exceed five
thousand five hundred men. General Lincoln is at Manchester, to
co-operate with this army, with a body of five thousand men, which
rapidly increases. I doubt whether this motion will not make an
alteration in Mr. Burgoyne s front however, if this should fail, I
am sensible we shall find no little efficacy in advancing on the 10th
inst. from this quarter with upward of seven thousand combatants
eager for action. As they tell v*, seriously, that the General is de
termined to advance at this period and give the enemy battle as soon
as he can do it on equal ground, the affair must be soon settled and
I really think our numbers and disposition will give us a vast ad
vantage, nay, insure victory. God alone knows when General
Schuyler will come down to you 2
General Gates Iwgs to be remembered to you, and wishes you
here.; so does every officer who has had the honor to serve under
you, except the famous Marshall, whom I have tried, and now let
you know, as I have the army and his country, that he is not only
a scoundrel, but an infamous poltroon.
The shocking, degeneracy of mankind, and the poor prospect I
have of ever being united with the amiable girl3 in whom my whole
soul delights, disgusts me with existence, and will justify me, on
the first honorable occasion, in withdrawing from the public service,
and seeking that retirement more conducive to real happiness. May
the Almighty bless you, my dear friend.
P. S. —Pray acknowledge the receipt of this. General Gates
1 For an account of this action, sec p. 84.
2General Schuyler, Brigadier-Generals Poor, Patterson, and Fermoy, had
been ordered by Congress, August 1st, to repair to headquarters. On the
4th August, by direction of Congress, General Washington had directed
General Gates to assume command of the Northern Department. The or
der of the 1st, so far as it directed the brigadier-generals to repair to head
quarters, was afterward rescinded on account of protest of General "Wash
ington.
2After the capture of Burgoyno, when Wilkinson was dispatched by Gen
eral Gates to apprise Congress of that happy event, he called on his amiable
girl en route, for which Samuel Adams moved that he be voted a pair of
spurs. It is presumed that Wilkinson took a less melancholy view of the
world thenceforth.
f
442 The St. Clair ropers.
has lately received letters from Generals Burgoyne and Fraser re
specting the prisoners made at Bennington. Burgoyne, in addition,
complains of the inhumanity of our troops to his Royal Provincials,
and says, "if you mean to avoid the horrors of retaliation, you
must severely reprehend and strictly prohibit such conduct in fu
ture," or of his vengeance be assured.
Burgoyne s complaint is ridiculous his threat contemned.
Colonel Wilkinson to General St. Clair.
Camp Bemis s Heights, Septeatber 21irf, 1777.
My Dear General:—On the 10th inst. General Burgoyne ad
vanced from Saratoga to Sword s house, and encamped on the
heights west of the river; on the 17th and 18th, he was engaged in
repairing the bridges in his front.
Early on the 19th, he struck his camp and advanced toward our
left. Morgan s rifle regiment, and a corps of two hundred and
eighty of Major Dearborn s light infantry, were immediately de
tached to discover their motions and harass their advance. About
a mile from camp, and at half after twelve, they fell in with a picket
of the enemy, which they immediately drove, but, the enemy being
reinforced, after a sharp fire they were in turn obliged to retire.
This skirmish drew the main body of the enemy and Poor s brigade
from our camp to support the action, which, with a short cessation,
was renewed with redoubled energy and violence, and continued in
cessant till the end of the day, when our people retired to camp,
and the enemy a small distance in rear of the field. Reinforcements
which were occasionally detached amounted in all to nine regiments,
two of them militia though Morgan s, Scammel s, Cilley s, and
Hale s, of General Poor s brigade, who all behaved inimitably, sus
tained the principal fire. We are indisputably assured that Bur
goyne, who commanded in person, was wounded in the left shoul
der; 1 that the 62d regiment was cut to pieces, and that the enemv
suffered extremely in every quarter where they were engaged. I
inclose you a return of our loss and made prisoners during the ac
tion [amounting to three hundred and twenty-one killed, wounded,
and missing]. The field was covered by a deep wood on all sides.
It was an excellent trap, and our men were quick to take advantage
of it.
1This was an error, it was Captain Green, aid-de-camp to General Phil
lips, who was wounded.

General Arnold was not out of camp during the whole action. Pray,
my dear General, read the inclosed, and let the amiable object
know, the first opportunity, what was accomplished by our troops.
General Gates despises a certain pompous little fellow1 as much as
you can, and tells me, confidentially, that nothing could give him
so much satisfaction as your presence here, though I find his sup
porters are, unfortunately, your enemies hence his silence. As Mr.
Burgoyue has no alternative, having destroyed the bridges in his
rear, and as the armies are within two miles of each other, he must
shortly commence action. We have at this time about six thous
and combatants, and the enemy can bring to action about an equal
number. I think without some military trick the day will be our
own, as that enthusiasm which reigned at Ticonderoga pervades all
the eastern troops, and the late severe engagement, instead of damp
ing their spirits, has made them impatient for action.
We are just this moment informed of the success of a descent on
Lake George by a detachment from a body of militia under Gen
eral Lincoln, which was in the rear of Mr. Burgoyne. It was com
manded by the famous Colonel Brown. He very dashingly carried
the post at the landing and at the saw-mills, took two captains, nine
subordinates, and two hundred and ninety-three privates, of the
53d British regiment, and released a hundred and nine prisoners.
He had in possession the French lines, and had sent a flag to de
mand the surrender of the fort, but had no artillery to enforce his
demand. He has taken two hundred bateaux, twenty odd gun
boats, some armed vessels, etc. A letter you wrote me by a Mr.
Hale has by accident been destroyed. I am now more persuaded
than ever that the evacuation of Ticonderoga has been the salva
tion of this Province, perhaps country. I assure you that great
credit is given you, and the B-itish and Burgoyne were greatly dis
appointed by the move. God bless you.
Colonel Wilkinson to General St. Cl vir.
Camp Bemis s Heights, October 1th, 1777.
My Dear General:—General Schuyler, by letter, informed me
that your favor to me by a Mr. Hale, was, for fear of it falling into
the hands of a party of Tories, whom he met at Hackensack,
destroyed.
1General Arnold.

Permit me to congratulate you on the loss of Philadelphia, as an
event fraught with the greatest good consequences, since many vil
lains, who otherwise would have enjoyed the fruits of our virtuous
efforts, will by this test be reduced to the necessity of explaining
their despicable principles, which will (as I wish a total expulsion
of such dastardly unfeeling parricides), I trust, be an unsunnountable
bar to their future existence in this country.
Whilst General Howe reigns trinmphant in an empty city, Gen
eral Burgoyne, without resources, and with barely twelve days pro
visions (at this time) is stopped short in his career, and finds himself
unable to proceed, and incapable of retreating without disgrace and
ruin. Since the action of the 19th ultimo, he has remained strongly
posted, and has labored incessantly on the fortification of his camp,
but the exigency of his circumstances must shortly produce some
thing decisive. The injured Northern Army will then gcnerau dy fly
to the support of the sinking armies.
An unprecedented amount of desertion prevades General Burgoyue sarmy;
notwithstanding bribes, threats, and every military
precaution is adopted, they come over daily. We, yesterday, re
ceived fourteen, who all agree in the same tale respecting provisions
and the defection of the troops. Their flour is entirely Canadian,
and miserably manufactured, of which they uow receive half a
pound per day.
My love to Colonel Stewart.
P. S. —Generals Gates and Arnold have differed beyond recon
ciliation. As I, too, have a quarrel with the little man, I will not
expose his conduct.
The celebrated General Stark, the Bennington hero, by way of
gilding his reputation and finishing his character, left the camp at
a time when we hourly expected an engagement, and on the day be
fore the action.
Colonel Baldwin to General St. Clair.
Camp Saratoga, October 17, 1777.
Dear General:—Give me leave to congratulate you on the im
portant conquest over General Burgoyne and his army. The capit
ulation and other particulars you will have, by the time this reaches
you, by an abler hand. A more complete victory you could not
wish for, and I believe, by this time, the people in general have
altered their sentiments with respect to the evacuation of Tieouderoga.
The officers, and all who I now hear speak about it, say

that a better plan could not have been adopted, and nothing but
your leaving that place could have given us the success. Excuse
haste.
General St. Clair to General Gates.
Camp at White Marsh, November 2\st, 1777.
Dear General —Though my congratulations on your signal suc
cess come rather late, they arc not the less sincere. Sickness in my
family had called me away from the army, and I was absent when
the news of GeneraltBurgoyne s surrender arrived, an event glorious
to you, and that must be attended with the most happy consequences
to America, and it affords me the greatest pleasure, as you were the
happy instrument in bringing it to pass. This, my dear General, is
not the language of compliment, but of the heart. I am not used
to make professions, but I ever shall be interested in your good or
bad fortune, as I have not forgotten, nor ever shall forget, the friend
ship I have received at your hands.
The battle of Gcrmautown happened in my absence. I can give
you little account of it. There was strange mismanagement, and it
has produced infinite courts-martial, and as we have been inactive
ever since, seems to have impressed us with a sense of the superiority
of the British troops that gives me much concern. It is certain
our discipline and our numbers, too, are inferior to theirs, but when
your victorious troops arrive they will make our scale preponderate
but what can delay them so? Morgan has been arrived above a
fortnight.
The fort on Mud Island was evacuated on the 16th instant, at
midnight (one of the enemy s ships lying within pistol shot of it at
the time), after having sustained a siege of near seven weeks. It is
a very singular event that such a thing, the veriest bicoque that ever
was erected should have retarded the operations of an army of twelve
or fourteen thousand men and a great fleet so long. Colonel Smith
(a son of your friend, Mr. Smith, of Baltimore), has acquired im
mortal honor in defense of it. The cheveahx-de-frize are not yet
removed, nor will they be, so long as we maintain the Jersey shore,
but that I fear will not long be the case, as the troops from New
York are landed at Billingsport, and a large detachment from Phil
adelphia, under the command of Lord Cornwallis, has joined them
Greene, however, with his division, has marched to oppose them,
and he has, likewise, Varnum s brigade.
My affair is still in the same situation as when I last wrote you.

I am firmly persuaded it is the intention of Congress to avoid bring
ing it to trial as long as possible, in hopes that the matter will die
away of itself and be forgotten; that, however, is not my intention.
I have been pretty constant in my applications for justice to myself,
and to my country, and shall continue them until I prevail or they
throw off the mask. It is melancholy that a body lately so august,
so truly venerable, should, in so short a time, be so visibly altered.
If the degeneracy continues (and when intriguing and cabal take* root
in public assemblies it generally continues and increases), I can not
tell what may be the consequences, nor do I like to imagine them;
but this is certain, never since this great contest began had we more
need of upright, uncorrupted, wise and disinterested counsels nnd
counselors, for we are arrived at the crisis, or very near it. This
train of thought does not arise altogether from what has happened
to myself, but from a retrospect of the causes that have brought us
to a situation, in which we can with great difficulty get either for
ward or backward.
This moment I have a letter from the President, covering the
following very extraordinary resolve
Whereas, the committee appointed to inquire into the causes of the
loss of Ticonderoga and Fort Independence havi not yet been able to
collect materials ami make their report: Resolved, tliat Major-General
SL Clair be at liberty to attend to his private affairs until he shall have
notice to attend hea ljuirters, in order to an inquiry into his conduct."
Judge, now, sir, what I ought to think of them, for I made no
such application as this would indicate, or whether the suspicion I
threw out above is not but too well founded. If they had candor
or common honesty, they would have owned that, after five months
spent in searching for an accusation, they had been unable to rind
one—one, at least, that they dared to own and, instead of com
manding me to retire from the army, which is the English of the
resolve, with all the ignominy upon my head that they had unjustly
endeavored to fix there, could have acknowledged their error, and
done what was in their power to remove it; but many of them are
incapable of a generous sentiment or action in private life; arA a pub
hc, station, by making men more acquainted with the views and frail
ties nf others, confirms an I increases their own; a trial, however, they
shall give me be the event what it will, they can not rob me of
that heartfelt satisfaction which is the companion and reward of
virtuous actions 1
1 Kor hn account of the cowardly nnd unjust course of Congress, or the
Boar l of War, in the application of St. Cluir and Schuyler for a bearing,

I shall leave the camp to-morrow, but shall not cease to pray to
see pp. 92 to 0-3. The cause of virtue was vindicated in spite of them and
the adverse faction. 'Jen months alter the evacuation of Ticonderoga,
Washington, having become indignant at the treatment, wrote to the Presi
dent of Congress that the course of that body was looked upon as "cruel
and oppressive."
At last, alter fifteen months of effort to find seme way out of the dilemma
in which it was placed, a committee was appointed to formulate charges
based upon the testimony obtained by the committee, at the head of which
was John Adams. Only one witness hail been found, and be was a disrepu
table hanger-on of the commissary department, named Jesse Leavenworth.
Not an officer or a soldier to aid the prosecution. Leavenworth assured the
committee that there were over 5 000 troops in garrison, well armed; plenty
of provisions, but there was indifference and neglect. "When brought be
fore the court, he swore directly to the contrary on the most important
points.
THE COUUT-.MAnTIAL.
Majrr-General Lincoln, President.
Member?.
Brigadier-General Nixon, Colonel Putnam,
Brigadier-General Clinton, Colonel M. Gist,
Brigadier-General Wayne, Colonel Russel,
Brigadier-General Muhlenburgb Colonel Grayson,
Colonel Willis, Colonel Stew art,
Colonel Greaton, Colonel Meigs.
John Laurance, Jmljc At/eocatc.
Court met at White Plains, August 23, 1778.
The judge advocate read the charges and specifications which were to
substantiate the first, viz: Neglect of duty, cowardice, and treachery, in
abandoning the posts. He called his witness, Jesse Leavenworth, on each
charge, and offered, in addition, the correspondence between St. Clair and
Schuyler and Jay, above given.
The prosecution having been concluded, General St. Clair began his de
fense by calling a large number of the officers who bad been at the fort",
and presented the correspondence in a new and striking light. Of the tes
timony of the prominent witnesses, we have room only for a few brief extracts.
Major-General Gates being sworn, snvs:
Some time in April, in the year 1777, I made a requisition from Congress
for the defense of the Northern Department, and estimated the troops nec
essary for that service as follows: Two major-generals; six brigadiers one
battalion of artillery, 600; twenty-flve battalions of infantry, 12,.i U0; two
companies of rangers, 10 i; staff, bateaux men, etc., 400; total, 13 600. At
that time I did not expect General Ilurgoyne would have landed between
ten and eleven thousand men. If I bud, i should have required more men
for the defense of that department.

God to avert those calamities to my country that may ever make
my feeble assistance necessary.
General St. Clair s Question. During the time I had the henor of serving
under you, did you ever discover in me cowurdice, treachery, or incapacity,
as 11 general officer?
A. Fiommylong acquaintance with you as an officer, and particularly
your usefulness to me as n brigadier-general in the campaign of 1 7 7 it ex
cites my astonishment Unit there should be such charges as cowardice,
treachery, or incapacity exhibited against you. From my knowledge of you,
both aan officer and a gentleman, I have the highest opinion of your cour
age, honor, capacity, and fidelity.
Q. What proportion of these troops ought to be at Ticonderoga and
Mount Independence?
A. At P ort Schuyler, 500; the intermediate posts between Albany and
Fort Schuyler, inclusive, 000; the posts between Albany and Fort George,
inclusive, 6OO; at Fort Ann and Skoiicsburongh, 300; the remainder at Ti
conderoga and its dependencies. Besides these, I expected aid from the mi
litia of the country, having unlimited powers from Congress for that pur
pose.
Q. (By Court). What number of men would you have thought necessary
had you been fully possessed of the force of General Burgoyno?
A. Three to two.
Colonel Koseiuszko, sworn:
General St. Clair s Question. Supposing Ticonderoga to have been aban
doned, and the enemy to have been in possession of it, would it have been
possiblo to have maintained the works on t he point of Mount Independence
that were made for the command of the lake and the defense of the bridge
A. No, as the ground overlooked them about fifty feet.
General St. Clair s Question. Do you recollect where the place from which
we got our water was, on Mount Independence side, and the situation of it?
A. On the west side of Mount Independence, on the low ground, near the
lake.
General St. Clair s Question. Supposing the enemy had passed some of
their vessels into South liny, would it not have been wholly in their power
to have cut us off from the water?
A. The spring would have been exposed to the fire of the enemy.
General St. Clair s Qust on. Do you recollect the distance from the lake
to East Creek, beyond the south end of Mount Independence
A. About one-half a mile or three-quarters.
General St. Clair s Question. "Would it not have been in the enemy s power
to have annoyed, from the vessels from South Hay, any troops that might
have been marching across the isthmus to the relief of Mount Independ
ence
A. It would havo been in the enemy s power to have done it, on account
of the passage being narrow, a thick wood, and the possession of the lake.
General St. Clair s Question. Do you recollect whether any works were
149
I had a great deal more to say, but this resolve has deranged all
my ideas. Adieu, my dear general.
begun to improvo the redoubt on the high ground, on the point of Mount
Independence
A. Yes; by your order I marked out the lines, and prepared the fascines,
which was after General Schuyler left Ticonderoga.
General St. Clair s Question. In what condition was the fort upon Mount
Independence?
A. It was a picketed fort, only for small arms. Picketed all around;
some good and some bad.
General St. Clair s Question. How many men could the fort contain, with
convenience, for the defense of it?
A. About 1 000 men.
General St. Clair s Question. What batteries had the enemy erected
against Ticonderoga at the time or before the evacuation took place?
A. One battery was erected against the Jersey redoubt, on the opposite
side of the lake, about half a mile distant, and on higher ground. They
had made some works where they had an encampment, against the French
lines, about half a mile or three-quarters distant The enemy had also
taken possession of Mount Hope, a retrenched camp, which had been occu
pied by us the campaign before, by which the communication with Lake
George was cut off. They had taken possession of the mill, burnt the
block-house, and passed on the other side of the creek, when they took pos
session of a hill which commanded Ticonderoga and all Mount Independ
ence, and had begun a firing on the sloop that was stationed for the defense
of the passage from Lake George. They had also begun some works on a
point on the east side of the lake, opposite to the bridge.
General St. Clair s Question. Do you recollect Colonel May s having told
me, after I had spoken to the militia at Castletown, that the men would
stay, but the officers would not
A. I do not recollect Colonel May s having told you of it, but I met some
of the militia on the retreat, and having expressed my surprise at their not
staying to fight for their country, they answered, they were willing to stay,
but their officers would not.
Brigadier-General Poor sworn and examined at groat length as to the de
tails of the management of affairs at the forts, and after the evacuation.
This only need claim our attention, although all is important.
General St. Clair s Question. Was our forco in any degree adequate to the
defenso of the places?
A. No; I think the places could not have been maintained unless with at
least ten thousand good troops, and we ought to have had possession of two
hills without the French lines, as also the one on the other side of the lake,
known by the name of Mount Defiance.
General Schuyler, being duly sworn
General St. Clair s Question. What troops had you estimated for the de
fense of the garrisons of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence?
A. Ten thousand continental troops. I do not know that I mentioned in 29
450 The St. Clair tape,*.
P. S.—I am extremely happy at Wilkinson s promotion 1 and
my letter to General Washington and to Congress that they should be con
tinental troops, but I intended them to have been continental troops.
General St. Clair s Question. Do you think the posts tenable with the force
I had?
In answer to this question, General Schuyler produced an extract from a
copy of a letter to Congress, dated the 8th of June, 1777, which he says was
sent by express to Congress, and was received by them about the 13th of
June, but he did not receive any answer to the letter till late in July. The
letter put Congress in possession of the weakness of the posts, the paucity
of the garrisons, and the want of clothing and provisions. These facts are
detailed in the letters above given.
General Schuyler says further, in answer to the question, that when ho
mentioned in the letter to Congress that between two and three thousand
men were sufficient to have maintained Mount Independence, he conceived
the post, about which orders had been given the beginning of February to
Colonel Baldwin, was far advanced; that the obstruction in the lake was
completed; that there were carriages provided for the cannon; that lines
were completed, and not by one-hall so extensive as he found them.
General St. Clair s Question. Did you ever give me any orders for evacu
ating these garrisons?
A. No. The reason why I did not give you any orders for evacuating
these gurrisons was because I had wrote this letter to Congress, and they did
not give me any orders about it; and as the Continent conceived them of
great importance and very strong, I did not think myself at liberty to give
any orders for an evacuation of them.
General St. Clair s Question. Was the defective state in which you found
Ticonderoga and Mount Independence owing to any negligence in me, or
disregard to the orders 1 received from you?
A. It could not be owing to any negligence in you, or disregard to the
orders you received from me, as you had arrived there but a few days before;
nor was it owing to the negligence of any officer whe had commanded there
in the winter or spring before; nor to the commanding officer of the artil
lery or the engineer. I conceive it to be owing to a want of men and a
want of materials.
General St. Clair s Question. Do you know of any steps taken by the
Eastern States to reinforce these posts, after their investure?
A. Immediately on my return from Ticonderoga, I wrote to the Eastern
States to hasten on the remainder of the continental troops. Some troops
came up in consequence of my application, but did not reach Albany till
some time after the evacuation of Ticonderoga. Upon receiving the first
letter from you after I returned from Ticonderoga, I applied to the Eastern
States, and to this, for reinforcements of militia. The militia from Massa
chusetts arrived at Fort Edward, I believe, between the 4th and 7th of July.
A few from Connecticut did not join us until towards the latter end of July.
These from this State got up much about the same time that the Massacliu1
See Note 1, page 463.

thank you very heartily for procuring it. He has great merit, and
setts did. The Massachusetts militia were up as soon at Fort Edward, and
those from this State, as I could reasonably expect them to be. Connecticut,
as I was informed by Governor Trumbull, had a call for militia from Gen
eral Washington to go to the Highlands, or Peeks-Kill. That was the reason
that the militia did not join us sooner.
General St. Clair s Question. Did the force you had collected, supposing
the garrison to have held out, put you in a situation to have raised the
seige?
A. I believe that, with all the troops you brought with you, with the rein
forcements with General Nixon, and including all the militia, I had not at
Fort Edward, about the 20th of July, more than five theusand men. If the
garrison had remained, I should have had no more than three thousand
militia, before I was joined by General Nixon, to have marched to its relief,
which number I conceive very inadequate to have raised the seige. General
Nixon, I believe, arrived about the 12th or 13th of July; but if I had had a
force which I might think was sufficient, yet sheuld not have been able to
have raised the seige for want of provision, there being scarcely any pro
vision of the meat kind in the department; flour was plenty. Nor was there
any stock of provisions of the meat kind laid in —not even a sufficiency of
salted meat to have furnished the scouts with. We had not lead in the de
partment sufficient for an army anything like to have raised the seige with.
At Fort Edward, on the 7th of July, we were obliged to strip the men that
were there of every cartridge they had to send them to Fort Ann, and were
left without any lead for some days, excepting a mere trifle I got from Al
bany, a very small quantity brought up by the militia, and by stripping the
windows.
General St. Clair s Question. Did I not, when it was determined in the
council of officers that was held the 20th of June, 1777, respecting the hold
ing of Mount Independence and evacuating Ticonderoga, express my
opinion that it would be impossible to hold that post, when the other side
of the lake should be abandoned?
A. I remember perfectly Well you did.
Extracts from the Speech of Gexehal St. Clair,
General St. Clair began by expressing his gratification that at last his con
duct was to be inquired into before a proper judicatory, and that, after so
long a delay and so injurious a discrimination, public justice will be done
upon a full, an impartial, and dispassionate examination, and that it will be
passed upon by men equal to the task of investigating truth, however art
fully concealed, and determining upon the intrinsic merit of military actions,
stripped of the glare that is sometimes thrown upon them by success, or tho
false lights in which they are often placed by adverse consequences."
"The first observation that naturally offers is, that the charges which have
been exhibited to this Court have all been founded upon the ex parte affi
davit of a Mr. Leavenworth, which (in most instances) he has contradicted
in open court, and consequently is entitled to no degree of credit, and upon
my own letters to Congress and to General Schuyler, the officer whe comwhat is, in my opinion, more valuable, he has a warm, honest heart. I
have known many an arrant knave with considerable abilities.
manded in chief ir. the Northern department. It is singular, however, that
charges of so high a nature against an officer of my rank should be at
tempted to be supported (for supported I trust they are not) by no other
living witness than Mr. Leavenworth, a private man! a follower of the
army! in some of the lowest and vilest occupations! who, if be had had
capacity to judge, could not possibly have had proper information; that not
an officer of any rank whatsoever has been called upon and yet, had
treachery, had neglect of duty, been committed—had I been inattentive to
the progress of the enemy—had the posts in my charge been shamefully
abandoned—or had I been guilty of cowardice—they could not have escaped
their notice altogether; nay, it was by them only they could probably have
been discovered. But this, by-the-by. Previous to any remarks upon, or
application of the testimony, I beg leave to inform the Court that, before I
left Philadelphia to take upon me the command of Ticonderoga, Qongress
had received information, which they credited, that the principal part of the
enemy s troops in Canada were ordered round by St. Lawrence to join Gen
eral Howe; that no serious attempt would be made upon Ticonderoga; at
most, it would be a diversion only. This was communicated to me by Mr.
Hancock, then President, and I have his authority to mention it to this
Court. This circumstance will serve as a key to many of my letters, and
will account for my doubts about some intelligence 1 received after my ar
rival at Ticonderoga. And it appears, from General Poor s testimony, that
Gei*eral Gates had likewise, from them, received the same account."
Charge—Neglect of Duty In not having evacuated the posts upon receipt
of information from two men from Canada (supposed to be spies), and thus
have saved the artillery and stores; and in not keeping out reconnoitcring
parties in force.
'-I suspect, sir, the committee who formed these charges had no idea of
the nature of a subordinate command. They would otherwise have known
that I had no power to form or execute any such resolution, and that my
justification for evacuating the posts at all must depend upon the necessity
of the case. 1 did what my duty required me—I gave the earliest notice to
the commanding officer of the department, and stood ready to execute his
commands. But I am persuaded that, had it been in my power to have
taken my final resolution then, and upon the intelligence I had received. I
had abandoned the posts, although every thing had been saved which has
since been lost, the charges of treachery and cowardice would have been
very much louder, and pressed home more strongly, and with more violence,
if possible, than in the present case. I should have heard that no decisivo
operation sheuld be founded on the vague report of prisoners or deserters,
often ignorant, almost always ill-informed; but that to abandon a post on the
information of persons I suspected to be, and actually were, the enemy s
spies, or from the view of an encampment upwards of forty miles off, and
that only seen across a lake six or eight miles broad, could proceed from no
other than one of those sources, or from perfect stupidity; and this Court,
from whem I expect a very different decision, would have joined m that

Colonel Long to General St. Clair.
Portsmouth, New England, November 25, 1777.
Much Respected and Dear Sir:—My not having the pleasure of
opinion, and condemned me to the punishment I had justly merited. Hut,
besides all this, if the council of war was to guide, it was out of my
power to take any such measure; for the resolution of the council is that
both Ticonderoga and Mount Independence are to be held as long as they
can be. consistent with the safety of the troops and stores. When the salety
of the troops and stores became doubtful, Ticonderoga, not Mount Inde
pendence, was to he evacuated.
"Had not the committee been totally ignorant of the nature of the coun
try in which these parties were to act—had they given any attention to the
returns of my army, which were before them, or credit to iny letters to
General Schuyler, of which they had the perusal—this article would never
have made its appearance. Had it ever occurred to them that the enemy
proceeded by water, and that the only debarkation we hear of was at liilliland s
Creek, forty miles and upwards from Ticonderoga, and that they pro
ceeded from thence by water again, we should not have heard this story of
reconnoitering parties, of which I am morally certain they themselves had
no determinate idea. My whole army would not have found one party
such as they seem to think ought to have been sent out frequently. 1 have
proven that small parties were sent out, not only frequently, hut constantly
and although they were but small parties, they were as strong as the state
of my garrison, and the works in hand, would allow. It is true, indeed, I
obtained by them no certain intelligence of the enemy s force until they
landed atThree-Mile Point, nor was it possible before; theypossessed neither
the gifts of divination, nor walking upon the water; but they could give
me information if any part of the enemy s army was advancing by land,
and that was all I could expect from them."
The second charge is cowardice, treachery, and incapacity as a General.
"By Mr. Leavenworth s testimony again are these accusations to be sup
ported; not in a direct manner, but by inference and deduction from that
part of it which the committee in the above remark say he gave them, viz.,
'that the enemy were not annoyed in the advance to, and investiture of, the
posts;' but which he in part contradicted here, as I observed before, and
which, by Colonel Stevens, General Wilkinson, Colonel Livingston, Major
Dunn, and others, I have proven to be false. The inferences of consequence
are false likewise, and, of course, the charges groundless. But I believe it
is the first instance where charges of a capital nature have been brought
against an officer by deduction, without a shadow of proof to support them
and cowardice and treachery are capital crimes, altheugh thecommittee have
directed them to be tried by an article of war to which no capital crime
whatever can be referred, having been expresslv provided for crimes not
capital. I waive, hewever, any advantage that might be taken of this. My
reputation, or my safety, shall never depend upon the blunders of any set of
men whe may think proper to accuse me, but, when proof is wanting, canhearing from you since I saw you at Stillwater, induced me to be
lieve my letter of the 20th September miscarried. To prevent the
dor will never attribute actions to the worst cause from which they could
possibly flow, good nature will ever ascribe them to the best. Hitherto,
however, I have experienced very little of either But my birth, sir, my ed
ucation, my connections, both in this country and in Britain, my station ir»
life, my children (if to these had not been added the habitude of early life),
as they were the best pledges, so they should have secured me from the im
putation of those most shameful vices, from which the meanest of the peoplo
are generally free. But my reputation rests not on that bottom. I am
happy in the general good opinion of the army, which is never bestowed
upon cowards, nor has all the calumny that I have been loaded with shaken
me a single friend. The court have the fullest evidence that on every occa
sion I have given demonstration of an active, as well as passive, courage;
my conduct in that respect has been uniform on all occasions and this is
confirmed by the concurring testimony of many of the principal ofEcers of
the army, with some of whom I have been, personally, in almost every
action that has happened during the war. From thence they must conclude
that, whatever might have been the motives for my evacuating Ticonderoga,
it could not have been owing to cowardice, and that the charge is false, ma
licious, and scandalous.
"Treachery, sir, is a crime it is impossible to prove, positively, not to have
been committed. It is, therefore, necessary, in order to fix it, that some ac
tual commission should be proven, but, as this has not been attempted, it is
enough, alone, to overthrow the charge. But I beg leave to inform the
court that when Congress appointed me to the command of a regiment, I
considered it as the call of my country, that could admit of no refusal. I
reflected that somo knowledge acquired by study, mid the service of the last
war (during which I was in almost every seige and every action of conse
quence), put me in a situation to be of some use to our army in its infant
state. My country, I thought, had a right to my services, and to every ad
vantage that could be derived from my experience. I, therefore, without
hesitation, resigned an henorableand profitable employment I then held un
der the Crown, to qualify myself for that offered by Congress, notwithstand
ing it was not of one-halt the yearly value. 1 quitted the sweets of a re
tirement I was fond of, the pleasures of domestic life, and the care of edu
cation, and provision for a rising family (both of which claimed my closest
attention), for the toils, the hardships, and the extraordinary expenses of
war Had this the appearance of treachery? And yet, for these, I have
met with the ungracious return of those cruel accusations, though, surely,
they were not the natural returns for such conduct. "What further promo
tion Congress were pleased to confer upon me was wholly unsolicited. I
received it with gratitude, determined that my actioi s should be the best
proof of the sense I had of the honor they had done me; nor have I been
therein disappointed. My country now reaps the solid advantages of my
conduct, whilst I am loaded with obliquy and abuse. I forgive it, however,
but I can never forget that the channels of justice have been shut against

like misfortune, this goes under cover of George frost, Esq., a
member of Congress from this State.
I sincerely long to see a publication in the papers of your acquitme,
and that for thirteen long, long months, I have been hung up to be
stung by the envenomed tongue of malice, and pointed at by the finger of
folly. But the sentence of this court will, I trust, place me once more in
that honorable point of view from which I have not deserved to be re
moved, having been careful to observe that maxim of Horace—
Nil conacire stlbi, nulla pallaseere culpa I1"
But the committee again return to the point of evacuating the posts,
and declare that it ought to have taken place when the enemy reached ThreeMile
Point [General St. Clair established the fact that in April Congress
had declared that, unless the Eastern States came to the relief of the garri
sons, the posts would be lost. Then, why did not Congress, the supreme
power, order the evacuation General St. Clair continued
"Sir, had a retreat been attempted upon the enemy s landing at ThreeMile
Point, and the steps pursued which the committee have enumerated above,
it is impossible, in the nature of things, but the army must have been cut
oft", or fallen prisoners into their hands. But, by our putting a good face upon
the matter, and showing a determination to hold both posts, they were in
duced to divide their force, in order to invest us, and reduce by the more
slow but certain method of regular approach; not that this methed was nec
essary to them, for they might most certainly havo carried us by assault at
any time. But assaults are frequently very bloody things, and on that cir
cumstance I chiefly depended for rendering my small garrison serviceable
to their country. I was in hopes the enemy would assault us, and some ac
count-! thut I had, that they were short of provisions, gave me some reason
to expect it. I depended upon my troops; I was persuaded they were brave,
and I believed they, too, had confidence in mo. Every order and every ad
vice I gave them, pointed directly to that object—and I still believe that,
had they attempted it, we should have given so good an account of them,
that the conquest of Ticonderoga would have terminated the operations of
that campaign, but conquered it would havo been after all our exertions.
Every letter I havo written holds up the same idea, and I always speak of
an attack as contradistinguished from a seige; and the character of the Gen
eral I was opposed to gave me reason to expect something by assault or
surprise. 1 mentioned to Congress, so early as the 2oth of June, the great
deficiencies in troops and provisions, and the probability of my being obliged,
from these circumstances, to evacuate. The moment I was informed, with
any tolerable degree of certainty, of their numbers, which I was not until
the 3d of July, from a prisoner and some deserters (their information was
confirmed by a spy I sent into their camp the 3d and returned the 6tli), and
saw that they meant a regular seige, I was certain the defending the posts
effectually was impossible. Tho moment, however, 1 chose for the retreat,
(1) The quotation complete is as follows:
Hie murus aSneus esto, Nil conscire »tbi, nulla pnllescere culpa.—JCp. 1. 1, 60.

tal respecting the evacuation of Ticonderoga, which I am very sen
sible must be with the greatest honor, and, when that happy period
arrives, I hope to again have the satisfaction of serving under you
as it was the only one was in my power to cheose, so it was almost the only
one after the enemy s landing at Three-Mile Point in which the retreat
could have been effected.
I have fully proven that the sick were not left behind nor lost; that
great part of the cannon, all the ammunition, the baggage and tents of the
army, the hospital stores, and part of the provisions, were removed from Ti
conderoga—as much as could at once have been removed at any prior time.
Every boat was loaded. I think I have proven it to have been necessary,
and well conducted, and that the confusion, occasioned principally by the
burning of General Fermoy s house, and his not circulating the orders to
his brigade at the proper time, was soon remedied. I beg the Court to re
flect one moment upon what was to be done, and how shert the time to do
it in I For, though the evacuation was resolved on about three o clock in the
afternoon, we could not begin to carry it into execution until night came on,
the enemy being in possession of a high hill on the opposite side of the lake,
from whence they could see our every movement that it was the season
when the nights are at the very shortest, and that it was, moreover, moon
light; and that the necessity of keeping the matter a secret, until the very
moment of evacuation, prevented any preparatory steps being taken to ex.
pedite the business, and they will be of the opinion that more was never
done, caeteris paribus, in equal time; and if, in the different embarkations,
some irregularities did happen, when every circumstance is taken in —the
suddenness of the thing; the disposition every man would naturally have
to save perhaps his little all the confusion the night alone is apt to occa
sion the distance every thing had to be carried, and their variety, the can
did mind will be more apt to wonder that any order could be preserved,
than that some irregularities supervened. I need not tell this honorable
Court that a retreat, with an inferior army, from before a superior one, is
perhaps the most dangerous and delicate undertaking in the whole circle of
military operations, and that it never will be effected without prudence,
fortitude, and secrecy. I hope I have satisfied the Court that I could not
order the evacuation until the last moment, when I saw no alternative be
twixt that and the certain loss of the army. I think I have proven that
that moment was arrived, as one day more would probably have completed
the investment of the posts, and then it would have been impossible. I
have proven that my motive was not to avoid the enemy, but to save the
army, and, by removing them to a place where reinforcements could reach
them, to make them as a basis of a force sufficient to cover the country, and
check the progress of the enemy; and this 1 did with the certainty of a
loss of reputation, the price few people are willing to pay even for the pros
perity of their country. I, indeed, expected it would be a temporary loss
only, nor will it be more, though it has already been of much longer dura
tion than I looked for; and I fear the so long delaying to afford me an op
portunity to vindicate my character, is not very likely to induce others who

in the army, as nothing could give me greater pleasure. My dear
Sir, let me hear from you as soon as possible. In the meantime, be
assured none wishes you more happiness than your most obedient
humble servant.
may happen in like circumstances to make a similar sacrifice. My letter to
Congress, of the 14th of July, proves that I foresaw the events that would
probably happen, and which must have had some effect upon my determina
tion.
"Indeed, from the knowledge I had of the country through which General
Burgoyne had to advance, the difficulties I knew he would be put to to sub
sist his army, and the contempt he would naturally have for an enemy
wheso retreat I concluded he would ascribe to fear, 1 made no doubt he
would soon be so far engaged, as that it would be difficult for him either to ad
vance or retreat. The event justified my conjecture, but attended with con
sequences beyond my most sanguine expectations. A fatal blow given to
the power and insolence of Great Britain, a whole army prisoners, and the
reputation of the arms of America high in every civilized part of the
world! But what would have been the consequences had not the steps
been taken, and my army had been cut to pieces or taken prisoners? Dis
grace would have been brought upon our arms and our counsels, fear and
dismay would have seized upon the inhabitants, from the false opinion that
had been formed of the strength of these posts, wringing grief and moping
melancholy would have filled the now cheerful habitations of those whose
dearest connections were in that army, and a lawless host of ruffians, set
loose from every social tie, would have roamed at liberty through the defenseless
country, whilst bands of savages would have carried havoc, devastation,
and tenor before them! Great part of the Stat1) of New York must have
submitted to the conqueror, and in it he could have found the means to
enable him to prosecute his success. He would have been able effectually to
have co-operated with General Howe, and would probably have soon been
in the same country with him; that country where our illustrious General,
with an inferior force, made so glorious a stand, but who must have been
obliged to retire if both armies came upon him at once, or might have been
forced, perhaps, to a general and decisive action in unfavorable circumstances,
whereby the hopes, the now well-founded hopes of America, of liberty, of peace
and safety, might have been cut off forever. Every consideration seems to
prove the propriety of the retreat, that I could not undertake it sooner, and
that, had it been delayed longer, it had been delayed too long."
The Court, having duly considered the charges against Major-General St.
Clair, and the evidence, are unanimously of opinion that he is Not Quilty
of either of the charges against him, and do unanimously acquit him of all
and every of them with the highest honor. B. Lincoln, President. The Court adjourned without day.
1He received the brevet of Brigadier-General immediately after deliv
ering General Gates s dispatches to Congress, announcing the victory over
Burgoyne.

Marquis de Lafayette to General St. Clair.
On Board of tiie Alllvnce,
Boston, 9th January, 1779.
Dear Sir —I have received the letter 1 you have honored me with,
and most heartily thank you for it, and for the sending of the pro
ceedings of your court-martial. I hope I need not to tell you how
much my heart was interested in any thing which happened to you,
and how much I rejoiced, not that you are acquitted, but that at
length your conduct was examined. My own sentiments did not want
the confirmation for admiring your behavior and your talents; but I sin
cerely give joy to your country, that, notwithstanding all cabals,
due jitstice is at last paid to such a citizen and soldier as you are.
Your justification will be duly known in France as soon as I arrive
there.
Farewell, my dear Sir do not forget me, and believe me, with
an equal esteem, regard and friendship.
P. S. —I wish you could come to see me in France, and receiv
ing you there would be a true happiness to me.
General St. Clair to Robert Morris.
Camp at Whitemarsii, November 13th, 1777.
Sir —The resolution of the Board of War, respecting the provid
ing necessaries for the army, which was last night communicated by
the General 2 to a council of war, has occasioned my troubling you
with this. They desire the General to take from the inhabitants all
the blankets, shoes, and other necessaries they can possibly spare
that he appoint proper officers to make the collection, and that no
great regard be paid to the circumstances of the disaffected. I can
not bring myself to think that any effectual supply for the army
can possibly be procured in this manner indeed, I do not believe
an adequate supply of blankets can in any manner be obtained, and
the gentlemen who compose that Board seem to have forgotten how
much the inhabitants of this State have already been stripped of
the article of blankets; so much, however, I am certain it has been
the case, that very many families will sensibly feel the effects of it
1 Lafayette was about to sail for France, for the purpose of inducing the
Court of that country to give more active assistance to the American cause.
The letter was not found among the St. Clair papers.
2 General "Washington.

this winter. The troops of many of the neighboring States, as well
as our own, have been supplied by them, which is the reason that
almost two-thirds of the militia who are got into the field come un
provided with that article. How reasonable soever it may appear
that the disaffected part of the inhabitants should be compelled to
contribute beyond conveniency, as the Board have pointed out no
criterion whereby to determine their disaffection, I can not help
thinking it improper it should be left to the judgment of the offi
cers who may be appointed, as, let their acquaintance be as extensive
as can reasonably be supposed, they must necessarily be ignorant,
both of the principles and circumstances of great numbers and, if
they are to depend upon information, it is not improbable it will
often proceed from malice and private pique. The New England
States have never contributed a single blanket towards the general
supply of the army and, I believe, generally their own troops have
been furnished with those that were imported. Their country pro
duces a great quantity of wool, and the inhabitants make many
blankets. They, therefore, must be in a situation to contribute to
the wants of the army more effectually, and with less inconvenience,
than this country, that has already been stripped almost naked, and
that, from its posts being so strictly guarded, is cut off from any re
cruit from abroad. If there is reason for dealing severely with the
disaffected, I am persuaded they are not in fewer numbers nor in
worse circumstances in New England than in Pennsylvania, howso
ever immaculate some people may endeavor to make us believe it.
Be that as it may, I am persuaded the collecting them in the man
ner prescribed for Pennsylvania would not be thought eligible for
New England, and I can not help wishing that some other may be
devised, if another contribution must be made here, as that may be
very unequal and oppressive, and will certainly be highly irritating.
The people are already not a little jealous of the army, and such an
exertion of what will appear to them military power, cau not but
produce mischievous effects. It is certain, however, that the army
cau not possibly keep the field in this severe season which is just at
hand without a supply of clothing. The difficulties that seem to
attend it for this trifling army would lead to a train of thought
which I do not like to indulge, and would by no means trouble you
with.
The utmost that can possibly be expected from this State is to
provide for their own troops, and what may be drawn from the in
habitants should not be diverted into other channels.

General St. Clair to Joseph Reed, President of Penn
sylvania.
Camp near Van Ness s Bridge, February 21st, 1779.
Sir:—The bearer, Major Mentgiz, after much solicitation, has ob
tained leave to go to Philadelphia in order to make his claim to the
Committee of Arrangements. He and Major Murray conceive
themselves to be injured by the promotion of Major Nichols, and I
do myself the honor to inclose you the representations they have
made to me on that head Nothing would satisfy him but his going
to Philadelphia to make them in person, to which the General1 at
last reluctantly consented. You will probably be troubled likewise,
in a few days, with the claims, I should rather say demands, of the
officers of the First Regiment with regard to Captain McKissie.
Upon his arrival, two of the officers waited upon me to acquaint me
that all the officers had determined to resign in case Captain Mc
Kissie insisted on availing of the appointment he had received." I
advised them to a decent representation of their rights to the Board
of War, assuring them that if, through any mistake or inadvertence,
they had been injured, they might depend upon redress, putting
them, at the same time, in mind of the hardships of captivity, and
fhat the rule they seemed to wish established for Captain McKissie
might operate hereafter against some one, or all of themselves—in
answer to which I received a letter, signed by three Captains, the
Captain-Lieutenant and six Lieutenants, which is nearly all the
officers p-eseut with the regiment, in which they formally resign
their commissions, declaring they are determined not to serve a
moment under what they deem an imposition. Their pretensions
are founded on the resolve of Congress, that directs the promotion
to be regimental up to a certain rank. It gives me great pain to see
such a spirit of cabal prevail amongst the troops of our State, for
I take both this and the pretensions of Majors Mentgiz and Murray
to be greatly owing to that, and, if it is given way to, it is very hard
to say where it may stop and, yet, if the resignations are accepted, it
will be very difficult to find officers to supply their places and what
adds to the misfortune, they are generally officers of approved
•General Washington.
2Captain McKissie hud been a prisoner, and the Board of "War having
decided that such hardship sheuld not work the loss of position or promotion
to officers, when exchanged he availed himself of the rule. This was resisted
by the officers in line of promotion, who had not been captured. This rule
was prolific of dissensions, notwithstanding its justice.

bravery and character. I have, however, for the present, refused
the resignations, and assured them that I would present none to his
Excellency that should ever come in like manner. This will prob
ably bring them to send a memorial to your Excellency, or the
Board of War, and I have mentioned it that you might be prepared
for it beforehand, and perhaps be able to devise some remedy.
On Monday, a person, whom the officers have agreed to recom
mend for the distribution of the stores the State have been pleased
to provide for their troops, will set out for Philadelphia, by whom
your Excellency will receive the information respecting the mode
pursued in the Maryland line you wished for. I hope, after his ar
rival, if the Council approve of him, the stores will be forwarded
without delay, as it would certainly help to allay the discontents
that too generally prevail.
One of them, I find, has arisen amongst the soldiery, from a no
tion that they have generally been returned as engaged for the war,
and this opinion has prevailed, too, amongst the officers, although
their enlistments chiefly run for three years, or during the war. I
am very clear their time of service determines with the three years 1
and that the war is only a limitation of the engagement, on a sup
position it may be over before that period elapses but you will
oblige me by informing me whether I am not mistaken.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
Camp at Millstone, March bill, 1779.
iSir :—I have the honor to inclose you somc of the resolutions of
the State of Massachusetts Bay, relative to the supply of their
troops and letters from General Scott, of New York, and the
commissary of that State, on the same subject. The resolves
of Connecticut have not yet been procured. By them you will
observe how differently the troops of these States have been
treated from those of Pennsylvania, and that in New York they
have extended their attention and bounty to the families of their
soldiers, who are supplied with the necessaries of life at very mod.
erate ratesThe same, I am told, has taken place in Mas1
This difference of opinion as to term of enlistment resulted in the mutiny
of the Pennsylvania line, which came near being disastrous to the whole
army at a most critical period. It was finally adjusted by Congress accept
ing the statement made abovo by General St. Clair, which will be more fully
explained hereafter.

sachusetts Bay. I wish I was certain that many of ours, in this
time of scarcity, were not starving.
The troops of Virginia are also supplied with necessaries at very
low prices, and, at this very time, broad-cloths and linens are sold
in camp to their officers, at as low a price as they could ever have
been purchased for; besides, they are now making up their paybooks
for six months' pay, a present from the State as some compen
sation for the depreciation of the money. This difference alone,
would sufficiently account for the dissatisfaction that so generally
prevails in the Pennsylvania line so great that the officers are
ready to seize even the shadow of a pretext to quit the service, and,
unless some remedy is very soon applied, I believe we shall have
very few officers indeed left by the opening of the campaign. An
other reason, however, is the effect of that resolve of Congress that
restrains them to one ration. It bears very hard upon them the
money they receive from those retained being so far from an equiv
alent that it will scarce purchase any thing—to such a low ebb is
our money run down, and the cursed spirit of extortion risen at
the same time in the meantime, I have heard that there are some
stores coming on. This will, I hope, convince them that they are
not altogether neglected, and nothing in my power shall be wanting
to keep them easy until further provision can be made but I very
much doubt its being in the power of the State to supply them so
amply as some of our Southern and Eastern neighbors.
The mode of oppressing the district for a regulated number of
shoes and stockings, as mentioned in General Scott s letter, it seems
to me might easily be carried into execution in Pennsylvania, and,
thereby, I think, a very considerable supply might be procured.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
March 6, 1779.
Sir:—Since I wrote you, yesterday, another very disagreeable
circumstance has occurred in our line, which I was informed of an
hour ago. The officers, it seems, have formed a committee to state
their grievances to the field officers, who were some time ago ap
pointed by General Wayne to correspond with the Committee of
Assembly. They enumerated to them several, the principal of
which, however, were the depreciated state of the money, and the
little care that has been taken to supply them, whilst the troops of
some other States, serving with them, have been very amply and

very reasonably suppliedSo far, they had reason but they have
gone farther. They complain of the half-pay establishment, and
want a provision made for the widows of such officers as have
fallen or ^nay fall in the contest, and require them to represent
these matters to the legislature of the State, and acquaint them
that, if they do not receive entire satisfaction on these jwints, on or
before the 15th of April 1 every officer of the line will then resign
their commissions into the hands of the executive council.
1Millstown Camp, March 8, 1779.
Dear General:—Agreeably to your request, I do myself the honor of
transmitting you exact copies of the two arrangements. The latter is likely
to create great uneasiness. General St. Clair has recommended a board of
field-officers to sit, and endeavor to settle it amongst themselves. We shall
have a difficult task of it. The officers are greatly irritated. Yesterday they
presented a letter to the committeo, signed in behalf of all the officers pres
ent, stating many well-founded grievances, desiring us to paint tbem in as
striking terms as possible, and to inform the House of Assembly, unless im
mediate redress is granted, they would unanimously resign their commis
sions by the 15th of April. The matter is really serious; such a step will
dissolve the division. We have written to the committee of correspondence
yesterday, informing them of the fixed determination of the officers; but I
suppose it will be treated, as we havo been, with neitlcct and contempt.
Should you incline to accept the command of the Light Corps 1 I shall
1 General Wayne had applied to General Washington for the command of the Light
Infantry in the following letter:
Philadelphia 10th Feby 1779.
Dear General
I did myself the Honor of writing to you the 20th ultimo mentioning that I was
Necessitated to he here at the Meeting of the Assembly of this State—& that I
sheu d take the Liberty of waiting on you the first of the Month for leave of absence
I was unfortunately deprived the pleasure of seeing you by passing down the
Jersey shere whilst you were on your way for Camp on the Pennsa side the
Delaware. I made a point of having my people well Comfortably Covered previous to my
leaving them—A I hepe that the Appearance of the men the Regularity Internal
Police of the City has met your Excellencies Approbation
I also Hatter myself that Gcnl St Clair will be Pleased in the Command of Troops
that alwuys have A ever will do their duty in the field—& that they on their part will
be happy under the Conduct of n Gentn to whem I chearfully give place—& Sin
cerely Esteem but at the same time I havo so much tenderness for the feelings of
the Officers that have hitherto Commanded the Pennsa lirigades, that I can t think
of Interfering with them in that point
I therefore wish to be Indulged with Command in the Light Corps—if it can take
pluoe witheut prejudice to the Service or the exclusion of an Officer of more worth
or experience—but if that can t be done. I bog your Excellency not to spend an other
theught or give yourself a Single moments Uneasiness on the Occation—but permit
me still to hepe for the Continuance of that friendship that you have hitherto hen
ored me with, and in case of an Active Campaign the Pleasure of serving near your
Person as a Voluntier.
Interim, I am with Every Sentiment of Esteem Your most Obt ifc very
Huml Sevt
Anty Wayne

I know not that in my life I have met with any thing that gave
me so much uneasiness for the time indeed, the committees that
esteem it a singular happiness to be honored with a command under you. 1
received a letter some days since from Colonel Magaw, on Long sland; he
desires his compliments. And believe me, dear General, your most obedient,
humble servant, Josiah Harmae.
To General Wayne.
An examination of the communications of General Washington to Con
gress, during the winter of 1779, will show how widespread was the dissatis
faction in the army. "I have more than once intimated," suid he, that
even a dissolution of the army is not an improbable event, if some effectual
measures were not taken to render the situation of the officers more com
fortable." "The patience of the officers has been along time nourished by the
hope that some adequate provision was in contemplation. Though nothing
satisfactory has hitherto been done, their hopes have been still kept alive;
but this can not be much longer the case, and when they come once to fix
an opinion that they have nothing to expect, they will no longer combat the
necessity that drives them from the service." "Indeed, not to multiply ar
guments upon a subject so evident, it is a fact not to be controverted that
the officers can not support themselves with their present pay; that neces
sity will oblige them to leave the service unless better provided for; and
that remaining in it, those who have no fortunes will want the common ne
cessities of life, and these whe have fortunes, must ruin them." This is fol
lowed by an appeal to provide half-pay for the officers, and pensions for
their families in case of their death. The chief cause for the distress was
the depreciated currency, which was daily becoming worse. This crisis had
been hastened by the folly of Congress in insisting on short enlistments in
obedience to the demands of New England, where the pride was in the
militia. Had my advice respecting this matter," said Washington to Joseph
Reed, in 1779, been pursued in the years 1775 and 1776, our money would
have been upon a very different establishment in point of credit to what it
is at this day, and we should have saved millions of pounds in bounty
money, and the consequent evils of expiring armies and new levies."
The rapidity of the depreciation and increase of distress is shown in a
sentence or two: "An attempt has been made," wrote Keed, in 1777, "to
give the old paper money the currency of gold and silver, but it does not
succeed. While beef is sold for 2s. 6d. per pound in gold and silver, they ask
4s. and 4s. (3d. in paper." In 1779, beef was 10s. per pound in Baltimore, the
cheapest market in the Colonies; butter, four dollars per pound, and hay
from £90 to £120 per ton.
The representations of St. Clair and the officers under him moved the
General Assembly of Pennsylvania to attempt to do something to relieve
the distress and discontent. On the 13th of March [see Journals of Assembly,
pp. 335-36], resolutions were adopted, giving to every Pennsylvania officer
who received the seven years' half-pay from Congress, a continuation of the
samo during life, with pensions to their widows, and exempting all lands
given to officers and soldiers from taxation. In the following year, these

have been from time to time formed in the army I ever had a bad
opinion of, and dreaded ill consequences from. They are certainly
destructive of that subordination which is the soul of discipline,
and will spread the spirit of mutiny and disobedience through the
whole. Unfortunately, our circumstances will not admit of our
applying the proper remedy it is, therefore, necessary to temporize,
and I have accordingly shown every mark of disapprobation that
did not tend directly to inflame the evil, and by promising to write
myself, and desiring the field officers to write by representing to
them the impossibility that the Legislature would yet have had
time to take up and consider the grievances they suffered, that had
already been stated to them and the probability that before the
time they had specified, they would be convinced of their sincere in
tentions to make their situation as easy as any of their fellowsoldiers,
have, I hope, put a stop to a combination ruinous to our
public affairs, and disgraceful both to the State and to the parties,
but which had it once been gone into, the principles of false honor
might have led them religiously to observe. At the same time, it
is my duty to inform you explicitly that their complaints are but
too well founded that I believe necessity has, in a great measure,
compelled them to the steps they have taken and their distresses
are aggravated by the comparisons which are constantly before them,
which must inevitably sour the minds of men of spirit, who have
the consciousness of having literally borne the heat and burden of
the day.
It might serve to elucidate their disagreeable situation if I were
to give you a detail of the prices which things in general bear. It
would be tedious, however, and I will only say that most articles
are as high as in the market of Philadelphia, and some much higher.
Judge of the rest from this circumstance—a dozen of eggs can not
be purchased for less than two dollars.
Having mentioned the ill consequences of combination for any
provisions were embodied in a statute. [Sec 1 Smith s Lawn, 487 1 This
prompt action prevented the dissolution of the Pennsylvania line.
The chief credit for this happy event is due to St. Clair and his friend,
Judge Thomas Smith, who at that time was a member of the General As
sembly. In n letter from him to General St. Clair, under date of March
27th, I find this paragraph: "I hope my friend will join with me in ex
pressing his approbation of our resolves with regard to the army. Immedi
ately on the receipt of your letter, I made the motion on which they are
founded." "The same committee that brought them in, brought in some
others yesterday, as well for the benefit of the recruiting service, as to ex
tend the operations of our first resolves more generally."
30

purpose whatever, amongst our officers, I can not help taking no
tice, in extenuation, though it serves to confirm the principle of their
danger, that the officers of our State have been led into this by the
example of those of New Jersey, who, some time ago, made a simi
lar representation, which produced an immediate resolve of the
Council for issuing a very considerable sum of money for their
relief.
I am sure I need not press you on this head, but give me leave
to repeat that it is necessary something should be done immediately,
or there is too much reason to fear the dissolution of our parf of the
army. No exertions of mine shall be wanting to prevent so great
a calamity and though it is a misfortune to have come to the com
mand of it at this trying period, if I can steer happily through it,
and render any service to my country, I shall not regret any pains
it will cost me.
Your favor of the 28th ult. is this moment come to hand, and
the stores were yesterday at Trenton. They will arrive in a happy
time, and I hope by a proper distribution of them to make matters
easier. It must have the effect to convince the officers that the
State does not entirely neglect them, and will keep alive expectation,
the best handle by which the human mind can be laid hold of; and
I shall not fail to make the officers acquainted with the pains you
have taken to serve them in this business.
The disputed claims of the officers the General has referred to
ourselves, and to-morrow the field officers will meet upon it at my
quarters, when I hope we shall be able to hit upon some mode that
will please all parties, which, by the by, will not be very easy, in
terest and obstinacy generally appearing under one banner.
If any attempts have been made to engage the gentlemen of the
army in the parties that unhappily distract our State, it is altogether
unknown to me 1 nor will it ever meet with my countenance aud
although I have always been, from principle, opposed to our present
Constitution, of which I have never made a secret (and in private
lite would have joined in any measures that promised to bring about
an amendment), yet, whenever it appears to be the choice of the
majority of my fellow-citizens, I shall consider it as my duty to ac1
While tin; party feeling seems to have been kept from General St. Clair,
nevertheless the violence of partyism then raging and distracting the citi
zens of Pennsylvania, on account of the defects of the Constitution of 1776,
did reach the soldiers under him, as the correspondence of his subordinates
shows. But the prevailing sentiment was in accord with that expressed by
St. Clair.

quiesce. My opposition never arose from a dislike to men, but be
cause I thought it contained principles unfavorable to liberty, and
must inevitably sooner or later end in a tyranny of the worst kind.
That pettishness that quarrels with a government on account of
those who happen for the time to administer it, is unworthy a man
of sentiment and reflection.
I am very s:irry that the letters of Colonels Butler, Harmar and
Hay should have been so expressed as to admit of a construct inn
I am persuaded they did not intend. I will have an explanation of
that matter as soon as I can see them.
President Reed to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, April 2&th, 1779.
Dear Sir:—Your favor should not have been so long unanswered.
The variety of intrusted business has very much engrossed my at
tention. When I proposed an alteration in the mode of distribu
tion of the articles sent to camp, I was not aware of the difficulty
you suggest, but that may be easily got over, if upon consideration
you think the system may be altered for the better. The real
scarcity as well as the extravagant prices demanded, will undoubt
edly, at times, occasion some interruption of a regular supply, and
I would wish you to give it some share of attention, and propose
whatever may occur to you as an improvement. The plan you
mention of a regular return of the names of the men, and the
articles chosen by them, I very much approve, and as it is a very
heavy article of expense to the State, it will give me satisfaction if
the officers will sec that there are no irregularities. Women and
children, wagoners, etc., and staff officers, will be considered as
entitled, and I hope the officers will see that no improper persons
are borne on the returns.
Congress have directed the recruiting service to go on, and with
the privileges now given, I think some good recruits may be had, if
the bounty could be given, but the demands upon the treasury are
now so great as to baffle every means of supply, and we have not
been able to draw one shilling for the service.
You say there is a desire prevalent at camp for the taking of some
public measures in respect to deserters, and I have had it in con
templation to issue a proclamation, specifying the reward, and en
couraging them to bring them up, but if you can suggest any other
stimulus we shall be glad to make use of it.

Pennsylvania has had a pretty smart struggle since I saw you,
with the august assembly, which dues us the honor of residing
amongst us. I thought at one time we must have come to au open
breach, but more temperate means prevailed, livery step suggested
by us was adopted, with some little partialities to General Arnold,
which his friends at last worried Congress into. However, we ap
proved the course of the business on the whole, only wishing that
all the charges against him could have been brought before the
court-martial; for we have such a confidence in the Whiggism and
good sense of the officers, as to believe it desirable that all his pro
ceedings here should be directed to public view. His friends in
Congress got three [four] of the points withdrawn,' as not being
proper to go before a court-martial, adverting to one of the articles
of war, which says: "That conduct unbecoming a gentleman and
an officer, is not a proper subject for inquiry before a court-martial."
The time allowed for the trial was far too short to procure the nec
essary attendance of witnesses. I have, therefore, wrote to the
General to fix a time more convenient the 1st of June would be a
much more convenient time. I should be glad if you would if not
improper, represent this more strongly to the General than a letter
could. Considering the connections between Mr. Dunn and General
Arnold, and Mr. Dunn and L I should hope L may not be
upon the court-martini 1
The Assembly did not transmit us the resolution which you men
tioned. Congress can not answer the demands of the Commissaries'
and Quartermasters' Department, and of the money we are to re.
ceive, we can only get it in small sums. In consequence of your
1 After the evucuntion of Philadelphia by thu British, General Arnold was
placed in command of the city. "Instead of making the exercise of the
military authority, with which he was invested for a temporary purpose, as
agreeable as possible to the citizens and to the local authorities Arnold, according
to all concurrent testimony, administered the military trust with
insolence." The result was, the Kxccutive Council of Pennsylvania pre
ferred eight distinct charges against him, implying neglect of duty or abuse
of power, which were laid before Congress. An investigation was ordered,
pending which high words passed between Congress and the State Assembly.
Arnold having strong supporters in the former body. The result was a
compromise, and it was agreed that four of the charges should be sent to
General Washington, for hearing before a court-martial. The military
court did not meet until January, 1780, and Arnold was convicted on two
of the charges. After that, be was placed in command of West Point, at
his request. When his treason was discovered, evidence was produced,
showing that he had conducted a treasonable correspondence with Sir Henry
Clinton, while in Philadelphia.

letter of the 17th, I directed Farmer to forbear rending any sup
plies till further orders; he had put off a cargo the day before, which
I did not think it necessary to countermand. I hope they got safe
to hand.
We have nothing new here but what, coming from the eastward,
must pass through your camp.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, 23iZ March, 1779.
Dear Sir:—For the more speedy assembling of the militia upon
an emergency, I have agreed with the field-officers, in this and the
next county, to erect beacons upon the most conspicuous hills, the
firing of which is to be the signal for them to repair to their dif
ferent alarm posts. You will be pleased, therefore, to order a party
from your division, consisting of an officer and twenty-four men, with
axes and four days' provisions, to be ready to-morrow morning, at
eight o clock, to proceed to a remarkable hill near Princeton, to erect
a hcacon there. One Burrel will attend as a guide. The beacon is
to be constructed of logs, in form of a pyramid, sixteen or eighteen
feet square at the bottom, and eighteen or twenty feet high, the
inner part to be filled with brush.
General St. Clair to Colonel Mehelm 1
Camp at Millstone, March 31st, 1779.
Sir:—I received yours of this date, and have only to tell you, in
1Commissary of hides. I have u double purpose in view in giving place
to the above letter: Fiist, to shew that St. Clair had no mercy for those whe
sought to profit by the misfortunes of their country. In the letters of Wash
ington and St. Clair, during the darkest days of the war, will be found words
of honest indignation for tho-e whe took advantage of the people s necessi
ties to amass wealth. The departments of the army, from which supplies
were drawn, were notoriously corrupt. Secondly, to shew to what straits the
Americans, whose means for obtaining foreign supplies were precarious, were
reduced at this time. On one of the closing days of the year 1778, the fol
lowing entry was made in the Orderly Book: "The Commander-in-Chief
offers a reward often dollars to any person who shall by nine A. M. on Mon
day, produce the best substitute for shoes, made of rawhides. The commis
sary of hides is to furnish the hides, and the Major-General of the day is to
judge of the essays, and to assign the reward to the best article."—See Writ
ings of Washington, Vol. V. p. 1 07.

answer thereto, that the orders I have given for hides were by Gen
eral Washington s directions that the time of contracting for them
I know nothing about, nor the delivery, both having happened before
I took command in the Pennsylvania line; nor do I see the
least necessity either for the shoes being delivered to you or to the
clothier-general. I conceive neither you nor he can be entitled to
any commission upon a transaction made with the General s appro
bation, in which you have no part, and that delivery, and the pro
posed receipts, seem calculated for that end alone. I have in all
the orders I have given desired the amount might be charged to the
regiments, by which they would properly appear in your accounts,
and the public know where to get payment. I make no construc
tions upon general orders, and I expect you will now inform me, ex
plicitly, whether you will deliver the hides or not.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Middlebrooe, 267/1 May, 1779.
Dear Sir:—My intelligence from New York1 renders it indis
pensably necessary for me to look towards the posts in the Highlands.
As your division has been inspected, I wish you to hold it
in the most perfect readiness for marching and encamping at an
hour s warning. For these purposes you will settle matters with
the Quartermaster-General. As it is much my wish to have the
1 General "Washington formed ihe opinion, early in the spring, tlmt the
British contemplated some important movement besides the operations alreadv
undertaken against South Carolina and Georgia, and the const of Vir
ginia, and lie made such dispositions of his small force as he could to meet
tlio emergency. He had sixteen thousand men—three thousand under Gates
in New England, six thousand, a part under McDougall, who was com
pleting the fortifications at West Point, and a part under Putnam on the
east side of the Hudson, and seven thousand under his own immediate com
mand at Middlebrook. There were indications of n movement on the Con
necticut coast, but it was probable that the chief design of the enemy was to
possess himself of the passes in the Highlands, which, as he coutrolled the
navigation of the Hudson, seemed ea«y of accomplishment or to take pos
session of West Point and Middlebrook, so as to keep the American forces
divided. With his inferior force, and without the aid of a naval force,
Washington could only act on the defensive. His operations were limited
to securing the important passes on the Hudson, and affording protection to
the country. In May, he ordered General St. Clair to move his division
forward to support McDougall, while he prepared to follow with the rest of
his troops.

troops in the best possible condition for the campaign, I shall de
pend upon you (principally) and the officers commanding brigades
and regiments in your division to see that the orders of the 17th of
April are strictly complied with, so far as they relate to their re
spective commands.
Official Instructions to St. Clair.
Headquarters, Middlebrook, 29</i May, 1779.
Sir:—You will be pleased to march immediately with the divis
ion under your command, by way of Quibble Town and Scotch
Plains, and take post on the heights between Springfield and
Chatham, till further orders, or till some enterprize of the enemy
shall make a sudden movement necessary.
If you should receive authentic advice of the enemy s operating
up the North River, against our posts in that quarter, you are in
stantly to advance to their support, without waiting orders from me,
ouly giving me notice of your movement. You will pursue the
route by Pcmpton, keeping up a correspondence with General McDougall,
or officer commanding in the Highlands, and regulating
your march according to circumstances and the information you re
ceive, advising me, from time to time, of your progress and views.
You will preserve the strictest discipline, and endeavor to prevent
every kind of injury to the persons and property of the inhabitants.
You will also take uncommon care to lay open no inclosures of grass
or grain, more than arc absolutely necessary for the purposes of
forage.
I recommend it to your particular attention, without delay, to
have officers of talents, attention, and industry nominated to
officiate as sub and brigade inspectors, and to improve every inter
val of leisure to have the new regulations for the order and dis
cipline of the troops carried. into execution as speedily as possible.
You arc sensible of the importance and necessity of a system.
V~

General "Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Middle Brook, 31st May, 1779.
Dear Sir: —I have received information that the enemy were at
White Plains on the 20th. You. will, therefore, be pleased to pro
ceed immediately with your division toward Pompton, actingafter
ward agreeably to the instructions you have already received. It
is probable you will be joined there by Colonel Clark, with the
Carolina troops. I have sent him orders to meet you at that place,
subject to this condition, that they are not to contravene any direc
tions he may have received or shall receive from General McDougall,
to whose orders he has all along been subject. I shall put the
Virginia division in motion to follow you as soonjas possible.
P. S. —Since writing the above, I have received a line from Gen
eral McDougall, informing me that he had ordered Clark to the
Fort.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
SrRinGFiei D, May 31st. —10 o clock r. M.
Sir:—Previous to the receipt of your Excellency s letter of this
day (which arrived about four hours ago), whilst I was examining
the grounds pointed out for the division to take post in, I met with
Colonel Ogden, who informed me he had seen a person from New
York last night, that might be depended on, who informed him
that the whole of the enemy s army were marched toward White
Plains; that a quantity of fascines were embarked on board same
vessels in the East River, and many more prepared and laving at
the Narrows, on both sides of the river, which were expected to be
embarked this day of which, if I had had the means in my power,
I should have given you information sooner. This seems to agree
with the intelligence your Excellency has received, and particularly
marks a design upon the posts in the Highlands. But they may
have other objects, to prevent the junction of our army on either
side the North River or, failing in that, having drawn our atten
tion to prevent their effecting it, to make a sudden movement to
ward New London, which, when considered in itself, although a
place of little consequence in the general scale, is of much impor
tance both to them and to us. Be these as they may, I shall move
very early to-morrow to the northward. Two routes, however, lie
before me, that under the Newark Mountains, and that above it,
and both will come within my instructions, viz., to reach Pompton.

I presume your Excellency intended Pompton Meeting House, on
the Plains. Taking the lower road, I am satisfied, would give most
satisfaction to the country, hut as you have been pleased not to give
me an express route to that place, I have determined upon the up
per one, for these reasons we can arrive sooner at the place where
we can be of service if the enemy s designs are against the posts in
the Highlands, and we avoid some difficulties that might arisefrom
the enemy s landing a party and possessing themselves of the coun
try about Paramus, knowing, as I presume they will, that part of
the army only are in motion the Pissarche River in front, and the
mountains on our flank, are, I am informed, at particular places only,
practicable. At all events I shall not be able to move above ten or
twelve miles to-morrow, on account of provisions. The commissaries,
depending upon some supplies here, ia which they having been dis.
appointed, are obliged to send some of their wagons back to the
magazine. I inclose a certificate of one of them, by which your
Excellency will be able to judge bow fast we may be expected to
move, for I am not informed of any magazines on my route. But
if it is in the country, within reach, unless you forbid it, it shall be
taken, and not wantonly.
I beg leave to repeat the necessity of a few horses many would
oulv incumber us. The artillery, for the present, is fully sufficient,
and even those, should circumstances require us to act amongst the
bills, I should wish to be clear of.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Middlebrooe, June 1st, 1770.
Dear Sir:—I duly received your two letters1 of yesterday. I ap
prove your reasons for taking the upper route.
By the present institution of the inspectorship, neither Major
Rvan nor Mr. McCormick can, in my opinion, be appointed inspec
tors. It is to be feared, however, we may be reduced to the neces
sity of altering it, from the reluctance with which the majors under
take the office. But I could wish it might proceed as it stands.
If an alteration should take place, that will permit Major Ryan to
act in this line hereafter; the opinion I have of his qualifications
will make it entirely agreeable to me. It is hardly probable any
change so extensive should take place ns will admit Mr. McCormick,
1 Only one of tlieso is to by found among Hie St. Clnir papers.

but, if I recollect right, there is ia resolve of Congress providing
that brigade majors shall act as aid-de-camps to the brigadiers, with
the same rank and pay. I do not find this resolve among my pi
pers, but am making inquiry for it.
I wish Colonel Harmar1 may be induced to accept the sub-inspec
torship. I think he will answer the purpose well. It is unlucky
there is not found greater alacrity among the officers to enter into
the inspection. It is certainly a line which affords a handsome op
portunity for the display of talents, and the acquisition of military
knowledge and practice.
You observe that the enemy, among other objects, may have it
in view to prevent a junction of our force. This is an important
idea, and ought to have due influence in our movements.
I have ordered a non-commissioned officer and eight dragoons, of
the Massachusetts corps, to join you immediately.
I send you a little sketch that will serve to give you an idea of
the country you are in.
P. S.—I have also directed the Quartermaster-General to send two
or three express orders to you.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Middlebrook, June 2d, 1779.
Sir:—I have received your letter1 of this date at half-past eight.
The Virginia division marched this day with orders to endeavor
to reach Morristowu to-morrow, and to communicate with you and
proceed according to intelligence and circumstances. You will be
pleased (o open a correspondence with the commanding officer for
this purpose.
1 See Washington to St. Clair, 30th May. The latter had suggested that
applications might be presented for Kyan and McCormick. Washington
still found embarrassments in thequartermuslerand commissary departments.
Although Greene, who was at the head of the former, and Wadsworth of
the latter, yet subordinates appointed by Congress were many of them in
capable or dishonest. The Commander-in-Chief attempted to influence
Colonel Harmar, and othir officers of well-known integrity, to accept sub
ordinate places, but in vain. The reluctance to make such a sacrifice ex
pressed in a question asked of Washington by Greene, controlled all of the
officers whe preferred active duty. Whe ever heard," asked Greene, "of
a Quartermaster-General in history?"
2 Not 

To-morrow, if possible, the Maryland division will march also,
and by the same route.
I send you a small addition of cavalry.
I rely entirely on your prudence and judgment for taking such
measures as the exigency of the case shall require. So soon as the
last troops move, I shall come immediately forward to join you by
the way of Pluckamine and Morristown.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Pompton, 3d June, 1779. —7 o clock a. m.
Sir:—Colonel Burr arrived here about three o clock from General
McDougall, and brings intelligence of the surrender of the fort
upon Verplanck s Point yesterday, about eleven o clock, by capitu
lation. The garrison are prisoners of war, and the officers have
liberty to wear their side-arms.
I have no letter from General MeDougall but he is clearly of
opinion the enemy mean to attack the posts (at least Fort Arnold 1
the carrying of which would open to them the navigation of the
river) in the Highlands. Colonel Burr informs n c that, by landing
near where Fort Montgomery stood, and marching to the Forest of
Dean, they would fall into a clove, which runs entirely round that
ridge on which the forts are situated, and through which a road
might be made almost as fast as an army could march. By this
clove, General McDougall thinks, the forts will be invested. Be
twixt this clove and Smith s is a chain of hideous mountains, but
through them are, no doubt, many passes, with which they may be
made acquainted by the inhabitants, whom they have debauched,
and would thereby he able to give much annoyance to any convoys
that might pass by Smith s, supposing it necessary to make use of
that road.
It seems to be General MeD Kigali's wish that I should move to
New Windsor, and he thinks that the occupying Butter Hill might
prevent the attack upon Fort Arnold from the upper side. At the
same time, the state of the provision is very alarming not much
above three weeks in the respective forts, and the militia called in,
and their principal dependence for further supplies is upon their
being transported across the country from Sussex or Delaware.
I think I could easily reach New Windsor, or at least be so far
advanced through the clove as to be out of all danger of being in1Fort
Arnold was ut West Point. r

tercepted 1 But it is necessary first to have intelligence from the
river, lest the parts of your army on this side of it should be too much
separated, and exposed to be beaten by piecemeal. This I will eudeavor
to procure, and act according to circumstances, of which I
shall take care to give your Excellency notice. Notwithstanding
the general opinion, that the forts are the enemy s object, Colonel
Burr mentions circumstances that leave it still doubtful. Their
troops are lauded at various places on the east side of the river, and
at Haverstraw on the west; and, after the surrender of the fort,
their largest armed vessel, supposed to be of eighteen guns, and a
galley, which had passed before, were seen towing down again.
As the passage through the clove is somewhat dangerous for single
persons, I shall send two horsemen back with Colonel Burr, and
shall, through him, communicate to General McDougall verbally.
It may, perhaps, be necessary to form a march through the clove,
in which case I shall leave my baggage at this place, to be forwarded
afterwards, as your Excellency may think proper.
Our provision wagons will not be able to supply us when at a
greater distauce, four only being allowed to each brigade, and three
of these broke down upon the road.
General Washington to General St. Clatr.
Middlebrooe, June 3, 1779.
Dear Sir:—I received your favor of yesterday at 10 o clock last
night, and have written to General Knox to supply the ammunition,
etc., which you waut. As the enemy, notwithstanding their demon
strations of an attack upon the Highland posts, may have it in con
templation to strike this army (comprehending your division") in its
weak and divided state, it will be expedient for you to act with the
greatest caution, and perhaps not to advance beyond Pomptou till
the other divisions get up. I do not mean, however, to restrict
your movements, but leave them to be governed by your own dis
cretion, and as circumstances may require 2
1 General St. Clair was successful in his movements, and took post at Xew
Windsor, wliieh effectually covered West Point, the most important of the
fortifications.
2General Washington set his troops in motion immediately after dispatch,
ins* the above, and reached Morristown at night, whence his Secretary,
Colonel Harrison, at half-past eleven o clock, wrote to General St. Clair,
Correspondence, Add) esses, Etc. 477
General St. Clair to General Wayne.
New Windsor, July 17, 1779.
Dear General:—It was with true pleasure that I received the
news of your success at Stony Point, on which I beg leave to pre
sent you my cordial congratulations. It is an event that makes a
very great alteration in the situation of affairs, and must have im
portant consequences, and the more glorious from its heing effected
with so little loss. It is, in short, the completest surprise I have
ever heard of.
Please to present my compliments to the gentlemen of your
family, and all our friends 1
acknowledging the receipt of u letter en route, and repealing the contents
of General Washington'* letter of the morning, lest it might hare miscarried.
Before leaving Middlubrook, General Washington wrote to the President
of Congress, informing him that the movement" of the enemy indicated an
important enterprise, and that he was hastening to the Highlands on the
Hudson as rapidly as possible. "Congress will observe, by General St.
Clair s letter, that he expected to reach Pompton last night. 'J he Virginia
division, commanded by Lord Stirling, marched yesterday for the same
place. Huron de Kalb, with the Maryland troops, follows this morning. Wo
shall press forward with all diligence, and do every thing in our power to
disappoint the enemy."
On the (3th of June, Washington informed Congress that the British had,
on the 1st, opened a battery at Stony Point, which lies on the west bido of
the Hudson, at the landing at King s Ferry, against a small detached worK
at Vcrplanck s Point, on the east side, and kept up a cannonade all day. The
garrison (the work was called Fort LaFayettej, finding themselves invested
also on the land side, surrendered at four o clock. The next day the force
on the east side, computed at five thousand, advanced to Bald Hill, below
the Continental Village, where it was expected an attack would be made on
the American forces and an attempt made to gain Nelson s Point, opposite
to Fort Arnold. This, however, was not attempted, and the enemy returned
to their former position —five theusand remaining on Verplanei.'s Point, and
one theusand at Stony Point—very busy fortifying.
The Americans took post at Smith s Cove, where General Washington
thought they were well posted for rendering assistance to West Point and
other posts, if the future operations of the enemy should be directed against
them.
1 General Washington chafed under the enforced inaction of his army,
and hoped for some opportunity to break the silence and showtothe country
that the enemy could not have it all his own way. The opportunity came
with the departure of considerable detachments from Sir Henry Clinton s
army for the purpose of making raids on Connecticut and Virginia. The
expedition to New London, which had been predicted by General St. Clair
in one of his letters to Washington, was the purpose of one of these. When r

General Washington to General St. Clair 1
New Windsor, 20th July, 1779.
Dear Sir:—You will be pleased to examine critically the long
hill in front of Fort Putnam, at the extremities of which the engi
neer is commencing some works. Colonel Gouvion or Mr. Rochefontaine
will be able more particularly to designate the hill I mean.
The possession of this hill appears to me essential to the preserva
tion of the whole past, and our main effort ought to be directed to
keeping the enemy off' of it. You will make it the alarm post for
your division in the first instance, from which, if requisite, you can
reinforce the troops in front. You will consider this hill in all its
relations, and make yourself completely master of its defense. It
will be useful that this knowledge should extend to your principal
officers and that your officers in general should be acquainted with
the ground on which they are to act. I shall be glad also you would
they were fairly under way, General Washington projected an attack on
Stony Point, in which matter he took counsel of General St. Clair. At his
request, the latter made a survey of the enemy s works, and reported on the
expediency of the attempt. On the 9th of July, General Washington asked
General Wayne, whe had on the first been ordered to advance with his light
infantry towards Fort Montgomery, to inspect the enemy s works at Stony
Point and Verplanck s, and see bow best they could be approached. On
the 10th, he was instructed to make preparations for an attack, but at
Wayne s suggestion the attempt was postponed. On the 15th, at night,
under peremptory instructions from General Washington, Wayne made the
successful and brilliant assault on Stony Point which marked him as one of
the best fighters of the army. For the best account of this action, see Dawson s
"The Assault on Stony Point."
The above letter requires to be supplemented by the following from
General Schuyler to General Wayne.
Saratoga, July 31, 1779.
Dear Sir:—Yesterday, I was honored with a line from our amiable Genoral,
advising me of the reduction of Stony Point, and dwelling on the
propriety with which it was executed. It was not the least part of my satis
faction to learn that you conducted it; and I most sincerely congratulate
you on the increase of honor which you have acquired. Such of the enemy
as have hitherto held erroneous ideas of the bravery and military prowess
of our troops, must now be perfectly convinced of their mistake.
Pray make, not my compliments only, but my love, to General St. Clair, and
especially to that great and good man, General Washington, to whom we
are all so much indebted.
1General St. Clair was at this time at West Point.

have an eye to the works to be erected, to hasten their completion
as last as possible.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
West Point, July 25th, 1779.
Sir:—Your favor of the 15th, by Mr. Broadhead, came to hand
two days ago. All the attention shall be paid to his case 1 that is
possible, and if he can be admitted into the line, it will be very
agreeable to me. His having been left out was not owing to his
being a prisoner, but to an idea that prevailed that he had de
clined all thoughts of the army, and meant to follow a mercan
tile life, in which it was confidently asserted he was engaged in that
way (the most obnoxious to the officers), known by the name of
speculation. Justice and favor, I hope, will ever govern the de
terminations of the officers when called upon to decide upon the
rights of each other, and I can assure you there does not appear the
smallest disposition to add injury to the misfortunes of those who
have been prisoners; at the same time, it is a pretty general senti
ment that the bringing in the officers of Pennsylvania taken at Fort
Washington, inco the regiments they then belonged to, is a piece
of very great injustice to the officers now of these regiments. The
places of these gentlemen having been filled up by the Council of
Safety, and the regiments now raised having nothing of the old
ones remaining but the numbers, and, in some cases, a few
of the principal officers, for whom vacancies were kept open.
1The case of Lieutenant Bruadhcnd seems to have excited deep interest.
General Washington also, under date of July 25th, asked St. Clair to prompt,
if possible, favorable action. Upon Washington s recommendation, tlio
matter was referred to a board of field officers. It would seem, from a let
ter of St. Clair s to President Keed, from West Point, August 2, 1770, the
board reported against the application, as it was found that he was precluded
by a resolution of Congress. Broadhead hud himself, unfortunately, men
tioned the resolution, of which the board were ignorant; and it was the
harder on him, as several others in the same circumstances had been intro
duced previous to that resolution.
The lollowing paragraph concludes the letter of St. Clair of that date:
"No movement in the enemy s army, of consequence, has yet taken place.
They are retired to York Island, from whence 1 think an embarkation will
soon take place, and, from some accounts 1 have received, it appears to be
destined for the eastward. However, if Sir Harry is superseded, a new plan
of operation may probably be adopted. This post will soon be in a state
that will not so much require the protection of an army."

It gives me great satisfaction to see that you have taken tip a
subject to which you can do so much justice 1 I do, for myself
and the rest of the officers, offer you my very sincere and hearty
thanks for your elegant address, in the character of a citizen of
Philadelphia, which can not fail to make impressions favorable to
the plan you are about to propose, as it has added to the grateful
sense the officers have of your attention to their interests. It is
a matter I have long wished to see some person of capacity and
influence undertake, as the situation of the officers, especially those
who have families, which is the case with a number, from the ex
orbitant prices of the necessaries of life, and the depreciated state
of our currency, is really deplorable. For my own part, it-will be
impossible for me to continue in the service without reducing
mine to beggary, as I have already siient all the money I had been
able to get beforehand, and lost upwards of twenty thousand
pounds, by the money in which I was paid for my farm.
The demands upon us for wagoners weakens the line consider
ably. (Jould not some means be devised to get wagoners from
amongst the militia? Their pay is considerable, and the service
easy. I think it is not less than twenty pounds per month.
Many of our regiments are very weak, and, in the course of this
campaign, will dwindle to nothing, and the means of recruiting
them grows every day more difficult. The people of Virginia, I
am told, raised their last recruits, to the amount of two thousand,
by taxing the several battalions of militia with a certain number
of men to be ready at a certain day, aud, in case of failure, they
were to Iw drafted, leaving it to the battalions to make what
terms they pleased with the individuals who were willing to engage.
It succeeded with them, the fear of being drafted (thereby raising
the bounty) acting on the lower class, and the same fear prompt
ing those in easy circumstances to make the bounty very consid
erable. Would not some such scheme succeed with us? The seventv-fivc
dollars allowed by Congress to the recruiting officers might
be applied as part of the bounty.
1 This refers to a plan which President Heed bad formed for securing leg
islative provision for the officers and their families, either in lands or in
money, lie not only created public sentiment for it by communication* in
the newspapers, but in his address to the Assembly, on tlio 9th September,
he pressed tlio subject upon the attention of the Representatives. It was
through the efforts of Mr. Reed and Judge Thomas Smith, the very hand
some provision made by Pennsylvania (which a year later was dwelt upon
by Washington us a model for other States) was secured.

I am very happy to inform you that the uneasiness that pre
vailed amongst the soldiery, with respect to the time they stood
engaged for, is at an end. The present made by Congress, of two
hundred dollars, to those who were engaged prior to January last,
came most opportunely, and was made so good use of, that the
whole, very nearly, have accepted it, signing, at the same time, an
acknowledgment that they were enlisted during the war, so that
I have the strongest hope we shall be no more troubled with mu
tinies, conventions, and desertion, which had risen to a very alarming
height, and threatened very serious consequences.
This will be delivered by Captain Ziegler, who goes for a further
supply. A small guard is necessary for an escort, but, as we know
not how soon all the men we have may be wanted, he goes without
one, trusting that a few of the invalids might be sent up with him,
who would answer the purpose perfectly well, and save so many
men from the line. Some of them might also serve as State men
and assistants to the commissaries, which we are obliged to furnish,
and which takes from us some of our best sergeants.
The reduction of Stony Point you have received an account of.
It was a very gallant action, and reflects great honor upon General
Wayne and all the officers, both for the vigor and intrepidity with
which it was executed, and the humanity and generosity with which
the prisoners were treated. There is not an instance of a place
carried by assault where so few of the defendants have been put
to death. My friend, Colonel Butler, commanded one of the at
tacks, and distinguished himself. The enemy have again taken post
there, but not, I think, with an intention to hold it, but the better
to cover the evacuation of the post on the opposite shore, which
they will probably soon abandon. But, be that as it may, they are
certainly on the eve of some important movement, their whole army,
the garrisons of these posts excepted, being drawn down to King s
Bridge, and dispositions made, it is said, for evacuating New York.
Will you please, sir, to present my most respectful compliments
to Mrs. Reed and the ladies of your family 1
1 President Reed replied to the above letter nt length, August 8th, approv
ing, very warmly, all the suggestions contained in it. He hoped the plan
for providing for the officers who had been prisoners would be successful
"I know it is not popular to urge their claims," said he, '-but I trust I am
not actuated by any other motives than those of justice and duty." "Tour
attention to accounts for recruiting are very acceptable to us, and I am sure
will be so to the Assembly, for amidst such waste of public money an officer
assisting his country in this respect is rara avis in terris. I am glad to
31

General Greene to General St. Clair.
West Point, August 4th, 1779.
Sir :—I have been writing, and am now writing to all the general
officers, on a subject which respects myself.
When I was appointed Quartermaster-General, I made a special
reserve of my rank, and, consequently of my command. In the late
arrangement, I have no particular command designated me. This
I conceive to be an injury, and, therefore, have appealed to the
officers to learn their sentiments upon two points. First, whether
my right to command, in consequence of my rank, in not unques
tionable. Secondly, whether any officer, upon just military prin
ciples, will have reason to complain of an injury from my exercising
command, in time of action, agreeable to my rank.
To these two points I wish you to give your sentiments. There
can be numberless instances adduced in answer to my claim from the
custom and usages of other armies but the particular reserve I
made, I should suppose puts the matter out of all doubt.
If an officer is to lose his command, and be totally excluded from
the honors of the line, in consequence of being appointed Quarter
master-General, it will be a bar against any officer of rank accepting
the appointment. That an officer of rank is necessary at the head
of this business, everybody must be sensible.
I have collected the opinions of several of the officers. They are
clear and decided in my favor, upon the right and propriety of my
claim. Your opinion will much oblige your friend.
General St. Clatr to General Greene.
West Point, AuguM 10ft, 1779.
Sir :—I now sit down to answer your favor of the 4th instant,
which was brought to my quarters when I was absent, and I have
not before had leisure to consider the subject of it.
You desire my opinion upon two points. First, whether your
right to command, in consequence of your rank, is not unquestion
able. Secondly, whether any officer (upon just military princi
ples) will have reason to complain of your exercising command
agreeably to your rank in time of action.
hear thut you hnvo composed the minds of the old soldiers; one of them is
worth three new ones."

As to the first, it is certain that a right to command is a conse
quence of rank, where there is not an exception, express or implied
both of which may happen. Sometimes, rank is merely honorary,
and the exception to command taken expressly in the appointment,
as I believe was the case with General Wilkinson s. It is implied
where the acceptance of a staff" office destroys both rank and com
mand, but the rank is reserved in the appointment. This I take to
be the case with you, as it was also with your predecessor, General
Mifflin.
The intention of Congress in these reservations seem to have been
that the serving in the office of Quartermaster-General should not
throw the gentlemen who might fill that station out of the line of
the army, when they ceased to fill it, but it is very clear to me they
did not intend they should exercise command in the line whilst they
continued staffofficers, and this, I think, must have been some time
ago your own view of the matter, as I recollect to have heard you
complain of being put upon duty in camp, out of the way of your
office.
There can be but little satisfaction drawn from the custom of
other armies, the constitution of most being very different from
ours. We have had, however, an instance before us, in the British
army, of the Quartermaster-General acting in the staff and com
manding in the line at the same time, which seems to make in favor
of your pretensions. But I well remember another, in the same
army, directly against them. It was this Sometime in the cam
paign of 1758, the late General Stephens (then, I think, a major
of Provincials), commanded at Fort Ligonier, upon the Loyalhanning,
when Sir John St. Clair, Quartermaster-General, with the
rank of colonel, arrived at that Port. He immediately assumed
the command, and ordered Major Stephens to make returns of his
garrison and stores to him. The major insisted on his command,
and refused to make the returns. Sir John put him in arrest. The
major complained to General Forbes, and demanded a courtmartial.
Whether a court-martial sat upon the matter I do not
recollect, but this is certain, the major was released, restored to his
command, and Sir John censured.
I can not conceive that an officer whose rank is reserved can be
considered as totally excluded from the honors of the line, by a
temporary suspension of his command, in consequence of his filling
a station, for the most part incompatible with it; on the contrary, it
seems to me, the honors of the line are expressly secured to him by
the reservation neither can it be a bar against an officer of rank,

accepting the office of Quartermaster-General. I think with you,
an officer of rank ought to be at the head of that department, but I
know not that of necessity, he must be a general officer. It is a case
that does not reach me; I am, therefore, unbiased. But I should
think it an exceeding great injury to s*e an officer brought from the
staff the day of an action, to take the command of the troops I had
had the care and trouble of during the preceding part of the cam
paign, and snatch the palm that was due, perhaps, to the pains that
had been bestowed upon them in that time. I should most certainly
give up all command that very moment.
I am sorry to differ in sentiment with other officers, but, when my
opinion is asked as a friend, it is a duty to give it candidly, without
considering what may be most acceptable, or what others think of
the matter.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
West Point, August 24th, 1779.
Sir:—I have now the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your
favors of the 8th and 19th insts., which came duly to hand, and to
congratulate you again upon another piece of success that has at
tended our arms under Major Lee. The affair, considered abstract
edly, is of very little moment; but it shows that a spirit of enter
prise exists amongst us, makes the enemy in some measure ridiculous,
and serves to support the soldiers under the incessant fatigue they
are employed in at this post 1
Inclosed, you will find the recruiting accounts, stated by a board
of field officers, with as much exactness as they were able, but they
are far from being complete. The officers were absent or detached
with the infantry, the amount of whose accounts are not carried out.
I think the furnishing officers who may be employed in the recruit
ing service with powers to draw money from the county lieutenants,
a bad method. It would render the settlements of the accounts
much easier if money on that account was issued to the colonel, or
officer commanding the regiments only, the recruiting officers to
settle with him, he for the whole with the State. If they were
either negligent or unsuccessful, he would naturally discharge
them and send others, and nothing would be allowed in their ac1
Major Henry Lee, Jr., surprised the enemy at Paulus Hook, not over a
mile ami a quarter from New York, on the night of the 19th of July, killed
abnit fifty, and took one hundred and fifty-seven prisoners, exclusive of
seven officers of superior rank.

counts but what he was sure would be allowed to him in the general
account.
The officers can not have too high a sense of your exertions in
their favor, and it gives me a very sincere pleasure that you find
the gentlemen in public business so readily concur with you, and
that the spirit of animosity is not so great as it once appeared to be.
Time must wear off the sharp edges, and I fondly flatter myself t i
see all parties so mellowed down as with cordial unanimity to purs..
the public interest, which has, without doubt, in some instances,
been left out of sight. Parties may, indeed I believe not, exist in
every free State, but when the public good is the principal aim of
both, they will not produce private enmity.
In conversation, yesterday, with Colonel Moylan, his regiment came
upon the carpet. A resolve of Congress seems to have had in view
that the regiments of horse that have been raised in particular States
should be considered as part of their quota in the Continental army.
He would be very happy to find himself in that situation, and
though the officers havenot all been taken from Pennsylvania, the
men were, I believe, all raised there. I will be obliged to you if
you will please to communicate your sentiments on that head.
I have very frequent applications for orders to the commissary, in
different parts of Pennsylvania, to issue provisions to the wives and
families of soldiers, who have left them behind, and are, as they
say, starving. It is really a very hard case, but I do not consider
myself as authorized to give any such orders. Something, how
ever, should be done for them, and 1 am told that all the women of
Colonel Proctor s regiment draw provisions in Philadelphia.
I received, last week, two letters from Colonel Nichols, inclosing
the attestations of six recruits, but two of them only are come on,
the others having deserted on their way to camp. This is really
paying very dear for soldiers, and some other way should be fallen
upon than sending them on with small parties of two or three men,
who can not pay the attention that is necessary to prevent deser
tions. Perhaps it would be well enough to allow th em to do duty
in the Invalids until a sufficient number is collected, and then an
officer with a proper party might be sent from camp to bring them
on. Mr. Gibbons arrived a day or two ago, and is now on trial be
fore a general court-martial 1
1 President Reed replied to the above letter on the 5th September. He ap
proved of St. Clair s suggestion as to the proper manner of supplying money
to regiments; did not think he could do anything for Colonel Moylan ;the
issuing of supplies to the wives of soldiers would be attended with many

General St. Clatr to General Washington 1
West Point, October 4, 1779.
Sir —I have been revolving in my mind the matters your Ex
cellency had under consideration last night, and beg leave to submit
my sentiments upon them but they are only broken hints, as I
have a very imperfect knowledge of the locality, not having been
upon the grounds for many years, and then not having viewed
them in a military light.
From Fort Washington to the high grounds at the bottom of the
Bay, below Harlem River, is a front to that river of three miles, at
no part more than two miles from the North River. Our troops,
drawing down toward King s Bridge, would probably induce the
enemy to take this position.
About six miles below Fort Washington, a bay makes in from
the North River, from the bottom of which, across the island to the
East River, the distance is one mile only. Supposing the enemy
obliged to change their first position, this would probably be their
second, as it has these advantages, that, be our superiority in num
bers what it may, they can present an equal front, neither flank can
be turned, and, in so short a line, great obstacles can be immediately
thrown in the way. But, query: Whether their left flunk would
not be exposed to the fire of the ships from the North River with
the enemy in the first position, as above described. The difficulties
in the way make this less eligible than first supposed. In the
second, it appears very eligible, as the distance across is, I believe,
very capable of defense, and they would thereby be cut off from the
town, where, doubtless, the stores of all kinds arc deposited; but
unless it was made with perfect secrecy, the attempt would proba
bly prove abortive.
Drawing the troops to King s Bridge and Harlem River would
certainly induce the first position, as it promises to be effectual, for
inconveniences. "There are such demands for every species of woman s
woik that no industrious woman can suffer. In special cases assistance is
given them. I believe Colonel Proctor, who is very ingenious in that way,
did get some rations issued to women belonging to that regiment, but when
it was discovered it was stopped. Relief may be granted in particular cases,
but it would never do to consent to it as a general system."
1 These hints as to plan of campaign were based upon the supposition that
Count D Estaing would force his way into the North River, and offered at
the request of General Washington.

preventing the passage of that river, and, from its contiguity to the
North River is also convenient for preventing a landing in the rear.
A landing on Long Island, it seems, may be easily effected from
Harlem River, either above or below the mouth of it, and the col
lecting of boats there would not discover the real design, as they
are equally necessary in either case. Flushing, the same distance
above, is a very convenient place, if not occupied by the enemy. It
is four miles from thence to Jamaica, and eight from that to Bed
ford, where there is a capital pass, which should be instantly pos
sessed, otherwise the army would be obliged to make a considerable
circuit by New York to approach Brooklyn. It is an open country,
and good roads from Flushing to Bedford.
The Count D Estaing can land his troops anywhere upon the
southern coast of Long Island—Jamaica Bay, for instance—whence
a junction could easily be made near Bedford. The distance, I
think, is not more than eight miles.
The ships may certainly be destroyed from Long Island, as they
must run into the East River, and the post at Brooklyn will soon
fall. With these New York, be its garrison what it will, must fall
also. This appears to me the most eligible method, as there is great
probability of success, and much less risk than in forcing a passage
over Harlem River, or landing on the island by the North River, in
either of which the fate of America must, in a great measure, be set
upon a single cast.
When once established upon Long Island, perhaps a sufficient
number of troops may be spared to reduce Rhode Island.
If the posts on the North River are not drawn in, I suppose two
thousand men might,in a week, with a proper artillery, reduce
Stony Point without breaking in much upon the greater operations
of the army. Verplanck must follow immediately.
These hints are all founded on a supposition that we can deceive
the enemy, and throw ourselves on Long Island, whilst the gross of
their army remains upon York Island but it is not improbable that
they will betake themselves entirely to Long Island, in which case
the high grounds, according to the idea I retain of them, from Flat
Bush to Bedford to the East River, would be a good position.

General St. Clair to President Reed.
Camp, October 10th, 1779.
Dear Sir:— I have heard with much pain of the un
happy disasters that have prevailed in town 1 but have not been able
to divine the cause. It surprises me exceedingly that Mr. Wilson
could have been pointed out as an enemy to his country, as his con
duct has, from a very early period, been uniformly friendly, although
his opposition to the Constitution of Pennsylvania has been, per
haps, too warm. His advocating the causes of the accused persons
should certainly not have been considered as a crime, as it is both a
part and a consequence of that liberty we have been struggling to
establish. I am pleased, however, that your spirited conduct in
quelling the riot meets with general approbation, and that you were
happy enough to rescue that gentleman, as it was pretty generally
known that you were not upon the most friendly terms.
May I hope that it will have the effect to remove any coolness
that subsisted If I could see you perfect friends, I should be very
happy; for I know his worth, and would spare no pains in my
power to bring it about. But I have said enough of this, and per
haps too much.
1 This refers to "The Fort Wilson Riot," which disgraced Philadelphia,
October 4, 1779, and which is traceable to two causes, viz.: (1) The extor
tions growing out of tha depreciation of the currency; and (2) the violence
of party feeling between the Constitutionists and Anti-C onstitutionists.
Most of the Continental soldiers in the Pennsylvania line, with St. Clair at
their head, were of the latter party in sentiment, but supported the Consti
tution and Government under it during the war. Leadmg civilians, their
friends, were of the same opinion, which was publicly expressed by HonEdward
Uiddle: "Our present Government is lamentably defective, and
has in it the seeds of the worst of tyrannies, but to attempt by force to over
turn it, would in my judgment be wicked, as well as impolitic.'' Congress
and the Stales attempted to mend the difficulties—high prices, the oppres
sions and the frauds—incident to a paper currency born of revolution, by
laws to govern prices and punish engrossers. Washington himself had been
moved to indulge in very passionate language. He rejoiced that Pennsyl
vania proposed to bring the murderers of the patriotic cause, the monop
olizers, forestalled, and engrossers, to condign punishment. "I would to
God," said he, that some one of the more atrocious in each State was hung
in gibbets upon a gallows live times as high as the one prepared by Haman.
No punishment, in my opinion, is too severe for the man who can build his
greatness upon his country s ruin." But despite such legislation, which
really defeated the end sought to b" accomplished by mailing victims of the
conscientious and allowing rascals to escape, paper continued to depreciato

General St. Clair to General Washington.
Camp at Totowa, November 2d, 1779.
Sir:—In cantoning the troops, there are two objects which seem
to claim particular attention—the securing West Point and coverand
prices to rise. The popular excitement in Pennsylvania became intense,
and a self-constituted committee of citizens of Philadelphia, attempted to
regulate the prices of salt, sugar, coffee, flour, and other staple articles, to
which regulation Robert Morris and other leading merchants refused to con
form. In this they were sustained by Hon. James Wilson, the eminent
citizen who, as a signer of the Declaration of Independence, and member
of Congress, had been foremost in the cause of the Colonies. This seemed
to incense the party seeking to control the sales of articles of consumption,
beyond all bounds, us it was the second time he had stood in their path.
When they had attempted to drive out the wives and children of the Loy
alists, and caused the indictment of persons suspected of sympathizing with
the British when they occupied Philadelphia, Mr. Wilson had, with true
courage, stood forth as their defender in the Court; and, although they suc
ceeded in having two Quakers executed, he secured the release of twentythree
other suspects. They were now resolved on having revenge on Mr.
Wilson, and all others who had reprobated their course.
Several hundred militia assembled on the 4th of October, with arms in
their hands, and after participating in a violent meeting, paraded the streets.
It was whispered about that they intended to seize Mr. Wilson, and they
marched, for that purpose, to the City Tavern, expecting to find him and his
friends there. Disappointed in this, they moved towards his residence, sit
uated at the south-west corner of Third and Walnut streets, under the lead
of two desperate characters—Bonham and Pickering. Friends of Mr. Wil
son, including General Mifflin, General Thompson, Captain Campbell, and
other Continental officers and friends, to the number of thirty or forty, hud
gone to Mr. Wilson s house to defend it. They were all armed. The mob
approached, with drums beating, and dragging two pieces of cannon, in a
very threatening manner. There is a conflict of testimony here—one ac
count saying that as the mob was passing the heuse, Cuptain Campbell (a
one-armed veteran of Hazen s regiment), lired a pistol at them through an
open window; and others, thut the mob fired upon the house, and that the
defenders responded. Captain Campbell, ir. the house, and an unknown per
son on the street, were killed. The mob forced a door on the Third street
side, but as they entered were met with a well-directed fire, which dropped
several of them. At this point, President Reed appeared, followed by Major
David Lenon 1 at the head of a detachment of the City Troop, and succeeded
in dispersing the mob. Arrests were made on both sides, but there were no
prosecutions, as the Assembly passed an uct of free and general pardon.
After this, party contests were less violent.
1 Major David Lenon, a gallant, patriotic, nnd useful soldier of the Revolution, u
citizen of Philadelphia, from 1784 to 1786 a partner of General St. Clair, in mercan
tile operations, and at the time of his death, in 1828, President of the Pennsylvania
Society of Cincinnati.

ing Jersey in such a manner as to preserve an easy communication
with Pennsylvania. But West Point requires two thousand eight
hundred men, and, for the Northern posts dependent on it and the
necessary detachments below, a thousand more will not be an extrav
agant allowance. I will suppose, then, that the army may be can
toned to answer these purposes in this manner The corps at West
Point to remain there, and those under your Excellency s immedi
ate command to take post in Jersey. But of the first, there will,
on the first day of January remain little more than three thousand
men and, of the last, about two thousand four hundred. Should
those posted in Jersey be in the vicinity of the enemy, they would
be liable to have their quarters beat up they would probably have
a new position to take, which may be very difficult in the winter
season, and be exposed to the loss of their baggage and artillery,
as it will not be possible to maintain the horses at the army. Should
they be removed to any considerable distance, in order to place
them in greater security, they could not answer the purpose of cov
ering the country. It is not probable that many recruits will have
arrived by the first of January, be the measures of the States ever
•so decisive—a part, however, of the quotas of Pennsylvania and
Connecticut may, perhaps, be counted on, which is all, I appre
hend, may be expected before the month of March, at soonest.
Should the troops be posted in the upper part of Jersey, or in the
vicinity of West Point, the most valuable part of that State will be
left entirely open to the enemy, the communication with Pennsyl
vania become more difficult, the carriage be greatly increased
through a rough country, and where forage is not abundant. Diffi
culties present themselves on all sides but, on the whole, I think
some middle station should be chosen, in Jersey, so situated as to be
within a few hours' forced march, with light troops, of the Newark
Mountain, which appears to me a barrier of considerable impoitauce
but I have not a sufficient local knowledge to be able to
point out a particular place. There will be a time when the army
there, supposing that disposition should be thought proper, will be
very weak but then a body of the militia might be called out,
which would not much interfere with their filling their battalions,
as the number of men they would want is not considerable, and,
from the season, not at all with the affairs of husbandry. With
them joined to the troops, there would be no great danger of any
serious attempt from the enemy, from the distance they would have
to penetrate into the country, and the difficulty of a retreat in case
of misfortune.

But at West Point there are only the number of men necessary
merely for the works, and, therefore, not a sufficient number for its de
fense, should it be attempted in any other way than by acoupe de main.
It is not, however, probable that the enemy will sit down before it
in the winter season, and, should that be their design, it must be
discovered in time enough to throw in a reinforcement, and part of
the York militia might also be called out without impeding the re
cruiting service, as their battalion are near complete.
On one hand the ease and comfort of the troops require their
being cantoned as soon as possible that their huts may be con
structed before the severity of the winter sets in more especially
when we reflect upon the state of their clothing. On the other,
until the winter is at least so far advanced as to preclude the possi
bility of an attempt upon West Point. But a serious attempt upon
West Point, as I observed before, requires such previous prepara
tion as can not well be concealed, and a body, I should suppose, of
at least eight thousand men, and both sides of the river must be
occupied, so that the probability is against its being made in the
winter, when their communication with New York by water must
be precarious. There is no probability at all of their marching to
it, as the means of transporting the apparatus for siege, and the nec
essary provisions are not, I believe, within their power. I should,
therefore, think that in a fortnight hence the camp may be broken
up; but this wili be, in some measure, governed by the weather.
After all, it must be owned that, should the enemy bend their
force against the army I have supposed in Jersey, it would be a haz
ardous situation but, as they have discovered no inclination to at
tempt any thing of that kind since the detachments have been made
from this army, and, whilst the season was favorable to military
operations, it induces an expectation that they will not be more en
terprising, on great scale, at least, during the winter 1
I am most clearly of opinion that no troops can be spared, at this
time, for the southward neither do I see any offensive operation
1The above observations were called for by General Washington, and in
the disposition of the army for the winter, and the design upon Stuten
Island, were fully approved by the Commander-in-Chief. K was proposed
to quarter the cavalry in Connecticut, station a brigade at Danbury, a suf
ficient garrison at West Point, including the post at King s Ferry and Con
tinental Village, a small body of troops at the entrance of the Clove, and
the main body of the army in the country in the neighborhood of the Scotch
Plains. Washington s headquarters were fixed at Morristowu.
See letter to President of Congress, 24th November.

that can be undertaken with much likelihood of success. It ap
pears, indeed, to me, that we have but one object—Staten Island—
the garrisons of which are most probably reinforced.
General St. Clair to Brigadier-General Irvine.
Mt. Loes, Nov. 2Ath, 1779.—2 o clock.
Dear Sir :—I have met with Mr. Abcel here and he informs me
that our position will not be determined until he has had a meeting
with General Greene, which he expects this evening, so that, in all
probability, we shall keep our present station to-morrow at least.
There arc provisions at Morristown which he would send on to us.
but as the commissary s wagons are broken down (the wheels i
mean) if you please to order them on to that place, he will give
them new wagons, which they can load back with the provision.
If any thing else occurs, I shall give early notice.
President Reed to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, Dec. 9th, 1779.
Dear Sir —Your favor of the 3d inst. is now before mc. The
delicacy of giving any direction." with respect to the clothing, which
might in any respect interfere with the views of the General, in
duced us to submit it entirely to his direction. In future we shall
be on a more certain footing.
Your wishes to see harmony and good agreement prevail in time
of public calamity, do honor to the goodness of your own heart.
And I hope that, notwithstanding some unfavorable appearances,
it may in due time be accomplished. I assure you I shall be so far
from declining any overtures of that nature, that I shall cheerfully
meet them. Mr. Wilson s understanding and abilities will always
make him respectable, if he does not devote them too far to the
purposes of party. He is one whom no man would choose to wish
for an enemy, and I believe it entirely depends on himself to increase
the number of his friends.
When, as I hope is the case with us, party has not rankled into
personal enmity, I flatter myself civility and society may be re stored. Time• and mutual good dispositions alone can effect it.
It is a great satisfaction to see harmony so prevailing in the mili

tary line. God grant it may continue and increase. Perhaps the
influence of example may reach us.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, '21th January, 1780.
Dear Sir —You will be pleased to repair to our Hues and inves
tigate the causes of the late misfortune and disgrace at ElizabethL i\vn,
and report your opinion thereupon, as soon as inquiry is made 1
You will also examine into the state of our guards, and see if any
change can be made in their position for the better having respect,
as far as present circumstances will allow, to the object in view,
which are security to this camp, cover to the country near the en
emy s lines, and prevention of that injurious and abominable traffic,
which is carried on with the city of New York. While you are in
the discharge of this duty, it is my wish that you would obtain, in
as unsuspected a manner as possible, a perfect knowledge of the
enemy s strength, situation, and guards on Staten Island and at
Paulus Hook, the state of the ice on the North River, anrl such
other information as it may be beneficial and important for us to be
1 A detachment of British troops, commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel
Bushkirk, crossed over from Statun Island at Trembley s Point, and entered
Elizabethtown between eleven and twelvo o clock, on the night of the 25th
of January. It consisted of one hundred dragoons, and between three and
four hundred infantry. They took several prisoners, burnt the meeting
house, town-house, and another building, plundered some of the inhabitants,
and retired without loss. A similar attack was made at the same time on a
small party at Newark, and with equal success. The academy was burnt.
In both places the surprise was complete. The whole number of prisoners
taken from the Americans was four officers, and about sixty privates.—
Colonel Hazen s MS. Letter, January 6th.
On the same day the above letter was written, General Washington in
formed Colonel Hazen that General St. Clair would go down in the morning
to make an inquiry, and endeavor to find out if it would be possible to re
taliate on the enemy; and, if not, if some different position of the grounds
might not be necessary. He theught enterprises by small parties practicable,
but the strength of the enemy would render too hazardous any thing more
extensive. Since the North River was passable, he had theught it practica
ble to carry out the plan of Colonel Willett, for burning the enemy s trans
ports, which wore supposed to be frozen in the ice at Turtle Hay. Inquiry
was to be made as to the fact of the boats being frozen up, first. If, then,
Colonel Willett should choose to undertake it, he was to be indulged, and
Washington recommended the selection of Webb s regiment, the men of
which were clothed in red, as well calculated for such an enterprise.

acquainted with. It is my wish, also, that you may obtain a com
plete knowledge of the places and manner in which the enemy s
shipping, flat-boats, and other craft are laid up and secured, thereby
discovering whether some successful attempt, by stratagem or other
wise, may not be made to destroy them. The relief which went
down to the detachment under the command of Colonel Hazen,
when joined thereto, will form a body of two thousand rank and
file; and as there were reasons for apprehending that the enemy
had some offensive plan in view, which actually took place that
very night, I ordered Colonel Hazen to remain there with his com
mand a few days, or till further orders. You will please to take
command of both detachments, and retain the old till the objects
here enumerated are fulfilled, unless you should think best to order
the return of it to camp before. If, in the course of your tour of
duty below, and investigation of the enemy s posts, any operation
upon a large or small scale presents itself, you will delay no time
in communicating your ideas fully on the subject to me, provided,
in the latter instance, a favorable opportunity is not lost by delay,
in which case you are left altogether to your own discretion, bearing
in mind always that new disappointments will add discredit to our
arms. But, while the state of the ice admits a free and easy pas
sage of troops from New York, any attempt otherwise than by sur
prise may be dangerous.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Crane s Mills, January 28, 1780.
Sir :—I arrived at Colonel Hazen s quarters the night before last,
and yesterday, with him, visited the several posts, which I found to
be llahway, Crane s Mills, Connecticut Farms, Elizabethtown, and
Newark. Elizabethtown and Newark are occupied by small de
tachments only, and guards are posted at De Hart s and Halsted
Points. A small guard is also kept at the New Blazing Star from
the post at Rahway.
In this situation the troops are as compact as, I believe, the nature
of the cantonment will allow consistently with the objects in view
yet they are far from being so much so as could be wished. The dis
tance these different places lie from one another, and want of horse to
communicate speedily any movements of the enemy, render it very
easy to surprise one or other of the posts, particularly Rahway,
which is only two miles from the Sound, and lies five miles from
hence and five miles from the Blazing Star. The small detached

guara at that place may be very easily taken off; and then their
flank, and even their rear, is entirely open.
To cover effectually such an extent of country as from Newark to
Amboy, in the present state of the ice, would require a very con
siderable body of troops and the dispersing them in small bodies,
exposes them to many accidents, and greatly favors desertion, which,
with much regret, I find has prevailed in these commands.
In Elizabethtown, I found a four days' guard, consisting of one
hundred men, with a field officer. This I reduced to a captain and
fifty, to be relieved daily, which I thought would answer every pur
pose that could be expected from the hundred, as they may, when
on for one day only, be kept constantly alert, and half of them at a
time patroling during the night. Indeed, I believe good patrols
would answer every purpose better than small guards but, where
the distance betwixt posts is considerable, they should be composed
of horse. The guards at De Hart s and Halsted Points are cer
tainly much exposed, and if the enemy suffer them to remain, it
must arise from extreme caution, or their having something of more
importance in contemplation, for I can not suppose they want in
formation of our position.
I have not yet been able to ascertain the enemy s number on
Staten Island, or at Paulus Hook, but expect to-day to have pretty
good accounts of the last, as also of the state of the ice on both the
North and East Rivers but from all that I can learn, and from the
intelligence Colonel Hazen has received, their numbers on the Is
land amount to two thousand and upwards. The reinforcement
thrown in from New York consisted of three regiments—supposed
about seven or eight hundred men part of them are cantoned, and
part encamped about the middle of the island. Intelligence is,
however, very difficult to be obtained, and is not, in my opinion, in
a good train the person who seems to be most defended upon bear
ing a very bad character, and known to act as an agent for the
enemy. Indeed, it will be almost impossible to get it into another
train, unless the intercourse betwixt the inhabitants and the island
can be prevented nor can a stop be put to the traffic carried on
with the city, unless some other way of rewarding those we employ
be fallen upon than countenancing it in their favor.
Nothing has yet presented itself to induce any attempt upon the
enemy, which should at least have probability in its favor. Their
advanced picket at Dungan s Mills might be taken off, but it is a
trifling object, and the retreat of the party might be prevented. If
any thing is to be done on the island, it must, I believe, be by open

force, which they seem to expect, as, from the information of a de
serter, they are improving their works and adding abatis, and keep
their troops as close to them as possible. They are also constructing
a new work, with timbers, on a hill that commands the redoubt at
the Watering Place. There is at present a passage to New York,
but it is frequently interrupted by the driving ice.
Dr. Burnet expected a trusty, intelligent person from New York
last night, and I shall see him to-day. By him, I expect the inform
ation your Excellency wishes with respect to the East River, and
the situation of the enemy s vessels. If it favors Colonel Willet s
enterprise, I shall desire him to wait upon your Excellency imme
diately. I find, by an order of Gen. Tryon s of the 13th, that a
number of bateaux are to be laid up at De Nuys s Ferry, at the
Narrows.
I suppose Colonel Hazen has informed your Excellency of the at
tempt the enemy intended upon the detachment at Rahway on
Wednesday last, which was prevented by Colonel Gray s obtaining
some notice of it. I can not help repeating that horse are much
wanted to give any degree of security to the cantonments but, a
one object is to cover and secure the inhabitants, they ought, some
of them at least, to be furnished by the State, and if these were
trusty, good men, acquainted with the country, they would make
the best patrols possible. I believe, too, they would more effectually
check the spirit of traffic than it will ever be done by the soldiery,
who hold it, in some measure, a disreputable employment.
I wish I could give your Excellency any hint that might help to
check or prevent the shameful desertion that prevails, and for which
the troops of Pennsylvania, especially, have so little reason. It
would, perhaps, answer a good cud, while the ice continues firm, in
stead of detachments from the army, to send whole corps the first
to be taken from those lines where that vice has not crept in. By
the time one or two commands are completed, the communication
will probably be more difficult.
I have inquired of every person I thought could give me proper
information into the causes of our misfortune at Elizabethtown and
Newark, and it appears to have been owing to negligence in not
having the patrols out in proper time, and to their having fatigued
themselves too much the night before and it is certain that the
captain had not a single vidctte, nor even a sentry, on the stable
where his horses were.
I am not quite satisfied whether your Excellency intended a
formal inquiry, or that I should inform myself in the manner I

have done. Nothing further occurs at present. If any intelligence
of moment arises, it shall be immediately communicated; and I
will detain Colonel Hazen until I hear from your Excellency.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, January 29, 1780.
Dear Sir:—You will be pleased to forward the inclosed letter by
flag. It is from a Mr. Ranselair, who comes particularly recom
mended by General Schuyler. As he is iminitient for an answer, as
soon as one reaches you, I wish to have it sent up by express.
I want to be informed in what manner the troops are accommo
dated as to quarters, or whether any part of them are put to incon
venience on this account. I shall be somewhat influenced by this
circumstance as to the continuing or recalling the detachment which
went down under Colonel Hazen.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, February 2, 1780.
Dear Sir :—I am this moment favored with your letter of this
date.
The detachment which I mentioned as to march this morning,
owing to some causes that have unavoidably intervened, does not
leave camp till to-morrow.
With regard to the enterprise you have in view, should circum
stances make it eligible in your opinion, I have no objection to your
trying the experiment 1
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, February 2, 1780.
Dear Sir:—I have received your second letterof this date. As
I wrote you this forenoon, I leave the enterprise in view entirely
with you, and the execution to be attempted or not as you may
1 As the letter of St. Clair to which the above refers is missing, it is im
possible to tell the nature of the information he had received,* and the enter
prise he designed based upon it. The probability is that it was to be an
attempt to surprise some post of the enemy. The letter of St. Clair to
"Washington, February 7, may give a clue to the design.
2 Missing. 32

judge proper from a full consideration of all circumstances, the in
telligence you have received, and the characters of the persons who
gave it. If it should appear to you that there is a strong probability
of its succeeding, the experiment can be made; if not, it may
be best not to undertake it.
The dragoon has two or three bundles of prepared combustibles
in charge, and some post funds.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Crane s Mills, February 7, 1780.
Dear Sir Nothing extraordinary has happened since my last,
neither have I received any intelligence of consequence, my man
from New York not yet being returned I expect to see or hear
from him this evening. —It is said that in consequence of the report
of some deserters who got into Paulus Hook from Connecticut
Farms, the day before the detachment was relieved, that post is re
inforced every evening from New York. If this be true, which I
hope to ascertain to-day, a stroke may be made upon them. The
country was very much alarmed yesterday by the appearance of a
party and a number of sleighs on the sound. The rejwrt readied
me as I was on my return from Woodbridge, with the addition that
they were actually landed and in Elizabethtown, which occasioned
the troops to be got under arms that were nearest. It proved to be
a party from New York, most probably carrying provisions; they
came on the ice at Bergen Point, passed up towards De Hart s
Point, about half way; and then turned off and lauded near
Deckers, on Staten Island. The sleighs were in number about one
hundred, and the escort consisted of about sixty infantry and
twenty horses.
I have made some alteration in the disposition of the canton
ments. The body of the troops now lie in a line from Springfield to
the southern part of Westfield, with one hundred and twenty men
advanced to Connecticut Farms, and the same number in this
neighborhood; fifty men detached to Newark, and fifty to Woodbridge.
The different parties of mounted militia are instructed to
patrol the roads along the sound from Newark to Amboy; fifteen
of them are stationed at Newark, fifteen at Rahway, and fifteen
at Woodbridge. These are a kind of volunteers who depend upon
the Legislature for a reasonable compensation for their services.
As the people came very readily into this mode, and discovered

an unwillingness to engage in any other way, I declined raising the
twenty your Excellency had empowered me, and if these forty-five,
in the manner they are stationed, will do their duty, there is little
doubt but that, with the assistance of our foot patrols, every move
ment of the enemy will be timely discovered.
A son of Mr. Iladden, who was lately made prisoner at Newark,
waited upon me yesterday with a request from Mrs. Haddeu, who
has your Excellency s permission to go to New York, that your Ex
cellency would allow her to pass by Paulus Hook. I promised him
to mention it, and I believe there is no doubt but flags will be re
ceived there. Major Skinner went in that way, and a flag came
from thence the day before yesterday with a letter for him, and by
opening that comnsuciriition, some useful observations may, per
haps, be made.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, 8th February, 1780.
Dear Sir:—I received your favor of the 7th yesterday afternoon.
As I can see no inconveuiency from permitting Mrs. Hadden to
pass in by Paulus Hook, you will, therefore, grant her request and
make such further use of that communication in the way of flags,
while the frost continues, as you may judge essential for any pur
poses you may have in view, or for obtaining useful information.
I would imagine, however, that the enemy will object to this line,
for the same reasons which we may desire it.
I have no objection to Kemp and Crane going over to Kingston;
you may, therefore, indulge the friends of the persons who were
lately taken in their application.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Springfield, February lWi, 1780.
Sir:—The enemy made an incursion into this State this morning,
about au hour before day, in three different places from Staten
Island, and one from Paulus Hook.
A party of about three hundred, commanded by Colonel Simcoe,
landed at Woodhridge, a small party on Rahway Neck, and the most
considerable body at De Hart s Point, and marched to Elizabethtown.
The guards at Elizabethtown and Woodbridge were timely ap
prised of their approach, and retreated to some little distance from

both these posts, and were not attacked, and have sustained no other
loss than having each one man wounded.
I have not been able to ascertain the force of the party that came
to Elizabethtown. The two persons that were made prisoners
there seem entirely ignorant of it, and had followed the troops in
order to plunder. Their numbers are said to have been two thous
and, which id improbable; but from General Sterling and General
Skinner, both being [unintelligible], they must have been consid
erable. A number of houses in the town have been stripped of every
thing, and ten or twelve of the inhabitants carried off.
The party at Woodbridge committed no outrage of any kind upon
either the persons or houses of the inhabitants, but carried off about
thirty head of cattle. Their principal aim seems to have been the
guard, and, missing of that, they stayed a very short time. On
their retreat they were followed by the horse patrols, some of the
militia, and the troops, who say they wounded several, but none
were left on the ground. The party that landed at Rahway, in a
very obscure place, plundered two houses and carried off two men,
and seemed to have had no other object. But the surprising a
party of fifty men seemed too trifling to have been the design of so
large a party as that at Elizabethtown. Whatever it may have
been, the finding the guard so alert probably induced them to de
sist. The party from Paulus Hook consisted of about three hun
dred horse, and lauded at Hnckeusack. The person I had sent to
New York, and who had been detained at Paulus Hook in conse
quence of orders the day before, to suffer no person to go out, came
over with them.
They proceeded some distance into the country, and from the route
they pursued, he thinks, intended to have passed the Cedar Swamp,
and were very particular in their inquiries about the situation of
your quarters, and where I was quartered, and the guards that were
posted between Hackensack and Morristown. He says particularly
that, after marching some way into the country, he heard an officer
ask the commandant where they were going. He replied he could
not tell him that, but they had more than thirty miles to march that
night; that in a short time after this, finding the snow very deep
aud the roads not broken, they returned, and he was dismissed.
If their design was nn attempt on your Excellency s quarters, the
other party s were intended to divert our attention from that party
of horse that were to have marched upon our left flank, and I hope
you will pardon me for hinting that there is not a sufficient body of
troops near enough to render you secure. Had they been designed

to have fallen upon our rear, which they might have done, they had
troops enough to have given us full occupation, and them the op
portunityHut supposing cither of these designs, it is difficult to
account for their retiring so soon, without even attacking the Elizabcthtown
guard, which was not above a quarter of a mile out of
town.
The person from New York, says that the East River is still open;
and, in general, gives the same account of the situation of the ship
ping guards and quarters of the general officers as I had the honor
to transmit to your Excellency in a former letter. His account of
Pnulus Hook is an accurate one. It consists of a pretty large re
doubt, with a smaller one within it, capable of containing about one
hundred and fifty. The barracks about ten rods without the works,
abatised to the landside but not to the water, and not one piece
of cannon planted that way. The garrison consists of about six
hundred men, from which they detach daily a sergeant s guard to
the Green Island, about a mile from the Hook, and lower down the
river; and that they have ceased to send the reinforcements I men
tioned before for some days.
I have bad no authentic intelligence from Rtaten Island for some
days, and, indeed, it is very difficult to obtain.
The inhabitants in general cry out so much against Morris Hat
field that I have not employed him, and they are all afraid of being
detected by his brothers on the Island. I expect, however, to hear
from there by to-morrow night, and if it is of consequence, will
transmit it immediately to your Excellency. I still think Buskirk s
corps may be taken off.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Morristown, V2th Feb., 1780.
Dear Sir:—I received yours of yesterday late last night. lam
pleased to find that the vigilance of your guards and patrols disap
pointed the enemy, whatever might have been their intentions. I
have taken precautions to guard against an attempt by such a party
as might be reasonably supposed to be able to reach this in the
course of a night, and I hope that a short continuance of this
weather will make the ice impassable by horse from foot, there is
no danger at this distance.
If you still think an attempt upon Buskirk s corps practicable,
you are at full liberty to try the experiment. I am confident you

will undertake nothing but what will be justified by appearances
and a probability of success.
P. S. As the enemy have made an incursion with their horse by
the way of Hackensack, will it not be prudent in you to extend your
patrols of horse more to your left while the ice is passable When
ever persons apply for liberty to go within the enemy s line, having
the permission of the Executive of any of the States, Congress, or
the Board of War, you may suffer them to pass without an applica
tion to me.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
SrRinGFieLD, Feb. 20, 1780.
Sir:—The enemy made another attempt last night, alxnit eleven
o clock, to surprise the party at Newark, and plunder the town, but,
being happily discovered on their approach by the patrols, the guard
and the inhabitants were alarmed, and obliged them to retire with
out their effecting any thing except carrying off two men, one of
whom is supposed to have purposely thrown himself in their way.
There was some firing betwixt their advance and the patrols, but
without loss on our side, or, I believe, on theirs, though it is said
that some of them were wounded.
The guard retired to a height in the rear of the town, until they
discovered the strength of the party, which consisted of about one
hundred foot, when, being joined by the inhabitants, they moved
down to attack them.
The enemy immediately retired, and were pursued to the river,
where they were obliged to quit about twenty head of cattle they
had collected, and some horses, and I hear of nothing missing but
one sheep and an old horse.
The ice still remains passable, both in Hackensack and Second
Rivers, and in Newark Bay, and the Sound, but with some diffieultv,
there being many places, particularly in the Bay and Sound, that
will support very little weight.
I believe the North River, though still fast, will not admit the
passage of troops. Whilst they remain in that situation, perhaps
the post at Faulus Hook might be attempted with probable success,
as, from the intelligence I have, they are not very vigilant there the
garrison does not now exceed five hundred men, and, if I am rightly
informed, the place is entirely open to the North River. I think
there is no doubt but that the ice njxm the Flats will be strong
enough for some time, unless the weather should alter, and guides

may be procured to conduct a proper party clear of the inhabitants.
The detachment here might be sufficient, for, if it is carried, it
might be by surprise, and, in that case, numbers are of no great
avail. I have not yet, however, such information as to enable me to
digest a plan of attack, but am in hopes to receive it to-night, and
shall immediately communicate it to your Excellency.
There is not much time to lose, but the critical moment is that in
which the ice is sufficiently strong along shore, when it is too weak
in the North and Sound.
General "Washington to General St. Clair.
Morristown, February 23, 1780. —Half-past 10 a. M.
Sir :—I have this moment received yours 1 of seven o clock. I
apprehend, with you, that the circumstances you mention will pre
vent the execution of your project for which reason, and the bad
ness of the weather, I delay the march of the covering party till I
hear further from you. If the intelligence you expect proves favor
able, I shall be obliged to you to dispatch a second messenger, and
I will take measures here accordingly 2
P. S. Will not the state of the moon be unfriendly to your at
tempt towards morning
General Washington to General St. Clair and Lieuten
ant-Colonels Edward Carbington and Alexander HamILTON.^
Morristown, 8th March, 1780.
Gentlemen:—The powers herewith authorize you to proceed to
Amboy, on the 9th instant, to meet commissioners on the part of
the enemy, for the purpose of settling a general cartel. You will
perceive what has been already done in this business by the papers
1 Missing.
2General St. Clair ordered Colonel Sherman to assemble his brigade fit
Westfield, on the evening of the28d, whence he was to march to Springfield, so
as to arrive there at eight o eloek; all of the guards were to be called in except
those at Rahway and Woodbridge; the men were to be marched completely
equipped, but without their packs, and each man was to be furnished with a
gill of rum. These orders were carried out, but the enterprise had to bo
abandoned at the last moment, on account of its having been ascertained
that the enemy had been apprised of the intended movement, and was pre
pared.
604 St. Clair Papers.
accompanying this. The only instructions I have to give you arc
these: That you transact nothing under your commission but upon
principles of perfect equality and on a national ground. If the en
emy will not treat with you on this footing, you will put an end to
the negotiations. But, after your official business is over, I wish
you, in private conversation, to enter into a discussion of the pro
posals, so as to remove any difficulties they contain, and prepare
the way for some future particular agreement, which may give re
lief to our officers and men in captivity.
If you enter into a general cartel, you must of necessity include
the southern prisoners; but, if you are obliged to confine yourselves
to what I now recommend, you will avoid including them. The
proposals appear to me generally liberal, though, in some respects,
exceptionable. The tariff, however, is moderate enough. Having
entire confidence in your judgment and discretion, I think, it un
necessary to enter into a detail of the exceptionable parts persuaded
that they will readily occur to you, and that you will take proper
steps to have them amended. The settlement of accounts id a
point of importance and difficulty. As the matter now stands, I am
unable to give you any explicit directions on the subject. If 3-011 are
likely to enter into a general cartel, you will immediately advise me,
and I will obtain further instructions from Congress. If this is not
tho case, you will hardly be able to draw any engagements from the
enemy on this head, and you will perceive this point is not to be made
a preliminary nor ultimatum. You will do the best you can, en
deavoring, by all means, to engage the British Commissioners to ad
vance a sufficient sum of money to pay the debts of our officers for
board and the like, and enable them to leave their captivity. You
will communicate to me, from time to time, any matters you mav
desire my advice upon, and it shall cheerfully be afforded. I sincerely
wish you a successful and honorable issue to your commission 1
1The convention failed, as had been foreseen. In eommunieatingthe formal
report of the American Commissioners to Congress, March 81st, General
Washington alluded to the report transmitted by the Minister of France,
that, on account of the difficulty in procuring men in Germany, the British
Court had instructed Sir Henry Clinton to treat with General "Washington,
on national grounds. The unreliability of this report was shown by the reFult
of the Convention atAmboy. Therefore, following AYashington s in
structions, the commissioners refused to treat on any other grounds. The
British Commissioners insisted on the exchange being, at all events, extended
to one half of the Second Division of the Convention troops. General
"Washington said lie would carry out such apian if Congress ordered it, but he
asked to be excused from deciding it. "On the one hand, the acuuiaiilun of

General Phillips1 to General St. Clair.
Amboy, March 20th, 1780.
Sir:—I entered upon the commission which is now ended, prom
ising myself there would be derived from it real advantages to the
unlucky sufferers of both armies by a general exchange; unsuccessso
many men will be of great moment to the enemy, if they meet with
success nt the southward; on the other, I see not how we shall be able to
maintain our officers in captivity, and the expense is no trifling considera
tion."
General Phillips reported to Lord George Germain "This attempt for a
general cartel and exchange has proven ineffectual, as every former one 1 ad
done founded on an objection to tlio powers given by Sir Henry Clinton;
and your Lordship will directly obsorvo tlio great olject of the American
Congress is to work some public act, in which General Washington may be
concerned with Sir Henry Clinton in character of equality with Great Britnin,
on the principles of nation against nation at war; and the positive dec
laration of the American Commissioners on this matter fully evinces the
fact, and that a general cartel can never fake place on any other ground,
which, it may be imagined, will never be suffered by Great Britain. In a
number of attempts to release tlio troops of Convention, the matter was
broken off under several descriptions. Ai one time, the American Corgress
would not exchange the troops in corps; at another, they were willing to
exchange private soldiers to a certain number, but it was never understood
what number or in what manner. Interested, as I have been, it has led mo
to hold conversations with a number of American officers, proving to them
that the troops of Convention stood under a particular description, and that
exchanging the officers without the men against American officers, prison
ers of war could not be considered as equal, the American officers going to
an immediate activity of fcrvice, and the Convention officers not d iing so,
as the regiments to which they belonged would still be in captivity; and,
however eligible and convenient for the officers themselves, it would be of
no advantage to the King s service."
1William Phillips, Major-General in the British army, whe commanded
the artillery under General Borgoyno in the investment of Ticonderoga.
Ho had won distinction as a soldier in Germany, and from his experience
there quickly saw the importance of having possession of Sugar-I oaf Hill,
in the work of reducing the forts on Lake Champlain. IIo took pilrt in the
battles of Bemiss Heights, and was made a prisoner at Saratoga. The
troi ps surrendered there under the terms agreed on between General Ga<cs
and General Burgoyne, were called Convention Troops, and were com
manded by General Phillips on their march to Virginia. General Phillips
was actively engaged in the South aftor his exchange, and died of bilious
fever at Bollingbrook, on the James River, 14th May, 1781, one year after
the correspondence with St. Clair, while General La Fayette was investing
tho place. It is claimed, by British chroniclers, that shot passed through

ful prosecution of that matter, the papers composing the minutes of
our proceedings will explain.
I felt great satisfaction, however, at the proposition which was
made by you and Lieutenant-Colonels Carrington and Hamilton to
enter into a private conversation upon the subject of exchanges, and
to try if it might not be possible to bring that purpose to boar un
der an usual and customary mode by letters between the two Commanders-in-C'.iief,
without any future appointment of commission
ers, which seems to have retarded rather than have hastened a
business S3 very essential to the number of suffering individuals.
I am sure, sir, your candor will allow that I, as well as LieutenantColonels
Gordon and Norton, entered into your idea with the utmost
cheerfulness, and I apprehend it was mutually agreed upon to con
verse upon the matter dispassionately, and to endeavor at removing
those difficulties which might appear to act against a general ex
change, in which the troops ofConvention were to be connected. I
allow this to have been done to a certain degree, when it became
necessary for us to make a proposition that might fix certain stated
points of time and characters, and put the matter upon a future in
disputable footing. This drew from you, sir, a paper which you
held to us as an ultimatum on your part 1 that was so contrary to
our expectations and seemed so little calculated to answer the good
purposes proposed, that it forced us reluctantly to become silent
upon a business which we found so very unlikely to be brought to
any desirable issue.
I can not suffer you to depart from this place without making an
observation or two upon the paper you delivered to me and, in the
first instance, I must be allowed to remark that Lieutenant-Gover
nor Hamilton 2 is placed in a description of exchange which had never
the house where General Phillips was dying, anil that when La Fayette s
attention was called to it, he refused to desist. This, however, is not true.
General Phillips was buried in the old Blandford church-yard, from which
his remains were never removed. His correspondence with St. Clair dis
played u humane sentiment highly creditable.
1This was in accordance with the determination of Washington not to
treat on any but terms of absolute equality. It was nlso important that the
British army should not be speedily reinforced with the Convention troop'.
Hence, technicalities were more strenuously insisted on than they would
have been, probably, under other circumstances.
IIenry Hamilton, Lieutenant-Governor of Canada, was captured at Post
Vinccnnes, by George Rogers Clarke, on the occasion of his expedition to
the North-west. Hamilton and several of his chief officers were sent as
prisoners to Williamsburg, Virginia, where, on account of their alleged cjm

been a part of our conversation on that subject the proposition for
his being released "was mutual, and we offered to your view, at the
same time, several officers who were in the same situation with him
self; but the Lieutenant-Governor and these officers were always
included in cur conversation, to be exchanged against such of your
officers, prisoners of war, as might be in Georgia and never, in
any time of our discourse, came into a calculation of that plan of
'exchange which comprehended the American officers prisoners of
war in these parts.
The paper contains, in the second instance, a long interwoven
matter, in the body of which is expressed, that the balance of offi
cers, if any, after a discussion of certain points, shall be applied, as
far as they will go, towards an exchange of the second division of
the troops of Convention but, Sir, the points to be discussed sur
round this offer in such a manner as to put out of question any
possible operation. The persons who may be produced under no
present certain description, and of Canadians who have been pro
duced, must necessarily involve the matter in such a perplexed dis
cussion as would, in course, prevent the troops of Convention from
receiving any advantage from the American officers, prisoners of
war, in Georgia, as described within the period of the 31st of De
cember, 1779.
In the prosecution of an exchange on our part, the first object
has invariably been, the officers and soldiers, prisoners of war; after
them the troops of Convention, by corps; but in pursuing the lat
ter, the greatest attention must be observed to avoid, not only the
reality, but the appearance also, of partiality, and that in exchang
ing the first division the greatest care must be had to give effect to
the exchange of those corps whoso unlucky lot has put them into
a second division and it is necessary, also, that, after having
agreed to your proposal, that certain gene/al officers should go with
each division. It should never be conceived those general officers
would suffer themselves to be exchanged without a duo considera
tion for the troops, and under such a description of numbers r s
plicity in inciting the Indians to murderous attacks on tlio frontiers, they
were thrown into jail and heavily ironed. Governor Jefferson finally or
dered them released from their confinement, but the wrath of the people.
would not he appeased, On account of the claimof the State of Virginia
to the control of Hamilton, General Washington could not autherize the
Commissioners to recognize him as a prisoner of the United Colonies on the
occasion under consideration. r

might prevent any possibility of a seeming partiality, or a desire of
being exchanged unconnected with the officers and soldiers.
The first division under the description is free of any doubt, but
the operation of the second would bear a little hard ujxm my char
acter, positively so upon my feelings, if I did not contend, even to a
risk of the loss of my own liberty, that a proper and suitable num
ber of officers and men should be absolutely exchanged with me,
and a view left open for the future exchange of the re st, when there
may be American prisoners of war in Sir Henry Clinton s hands, to
enable him to propose an exchange for the remainder of them.
This might be done, I apprehend, consistent with the feelings and
the honor of the troops of Convention, and of their general officers,
supposing the proposition made by myself, Lieutenant-Colonels Gor
don and Norton had been accepted, by which the balance of Amer
ican prisoners of war in these parts joined with the American pris
oners of war in South Carolina and Georgia, to the 31st of Decem
ber, 177!), would go to the release of the troops of Convention, as
far as they applied the release of the remainder would depend
upon the future operations of the war and, although they might
have occasion to lament their ill-fortune, would acknowledge the
impartiality of the conduct used towards them, the corps being ex
changed by lot, and the general officers in a proportion with those
corps.
Had any exchange taken place, I should have contended that,
after leaving a proper number of officers with each remaining corps
of troops of Convention, the others might have had the liberty of
going to Europe upon their paroles, under the stipulation that
American officers made prisoners of war might have their paroles,
also, agreeable to the terms of the proposal signed by me and the
four American officers.
Having, thus far, explained to you my sentiments, I am free to
declare to you that I think an exchange might have taken place,
had not such particular terms beeu proposed as have put it out of
my power, individually, to offer them as a man of honor, and so in
timately connected with the exchange, to his Excellency, General
Henry Clinton, and I am of the opinion an exchange may still
take place, should you incline to recede from the particular articles
which have combined to form the difficulty. I shall, at all times,
be ready to meet you, personally, at Elizabethtown or Staten Island,
and endeavor, with the consent of our superiors, to bring this
very interestincr matter to a happier conclusion than wc have now
been able to do.

I feel great pleasure in having met you, Sir, and beg to testify
the greatest esteem for your very polite conduct towards mc and
the other gentlemen.
You will, in course, consider this a private letter.
Major-General Phillips to General St. Clair.
Amboy, March lid, 17S0.
Sir:—When your leisure will allow you to exnmine the compara
tive views of the officers who are on parole of the British and
American armies, you will perceive that, exclusive of some char
acters on both sides, for whom no estimate has been' made, there re
mains a balance in favor of Mr. Loring, British CommissionnnGeneral
of prisoners, of forty-eight numbers, equal to something
more than a major and a captain.
Having had very much at heart, for a long time, the situation of
Major Hamage and Captain Hawker, of the Sixty-second British
Regiment, belonging to the troops of Convention, the former of
whom has a family, I am to request the favor of your interposition
with General Washington that these officers may be allowed the
liberty of going immediately upon their paroles to New York. The
principles of liberality, exclusive of the equality of parole exchanges,
give me, I apprehend, a just claim for naming these officers upon
this occasion, and I am sure I need not say more upon the subject,
being fully convinced they will be admitted upon their paroles.
It becomes necessary for me in this public letter, to give the same
fair and honorable inscription, as I hope I have done in every part
relating to our commission, of what respects Lieutenant-Governor
Hamilton.
Unacquainted with what rank he might bold in the army, and
uncertain whether he derived any military rank from being Lieu
tenant-Governor of Detroit, I wrote to those persons and charac
ters at New York who have a right to govern me in my transactions
relating to that gentleman, and if his exchange had fortunately be
come a matter for our decision, I should have been fully competent
to decide of what value he might be estimated in the tariff we have
used in our calculations on this subject; but that being out of the
question, I now offer, from motives of humanity on my part (which
I have no doubt will govern you in your report of this matter to
General Washington), that if Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, Major
Hay, Captain La Motte, and Mr. Justice Dejean be sent in upon

their paroles to New York, Colonel Mathews, an American prisoner
of war on Long Island, shall be admitted to go out on parole for
them. It is to be understood, at the same time, that this^does not
determine or bear on the question of rank, but that wc are acting
merely from motives of compassion to suffering individuals, in en
deavoring to afford them, although not exchanged, the comfort of
being with their respective friends. Should I, by accident, have
omitted the name or description of any person capitulated for by
Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, and with him a prisoner of war, I
request, through your interposition, the favor of General Washing
ton s consideration for such person or persons, that they may be per
mitted to go into New York upon parole, and I give my full assur
ance that adequate ranks from the American prisoners of war shall
be sent out for them.
I will not tire you with a recapitulation upon paper of the various
conversations we" have had on the subject of exchanges of prisoners
of war, the troops of Convention being ectirely out of the question,
more than to assure you that I believe whenever his Excellency,
General Washington, will permit it, the American officers, prisoners
of war, violators of parole, to be admitted iuto an immediate ex
change (provided only they can not be sent into New York), that a
general exchange of the prisoners of war on both sides might take
place.
I can not but feel much satisfaction that although this meeting
of British and American Commissioners has ended like that of
former interviews of the same nature, it has, however, served to
describe the matter of a general exchange in such a manner as to
offer a number of preliminaries to a fair and honorable view, and I
most sincerely hope, as I am convinced you do, sir, that some more
fortunate (they can not be more zealous) persons may be employed
on so humane a purpose.
I will add only one more paragraph to this long letter. It is a
wish that, in the unfortunate contest between Great Britain and
America, the professional character of liberality and humanity
usual among military men, may be preserved and adhered to, upon
all occasions where those feelings may operate to render individuals
less unfortunate. I can not conclude without assuring you, sir, of
the great satisfaction I have had in meeting you, and it is with great
pleasure, as with great truth, that I declare how very much I esteem
the fairness and liberality which has governed your conduct during
the present meeting.

General St. Clair, to General Pihllits.
Camp near Morristown, April 3, 1780.
Sir:—I have now the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of the
three letters you did me the honor to write on the 20th, 22d and
29th1 ultimo, and should not have so long delayed the acknowledg
ment of the first two had it been earlier in my power to have given
you a satisfactory answer that of the 29th came not to hand until
yesterday.
I am happy to inform you that the American Commissary of
Prisoners has received General Washington s orders to signify to
Major Harnage and Captain Hawker that they have his permission
to go to New York on parole, as their situation will thereby be ren
dered less irksome to themselves, and it will afford some gratification
to you.
The General can not accede to the proposal respecting Governor
Hamilton, and the gentlemen included with him, in the capitulation
with Colonel Clarke. Although their release would have been con
sidered in a general exchange, he does not think himself at liberty
to make them the objects of a particular parole exchange, as they
are claimed as prisoners by the State of Virginia besides, the re
turn on your part appears to him unequal.
It was extremely obliging in you to interest yourself in favor of
Mr. Randolph and Mr. Fitzhugh. His Excellency will give the
necessary orders that Lord Torphiccn and Lieutenant Hud
son may go into New York on parole, and will consider these gen
tlemen as opposed to them for the present, but he chooses to limit
the stay of Mr. Randolph and Mr. Fitzhugh to a certain period
and it is expected that when they return to New York (if the British
officers should not be recalled), that two other American officers of
the same rank with Lord Torphicen and Mr. Haddcn, and the oldest
in captivity, will be immediately liberated on the same conditions.
It did not occur to me that the stipulation with respect to Chap
lains had not been signed by the respective Commissaries of Prison
ers, but it was fully understood, and Mr. Beatty has now orders to
interchange with the British Commissary a certificate that the
Chaplains belonging to either army, when taken, are not to be con
sidered as prisoners of war, but are to be immediately released. If
the persons agreed to be exchanged at Amboy, and opposed to the
Americans who have been sent to Elizabethtown in consequence,
1 Missing.

are not yet sent on, he will again have orders to return them with
all possible dispatch.
Inclosed is a passport for Mr. Bibby. What the result of our
conversations at Amboy may be I can not determine, but the desire
I have, with you, to give relief to the sufferers of both armies, in
duces a wish that they may produce the hoped-for effect; but it will
be yet some time before that can be known. Whatever it may be, it
is the duty, as it can not but give pleasure to every humane and
liberal man to alleviate, as much as possible, the distresses of un
fortunate individuals in this unhappy contest. As far as my influ
ence or example reaches, it shall ever be my care.
It is very flattering to me that my conduct on the late Commis
sion met your approbation, and I thank you for the very civil men
tion you have been pleased to make of it. I should be wanting in
sincerity and politeness if I did not assure you that the satisfaction
was mutual, and that nothing would give me more pleasure than to
meet you again, and be an instrument in bringing to a happy issue
a business in which humanity in general and your own present feel
ings are so much interested.
P. S. —I forgot to mention that I think there is little reason to
expect any change with respect to those who have broken their
paroles. All of them that can he come at will certainly be sent in
but I believe General Washington will never be brought to give
them a preference in exchange, which he c«n not help considering
as annexing a reward to a perfidious breach of honor.
General PniLLips to General St. Clair.
New York, April &th, 1780.
Sir:—I yesterday received your letter dated the 3d inst., and am
much obliged to you for the attention you have paid to my etters,
which you mark to have received. The passport for Mr. Bibby came
too late by forty-eight hours, but I shall, however, send him to Sir
Henry Clinton by the first opportunity of a ship s sailing to the
southward, and, perhaps, before that happens you may be able to
write a little more explicitly than you have done upon the subject
of our conversations after the Commission had broken up, for, if I
recollect rightly, you were to have sent me some little idea how far
you had impressed a certain body at Philadelphia with the likeli
hood of exchanges taking place under certain descriptions of private
conversations between you and me.

The paragraph of your letter relating to Messrs. Randolph and
Fitzhugh s returning, and for other officers being, then, sent out, is
very reasonable, and there can be no doubt about it. I am sorry
there appears no likelihood of a present exchange of officers, pris
oners of war for, you may depend upon it that, until the violators
of parole are accounted for on your part, no other American officers,
prisoners of war, will be exchanged, and it leads me to observe to
you, that, in a review of the violators of parole, there appears a
number of names, particularly in the rank of lieutenant, of per
sons taken at Fort Washington, who are undoubtedly within the
same degree of exchange with any others on Long Island taken at
that time, and I imagine if you will talk with Mr. upon the
subject he will expluin it to you. I allow that the violators of pa
role do not deserve reward for what you properly term a "perfidious
breach of honor," but I must be of the opinion that a stricture
upon the conduct of these persons refers to them only, not to us,
and that we have an undoubted right to hold their persons in actual
captivity, or that they should be exchanged. I can not but much
wonder you do not wish to get rid of them in that manner, more es
pecially as you can not be ignorant of my being informed of the
real state of your prisoners of war on Long Island, who can not be
released without paying their debts for subsistence, which can never
be held as entirely private, considering their public characters. I
have no doubt of all the proceedings between the Commissaries of
Prisoners, under our direction at Amboy, being carried into execu
tion, and I request you will make my compliment of thanks to Gen
eral Washington for his indulgence to Major Harnage and Captain
Hawker.
This letter is carried out of New York by Major Von Stein, of
Lieutenant-General Knyphausseu s regiment, a prisoner of war on
parole here, and included in the estimate signed by the two Com
missaries of Prisoners. He returns to Pennsylvania with money for
the German officers, but particularly to settle his own private ac
counts, which he left undischarged there, when he came in upon
parole.
This officer will, in course, have liberty to return into New York
after he shall have settled his business, but, should he prefer re
maining among his fellow-sufferers, I shall, in a future letter, name
two captains in his place which will fill the measure of the estimate
of the officers on parole before mentioned to have been agreed upon
by the two Commissaries of Prisoners.
I am very happy in thus corresponding with you. Much good
f^

accrues to suffering individuals by tuch intermediate explanations
to superior officers, and I shall ontinue to write to you from time
to time, as such occasions may offer, and request you will do the
same to me. It can not fail of giving you pleasure, as I dare say
you are convinced it will me, whenever we can have it in our power
to alleviate the sufferings of unfortunate individuals.
P. S. —I inclose you a parcel of newspapers which contain, I be
lieve, true intelligence as much as relates to Europe. Would to
heaven that Great Britain and America were once again united
the riches of Spain would then, as usual, be shared among the sons
and brothers of Great Britain and America.
General St. Clair to General Phillips.
Camp near Morristown, April loth, 1780.
Sir:—I have been favored with both your letters of the 8th inst.,
and am very sorry that the passport for Mr. Bibby did not arrive in
time. It was sent as soon as possible after the receipt of your for
mer letter. However, from the delay, he may be able to carry with
him the result of our conversations, with the intentions of Congress
thereupon, which you will be made acquainted with as soon as they
are known to the General.
It gives me great pain that the exchange of those persons who
have violated their paroles should, in the first instance, be so stren
uously insisted on, as I see but little probability of the proposal
that has been made respecting them, on our part, being receded
from. Any number of such, however, that were captured at Fort
Washington, there will be no difficulty about, as they must be, at
least, as early prisoners in their respective ranks as any, and Mr.
Beatty will have directions to exchange them. It is very true any
strictures upon these people s conduct can refer to them only, nor
do I dispute the right you have to insist upon their exchange, or
holding them in actual captivity yet the exchanging them in pref
erence to others who have preserved their faith and honor, holds out
a strong temptation to the violation of both.
I took the earliest opportunity to present your thanks to General
Washington respecting Major Harnage and Captain Hawker, and
to mention Mr. Pausch to him.
He very readily consented to Mr. Pausch s going into New York
on parole, on account of the relation in which he stands to his Ex
cellency, General Knyphaussen but he does not approve of Mr.

"Williamson s being opposed to him. For the present, however, Mr.
Williamson will not be ordered back but, he thinks, when particu
lar characters are wanted, on one part or the other, out of the
general line of exchanges, there should be previous notice and
agreement between the Commissaries.
I find myself extremely happy in your correspondence, both from
the humane purpose of it, and the great respect I bear you per
sonally, and have to regret that it must for some time be interrupted,
as I am this day setting out on a visit to my family.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
1 Camp, July 3, 1780.
The reduction of New York, together with the British army, is
certainly, of all others, the most desirable object, but the seige of
any place, although not regulary fortified, furnished with such a
1 To drive the British out of New York was the object always uppermost
in Washington s mind. In 1770, ho had hoped to do a stroke upon the
enemy there, but circumstances did not admit of it. Now. that La Fayette
had brought word from the Court of France that the Colonies would be sus
tained vigorously and efficiently by the King s army, navy, and money and
that the Count do Rochambenu was on his way with a fleet, Washington re
curred to the purpose nearest his heart, and invited the suggestions of Gen
eral St. Clair as to the plan of campaign. Hence the letter above. It will
be seen that, while St. Clair presented a comprehensive plan of attack (which
Washington approved of and mainly adopted, as will be seen by reference
to his letters to Congress, La Fayette, and Greene) he did not regard the
undertaking as feasible as a combined movement against Canada. In this,
he touched La Fayette in a tender place. It was a favorite scheme of the
Frenchman, that of reconquering Canada and restoring the power of the
monarchy in the North, only second to that of giving freedom to the Colo
nies. But whether he had impressed his views on St. Clair, or whether the
latter, recalling his early military experience, and knowing that the posses
sion of that country would be the most effectual method for destroying
British power in America, is not known Nevertheless, he pressed the mili
tary movement on Washington s attention, and was supported by both La
Fayette and Gates. Washington and Congress were averse to it for politi
cal reasons only. They doubted the wisdom of a policy which might bring
about complications with Frunce when the day of adjustments should arrive.
It seemed cruel to let a shadow of suspicion against the French fall upon
the devoted and pure La Fayette. "God grant." wrote he to Washington,
in 1779, "that the sun of freedom may at length arise for the happiness of
mankind." "Serving America is to my heart an inexpressible happiness."
It will be seen that not only was the Canadian invasion scheme abandoned,
but the attack on New York failed. r

garrison as New York will be, is a very serious business, and though
the enterprise may succeed, it has not that degree of certainty which
in our circumstances should induce the undertaking it. The failing
in some lesser operation might be very disastrous, but in one of that
magnitude, it would go near to ruin us.
The force in New York and its dejiendencies is estimated at 8 000
effective rank and file militia and refugees, 5 000 returned with
Sir Henry Clinton, 3 000 (or 2 500) total, 16 000.
To offset these, we have, exclusive of the garrison of West Point,
which, in case of an attempt upon New York, may be reduced to
500, 7 500 recruits may possibly come in to the amount of 6 000
and the French may be, perhaps, set at 8 000; total, 21 500.
With this force, possession is to be obtained of New York Island,
which will, most probably, be very warmly disputed with us, and
may lessen our numbers considerably for the campaign. But I will
suppose that with 20 000 effective men, we have got footing on the
Island still, that number will be found insufficient to the purpose,
because its operations must be directly against New York, or it
must be divided to act at the same time on Long Island, which may
give the enemy an opportunity to make a stroke at either, and their
succeeding against either, defeats the designs of the whole. But
still further, all prospect of success depends upon the command of.
the water 1 and however answerable our force may appear to the
purpose, it should be reduced to a certainty that the enemy, during
the course of the siege (which may be expected to be of no small
duration), can not oblige the fleet to abandon us.
But, supposing the point fixed, that the naval force is sufficient,
would it not be a better way to distress the enemy, to operate in
some distant section with a part of the troops and shipping, and
keep them blocked in New York with the rest Canada is an ob
ject of considerable importance, and the loss of it would be felt
very sensibly. The troops of that country are valuable, and the
friendship of almost all the savages on the continent depends upon
it. The troops for its defense arc not numerous, and the disposition
of the inhabitants may, I believe, be depended on. If a body of
troops, equal, perhaps, to the whole force in Canada, was to enter
that country by Colonel Hazen s road, and another body of the
French, of about the same strength, which should carry with them
all the necessary apparatus for the whole, with a few ships of war,
should enter it by the St. Lawrence, their junction (supposing no
1 That the blockading fleet should be superior to the British, was indispen
sable.

accident to happen the fleet before Quebec), would not be difficult,
and the reduction of the country the almost certain consequence.
Even a greater force than I shall mention might be spared and
enough left to preserve the blockade; and, indeed, it would, per
haps, not be improper that the body which enters Canada by laud
should be stronger than I have proposed.
If the exertions of the States should produce a very considerable
reinforcement to our army, and the naval superiority of France be
ascertained, another detachment of troops and ships might be made
to operate against Halifax, which place, should the harbor be found
too much fortified for the vessels to attempt to force the passage,
may, nevertheless, be carried by the land, as there are many con
venient places for landing at no great distance from it, and where
there are good harbors—La Mere, particularly, on the Halifax side,
which runs up, if my memory serves me, within fifteen miles, and
several on the Bay of Fundy. I have said a few ships of war
should enter the St. Lawrence these, I think, need be no other
than frigates, and may be very safe against a much superior force
by occupying the Island of Condre 1 which lays immediately below
the traverse, where the passage of the river is narrow and difficult,
and no anchorage until you get above the lower point of it.
A simple frigate in Penobscot will prevent the withdrawing the
troops there, as I believe they can not march from there to any
part of Nova Scotia.
St. Augustine will probably fall into the hands of the Spaniards,
and the army under General Gates, though there is little probability
that it can recover Carolina, may, however, check Lord Cornwallis,
and perhaps oblige him to act on the defensive 2
These are my thoughts on the matters your Excellency was
pleased to refer to me, and to all, or some of these points, our views
and preparations should be principally directed but how our finan
ces and the resources of the country may accord with them, I can
not determine. Canada can furnish wheat in great abundance, but
little flour, and no meat.
The blockade of the British army if it can be effected, whilst our
operations are carried on with vigor in some more distant quarter,
would do them as much injury in Europe as the reducing them by
force. It would render them ridiculous in the mean time, and
1In the St. Lawrence River, below Quebec.
2Gates was not only not able to cope with Cornwallis, but met with a
crushing defeat, which compelled the reorganization of the Southern army
un er Greene.

might end in a submission, whilst it would effectually prevent the
eclat that attends a vigorous and well-directed defense.
General St. Clair to General Washington
Camp, July 12th, 1780.
The fleet having entered the bay of New York, and that city be
ing the object, it appears necessary to pass some vessels of force
above the Narrows, in order to oblige the enemy to discover their
intentions with regard to Staten Island. If they do not mean to
dispute the possession of it, their garrison will be withdrawn in
stantly but it may be that they may choose to sacrifice some part
of the troops on that island, with a view to retard your operations.
In either case, I think that island must be taken possession of and a
junction formed upon it with the French troops, the debarkation of
which, if the enemy keep possession, may be so regulated as to be
made at the same instant that such part of this army as your Ex
cellency shall think proper crosses to it which will necessarily in
duce a division of the enemy s force, and render the resistance feeble
against both—or, reduce them to suffer you to land without opposi
tion. The commencing our operations from Staten Island will save
so much transportation that it becomes an object of consequence.
The passage from thence to Long Island is not often difficult, and itd
shores are, in many places, suited to the landing of troops, partic
ularly along the bay side from New Utrecht by Gravesend, Flat
Lands, and Jamaic Bay, when the wind is at or betwixt the North
and West. The army bcing once established upon Long Island, the
investment of the enemy s works at Brooklyn and their reduction
follows, of course, if they do not previously give yon battle; which,
from whatever quarter the operations proceed, I am persuaded they
will endeavor to do. But this is one reason why I would prefer
throwing the army, or at least the greater part of it, over from
Staten Island to Long Island, as that country does not present many
advantages to the enemy, and you may possess yourself of the most
favorable position, which is the high ground from Flat Bush, across
towards the East River by Bedford before them. If they give you
battle there, and are worsted, the reduction of all river posts is for
warded, and I believe the city may be very much annoyed during
the operations against Brooklyn—the works there once carried, it is
no longer tenable. Another reason why I would prefer operating

upon Long Island is, that there is not so great a probability of a
vigorous resistance at the entering upon it as upon York Island, for
there are so many landing places that the enemy may be held in
great doubt about those you mean to make use of. Supposing that
they have discovered your general design, the country is by no means
so favorable to them as York Island and in order to prevent them
from opposing it with their whole force, a body of eight or ten
thousand men may be moved towards Morrisiana, which will oblige
them to keep a force in that quarter sufficient, at least, to resist any
undertaking they may suppose them equal to or leave open the
principal passage to York Island. These, together with the garri
sons of Brooklyn and Paulus Hook, which can not be less than five
or six thousand, will so much reduce them as to give little proba
bility of success to an attempt upon yourmain body acting on Long
Island. Besides, if boats are collected in the East River, which,
were it only to amuse the enemy there, must be done, any part of
that force at Morrisiana may occasionally be thrown over to Long
[slaud. At any rate, a detachment of the army sufficient to restrain
(heir foragers must be somewhere in that quarter. But suppose the
post at Brooklyn carried, possession is still to be obtained of York
Island, but it will then be easier as they must, of necessity, abandon
the city, and we shall have the command of the shores of both
rivers. It is not at all improbable that in the course of our opera
tions the city of New York will be destroyed; indeed, I have very
little doubt that it would be the most speedy manner of reducing
them, as the greatest part of their magazines must go with it, and
it may be worthy consideration, even if it should not be aimed at.
They will probably retire to the high grounds in front of Mr.
Wall s house, where an exceeding strong camp may be formed and
there wait in hopes of relief till the most irresistible of all assail
ants, famine, humbles their pride and obliges them to sue for terms.
These are my general ideas about the attack on New York, upon
the supposition that every necessary ship is taken to preserve the
command by water—but it is very easy to take towns upon paper.
Should there be any probability that the command of the water may
be lost, the army should by no means be ventured upon Long
Island 1 Some fripates should be in the Sound.
1 In connection with St. Clair s communications of the 3d and 12th of Inly,
above given, the reader should refer to a Memorandum for concerting a
plan of operations with the French army," under date of the 15th of July,
sent by General Washington to Marquis de Lafayette, to be communicated

General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, August 1, 1780.
Dear Sir:—You will perceive, by the orders of this day, that the
corps of light infantry is immediately to be formed. The command
of it, for the campaign, is promised to the Marquis de Lafayette,
to Count De Bochambeau, and Chevalier De Ternay. The most important
paragraphs are the following:
1. In any operation, and under all circumstances, a decisive naval superi
ority is to be considered as a fundamental principle, and the basis upon
which every hope of success must ultimately depend.
2. The advantages of possessing the post of New York, by the squadron
of Franco, have been already enumerated to Count De Roehambeau and
Chevalier De Ternay, and are so obvious as not to need recapitulation. A
delay in the execution of this enterprise may defeat all our projects, and
render the campaign inactive and inglorious.
3. To render our operations nervous and rapid, it is essential for us to be
masters of the navigation of the North River, and of the Sound. Without
this, our land transportation will be great, our expenses enormous, and our
progress slow, if not precarious, for want of forage and other means.
4. With these ideas, and upon this ground, it is conceived that many ad
vantages will result from the French squadron s taking possession of the
inner harbor between Staten Island and the City of New York, and detach
ing a frigate or two above the c/ievaux-dc-frise in the North River, opposite
to Fort Washington, for the purpose of opening the navigation of the river.
shortening the transportation by land on the upper and lower communica
tion, and bringing the enemy to an explanation respecting Staten Island.
Shipping so near the town would, at the same time they cover the frigates
in the North River, keep the garrison in check, and be more likely to facili
tate other movements of the army, than if they were to remain at the Hook
or below the Narrows.
5. Our operations against the enemy in the City of New York, may com
mence from either of threo points, to-wit: Morrisiana, or the height near
King s Bridge, or Staten Island. Each has its advantages and disadvan
tages, but under a full view of all circumstances, the preponderancy is in favor
of Morrisiana; especially since the aid of his Most Christian Majesty has
come by the way of Rhode Island, instead of Cape Henry, as it was ex
pected they would do, and touch at Sandy Hook, in consequence of advices
lodged there.
6. As the means for carrying on our operations are not yet sufficiently ap
preciated, nor is the time by which our aids will arrive sufficiently ascer
tained, it is impossible to be precise as to the time the American troops can
with safety rendezvous at Morrisiana; but, as it is necessary to fix some
epoch, it is hoped that it may happen by the 5th of August. I would pro
pose that day for the re-embarkation of the French efficient force at New
London (if they should have come there), and that they proceed up the

for reasons which, I dare say, will be to you obvious and satisfac
tory. If we attack New York, the part which this corps will take
will make it a most desirable command. Should it be agreeable to
you to take it until the return of this gentleman, which is uncer
tain, it would give me great pleasure. I wish you, however, to
consult your delicacy, and determine without the least restraint. I
want your answer 1
Sound to Whitcstone, on Long Island, or to such other place on that island,
or on the main, as circumstances may require, and the Count shall be advisea
of. For, the operations against the enemy depending very much upon
their holding all or dismantling some of their present posts, and upon con
tingencies on our side, it is not possible, at this time, to work out u precise
plan, or determine whether our approaches to the City of New York shall
bo by way of York Island, Brooklyn, or both. Numbers must determine
the latter, and circumstances of the moment the former.
7. It must be clearly understood and agreed between the parties, that, if
any capital operation is undertaken, the French fleet and land forces will, at
all events, continue their aid until the success of the enterprise, or until it is
mutually determined to abandon it.
George Washington.
1The answer has not been found. St. Clair, however, says in his narra
tive, that he joyfully accepted the command, grateful for this mark of the
high consideration for him manifested in this act by the Commander-inChief,
but the sudden return of Sir Henry Clinton to New York put an end
to the proposed movement, and the light infantry did not have an opportunity
to take part in active movements. This corps, says Sparks, consisted
of six battalions, each composed of eight companies, selected from the dif
ferent lines of the army. These battalions were arranged in two brigades,
one of which was commanded by General Hand, and the other by General
Poor 1 The light infantry were stationed in advance of the main army."
Referring to this projected movement against the British at New York
(which must not be confounded with the plan concerted with the French),
in which St. Clair was to have the post of honor, I find this explanation by Washington, in a letter to the Marquis de Lafayette: '•Though I previously
intended to attack New York, if Clinton had gone to Rhode Island, yet I
did not send for you, because I thought it not improbable he would return
in consequence of our movement, as has happened, and because your pres
ence where you are, in the other case, would have been of great utility to
the French fleet and army; but above all, because I was of opinion that it
would be impracticable for you to arrivo in time, as I intended to operate
with the utmost celerity."
(1) General Poor died on the 9th September. He had been in continuous service
from the beginning of the war, and, by intelligent action and devoted patriotism, had reflected the highest henor on his State (New Hampshire). He was a brigadier under St. Clair, and in the buttle of Hernia s Heights, was very efficient. Washington and St. Clair held him in high esteem.

President Reed to General St. Clatb.
Bloomsbury, near Trenton, August 26, 1780.
Sir:—Your favor of the 19th inst 1 was delivered to me at this
place yesterday. I shall forward Major Church s list of promotions
to the Council, in order to obtain their commissions. As' there is
no certain account of Colonel Connor, I think it would be prema
ture to make an appointment in his place for, though his country
has not had the benefit of his service for some time, he ever bore
the character of a worthy, deserving officer, and, the disorder with
which he was afflicted having been contracted in the public service,
justice, as well as gratitude, will entitle him to much consideration.
Should he be alive, his feelings would be much wounded, and it
would be difficult, perhaps impossible, to rectify the error. Under
these considerations, therefore, I believe you will agree with me
that it is best to postpone it till we have more satisfactory accounts.
Colonel Harmer s merit is universally acknowledged, and I would
gladly do any thing to promote his interests consistent with my
duty, but I am sure he would not desire it at the expense of an un
fortunate, brave brother officer.
General McDougall showed me the petition, or remonstrance, of
the general officers to Congress. As several of the particulars, such
as half pay for life, pensions for widows and orphans, comfortable
and decent clothing, etc., have been provided by Pennsylvania for
its troops•, unsolicited, and that upon a plan which was supposed to
be highly satisfactory, I was somewhat surprised to see it had been
signed in so unqualified a manner unless the provision of the htate
was in time, quantity, or other circumstance, unacceptable, I think
it would have been best to have discriminated, for many members
of Congress now think that the troops of all States are in the same
unprovided condition. I was always of opinion that the provision
for the federal army should have been on a general scale but, ex
perience having shown a fatal defect in their arrangements, necessity,
not policy, led me to promote a partial supply, and to make it hon
orable and effectual. But, if it is really the sense and desire of the
officers to lay aside their State provisions, and return to an immedi
ate dependence on Congress as the supreme governing power of
America, I am sure there is not a person or public character iu
Pennsylvania that will give it the least obstruction. It is certainly
the true line of Government, and, I am sure, if duly and regularly
1 Not found.

lived up to, will render the army more effectual and independent of
partial systems, local or personal prejudices. As this memorial was
signed only by the general officers, you will easily have opportuni
ties to know their sentiments on this point 1
We have sent to Europe for a complete supply of clothing for
both officers and men, and, unless the accidents of the sea should
disappoint or delay us, we shall, in a few days, send to Boston to
secure some part of the great capture lately made there but if a
general plan of provision under the direction of Congress is likely to
take place, we can transfer to the Continent what purchases we
have made. But I should not choose to do this till there was a per
fect understanding of acquiescence of all parties interested.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
Camp at Tappan, Sept. 5th, 1780.
It is certainly good policy to give the soldiery an interest in the
issue of the contest, which, by making them public creditors, you
do. And I believe it would be a means, if not of preventing it
altogether, of rendering desertion much less frequent than it has
been. The Eastern States had done this previous to the recom
mendation of Congress, and their troops are now in possession of
Government security, payable at four different terms, and bearing
interest. I hope the Middle States (and Pennsylvania in particu
lar), which have always got the start of their eastern brothers in
matters of generosity, will not be behind-hand with them in matters
of justice.
The enemy seem to confine themselves to the defensive. We
lately foraged the country about Bergen in a very insulting man
ner, and with such a disposition of our troops that, if they had
offensive designs, must have been a very great temptation, though,
to be sure, the passage of the North River is not an easy operation.
I wish their seeming listlessness may not proceed from too perfect a
knowledge of our situation.
We are starving, and, unless something very efficacious for the
1 Colonel Walter Stewart to General St. Clair, Philadelphia, January 3,
1782: "Exertions have been and still are making in Congress to constitute
us an army belonging to the United States, and leaving entirely out the
idea of State troops. Whether it will be carried or not is yet uncertain,
but we all hope, in this quarter, it may.'
524 The St. Clair Paper*.
supply of the army is done very speedily, we must disband or turn
freebooters—an evil of almost as much magnitude as the first 1
You have much influence with members of Congress. I entreat
you to make them sensible of the risk to which they are exposing
their country, and of the double risk to which they expose them
selves, for it begins to be a prevailing sentiment, both in the army
and in the country, that a party amongst them have been bribed
to drive things into confusion. When the resentment of a people
is aroused their revenge does not always extend to the guilty only.
l At this very juncture I am reduced to the puinful alternative, either of
dismissing a part of the militia now assembling (though, by the way, they
were to have rendezvoused the 25th of last month), or let them come forward
to starve, which it will be extremely difficult for the troops already in the field
to avoid. Kvery day s experience proves more and more that the
present mode of obtaining supplies is the most uncertain, expensive, and injurious
that could be devised. It is impossible for us to form any calcula
tions of what we are to expect, and, consequently, to concert any plans for
future execution.
I can not forbear recurring in this place to the necessity of a more ample
and equal provisipn for the army. The discontents on this head have been
gradually matured to a dangerous extremity. There are many symptoms
that alarm and distress me. Endeavors are using to unite both officers and
men in a general refusal of the money, and some corps now actually decline
receiving it. Every method has been taken to counteract it, because such a
combination in the army would be a Severe blow to our declining currency.
The most moderate insist that the accounts of depreciation ought to be
liquidated at stated periods, and certificates given by Government for sums
due. They will not be satisfied with a general declaration that it shall be
made good.
"This is one instance of complaint. There are others equally serious.
Among the most serious, is the inequality of the provision made by the sev
eral States. Pennsylvania maintains her officers in a decent manner; she
hagiven them ball-pay for life. What a wide difference between their sit
uation and that of the officers of every other line in this army, some of
whom are actually so destitute of clothing, as to be unlit for duty, and are,
for that cause, only obliged to confine themselves to quarters. I have often
said, and beg leave to repeat it, that the hall-pay provision is. in my opinion,
the most politic and effectual that could be adopted. On the whole, if some
thing satisfactory be not done, the army (already so much reduced in officers
by resignations, as not to have a sufficiency to do the common duties of it),
must either cease to exist at the end of the campaign, or it will exhibit an
example of more virtue, fortitude, self-denial, and perseverance, than has
perhaps ever yet been paralleled in the history of human enthusiasm."—
Washington to the President of Congress, August 20, 1780.

General St. Clair to General Washington.
Camp, September 9, 1780.
The attack on New York always appeared to me a very hazard
ous and doubtful enterprise 1 I think it now out of the question al
together, on account of the advanced season our scant force the
precariousness of our supplies, and the want of a sufficient naval
force, in which a decided superiority is necessary to give the under
taking the least probability of success. If the Second Division of
the French Fleet should arrive soon, and that naval superiority be
obtained, it would require some time, as well as bringing forward
the apparatus and stores for a siege, and I should still hesitate
about the propriety of commencing operations against that place.
We could not, probably, reckon on more than two months to keep
the field. Winter would lx. upon us, and, with the force the enemy
have there, it is not unreasonable to suppose that they could suc
cessfully contest the ground with us for that space. I should hesi
tate, still more, because, though there have been instances of sieges
carried on in winter, there is an uncertainty of a constant and regu
lar supply of provisions, and a failure in that would as certainly
1 From this letter, it will be seen that the opinion had been reached that,
owing to the non-arrival of the Second Division of the French Fleet and
troops, us expected, it would be a desperate undertaking now to attack the
British at New York. The fleet, under the Chevalier de Ternay, was in
terior to that of the British under Admiral Arbuthnot, and, for this reason,
although a plan for a joint attack was formed with the present force, and
communicated to Count de Rochambeuu, that officer refused to approve of it.
He held that, unless he should he reinforced by the Second Division of French
troops, or succors should arrive from the West Indies, where the Count de
Guichen was engaged, or Sir Henry Clinton should detach a part of his force
to the southward, it would be wiser to act on the defensive. Washington
approved of this, although greatly disappointed in the inaction of the cam
paign. His anxiety was great, as, without money and without provisions, it
was impossible for him to keep an army in the field. "The Commander
feared." said the Count de Rochambeau, "and not witheut foundation, con
sidering the absolute discredit of the finances of Congress, that the struggles
of this campaign would be the last efforts of expiring patriotism. He
wished, at any hazard, to risk an attack upon the enemy in the stronghold,
while he had the French troops at his disposal." The Chevalier de Ter
nay decided to make his station in Boston Harbor, and Washington gave
orders for his troops to recross the river, and proceed toDobbs s Ferry, about
ten miles from King s Bridge, where he intended to establish a more eligi
ble communication, in case New York should prove to be the eventual object
of the Americans.

subject us to a miscarriage, as if the enemy defeated us it is, in
deed, the most disgraceful of the two, because it might be foreseen.
The season is too far advanced for an attempt on Canada also.
From the misfortunes to the southward 1 North Carolina is in dan
ger of being entirely overrun nor are the frontiers of Virginia in
perfect safety. The troops proposed to be raised in that country and
Maryland may. not be completed in time to check the torrent, and,
when completed, no great dependence can be put upon them for
some time, as the greatest part of them will be raw, and the whole
undisciplined. It will, therefore, it appears to me, be necessary to
make a detachment from this army to that country, which, with the
others, may form au army of observation, and keep Lord Cornwallis
in check. The new troops will acquire discipline from the example
of the others, and from being, probably, frequently engaged in small
parties with the enemy, and the whole brought to such a state as to
be fit for offensive operations as occasion may require. That occa
sion will probably happen soon, for if the Second Division of the
French Fleet arrives this fall, it will be at the time most proper for
acting in South Carolina. If then the superiority at sea is cer.
tain, I would propose to embark the French troops, and send them
to Charleston. This would oblige Lord Cornwallis to fall back,
the army of observation would enter the country at his heels, oblige
the inhabitants to return to their allegiance to the States as they pro
ceeded, intercept his convoys, harass him in his march, cut off his
communication with the country, and, finally, by a junction or co
operation with the French, facilitate and secure the reduction of
Charleston. All this might be done in the course of this winter,
and the greater part of the troops employed in it rejoin the main
army before the opening of the next campaign. But this Ls all
upon the supposition that provisions and all other things necessary
are to be had in that country, and that proper means have been used
to procure them—without these, men are useless anywhere. If there
is still a prospect of acting against New York, the detachment I
have proposed can not be made, nor, indeed, can it be a very large
one, in any case, for though at present the prospect of offensive
operations being over, a considerable one might possibly be spared,
attention must be paid to what our force will be in January next.
Another consideration should have some weight, viz., that Sir Henry
Clinton may very probably expect that we will detach from this
1 This was the defeat of the atmy under General Gates on the 16th Au
gust, about eight miles from Camden.

army, and may wait that opportunity to change his operations to
the offensive 1
This is the best opinion I have been able to form on the several
matters your Excellency was pleased to lay before the Council.
To the Officer Commanding at West Point.
Robinson House, September 27, 1780.
Sir:—You will immediately make a distribution of the troops
under your command to the several posts, that the whole may be in
a state of defense at the shortest notice. You will also have each
work supplied with ten days' provisions, wood, water and stores, and
keep up constantly that supply and you will take every other pre
caution for the security of the post. The enemy will have acquired,
from General Arnold, a perfect knowledge of the defenses, and will
be able to take their measures with the utmost precision. This
makes it essential that our vigilance and care should be redoubled
for its preservation. You will do every thing in your power to gain
information of the enemy s designs, and give me intelligence, as
early as possible, of any movement against you.
A party of militia, who have been employed cutting wood,
and another as guards to the stores at Fishkill, that have been
called in, are to return to their destinations.
Colonel Gouviou will remain a few days at this post, to assist in
the necessary arrangements. I am, etc.,3
Geo. Washington.
1The general plun here outlined in September is very similar to that pur
sued by General Washington in the winter He dispatched Greene to South
Carolina, to confront Cornwallis, and when Sir Henry Clinton sent ft de
tachment to Virginia, under Arnold, he appealed to Governor Jefferson to
call out the militia, and ordered Lafayette, with a corps of Continental
troops, to Virginia, to co-operate with Baron Steuben, asked Rochambeau to
send a portion of the French fleet to operate in the Chesapeake Bay and the
James River, and suggested a co-operation of the French, Spanish, and
American vessels against the common enemy at St. Augustine, and for the
purpose of recovering South Carolina and Georgia. See correspondence
with Count do Rochambeau, General Lafayette, and Congress, December
1780, to February, 1781.— Washington s Writings, Vol. VII
2 The following indorsement, in the handwriting of General St. Clair, is
on the back of the letter of instructions: "On the announcement of Ar
nold s desertion, an immediate attack being expected. I was sent to take the
command from Tappan."
On the day that the above instructions were written, General McDougall

General Washington to General St. Clair.
[Instructions.]1 Tappan, October 1, 1780.
Sir:—You will repair forthwith to West Point, and take the
was directed to take the command at West Point til] the arrival of General
St. Clair.—Sparks, W. of W-, Vol. VII, p. 221. Note.
For several months, beginning while he was in command at Philadelphia,
Benedict Arnold had been carrying on a secret correpondenee with the
British commander at New York. After he obtained the command at "West
Point, his treasonable purposes were brought to a sudden issue. On the 20th
of September, John Andr6, Adjutant-General of the British army, went on
board the sloop of war Vulture, and proceeded up the Hudson, with a view
of holding an interview with Arnold. On the night of the 21st, a boat was
sent by Arnold to the Vulture, which brought Andr6 to the shore, about sis
miles below Stony Point, "and there, under the shadow of the mountains,
after midnight, the conspirators met." Thence they proceeded to the house
of Joshua Hett Smith, within two miles of Stony Point, where they break
fasted and completed arrangements for the surrender of West Point. Plans
of the works, their armament, the number of troops, etc., were furnished to
Andr6, and concealed by him between his stockings and his feet. As the
Vulture had beeii fired on by the Americans, she dropped down the river,
and this necessitated Andre s remaining concealed at Smith s house all day.
Arnold furnished him with a pass, under the name of John Anderson, which
was to be used with the guards. Smith refused to put him on board the
Vulture, but agreed to escort him beyond the American lines. They started
in the evening, crossing the river at King s Ferry. They traveled eight
miles, and were stopped by an American patrol, who accepted the pass, but
advised them not to proceed farther that night. Tho next morning they
started again, and when the neutral ground was reached, Smith returned to
the river, and Andre continued his journey. He had exchanged his uniform
for plain clothes, and now regarded all danger as past. Hence, when he was
stopped soon after by three men, one of whom was dressed in British uni
form, Andre s caution deserted him, and ho imprudently exclaimed, "Gen
tlemen, I hope you belong to our party." "What party?" was asked. ''The
lower party," said Andr6. "We do," said the other. Thereupon, A ndrg
declared himself to be a British officer, and told them not to detain him, as
he was on important business. The three men—John Paulding, Isaac Van
Wert and David Williams—then informed him he was their prisoner. No
offers of compensation could swervo them, and Andre had met his doom.
From Colonel Sheldon s headquarters, Andre sent a letter to General Wash
ington (September 24th), informing him of his real name and position, but
denying being a spy.
On the morning of the 25th, Arnold, whose headquarters were at the
Kobinson House, was startled by receiving a message from Washington, announcing
that he would breakfast with him. While Washington stopped to
1See note l p. 529.

command of that post, with its dependencies, till further orders.
The troops under your command will consist of the Pennsylvania
division, Colonels Meigs' and Livingston s regiments of Continental
troops, and a body of. Massachusetts and New Hampshire militia.
The inclosed is a copy of the instructions left for the commanding
officer, which you will please to observe. Unless you should think
it necessary, for the immediate security of the post, to draw the
First Pennsylvania Brigade nearer to West Point, I should wish it
to remain somewhere in its present position, as it may then, at the
same time, serve the purpose of reinforcing the main army in case
of a movement against it. But, on the first appearance of the
enemy coming in force up the river, that brigade should have pre
vious orders to march to your succor.
Orders have been given, in the case last mentioned, for the posts
inspect some posts, Lafayette and Hamilton rode forward to the Robinson
House, where they arrived as Mr. and Mrs. Arnold were about to sit down
to breakfast. They were invited to join the family, which they did. Pretty
soon, an officer arrived with a letter to Arnold, which contained the infor
mation that Andre had been captured. Arnold saw that all would soon be
discovered to Washington. Excusing himself, he withdrew and proceeded
to make preparations for flight. Before leaving, he confided his secret to
his wife. Some hours passed after Washington s arrival before the terriblo
facts became known to him. He then took instant steps for defeating the
plot. He caused the arrest of Hctt Smith, and secured Arnold s staff-officers,
whe, however, were ignorant of all proceedings. On the 26th, Washington
wrote to the President of Congress, and on the 27th, issued the above order.
For the best accounts of the treason of Arnold, the reader is referred to
"The Life of Benedict Arnold," by Isaac N. Arnold; and to Irving s Life
of Washington.
1At the time the above order was received, General St. Clair was quite ill
with fever. He, hewever, immediately responded, and found no more leisure
time for sickness. Before arriving at West Point, he dispatched the follow
ing brief letter to Mrs. St. Clair:
Dear Madam —I had intended to write you a long letter, but am so much
hurried that I can only tell you that I am now pretty well recovered—per
fectly of my fever, but have not quite got my strength again; the fine season
coming on will bring that with it. General Arnold s desertion has been the
cause of my going<o take the command of the posts where he was, from
whence you shall hear from me very soon. I will send a man to you with
such necessaries as you want and I can procure, and for farther particulars
must refer you to business letters. I was very much pleased with one I had
lately from John Murray 1 as well with the matter of it as with the writing,
which was better than I expected. Tell him ho shall have what he wrote
for. My love to all the children. I long much to see you all."
1 II is third son. 34

of Verplanck s and Stony Point to be evacuated, with all the can
non and stores, and the garrison added to that at West Point. But
I would not wish this step to be precipitated as, in case of an at
tempt to surprise you, these posts will not only be useful to give you
the alarm, but they will probably, in all cases, gain you time, as the
the enemy would hardly venture to pass them with the transports
full of troops. The baggage and extra stores may be sent off at
the first aspect of a serious movement but the troops should not
evacuate until the enemy are in a situation to invest the posts.
Dobbs s Ferry may also serve you as an outpost but care must be
taken to distinguish the firing against a single vessel passing from
that against a number, which will, of course, be more continued.
Great vigilance should be used in patroling on the east side of the
river, as it would otherwise be easy for the enemy to land a body of
men below, and surprise Verplanck s Point. I must entreat your
particular care of the boats on the river to keep them in repair,
and, as much as possible, collected. All those at King s Ferry—
more than are wanted for the necessary service of the communica
tion—should be moved up the North River. A part of the militia
at Verplanck s and Stony Point may also be drawn to the main
garrison.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Orange Town, 6</i October, 1780.
Dear Sir —Four brigades, which are to compose the garrison at
West Point, march from this camp to-morrow morning. As soon,
therefore, as a sufficient number of men to relieve the Second Penn
sylvania Brigade and Meigs' regiment arrive, you will direct those
corps to join the army, which will lay near Pickaness 1 by the short
est route. I have myself given orders to General Wayne to move
to-morrow morning, with the First Brigade. You will be pleased
to remain yourself, until relieved by another Major-General 1
The following note was indorsed on the letter
Dear General: —My position occasioned my taking the liberty of
•The change indicated in the above letter was brought about by General
Greene, who, on the 5th October, solicited the command. Greene was
senior Major-General, and a great favorite with the Commander-in-Chief, on
which Greene relied confidently. "I shall make use of no arguments," said
he, "being persuaded my pretensions and inclinations will have their full
operation, and that nothing short of the public good and military prosperitywill
contravene my wishes. Washington endeavored to dissuade Greene,

opening your letter, suspecting it might concern me. We will be
up in the morning.
I am, etc., Wm. Irvine.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
West Point, 1th October, 1780.
Sir:—I received your Excellency s letter of yesterday, and am
very glad that you have ordered up the troops which are to compose
the garrison, as it is very necessary they should be here, that things
may be got into some kind of order before the winter. At
present they are very much deranged. The laying in a proper
stock of firewood is a very heavy but a very essential business,
and the militia which have been employed in cutting it, I am
told, have done little more than supply the post at Fishkill, and are
very little ahead. I expect a report of the quantity to-day from
Colonel Hughes, to whom I have recommended to allot them a mod.
erate task per day, as the best means to make them most useful.
The magazine of provisions is very nearly exhausted thirty bar
rels, only, of salted meat on hand, exclusive of what is in the works
(about five days' for the troops posted in them), and no cattle, and
the men have been, some days, reduced to three-quarters of a pound
of flour. I expect, however, two hundred barrels of that article
to-day, and have written to Colonel Hay (to be laid before the Leg
islature of this State), very pressingly, to have an immediate and
ample supply of provisions thrown in, as it may not be possible to do
it some time hence, from the state the river is frequently in, about
the beginning of winter. I directed Colonel Livingston l to collect and send up here all the
boats that were not necessary below provided they had not been
ordered there by your Excellency for some particular purpose. His
answer is, that they were ordered there for transporting the cannon,
in case it became necessary to evacuate the posts he commands.
They will, therefore, remain there, unless I have your directions to
the contrary but, I must beg leave to suggest to your Excellency that,
after the intention of the enemy becomes apjttireut with respect to
but to no purpose. West Point he must have. This display of selfishness
dues not make us forget the merit of the man.
General Greene remained ut West Point from the 9th to the 16th of Octo
ber, when he whs relieved by General Heath. He was appointed to the
command in South Carolina.
1Colonel Livingston commanded tt Verplanck s Point and Stony Point

them, it will most probably be too late to evacuate them with any
probability of saving the cannon and stores. If they be evacuated
before their intention is discovered, it will be in their power to oc
cupy them, after they may have failed in an attempt upon this
place. I find some heavy brass field artillery here, which is not, I
suppose, intended for garrison use, and had better be removed.
Some repairs have been making upon the carriages, but that might
as well be done anywhere else. The Pennsylvania Brigade shall
march as soon as the other troops arrive.
The times of the militia begin to expire on the 14th, and will be
all expired on the 24th. I have not heard from Major Tallmadge,
nor have any accounts from New York by any other way.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
Trenton, January 4th, 1781.
Sir: —The Marquis and myself, with several other officers, ar
rived at this place about 3 o clock. The mutineers, consisting nearly
of the whole Pennsylvania line and the regiment of artillery, are at
Princeton, where they arrived last night, and this day has beeu
spent in negotiating betwixt them and General Wayne, Colonel
Richard Butler, and Colonel Stewart and I have the honor to in
close you a copy of the terms proposed by them, with General
Wayne s answer. These are the only officers they allow to have
any communication with them, or to pass within their posts, which
arc, I am told, well chosen, and the guards very regularly mounted
and a committee of sergeants ihanages their business. You will see
how extravagant their proposals are, and General Wayne has gone
as far as he well could do in compliance with them. They have, as
yet, done very little injury to the inhabitants, and profess that thov
do not mean any but they begin to talk of their neighborhood to
New York, which makes it justly feared that there are amongst
them some emissaries of the enemy. This circumstance induces
Governor Livingston t-i think that it would be prudent, in easa they
persist, to suffer them to pass the Delaware, as it would then be
out of their power ta go to the enemy and, if force should ba nec
essary, a part of the militia of this State might be thrown over to
co-operatewith those of Pennsylvania in their reduction. No defini
tive resolution is, however, taken upon that head but it is neces
sary your Excellency should be apprised that it is in contemplation,
that the proper measures may be concerted, in caseof necessity.

We propose to go to Maidenhead, to-night, to be able to get to them
early to-morrow, before they have opportunity to intoxicate them
selves, and your Excellency shall have the earliest notice of what
may happen, or of any thing that may occur to-night that comes to
our knowledge 1
P. S. —The chief justice of this State, and some members of
the Legislature, went up to. day to expostulate with them, but were
not permitted. An express is this moment arrived, that they have
refused General Wayne s terms, and propose to march to-morrow.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Morristown, 1th January, 1781.
Sir:—Your Excellency has heard of the shameful defection of
the Pennsylvania line and I am very much concerned to inform
you that, as yet, there is no prospect, as we know of, of any desire
appearing in them to return to their duty. I happened to be in
Philadelphia the day the accounts of it arrived there, and set out
early next morning, in company with the Marquis do Lafayette, to
make trial of what influence we might have but, though we were
suffered to comc into Princekm, and there was an appearance of
satisfaction in the countenances of the troops, we were not allowed
to have any communication with them. A committee of sergeants,
who are doubtless at the bottom of the whole, have got the business
into their own hands, and no person is allowed to speak to the sol
diery but through them.
Their demands are no less than an almost total dissolution of the
line. They arc, to the best of my recollection, the discharge of all
those who have been enlisted in the years 1777 and '78, and who
received the bounty of twenty and one hundred and twenty dollars
immediate payment of their arrears and depreciation; and a general
indemnity. General Wayne, in answer to these demands, made
1Tho revolt of tlio Pennsylvania line took place at nine o clock, on the
night of the flrst-of January. A low refused to join, but a great propor
tion, including the artillerists, formed and marched toward Philadelphia.
A few subordinate officers resisted, and wcro roughly handled. Captains
Billings and Talbot lost their lives. The demand of the troops was for an
immediate discharge. They moved under the direction of n, board of ser
geants. The regiments were under the immediate command of General
Wayne. That officer, and Colonels Butler and S'.ewart, continued with the
mqn. r

them such promises as ought to have satisfied reasonable men, look
ing only for redress of grievances, whether real or imaginary, but
they were rejected so that I have no doubt but emissaries from the
enemy are amongst them, and believe that nothing but force will
reduce them to reason. Unhappily, however, there seems to be no
disposition in the militia of this State to come to that method and
it was the opinion of the Governor and such members of the Legis
lature as we saw at Trenton, that they should be suffered to pass the
Delaware. This I informed Governor Reed of, from that place,
that he might have time to take the proper measures but they
seem disposed to keep post at Princeton. Whilst we were at the
last place, Colonel Laurens came up, and we very soon after re.
ceived a notice that our being in town was very disagreeable, and
desiring us, for our own safety, to retire and our stay was after
ward limited to an hour and a half. As we had no prospect of tieing
of service, we set off, lest they should think of detaining us.
We have since heard that they have made General Wayne, Colonels
Butler and Stewart, prisoners but the most alarming circumstance
is, their having organized themselves, and appointed all the neces
sary officers.
There are still a few men at the huts, to whom I have sent this
morning, with an assurance that they will be considered principally
in whatever may be done for the line at large, and have directed
that they may be collected and marched to PersijKmny, to render
their communication with the revolters more difficult and have
given directions for removing the remaining artillery and ammuni
tion to Snekysunny.
We were unfortunate to miss Major Fisbbourn, and have no
knowledge of your Excellency s intentions. I thought it probable
that you might have come down to this place. If that is not your
design, I beg I may he favored with your Excellency s instructions.
P. S. —I have not learned that any movements of the enemy in
dicate an intention to enter Jersey, yet I can not persuade myself
that they will not endeavor to avail themselves of this disaster,
though, perhaps, they may defer it until it is certain that force is
necessary.
After Major Fishbourn s departure from Princeton, from a desire
expressed by the committee to confer with some of the Council of
Pennsylvania, General Wayne sent an express to Philadelphia, re
questing some of that body to meet them. They were expected to
arrive yesterday.

General St. Clair to General Wayne.
Morristown, January 1th, 1781.
Sir —His Excellency is not yet arrived neither have we heard
from him, having, somehow, unfortunately missed of Major Fishbourn
on his return, but we are in expectation every moment to see
him. He will certainly be very desirous to meet you and the other
gentlemen who have been with the troops, to hear your report, and
have you convey to them his comments. They must be convinced,
from the knowledge they have of his character and his friendship
for the soldiers, that every redress of real grievances within his
power will be granted to them.
I would wish you to meet them as soon as possible, that an end
may be put to this unhappy business 1
General St. Clair to Brigadier-General Wayne.
Morristown, January 9, 1781.
Dear Sir: —This will be brought to you by a person who has been
sent by Sir Henry Clinton with proposals to the discontented troops,
and was honest enough to bring them to me. In order that we
might be certain of their intentions with respect to the enemy, we
have thought it best to suffer him to go on with a message, and he
is to return here with the answer.
We have heard that they have already detained two who came
to them on the same errand. If this person should meet with the
same fortune, you will be pleased to have him discharged, if in your
power.
I am extremely anxious to hear how matters are going on, and
what prospect thereis of the affairs being terminated. I beg my
respects to Colonel Butler and Colonel Stewart, and hope soon to
have the happiness to see you in more agreeable situations.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, January 10, 1781.
Dear Sir:—Your favors of the 7th and 8th 2 instant, from Morris1
This was expected to full into the hands of the mutineers, and so worded
*i? they mis;ht expect the arrivul of the General.—Sote by General St. Clair.
2 >"ot fuund 

town, have bith reached me in the course of this day. I can not
conceive how Major Fishbourn could have misunderstood me as to
my intention of going down. The postscript of my letter of the 3d
to General Wayne 1 which was added after I had consulted Governor
Clinton and the general officers, was to the contrary. Upon re
ceiving your letter of the 7th, I sent directions to General Heath to
assemble all the general officers, and officers commanding coqw, at
his quarters, to-morrow morning, where I shall meet them. What
I have to propose is of too delicate a nature to commit to paper;
neither can I say, until I have had the meeting, whether it will be
prudent for me to go down towards Morristown. You shall hear
from me after the meeting is over. I think it appears, by the letter
which has fallen into your hands, that there has not been much, if
any, intercourse between the mutineers and Sir H. Clinton and, if
the future correspondence can be intercepted, it will embarrass the
British and the troops. You will have been the best judge of the kind
of answer which it would be proper to give to Sir Henry s message
but, as we had not force sufficient to wish to decoy him out, perhaps
it will have been most prudent to answer him in the negative.
I am certain that, in consequence of my letter of the 8»h to Gen
eral Wayne, every offer that ctfuld with propriety be made, has
been made 2 What further is to be done can be better determined
by you on the spot, than by me at this distance. The steps you
have hitherto taken are judicious and strictly proper.
Be pleased to thank the Marquis and Colonel Laurens for their
letters, which a press of business prevents me from answering.
If I do go down, it will be by Chester, Warwick, Colonel Sew
ard s, Davenport s Mill, and to Morristown. You will send ex
presses on that route, but do not let it be known that I mean to
take it.
1The following wns the postscript referred to:
"P. »S. —January 4th, 7 o clock a. m.—Upon second thought, I am in
doubt whether I shall come down, becausethe mutineers must have returned
to their duty, or the business be in the hands of Congress, before I could
reach you, and because I am advised by such of the general officers as I have
seen, not to leave this post in the present situation of things, temper of tho
troops, and distress of the garrison for want of flour, clothing, and, in short,
every tiling.''
At this distance it is impossible to recommend any particular line of
conduct, but only in general to observe, that such measures founded in
justice and a proper degree of generosity as will have i tendency to con
ciliate or divide the men, appear most likely to succeed. Certain it is, that
should they finally go to the enemy they will be a considerable augmentaGeneral Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, 12tlv January, 1781.
Dear Sir: —The receipt of your letter of the 9th 1 inclosing one
from General Wayne, has, if possible, added to my embarrassments.
I had heard from General Sullivan and Lord Stirling, that the mu
tineers had delivered up the British emissaries immediately upon
their arrival at Princeton. From this I was in hopes that they had
precluded themselves from all assistance from that quarter, and that
the reduction of them by force, should matters come to extremities,
would not be difficult. But now, their conduct appears to me in
this light they have made known the propositions offered by Sir
Henry Clinton only by the way of threat, and seem to say, if you
do not grant our terms we can obtain them elsewhere.
At the meeting with the general and field officers yesterday, it
was almost a unanimous opinion that their men might be depended
upon. I, therefore, gave directions for a detachment of one thou
sand men (tikis number should be exaggerated if spoken of), to be
prepared and held in readiness. If things are in a train of nego
tiation, as would seem to be the case from General Wayne s post
script, to move a force between Trenton and the enemy might create
suspicion in the minds of the mutineers and make them fly to the
enemy for safety. I do not think it prudent to write to the com
mittee of Congress, to Governor Reed, or to General Wayne, lest
my letter should be stopped I thmk, therefore, from a consideration
of the subject in every light, that it will be best for you to go down
to the Pennsylvania side, opposite to Trenton, and send for some of
the gentlemen over there. Inquire minutely into the situation of
affairs, and if there are no hopes of a reasonable compromise, get
from them an opinion of what ought ultimately to be done. If force
should be determined upon, the Governors of Pennsylvania and Jer
sey should instantly make arrangements for bringing out as many
of their militia as can be collected, while the detachment above
mentioned is marching from hence, that the intercourse between
Trenton and this place may be as expeditious as possible. Desire
Colonel Nelson to fix a relay of expresses from the neighborhood
tion of strength against us; or should they be dispersed, their loss to the
service will be severely felt. Both these evils are, therefore, to bes avoided,
if there is any proper ground on which it can be done."— Washington ia
Wayne, Sth January.
1 Not found.


of Trenton to Morristown, and let the quartermaster at Morristown
continue them from thence to this place.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, January 15th, 1781.
Dear Sir:—I have duly received your favor of the 11th 1 to
gether with one from the committee of Congress of the 9th inst.
As I had just dispatched an express to you with my letter of the
12th, I have detained your messenger until this time in expectation
that something so decisive would have turned up as might have
fixed the line of conduct which we ought to pursue.
But nothing new having come to my knowledge which could give
sufficient ground for determination, since my last, I can only refer
you to it.
The detachment shall be held in readiness till I hear from you,
which I anxiously expect every moment. Indeed, nothing can be
of greater importance than to communicate with the utmost rapidity
every incident that may happen during the continuance of this un
happy affair 2
1 The letter is missing from the St. Cluir Papers.
2 When the news of the revolt reached Philadelphia, Congress appointed
a committee, consisting of General Sullivan, Mr. Witherspoon, and Mr.
Mathews, who were instructed to confer with President Heed on the sub
ject. The latter proceeded to Princeton and the committee to Trenton.
Meanwhile, the mutineers delivered up two emissaries sent by Sir Henry
Clinton, which showed their attachment to the American cause. These were
tried by a court, consisting of Generals Wuyno and Irvine, and Colonels
Butler and Stewart, and Major Fishbourn, condemned and executed on the
11th. The following proposals were offered to the mutineers by the com
mittee and President Reed
"1. To discharge all those who had enlisted indefinitely for three years,
or during the war; the fact to be inquired into by three commissioners, to
be appointed by the Executive, and to be ascertained, where the original en
listment could not be produced, by the oath of the soldier.
'-2. To give immediate certificates for the depreciation on their pay, and
to settle arrearages as soon as circumstances would admit.
"To furnish them immediately with certain specified articles of clothing,
which were greatly wanted."
These terms, which General Sullivan assured Washington were such ns
the critical situation of affairs warranted and justice dictated, were ac
cepted on the further stipulation that three commissioners should be deputed
by the line to act conjointly with the others in determining what soldiers

General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, Zd February, 1781.
Dear Sir:—The unexpected reduction of the Pennsylvania line1
from the late unfortunate affair, adds to the necessity of the greatest
attention to improve the measures adopted for recruiting it. I do
not know precisely what these are, but I am informed, in general,
that money is raising for the purpose, and that the recruiting serv
ice goes on with success. In order to have it conducted with regu
larity and activity, I am to request you will undertake to superBliould
be discharged. Thus the dispute, which h«tl its origin the previous
year, as mentioned in St. Clair s Correspondence, as to the real term of en
listment—for three years or for the war—was finally authoritatively settled.
It gave a great shock to the country, and tilled the minds of the chief of
ficers with apprehensions for the future. It is not at all likely matters would
have come to this pass and the cause placed in such jeopardy, hut for the
insubordination of leading officers of the Pennsylvania line on the occasion
of the nppointment of Major McPherson to one of the regiments by Gen
eral Washington. The chief offender on that occasion was General Wayne
himself. The example set by him then was not forgotten by the sergeants
and the troops on the present occasion.
1 Under the arrangement entered into between the Congressional Com
mittee and the mutineers, advantage was taken and a majority of the men
returned home. This nearly destroyed St. Clair s division, and, as active
operations would not be undertaken until in May or June, an effort was
to be made to restore the line. The Pennsylvania Council notified St.
Clair, on the 5th February, that the State was prepared to aid in the work,
and requested him, through Secretary Matlock, to designate the places of
rendezvous, and order the officers to repair to their stations. It was an
nounced that, in order to meet traveling expenses, an additional sum of ten
pounds to each officer and six pounds to each subaltern would be allowed,
on account of depreciated money. St. Clair invited General Washington to
select the place of general rendezvous, with which he complied in the fol
lowing note
New Windsor, 13rA Feb., 1781.
Dtnr Sir:—
In my opinion, Bristol and that neighborhood will be, upon many ac
counts, most suitable and convenient, for this purpose. It is on the most
direct communication to the army, from whence the troops assembled mHy
be drawn without loss of time, upon an emergency. I would wish them to
be cantoned as compact as possible, for the belter preservation of discip
line, and on account of oxerciso and maneuver, both of which should bo
constantly practiced.
I hope to hear that the gout, of which you were apprehensive, has had
its turn, and left you in good health. I shall set out on Thursday for New
port, and shall probably he absent between a fortnight and three weeks.

intend it, and will make your arrangements with the State accord
ingly. Inclosed you will find n copy of the instructions of the re
cruiting officers of the other parts of the army, which will also be
proper for the Government of those of your State.
Wo have found, from experience, that, by some means or other,
numbers of men are lost between the place of enlistment and that
of rendezvous. To prevent this, as far as possible, will be worthy
your particular attention.
I have permitted General Wayne to retire for a while. General
Irvine will immediately assist you in the execution of this business.
It seems a great part of the soldiers of your line have fraudulently
procured a discharge, by the precipitate admission of their oaths be
fore the papers relative to their enlistment could be produced. In
right, this can not exempt them from their engagements, and, after
what has happened, if it were thought expedient to compel the re
turn of such as being explicitly engaged for the war, have thus per
jured themselves, I should have no doubt of its justice, and should
not hesitate to take effectual and convenient measures to notify them
that if they did not immediately return to their duty, they should
be considered and treated as deserters. I perceive there are objec
tions to the measure, and, unacquainted ns I am with all the cir
cumstances, I can not competently judge of its propriety. I, there
fore, shall be obliged to you for your opinion 1
Let me hear, from time to time, of your progress.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, 22iZ February, 1781.
Dear Sir:—You will, by the time this reaches you, be acquainted
with the destination of the detachment under the command of the
Marquis de Lafayette 2 which, though as large as could possibly be
afforded from the troops in this quarter, is not so competent to the
certain completion of the object in view as I could wish. By some
accounts from Philadelphia, I am led to hojie that further assistance
1 For a reply to this letter, see letter to Washington under date of 2d
March.
•General Lafayette was provided with n detachment of about twelve hun
dred from the main army, and was instructed to proceed to Virginia to net
against the corps of the enemy under Arnold, in conjunction with the mili
tia, and some ships from the fleet of Chevalier Destouches, which had sailed
for the Jameg River on the 9th February from Newport.

may be derived from the Pennsylvania line. If you find it practi
cable to form a battalion of eight companies of fifty rank "and
file each, three officers to a company, and two field-officers to a bat
talion, in such time as the Marquis shall think will answer his pur
pose, you will be pleased to do it, and put it' under his command.
The detachment will be but temporary. The nomination of the
field-officers I leave to you. It is possible that the battalion may be
formed, but not in time to embark at the Head of Elk with the
other troops. This will not be so material, provided it can be done
in a short time afterwards. That time, you and the Marquis will
determine. If the companies can not be completed to fifty each, I
would have them at forty rather than lose the reinforcement, or
even half a battalion of two hundred under the command of a
field-officer, rather than none. Transports can be provided and held
ready at the Head of Elk, should they not embark with the other
troops. The places of rendezvous of the first, second, fifth, and
sixth battalions are none of them very distant from Elk, and I
should imagine the detachment would be most readily and conven
iently formed from them. But this I leave to your judgment.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New "Windsor, 26</t Febi-uary, 1781.
Dear Sir —Congress, by a resolve of the 20th instant, have deter
mined that the Pennsylvania line, except Moylan s dragoons, and
the troops upon command to the westward, shall compose part of
the Southern army, and have directed me to order it to join the
army in Virginia by detachments, as they may be in readiness to
march. You will, therefore, in obedience to the above resolve, put
matters in a proper train to carry it into execution with all dis
patch possible. You will now, in case circumstances should permit
the detachment under the command of the Marquis to proceed down
the Chesapeake, not confine yourself to a single battalion of four
hundred men, as mentioned in mine of the 22d, but endeavor to
Bend as many as possible by so good and expeditious a conveyance.
I think it essential that one of the brigadiers should proceed to
Virginia with the first detachment that moves, and there be ready
to receive and form the remainder as they come on. There may be
greater necessity of an officer of rank being at hand, as the line,
from the late disturbances in it, will have lost somewhat of its dis
cipline. GeneralIrvine being employed in superintending the re

cruiting business, the duty devolves upon General Wayne. I have
written to him on the subject.
i
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, March 2d, 1781.
Sin—Your Excellency s letters of the 3d and 9th of February
came duly to hand, but I delayed answering them from an expec
tation that you were absent from the army, and in ease I had noth
ing explicit to inform you of with regard to the recruiting, that
business not having come before the Assembly until yesterday, al
though General Irvine, Gsueral Wayne, and myself, have constantly
attended to press them upon it. A committee have reported a plan
recommended by us, which is, in general, to call forth the number
of men required by assessing them upon the classes of inhabitants
under a very heavy penalty, and, at the same time, to carry on the
recruiting by voluntary enlistments. It is yet uncertain whether
the House will came into it, but it is a favorable circumstance that
it has met with the approbation of the Council.
It is certain that a great many of the soldiers obtained their dis
charges in a most flagitious manner, but nothing better was ex
pected from the alternative allowed them. I am, however, of opin
ion that no good consequences would flow from the attempt to pun
ish them 1 It was threatened by some of the officers, and has
driven a great many out of the State. They are too numerous, and
it would carry with it something like a breach of faith, which the
Government does not like to incur, and, though the measure was
certainly entered into hastily, it appeared to the gentlemen who
transacted it to be necessary.
Your Excellency s favor of the 22d came by express to Potts
Grove, the night before last, and I returned immediately to this
place to confer with the Marquis. You may imagine my chagrin
at not being able to comply with so small a request upon such an
occasion; but, after mature consideration it was thought imprudent
to attempt it, as none of the men have yet been settled with, nor to
this moment are the auditors appointed for that purpose, nor any of
the promises that were made them at Trenton complied with, and a
very few only of the furloughed men returned. Our number at all
the different places of rendezvous does not exceed five hundred, and
1See Washington s letter to St. Cluir, 3d February ante.

those extremely discontented. I shall again press the Council and
Assembly to an immediate settlement of the accounts, and order the
men on furloughs to join their regiments that your Excellency s or
ders of the 26th, which I have just received, may be carried into exe
cution as soon as possible. But I fear few or none can be got ready
in time to second the Marquis, as it is indispensable that they be
clothed and settled with, and that provisions be provided for them
on their march. I can only promise that nothing on my part
shall be wanting to expedite it.
General St. Clair to the Board of War.
Philadelphia, March 4th, 1781.
Gentlemen:—As the troops of Pennsylvania are ordered to march
to Virginia by detachments as soon as they can be got in readiness,
it will be necessary that camp equipage he provided for them, and
sent fijrward to Yorktown as soon as possible but, as it will be
some time before the whole quota of the State can be raised, and I
am not certain what that will am\iunt to, I have to request that
tents, knapsacks, haversacks, camp-kettles, and blankets and can
teens, be got ready for two thousand men and sent to that place as
soou as may be, having hopes that in a fortnight a considerable
part of that number will be able to move. I shall take care to
give timely notice to the quartermaster if further provisions be nec
essary.
General St. Clair to the Speaeer 1 of House of Assembly.
Philadelphia, March 22, 1781.
Sir —I beg leave to lay before you an extract from a letter of
General Irvine to me, dated Carlisle, March 14, 1781, which came
to hand yesterday
"I think there is great defect in the mode of communicating the
laws or resolves. I mean by newspapers. Some counties never
hear of a single Act till the county member gets home— as a proof,
the commissioners of this county are only now making out the class
rolls for the first class. The regimental returns will show how slow
things go on. I do not think we shall be able to take the field much
before the first of June."
1 Frederick Muhleberg.

The law the General refers to, is that passed last session for com
pleting the quota of the Federal army, which will be found to be, if
my information is right, in every other part of the State, as well as
Cumberland county, totally inadequate to that purpose. I mention
this to show the necessity of immediately adopting some other ef
fectual measure for speedily raising and completing the quota of
this State, and as they are to compose part of the Southern army,
the fate of that country may depend upon the exertions of this. It
is likewise very necessary that means be fallen upon to pay off the
arrears due to the soldiers, as I have it in command from General
Washington to send them forward by detachments as soon as possi
ble, and the sending troops to that country in a discontented mood
may be attended with consequences of a most disagreeable nature.
General St. Clair to President Reed.
April 3, 1781.
Sir:—I beg leave to acquaint you that I have received infor
mation from several cantonments of great uneasiness prevailing
among the soldiery, occasioned by the detention of their bounties
and the non-payment of the gratuity to the re-enlisted soldiers 1 It
has been represented to me, that unless they are soon made easy on
these heads, it is likely to end in general desertion. I hope I may
not be thought importunate, as I know the difficulties that exist re
specting money, and am sure that the Council are as anxious to
remove them as I could wish, but I should be wanting in my duty
if I neglected to communicate to them such information as I receive.
I must mention, also, the case of Colonel Moylan s regiment. The
General expects it to march with the detachment; they have not
more than fifty horses fit for service, and are in want of every kind
of equipment. The time of the furloughs granted at Trenton is
now expired. I shall call upon all those to whom they have been
granted, immediately to join' their regiments under pain of being
considered as deserters but the more effectually to enforce their re1
To this, President Reed replied from his residence on the s ime day
"I have just received your favor, which is a melancholy confirmation
of the accounts received from the commissioners for recruiting, who repre
sent that they can get no money from the county treasurers, nor can the
commissioners of purchase get any to feed the troops, so that I fear we
shall, in a short time, experience some disagreeable effects. The treasury
here is exhausted by the various demands, so that Mr. 11. Henhoren can not
mako out money sufficient to pay the members of Assembly their wages."

turn, I could wish the magistrates in the different districts were
directed to make strict inquiry into the cases of all persons within
their districts who are or have been soldiers, and to commit such as
may be found with furloughs when the time has expired. I could
also wish that some printer in this city was directed to receive ad
vertisements for deserters.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, April 6, 1781.
Sir:—My last to your Excellency was of the 2d of March, since
which an excruciating fit of the gout, which still deprives me of my
right hand, has rendered me almost totally incapable of business.
As soon, however, as I was able to bear motion, I had myself
brought down here to be at hand to forward the preparations for
marching the detachments, and to keep the Assembly in mind of
the necessity of recruiting the line, but can not boast of my success
in the last instance, as there is nothing yet done in it, and the ses
sion has already been drawn out to so great a length that I am very
apprehensive the House will rise without taking the matter up.
The detachment, which will consist of nine hundred and sixty
rank and file, properly officered to form three battalions, will march,
I think, in about ten days, as I have reason to hope that money will
be provided for them by that time. A sufficient quantity of cloth
ing for that number sets off to-morrow for the different cantonments;
and the arms and camp equipage will arrive at Yorktown, where
the troops are ordered to assemble, in the course of the succeeding
week. I have ordered the four pieces of artillery that are with
Colonel Proctor s regiment, with a proper detachment from it, to join
this body, as it is probable, from the circumstances of the 16th ult,
that General Greene may be in want of them. The route I intend
the whole shall pursue is from Yorktown by the head of Patapsco
and Alexandria to Fredericksburg, in Virginia, from whence Gen
eral Wayne will be best able to judge of the route he must follow to
join General Greene. After this detachment marches, we may
possibly collect three or four hundred more of the old soldiers, and
that I think is the extent we have any reason to reckon on, so that
unless the Assembly takes some very decisive steps the recruiting
business will very soon be closed in this State. Whatever may be
determined upon, I shall take the earliest opportunity to acquaint
35

your Excellency with it, and propose to pay you a visit as soon as
able to ride.
Colonel Moylan a regiment is in such a situation, that it must be a
considerable time before they can possibly move, having but eighty
men and fifty horses fit for service, in want of every equipment, and
no money in any of the departments to procure them.
An express arrived, last evening, from General Greene, who in
forms me that after laying three days at the iron works in expectation
of Lord Cornwallis' advancing, and preparing himself for his recep
tion, he received accounts of his having suddenly retreated towards
Cross Creek, leaving behind him all the wounded prisoners taken at
Guilford 1 and his own hospital. Colonel Stewart, of the' guards,
was killed in the action of Guilford. General O Harra, Colonel
Tarleton, and Colonel Webster, wounded, and from every circum
stance it appears they have suffered very severely. Your Excel
lency must have heard of the arrival of the reinforcements in
Chesapeake. We have no accounts of any operations, except that
they are plundering the inhabitants in small parties on both sides of
the bay, some of which I am sure up as far as the head of Elk.
The inclosed is a return of Colonel Proctor s regiment. The can
tonments are at such a distance, and the conveyance so uncertain
that the returns are at hand very irregularly, but I shall endeavor
to have them sent on by the time and in the manner desired by the
Adjutant-General.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, April 15<A, 1781.
Sir :—I have been favored with your Excellency s letter of the
8th inst., which has been in great part answered by mine of the
6th. In that, however, I was too sanguine as to the time when the
detachment would march, which I fear it will not do in less than
three weeks yet. The application from the State to Congress for
a loan of so much money as was necessary to put it in motion mis
carried, and there is now no hopes of any until a sufficient sum of
the new money ordered to be struck by the House of Assembly can
be got ready, which, the President informed me yesterday, would
yet require a fortnight; and as the re-enlisted soldiers and new
1The battle of Guilford Court-House, N. C, was fought on the 16th of
March. Although a defeat for General Greene, it was disastrous to the
British, as the sudden retreat towards Virginia above mentioned proved.

levies have not received their bounties, nor the retained men the
gratuity ordered them and as one-third of the depreciated notes
is to be paid by commissioners at the different cantonments, it is not
extravagant to allow a week more to these affairs. I do assure your
Excellency that nothing has been left undone, on my part, to for
ward the march of the troops, or to reassemble the scattered rem
nants of the line, and there is a perfect good disposition in the offi
cers of all ranks to promote the recruiting, but the ridiculous mode
that has been prescribed by the Council has, in a great measure,
put it out of their power. I can not help, however, being surprised
that General Wayne (which, from your Excellency s letter to him,
he must have done) should have given you expectations that the
detachment would march much sooner, which, had there been no
difficulty even about money, they could not have gone a day before
the time marked in my former letter, on account of the want of
clothing, arms, and camp equipage.
The Assembly baverisen and though they have not, as I suspected,
left the recruiting unnoticed, they have done very little better, hav
ing only made some loose resolves for continuing the recruiting by
voluntary enlistment under the direction of Council, and empower
ing them to raise the bounties as they may think proper, and that
recruiting parties shall be kept in the State until the quota is com
pleted, which I am sure will not happen in that way during this
war, should it last these fifty years. Council have not yet made
any order in consequence.
I very much suspect that I have set the number we may possibly
collect after the march of the detachment considerably too high in
my former letter, and I have no hopes at all from the recruiting,
but the detachment will be completed to ninety-six rank and file.
General Knox, with your Excellency s approbation, has, I see,
ordered a considerable addition of artillery. The guns and stores
will be in readiness, but Proctor s regiment is certainly not equal to
so many pieces and, if General Greene has not to spare, your Ex
cellency may think a further detachment from the corps of artillery
necessary.
I am very sensible of the necessity of great exertion from all
classes, but have but little hopes of seeing them such a listlessness
and inattention seems to have taken hold of the people that I doubt
if even the cannon of the enemy would rouse them. For my own
part, I feel very sensibly yet the influence of both duty and patriot
ism, and I have made such representations to our humble bodies as
I thought the nature of the case required, and beg leave to repeat

that nothing in my power to second your Excellency s wishes shall
be wanting.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, April 2oth, 1781.
Dear Sir:—I have received your favors of the (5th and 15th. I
am sorry to find, from the last, that unavoidable obstacles have
been thrown in the way of the march of the first division of the
line at the time you expected. I can only recommend to you to
get them off as soon as possible, and in as good temper as possible.
It is essential that General Greene should be regularly advised of
the motions of those troops you will, therefore, be pleased (if you
have not already opened a correspondence with him) to inform him,
from time to time, of every circumstance relating to them.
Captain Craig, of Colonel Proctor s regiment of artillery, who is
stationed at Fort Pitt, has applied to me to have his company com
pleted. That can not be done in the present state of the regiment,
but you will be pleased to consult the commanding officer of it, and
let Captain Craig have as many men as will put his company on a
level with the others.
I imagine Colonel Harrison s regiment, Colonel Procter s, a de
tachment with the Marquis, and a strong Maryland company lately
gone from hence, will be sufficient to work the artillery that Gen
eral Greene will usually carry into the field with him.
General St. Clair to General Wayne.
[Instructions.] May 2, 1781.
Sir :—The parties from the several regiments which are to com
pose the first detachment, have orders to march from the canton
ments to Yorktown the moment the auditors have finished the settle
ments, respectively. You will, therefore, please to repair to Yorktown
as soon as conveniently may be, to make ihe necessary ar
rangements and take such measures as may prevent, as much as
possible, any delay at that place. You will please to take the com
mand of it upon yourself, and proceed, by the inclosed route, to
join General Greene with all the dispatch that the nature of the
case will admit of. Should any operations of the enemy render the
passage at Alexandria precarious, you are not to consider yourself
as bound by the route, but will make choice of such other place to

pass the Potomac where it may he done with safety, making as
little detour as possible.' As several of the parties must pass
through Lancaster and there be supplied with provisions to carry
them to Yorktown, your giving yourself the trouble to attend to
that article in your way may facilitate their march, and prevent dis
appointment. I wish you a prosperous journey, and all happiness.
P. S. —You will please to favor me with an account of the return
of the numbers you march with, and direct the brigade quarter
master to forward a return of the camp equipage and utensils re
ceived by him. Let me know, also, what number of arms were
sent on to York. If there is any surplus, they may be stored and
left under the care of the commanding officer at that place, as also
any surplus of blankets beyond that which completes the detachment.
General St. Clair1 to General Washington.
Philadelphia, June 16, 1781.
Sir:—Upon my arrival at this place I found the Assembly met,
and no apparent disposition amongst them to do any thing to for
ward the recruiting service; indeed, a passage in the President s
message, which represents the line as in respectable strength, seemed
calculated to induce them to believe it unnecessary. I, therefore,
thought it my duty to call their attention to that object, and wrote
to the Speaker of the House upon the occasion my letter was read,
the business immediately referred to a committee, and another appiinted
to bring in a bill. From the report of the first, we had
formed the most sanguine expectations that the line would have
been filled immediately, and the necessity of sending militia to Vir
ginia superseded but the bill which General Irvine has inclosed to
your Excellency is in a very different spirit, and nothing is to be
expected from it but disgusting the people. It is distressing to see
how thmgs go on here a considerable part, and much the most re
spectable, of the Legislature are disposed to do every thing that is
necessary and that circumstances will admit, but the majority, under
some mischievous influence, seem intent only on defeating the de1
On the 5th of June, General St. Clair addressed a very urgent appenl to
the Pennsylvania Assembly for funds and necessary legislation to complete
the enlistments. Ho said that the enemy were making such rapid advances
that, unless the most vigorous measures were taken, it would not only bo
impossible to afford proper support to the Southern States, but they might
soon have the mortification to feel the enemy in the he irt of Pennsylvania.

signs of the others, without regard to the general welfare or the
particular disgrace the State incurs.
The accounts from Virginia are vague and uncertain but Cornwallis
has a force much superior to the Marquis, and, it is to be
feared, will prevent the Baron [Steuben], who is at the Fork with
about seven hundred new levies and some militia, from joining him.
Tarleton and Simcoe have been detailed to attack him, and though
he may escape them, most probably the stores will fall into their
hands, or be destroyed. What his Lordship s designs are is hard to
divine, but, as yet, he does not seem to intend fixing himself in that
country, as I can not learn that he has, as yet, made one post, but is
moving on with his army towards the Potomac, and ravaging the
country below him with detachments. I sometimes think he de
signs for Pennsylvania, nor is it altogether improbable; for though
he has no force equal to a conquest, it would be a very effectual way
of counteracting your Excellency.
General Wayne joined the Marquis on the 9th instant. I have
no accounts from him since he left Yorktown. A letter of his of
that day came to hand a few days ago the inelosures I now trans
mit to your Excellency, though I doubt not he made similar reports
to headquarters. The deficiency has been occasioned by desertion
and sickness there now remain at the different cantonments about
one hundred men, most of whom are unfit for duty.
Your Excellency will oblige me by marking the precise time it
will be necessary for me to join the army. I would not wish to de
lay it a moment, but the state of Mrs. St. Clair s health (who I
found very ill, and still continues so) makes me desire to postpone
as long as the service will permit. I hope Mrs. Washington s health
is perfectly re-established, and request you will do me the favor to
present my compliments.
P. S. —General Irvine, who is very uneasy at the inactive state he
is obliged to remain in, has proposed to endeavor to raise some corps
of volunteer horse and lead them to Virginia. If it can he done,
it may be of general service by turning the attention of the better
class of people again to arms. I have encouraged him in it, and
hope it may meet with your Excellency s approbation.
General Greene to General St. Clair
Camp Bush River, S. Carolina, June 22, 1781.
Dear Sir —I have received your favor of the 6th of Ma)'.
I am happy to hear that so resjjectable a body as eleven hundred

men are on their way to reinforce the Southern army and it would
give me particular pleasure to be informed that the second brigade
was in readiness to move, and that you were at the head of the di
vision.
I am persuaded you will use every means in your power to for
ward the business, and I rely much upon your assiduity and atten
tion. The critical situation of our affairs calls for every exertion.
The enemy are formidable in the field, and this army is reduced to
a mere shadow from hard service and severe action.
Notwithstanding all our difficulties, we have been favored with
some very important successes. The enemy is divested of all of
their posts in this State and Georgia, except Charleston, Savannah,
and Ninety Six. The last was closely besieged for near thirty
days, and we were upon the point of reducing it, when Lord Rawdon,
who has been reinforced from Europe, advanced to its relief,
and obliged us to raise the siege. I lament that we were not more
successful in this enterprise, as the post is of great consequence to
the enemy, and our troops have been exposed to excessive labor
and annoyance in the attempt.
But these disappointments we shall ever be subjected to while the
enemy continue masters of the sea, and our force and means are so
incompetent.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
New Windsor, June 23, 1781.
Sir:—Yesterday I received your favor of the 16th. I am much
obliged by your care and attention for the public service. I, at the
same time, lament the small probability of success which you have
reason to expect from the representation you give of the disposition
of the Assembly of Pennsylvania. Some favorable circumstance,
or some adverse fortune, may very possibly yet draw forth their
exertions. Your zeal for the common cause, I dare say, notwith
standing these disagreeable prospects, will induce you to continue
your utmost endeavors for the general good.
General Wayne has given me a similar return with that you have
inclosed to me. I am sorry to observe the smallness of his num
bers. I hope, however, they will soon be increased.
Of the military stores you mention to have been left at Yorktown,
you will be pleased to order such as want repairs to be sent
to the laboratory at Carlisle, to be immediately fitted for use.
r
552
Those which are in order may remain at York, and be delivered for
the use of the next troops which may rendezvous at that place.
It appears somewhat strange to me, that our accounts of the oper
ations in Virginia are so vague and uncertain equally unaccount
able appear to me to be the designs of Lord Cornwallis from his
rapid and devious movements.' By his latter conduct, it would seem
that the effect of all his operations in North and South Carolina are
totally lost, and the enemy are likely again to be reduced to the pos
session only of Charleston.
The time of your joining the army must depend upon the ex
ertions of the State—their success in furnishing such number of
troops to their line as shall give you a suitable command in the field.
As soon as this shall be effected, I shall wish you to go on without
delay.
I am sorry to hear the ill state of health of Mrs. St. Clair. I
have the pleasure to inform you that Mrs. Washington is in a fair
way of recovery.
The army in this quarter is now taking the field. Their first point
of encampment is at Peckskill, where I expect to be joined by the
Count de Rochambeau, with his troops, which are on their march
from Rhode Island. I have wrote General Irwine on the subject of
his proposal.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters near Dobbs' Ferry, July 1tM, 1781.
Dear Sir —I have been favored with yours of the 24th ult. and
4th inst. I am pleased to find by the first that the Assembly of
Pennsylvania have at length passed a law which seems likely to pro
cure the number of men voted.
You certainly misunderstood me when you were at New Windsor,
if you conceived it was my intention that you should serve this cam
paign with the army in this quarter. I, at that time, foresaw the
difficulty there would be in providing commands for the general
officers who were already here, and which 1 have only been enabled
to do by appointing General Heath and Lord Sterling to the com
mand of wings, which are in fact no more than divisions, and which
also have their major-generals attached to them. There would be
an indelicacy, as you very justly observe, in sending you to Vir
ginia at present, because you must necessarily supercede Marquis
de Lafayette, who has had much trouble, and who appears to be
just now reaping the fruits of his labor; I can, therefore, only ad

vise you to remain in Pennsylvania a while longer, where you may
be very usefully employed in fixing the levies under the new law,
and at the same time have an opportunity of attending to Mrs.
St. Clair, whose situation I sincerely lament. Should General Greene
come into Virginia, the difficulty would cease, and you might go
there at once without any inconvenience.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, July 22d, 1781.
Sir:—I have received your Excellency s letter of the 10th inst.,
and am very sorry that the state of the army and the situation of
affairs frill not permit my being employed this campaign in that
part of it under your Excellency s immediate command, and shall
therefore prepare myself for a southern march but there is no prob
ability that it can take place very soon, as there will be much dif
ficulty and delay in equipping the troops after they are raised, as
the State of Pennsylvania has no money and little credit, and there
is a great scarcity of the necessary articles of clothing. From the
present view I have of it, there seems little likelihood of any con
siderable body being in readiness much before the first of October;
perhaps something may turn up to render it then unnecessary.
The Invalid Corps is at last in motion nothing has delayed them
so long but the want of money, which Colonel Nichols has been in.
defatigable to procure, and has at last succeeded for such a sum as
has got them on board in tolerable temper. A day or two before
their embarkation, the inclosed list of charges against him were
exhibited1 to me, but as they could not be inquired into here, with
out detaining many of the officers, I thought it best to transmit
them to your Excellency. They have been communicated to him,
but he is not arrested upon them the taking him from the com
mand of the regiment at that time might have been inconvenient.
Lieutenant Bigham s court-martial has never come to hand, and he
remains here in a state of suspense. If your Excellency has de
cided upon it, will you please to direct it to be sent on. This will
be delivered by Major Duun, who, as I have very little employment
for him, wishes to be in a more active station until there is occasion
for him. I have given him leave of absence for a few weeks, and
if any thing happens that may require more gentlemen about your
1The Invalid Corps marched to West Point, where a formal inquiry was
had as to the charges, which were not sustained.
554
Excellency than those of your own family, he will be a happy man
to have the honor of being employed, and I think your Excellency
may depend upon him. My most fervent wishes for your success
attend you—the most brilliant that can happen will not exceed them,
and wherever I am I shall always find myself interested in your
fortune.
P. S. —Should Lord Cornwallis return to New York with all or
the greater part of his force, will not the Pennsylvania levies be
most wanted with you? Will you please to let me know your
opinion upon that case?1 I believe you may expect all the infantry
that have horse will go to Carolina.
General St. Clair to Brigadier-General Irvine.
Lancaster, August 16, 1781.
My Dear General:—The alarm that my Lord Cornwallis has spread,
and which produced my last letter to you by Dr. Lyon, has brought
one. I thought then that the stroke at the prisoners that was feared
was barely possible, but, as such, ought to be guarded against and
the. Board of War detained me in town for a week, and at last con
sented to my going, under a promise to inform me when it might,
or whether it might, be proper to countermand the order for drawing
our people together. I was very glad to find, by your letter to Cap
tain Christie, which I met with and opened to-day, that you had
forbid the march of the troops at Reading, concluding from thence
that you would not now think it necessary to march those on the
west side of the Susquehanna. You will observe that I have di
rected the arms at [several lines' defaced]
than they will be equipped; however, Council arc doing what they
can. Woolen clothing it seems impossible to procure—only forty
suits are on hand but a number of hunting-shirts, which, though
not the most desirable uniform, is better than none. It seems that
a letter of mine, immediately after my return from headquarters,
you have not received. It was, not, however, of consequence—con
taining only an information that we were to make a southern cam
paign together. I had before regretted that you were destined to
1 Washington replied to the above letter on the 7th August at length. Re
ferring to St. Clair s request he said: "The movement of Lord Cornwallis,
with the troops under his command, will probably be soon decided. On the
circumstances of this event may hang many of our future movements, of
which, so far as they reluto to your command, you will be duly notified."

that service. You may believe it was no very agreeable news to
me if any thing could make it in any degree less so, it was that
we are to make it to gather No news. Adieu.
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Philadelphia, August 26, 1781.
Dear Sir —From the current report, and from the circumstances
that a considerable part of the army are in Jersey, and some of them
advanced as far as Trenton, it seems probable that some stroke is
meditated to the southward in which case, the General will cer
tainly expect that corps to be joined by the troops in this State. I
would, therefore, wish you to have all on the west side of Sus
quehanna in perfect readiness to move at a moment s warning. It
is at present my intention to draw them to Lancaster, expecting, if
my conjecture is right, that the whole will embark at the bead of
Elk and I shall to-morrow order the different articles of clothing
that arc provided to be sent to Lancaster, that the whole may be
distributed there. I am sorry, however, to inform you that it is
not sufficient for the few men we have, although the upper garment
consists of a hunting-shirt only. Should this arrangement not be
approved of, I will give you timely notice, and at any rate advise
when it will be proper to put the troops in motion.
Colonel Mentgez gave you, a few days ago, an extract from a
letter of the General to me. You will be pleased to give the most
pointed orders about the returns, and I shall be glad to know exactly
the amount of the two regiments and the recruits—the last, how
ever, I do not expect amount to much, if the people in these coun
ties, at least, have followed the example of those more interior.
I was favored with yours of the 15th. The first certain account
of the movements of Lord Cornwallis, I got from your letter to
Captain Christie, which I met with betwixt Reading and Lancaster
and opened. Your orders in both cases were perfectly correspond
ent with those I had given but I find a letter I had wrote you on
my return from headquarters must have miscarried it contained,
however, nothing of any consequence. I showed that part of yours
relating to the armorers 'to the Board of War, but they had given
their orders; they do not mean, it seems, to remove the stores, etc.
Whenever L receive any account from headquarters, I shall write
you again.
P. S. —The French fleet expected every moment. The arms,

I Lope, are repaired, and should be glad they were sent to Lan
caster.
General "Washington to General. St. Clair.
King s Ferry, August 22d, 1781.
Dear Sir :—I have to request you immediately to assemble all the
recruits in the State of Pennsylvania at their respective places of
rendezvous, where they may be properly equipped to march, on the
shortest notice, to the southward and those recruits that are raised
in the State of Delaware, I wish you to inform whoever has the di
rection of them, that they assemble at Wilmington and must be
in the utmost readiness so as to march when they receive any
further orders 1
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Pottsgrove 2 September 6, 1781.
Dear Sir:—In my last, I gave you my conjectures about the
movements of the army, and requested you to have the men on the
west side of the Susquehanna in readiness to march to Lancaster
and to send the arms to that place, expecting that they would
march from thence to the head of the Elk. I am now to inform
you that they are to march by land to the southward, in con
sequence of which they will rendezvous at Yorktown, as soon as
camp equipage can be scut on for them, which, together with the
clothing, I am in hopes to accomplish by Sunday or Monday next;
and, if the arms have not already been sent to Lancaster, you will
please to countermand the order. The General left Philadelphia
yesterday with the first division of the French troops, and was pre:eded
by General Lincoln with a division of Americans, and the
second division of the French troops marched to-day. This moment
a gentleman arrived from town with this day s paper, in which is a
letter of the General s to the President of Congress, from Chester, in
forming that he had just received the account of the arrival of the
•In attempting to carry out the above order, Qeneral St. Clair found that
the paymaster did not have the necessary funds, and he thereupon applied to
Congress, through Hon. Themas McKcan, President, for assistance in rais
ing the money.
Pottsgrove, Philadelphia County, where St. Clair resided for several
years.

French fleet in the Chesapeake, consisting of twenty-eight sail of
the line, exclusive of the Rhode Island squadron, which had not
then joined. It is added to a letter from General Gist, that they
had taken a British frigate at the mouth of York River, and landed
three thousand men on the south side of James River, so that it
seems highly probable that Lord Cornwallis is in the toils, and
can not escape. Lord Rawdon, too, was taken in packet from
Charleston.
It is very mortifying that we should have no chance for a share
in this business—it certainly must be over before we can get up, but
we may possibly get in at the death before Charleston. Adieu I
hope to see you soon, though I am not without my fears that the
want of money may delay us longer than I think for, and am, etc.
P. S. —Pray order a return to be sent me specifying the number
of men that have been furnished by the classes.
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Pottsgrove, September 14, 1781.
Dear Sir:—Your favor of the 1st, by Mr. Duncan, came to hand
two days ago, and, on the evening of the same day, I received that
by Major Moore, inclosing the court-martial. He had sent it for
ward to General Mifflin, who had never thought of it. I am sorry
it has been delayed so long, for, when punishment follows crimes so
slowly, the effect of it is, in a great measure, lost 1 I issued an
order yesterday approving the sentences, and directed Nagle and
Gill to be hanged at such time and place as you think proper, and
pardoned the others that were condemned to death, and ordered the
punishment to be inflicted on the others, except Charles Kelly, to
whom I have remitted it.
I find I was much mistaken about the time when the camp equip
age and equipments would be got away from Philadelphia—a thous
and obstructions have come in the way, and, what is most provoking,
1It would seem, from the following order, which I find in the handwrit
ing of General St. Clair, directed to General Irvine, that military trials then
were almost as much delayed as civil trials of the present day
(Without date) 1781.
Sir: —I find in the report of the guard this morning, a man confined two
and forty days. Unless there is something very particular that prevents it,
you will please to order a court-martial for his trial, and the other prisoners
who are accused of desertion.

obstructions that might have been easily removed or avoided—in
deed, they appear to have been laid with a design to retard us—
however, by Monday every thing will set out, and the detachment
will be ordered to York by the time these may arrive. One month s
pay in specie will be paid, which is alf I could obtain, but there is
every reason to believe it will be regular in future. I do not doubt
but the detachment in Virginia may be in want of some articles of
clothing, but their distress can not be such as it is represented, or
very little care has been taken of them—indeed, these representa
tions were made to me before they reached Potomac River but, be it
as it may, I can do nothing for them at present. Colonel Butler
would have been very acceptable to me, but it is Colonel Craig s
tour of duty and he will go on it. Please present my compliments
to Colonel Butler. I have received his letter, and will answer it by
the first opportunity at present I have not time.
General St. Clair to Major Fountxeroy.
Philadelphia, September 19, 1781.
Sir:—On receipt of this you will immediately put your corps in
motion for this plaoe—every man and horse that is able to move,
and take provisions at Lancaster to bring them here.
The exigency is pressing, and I request that not a moment may
be lost. If your clothing is not arrived and you should meet it on
the road, which I wish you to be attentive to, you must either bring
it back or distribute it where you meet it, as may be most convenient.
If the last, it will be the best, as these people will return with greatreluctance.
President Reed to General St. Clatr.
Philadelphia, September 21, 1781.
iSir :—In the present situation of affairs, I should be happy in
being assisted with your good judgment and advice in forming such
arrangements as may be most effectual for drawing forth the strength
and resources of the State in the most effectual manner, and con
certing a previous general plan for this purpose, and defending this
city.
I shall, therefore, beg the favor of your company in Market street
at 1 o clock, to meet a few other gentlemen proper to be consulted
on such an occasion.
Correspondence, ^Addresses, Etc. 559
Genebal St. Clair to General Washington.
Philadelphia, September 29th, 1781.
Sir —I have been honored with your Excellency s letter of the
15th instant 1 which came to hand on the 26th. Previous to the
receipt of it, Congress had ordered me to draw all the levies of this
State to Philadelphia, from an apprehension that strongly prevailed
and some intelligence they credited, that Sir Henry Clintou, with a
body of about five thousand men, intended, by way of diversion to
your Excellency s operations, or to counterbalance your success, to
visit this city and either plunder or destroy it. It appeared, in
deed, to me a very improbable movement, for, though it might have
been possible for him to force his way through Jersey to the banks
of the Delaware, the passage of that river might have been ren
dered doubtful, and the Jersey militia with the troops General Heath
might throw down to their assistance would have made a retreat
very difficult. If he attempted it by water, the difficulty of return
ing was increased, and the danger of losing all his ships added to it.
Your Excellency s letter was immediately communicated to Con
gress, and this day they have repealed the order and left me at lib
erty to join the army, which I shall do with as much expedition as
possible, and, I hope, I need not assure your Excellency that the
being detained here in a state of idleness when the army is in the
field has been a most mortifying circumstance, and what I would
have studiously avoided had the prospects been ever so unpromis1
The letter of General Washington referred to, contained an earnest ap
peal lor more troops to assist him in his operations against Cornwallis. It
exhibited a good deal of impatience. He could not understand why the re
cruits for the Pennsylvania line sheuld be held back for clothing or equip
ments, while others were 'doing duty in the field, and combatting almost
every distress imaginable in the want of every necessary." He, therefore,
ordered the troops to be marched forthwith by water to the James River,
Virginia. The letter of St. Clair explains why the troops had been detained.
Congress bad become alarmed, fearing lest Sir Henry Clinton sheuld make
a descent on Philadelphia, and refused to let St. Clair or the recruits leave
the State. Following is the order in the case:
By the United Statet, in Congress Assembled
"Ordered, That if ajor-General St. Clair cause the levies of the Pennsyl
vania line in Pennsylvania, to rendezvous at or near Philadelphia, with all
possible expedition."
Under this order the troops had been collected at Philadelphia, but upon
the receipt of the peremptory letter of General Washington before referred
to, and the representation of General St. Clair, the order was rescinded, and
the troops immediately marched to join the army.

ing. They are now so favorable as might tempt forward the least
inclined to the service. Neither has there been any neglect to for
ward the equipment of the detachment. The delay has arisen from
cruel necessity their march, however, will be rather expedited by
their having been brought here, as it will render wagons needless,
which I believe the quartermaster would not have been able to pro
cure, nor has Mr. Morris had it in his power to give them one far
thing, which has so soured both officers and men that I dread the con
sequences. The Assembly have passed a law to raise money for the
recruiting service upon the delinquents under the former law; it
will be some time, however, before it will be produced. The place
for carrying it on I expect to settle with Council to-morrow, and
shall put the execution of it under the direction of Colonel Hamp
ton, as General Irvine is ordered to Fort Pitt.
P. S. —A considerable body of the militia are encamped at New
town the whole of the city, and counties of Chester, Philadelphia,
and Bucks, are called out. Sir Henry Clinton is upon Staten
Island with about five thousand men, and has removed the cannon
from the battery of York. Admiral Digby is arrived with three
ships—a ninety, and two seventy-fours. The Princessa suffered so
much in the action that she is laid up in the East River—the Terri
ble was abandoned and set fire to, and another seventy-four is still
missing.
General St. Clair to Mrs. St. Clair.
Headquarters before York, Va., October lGth, 1781.
Dear Madam —I take the opportunity of an express to acquaint
you that I arrived here last night after a journey of nine days, dur
ing which nothing of any consequence happened, and we were lucky
enough to have no rain during that time, which has been, however,
a misfortune to the country, and you know I have public spirit
enough to bear easily some personal inconveniences where the inter
est of the community is concerned, and should, therefore, have
borne a good ducking with much sang froid. Lord Cornwallis has
not yet given up the ghost, but he will be now constrained to sur
render, and I think myself very fortunate to have got up before it
took place, more especially as I find the command of the American
army vacant for me.
I hope your health continues, and that you will be careful to pre
serve it. Give my love to all the children, and believe me to be,
with much affection, etc.

General St. Clair to Caitain Gerlach 1
Camp, near Yore, October 25, 1781.
Sir :—By the bearer, one of my aids, yon will receive the papers
laid by you hefore his Excellency, General Washington, relative to
the goods and clothing brought by you in the flag-vessel General de
Reidesel, which have been submitted by him to a board of general
officers; and, as it has been made clearly to appear to them that the
vessel was diverted from her proper voyage and part of the cargo
applied to purposes not only different but contrary to those for
which the passport was grauted, your request to proceed with them
to the German Convention troops can not be complied with. The
goods, according to the custom of nations and the laws of war, are
forfeited, and you are desired to deliver them forthwith to the
clothier of the American army, who has orders to take them into
his possession.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
[Instructions.] Near Yore, in Virginia, October 29, 1781.
Sir:—The detachment of which you will have the command, for
1 Captain Gerlach, deputy quartermaster to the Brunswick troops, was in
charge of a flag-vessel, General de Iliedesel, having on hoard clothing and
provisions for the Convention troops. He touched at Portsmouth, where a
British General gave permission to British Commissary Hooksby, who was
included with him in the passport, to dispose of other goods that had been
shipped on the vessel to the troops at that place. When Lord Cornwallis
arrived there, Gerlach applied for permission to proceed with the clothing for
the Convention troops, but was refused, his Lordship considering the vessel as
under the protection of the flag. The vessel was afterwards ordered to York,
at which place the clothing and provisions intended for the Convention troops
were delivered to the garrison during the seige. At the time of the capitula
tion, Captain Gerlach asked Cornwallis to make provision for the goods
brought for the Brunswick Convention troops, who declined, and advised
him to lay the matter before General Washington. He did so, and General
Washington referred the business to a board of officers, of which General
St. Clair was president. It was decided that the protection due to the flag
was lest by permitting goods not embraced in the permit to be shipped to
the British army actively engaged in the field, and, consequently all the pub
lic property was forfeited, as well as the private merchandise. The clothing
thus forfeited was valued at more than £15 000, a part of which the Colonial
Treasurer Morris agreed to take. The sum paid each officer in the army be
fore Yorktown, £20. St. Clair suggested that bills ho drawn accordingly. r
36

the southward, is to consist of the Pennsylvania, Maryland, and
Virginia Continental troops.
You will march them by the most convenient route, and in the
most expeditious manner, without fatiguing the troops, towards
Wilmington, in North Carolina, of which, or other posts in that
State, you will endeavor to dispossess the enemy, if their situation,
from the intelligence you shall receive as you advance, shall, in
your judgment, render it practicable and advisable. If it does not,
you will continue your march to the Southern army, and put your
self under the command of Major-General Greene.
As Wilmington, and other places in North Carolina, may cease
to be objects, from a change of circumstances in the States to the
southward of this, it will be necessary for you to open an immedi
ate communication, by letter, with General Greene, and govern
yourself by his advice and orders; and it may be well to communi
cate, in confidence, to the executive of the State of North Carolina
the enterprise against Wilmington, that you may procure such in
formation and aid as it may be in their power to give.
For ordnance and stores, and for the means of transportation
and other matters in the quartermaster s department, you will con
sult General Knox and Colonel Pickering, and will make your ar
rangements with the commissary or State agent for supplies of
provision.
P. S. —If there are any men upon detachment, they are to be
called in and marched with their regiments. A sufficient Lumber
of officers must he left to carry on the sick and invalids as fast as
they recover. Some good field-officers should remain to superintend
the business.
General St. Clair to Governor Nelson.
Camp, at Richmond, November 9, 1781.
Sir:—I am sorry to be obliged to trouble you in your present in
disposition, from which, however, I am happy to hear you arc re
covering.
Having left York with a very large convoy of military stores
and a considerable train of artillery for the southward, with horses
scarce able to carry themselves, but which were the best could be
procured, and flattered with the expectation that I could be supplied
in this State, I have reached this place, but on application to the
council, on that account, have been informed that the authority of
your Excellency was absolutely necessary (a sufficient number of

councilors not being assembled to do any act of themselves). Fifty
horses, at least, must be exchanged here, and theu it will be with
difficulty I shall be able to proceed. I have, therefore, to request
your Excellency to grant an impress warrant for that number, and
it you should think proper to make it include a greater, you may be
assured that a wanton use will not be made of it. If your Excel
lency can not comply with the request, I .--hall be reduced to the ne
cessity of taking horses where they can be had as the others fail,
which will be attended with much inconvenience and delay besides,
the circumstances of the people from whom they may be taken can
not be attended to, and the disgust that attends all acts of mere
power will rankle in their minds, and may, hereafter, impede the
public service.
The object of my march is important, and requires all possible
dispatch, and I am sure you will give every assistance in your
power.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Richmond, November 14, 1781.
Sir —On the afternoon of the 9th instant I arrived at this place,
and this day will have all the troops and stores over the river. You
will, doubtless, be surprised at the time that the passage will have
taken up, and, indeed, it has been a very mortifying delay to me;
but notwithstanding that Major Clayborne, the quartermaster-gen
eral for the State, had been sent forward to make the necessary
preparations to give us dispatch, I found not the smallest provision
was made either for that purpose, or to procure forage for our
horses, and I have been forced to get on the best way I could with
the common ferry-boats, only one of which would take in a wagon.
The quartermasters seem to be every-where a very useless set of
people, but peculiarly so here. I could not even obtain one of them
(and they are numerous) to go forward to Petersburgh, that the same
difficulty might not again meet us there; however, means are taken
to prevent that happening. Your Excellency knows the wretched
condition in which the horses were when I left York, particularly
those that drew the pieces, and I mentioned the hopes I had of
meeting with some assistance from the Government here unfortu
nately, the Governor is too sick to attend to business, and there is
neither council nor assembly. However, sixty horses arrived last
night from Annapolis for General Greene s army these I must de
tain, and, by means of them, I shall be able to get forward without

seizing from the inhabitants, which I must otherwise have been
obliged to do, and from which I am glad to be relieved, both on ac
count of the unequal manner in which the burden falls, and the
disgust it creates.
On the 10th, I sent an express to Colonel Febiger, at Cumber
land Court-house, directing him to put the Virginia troops, which I
expected would at least have amounted to five hundred men, in mo
tion for Taylor s Ferry, and yesterday received the inclosed letter in
return, by which your Excellency will see that the utmost lean ex
pect of them is one hundred and fifty men, which will make General
Gist s brigade about five hundred, and, with General Wayne s, may
enable us to bring twelve hundred men to action. I have inclosed
the returns for your own particular satisfaction.
The accounts I have from Carolina are from General Jones, of
the 9th instant. The enemy still occupy Wilmington—their force
about four hundred British and six hundred Tories; they have
erected some works about the town, and have a block-house at a
bridge over the Northeast River, about ten miles above it. About
two thousand militia have taken post on the south side of Cape
Fear River, with a view to prevent the enemy from crossing by laud
to Charleston
General St. Clair to General Greene.
Richmond, November 14, 1781.
Sir:—I have the honor to acquaint you that I am now on my
march r with the Pennsylvania and Man land troops, to join your
army, and shall leave this place to-morrow for Petersburg and Tay
lor s Ferry, at which I propose to cross the Roanoke. The route I
shall afterward pursue through North Carolina is not at present
fully determined, and will depend upon such intelligence of the
force and situation of the enemy in that country as I may receive;
for should it be such as offers a probability of, making a successful
stroke at them en passant, I shall do it, and join you as soon after as
possible. Whenever I shall have fixed upon it, I shall take care to
give you as early notice as I can, and it is not improbable but you
may have it in your power to co-operate with me. But as from our
successes in this State, there may have happened a total change of
circumstances in the Southern States, you will oblige me much by
communicating what may have come to your knowledge, and I shall
be happy to receive your orders and advice.

1
General Rutherford1 to General St. Clair.
Wilmington, November 18, 1781.
Dear General:—I have been informed you are marching to the
southward with a body of Continental troops, and that you intended
to take this place in your route.
I am happy to inform you that the glorious event of the 17th
ult. in Virginia has probably extended its influence to this post,
seeing the enemy evacuated it with great precipitation on the 14th
inst. supposed to be ordered to reinforce Charleston.
This circumstance may, perhaps, induce you to alter the route of
your army. This country has suffered so extremely whilst under the
enemy s influence, that it would be scarcely possible to subsist an
army here, even for a short time. The bridges, which are numerous
in these parts have also been destroyed rehiring them will be a
business of time. I shall hold post here a few days until the enemy
are entirely gone, as some of their vessels are yet seen at the mouth
of the harbor. Whether detained by the weather, or seeing vessels
off, we can not tell, but we flatter ourselves they can hardly reach
Charleston.
I shall with pleasure receive your orders, if you think proper to
write me, and shall also convey you the earliest notice of every
event which may appear to interest the public welfare in these
parts.
Perhaps you will find it most convenient to direct your march
past Cross Creek, as I have ordered provisions to be driven and col
lected at that post, and others adjoining, purposely to supply your
army.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Taylor s Ferry, November 26ih, 1781.
Sir:—On the 22d instant I arrived at Williamsborough, in North
Carolina, to which place I had gone in advance of the troops (leav
ing them to be conducted from Petersburgh by General Wayne), in
order to settle the route it would be proper to pursue, and take the
necessary measures fur provisions.
1Griffith Rutherford, appointed a brigadier by tlio Provincial Congress,
in April, 1776; commanded a brigade in the battle near Camden, August,
1780, where ho was t iken prisoner, and, having been exchanged, commanded
in North Carolina when the British evacuated Wilmington. After the war,
he removed to Tennessee, where he died about 1794.

A report had prevailed, for a day or two, that the enemy had
evacuated Wilmington, and there I received such information re
specting it as left no manner of doubt of the fact, which happened
on the 14th instant, two large ships, which lay in the mouth of Cape
Fear River, having taken the garrison on board, which, no doubt,
arc gone to" Charleston. This circumstance leaves me at liberty to
take the most direct way to join General Greeue, which I shall do
with as much expedition as possible by Salisbury, Charlotte, and
Camden, which, though not absolutely the nearest route, is never
theless, from the best information I have been able to procure, much
the easiest and most plentiful, and by following of which time will
be gained. As the evacuation would have taken place at all events,
it is fortunate for the troops that it happened so early, as they would
have been exposed to much difficulty in a march through a very
barren country, intersected by many rivers that are not fordable.
Whether I should reckon it fortunate for myself, or not, I am not
so certain. But I am always satisfied with what produces any ad
vantage to my country, and another State being freed from the
power of the enemy is a circumstance of no little importance at this
juncture. It has also freed me from an uneasiness that hung upon
my mind, that I might probably find them so posted as not to have
it in my power to dislodge them, and be reduced to the alternative
of an uncertain assault, or that of leaving them unmolested.
Since I sat down to write, a letter has come to hand from Colonel
Febiger, by which I am informed that I can expect no part of the
Virginia troops, as they arc not in a condition to be marched at
present. It also contains the copy of a letter, or memorial, from
the officers to him, on their being made acquainted with the orders
I had sent for immediately marching to this place all the men that
were equipped, which I take the liberty to inclose. It is true that
they have reason to complain, but it pains me that they should
take such means and such an occasion to express it; and I was
much surprised to see Colonel Posey s name to the memorial. I
have wrote to Colonel Febiger, and taken no notice of the receipt
of bis letter, desiring him to halt the detachment I had ordered un
til the whole are in readiness, as it is now too late fur them to join
me, and, from a change of circumstances in North Carolina, it is
not so necessary.

General St. Clair to Colonel Davy.
Williamsborough, N. C, November 2Slh, 1781.
Sir:—The enemy having left Wilmington has determined mo
to pursue a different route to South Carolina than that I had in
contemplation, and I have to request that you will direct provisions
to be laid in for three thousand men, on the road from this place to
Camden, by the High Rock Ford, Guilford, Salisbury, and Charlotteburgh.
The particular places I can not so well point out, where
our day s marches will end, not being perfect master of the dis
tances, but the general direction to the High Rock Ford will be
Harrisburgh, Colonel Stephen Moore s, Caswel Court-house, and
Henry Williams s. We shall want provisions, bread especially, at
as many places on our march as it can be laid in with any conven
ience, as we have not the means to carry above one or two days' sup
ply with us. The intermediate places between Guilford and Char
lotte I have not mentioned, but doubt not you will Ik; able to direct
the commissioners to make deposits for us, where it is proper and
convenient.
General Washington to General St. CLAra.
Philadelphia, 30th November, 1781.
Dear Sir:—I have received your favor of the 14th instant, and
am very sorry to observe the difficulties and imjiediments which
have attended the march of the troops under your command they
are such as I feared, but such as I trust the resources of your genins
will surmount.
The returns you inclosed I am sorry to see so small the deficiency
in numbers must be made up in the vigor of your operations. Your
prospects against Wilmington, I think, are not unpromising, on the
ground you mention—though there is no accounting for the events
of war. If your attempt should fail, whatever may be the censures
of the people at the moment of the event, }et, I doubt not that
your character will eventually obtain that justice which I flatter
myself your conduct will ever merit, an instance of which you have
already had in the course of this war.
Inclosed you will find extracts from the resolutions of Congress
on the occasion of our late success in Virginia. I transmit them to
yoy, to be communicated to the troops under your command, that
they may know the sense in which Congress are pleased to estimate
their late services.
P

Colonel Febiger s return of Virginia troops appears to me very
extraordinary. I fear that a dislike of the Southern service, or
some other reasons, have operated to lessen their numbers beybnd
what ought to be. I wish you, sir, to write to him in the most
pressing manner, to bring on every man engaged for a permanent
term, and who is possibly able to march, and let him know that no
excuse can possibly be admitted for unnecessary detentions.
General Greene to General St. Clair.
Headquars Round O. South of the Edlsto,
December 18</i, 1781.
Dear Sir:—From intelligence received, I have reason to believe
that the enemy mean to make a push into the country to destroy
the forage to prevent which, I have to request that you will march
on with all possible dispatch without injury to the troops, and bring
with you thirty thousand cartridges as a supply for this army. You
will move by McCord s ferry, on the Congaree, Orangeburg, and
Ferguson s Mill, on the Edisto to this place.
I have received your letter of the 14th of November, dated at
Richmond, but as Captain Pendleton, one of my aids-de-camp, was
charged with instructions and a letter to you 1 I thought an answer
would be unnecessary.
General St. Clair to General Washington.
Camp near Osborne s, February 4tJi, 1782.
Sir :-»-Your very obliging letter of the 30th of November, camo
to hand about ten days ago, and the Resolve of Congress was com
municated to the troops, with which they appeared to be highly
satisfied.
Nothing could have been more acceptable than the kind manner
your Excellency has been pleased to speak of my conduct. I do,
indeed, aspire to your approbation, and do flatter myself that in all
events, whether fortunate or otherwise, I shall never do any thing
to forfeit your esteem.
1 Cuptuin N. Pendleton, aid-de-camp, sent a message to General St. Clair,
from Warsaw settlement, November 24th, by which he conveyed the wishes
of General Greene, which were, that he would leave his heavy baggage and
stores, and all of the artillery except four pieces, and hasten to his assistance.

I joined General Greene on the 3d of January, after a march of
fifty-seven days, during which we had a great deal of bad weather,
yet, notwithstanding, averaged about eleven miles for each day,
without fatigue to the troops, who performed it without murmur
or discontent, and, since our arrival, the enemy have not shown their
noses, and I believe are impressed with the idea that my detachment
is a very great one.
The situation of my private affairs requires my attention to
them this summer, which, if I do not give, they must go to absolute
ruin. I, therefore, propose to leave this country with that view,
about the beginning of April, if circumstances will admit it, and I
think it highly probable that if we have no opportunity to fight the
enemy before that time, it will not happen at all, and that they will
either evacuate the country entirely, or content themselves with
holding the possession of Charleston, until a treaty of peace shall
take place, an event all the officers think very near. I hope we
shall not think it so near as to neglect the necessary preparations for
continuing the war, which is much to be feared, but which I hope
will be prevented by your Excellency having your residence this
winter in Philadelphia. Congress, lam informed, have lately vested
your Excellency with power to employ such general officers as you
may think proper, the others to retire upon half-pay until called for.
I am very loth to leave the army whilst the war continues, and yet
I do not think I can possibly return to this country not from any
dislike to the service here, but simply from the situation of my
family and affaire. I could wish that your Excellency would not
absolutely determine for my return, before I have the pleasure to
see you, or that you will hear from me on the subject again 1
General Harmar to General St. Clair.
Camp Ashley Hill, S. C, September 29th, 1782.
Dear General:—In consequence of the resolution of Congress of
1 General St. Clair commanded the lines of investment around Charleston,
while in South Carolina, but the dreary business of a siege brought no stir
ring events worth recording. Correspondence was carried on with Colonel
Small and Major Prevost. of the British army, which bore chiefly on com
munications between the beleagured Tories and their friends in the country
Frequent attempts at imposition finally led to an order forbidding all inter,
course.
In the month of May. St. Clair returned to Philadelphia, being compelled
thereto by the embarrassed state of his finances.
570 The St. Clair ropers.
the 7th of August last, directing a reform of the army to take place
on the 1st of January, 1783, 1 do myself the honor of inclosing you
a return of the non-commissioned officers and privates belonging to
the Pennsylvania line, specifying the number enlisted for the war,
and those whose times shortly expire. Perhaps you miiy judge it
necessary to lay this return before the Secretary of War, in order
that he may be enabled to make his arrangements accordingly. A
list of our officers, with their determination to continue in service
or retire, I have handed in to General Greene, which I apprehend
will be transmitted to you by this conveyance.
Since your departure from this army, we have frequently ex
perienced a want of provisions, chiefly owing to the neglect of the
State Commissary, but are now agreeably relieved with beef toler
able good and plenty.
Sickness rages to an amazing degree in the course of this month
we have buried near one hundred men, with the cursed disorder,
ague and fever, incidental to the climate. The sweet, delicious
Northern breeze I am panting after, and long to snuff the fragrant
gale. We have been in great hopes of the enemy evacuating
Charleston for this month past, they have certainly made every
preparation for embarking, and I believe now only wait the arrival
of transports. Had they ere tin s arrived, the autumnal equinox
would have prevented their going. The 20th of October, I set down
as the day we are tc enter the town—a joyful day it will be!
Our present position is about sixteen miles from Charleston, with
our left to the Ashley, and reckoned by the inhabitants as healthy a
spot as is in South Carolina, but we are prejudiced against it; the
climate at this season breathes nothing but disorder, and ill agrees
with Northern constitutions.
You, no doubt, have heard the unfortunate fate of Colonel Lau
rens.; he was killed the 27th of last mouth, in a conflict with a de
tachment of the enemy foraging in the Combahee River. His fall
is greatly lamented.
I shall be happy in being honored with a line from you.
Colonel Harmar to General. St. Clair.
Camp Ashley Hill, Decemba16, 1782.
Dear General:—I had the pleasure of addressing you per Lieu
tenant Harper, on the 29th of September last, since which we have
been in continual expectation of the evacuation of Charleston.

That joyful event took place the day before yesterday. At 8 o clock
in the morning, the light infantry companies, the legion and two
six-pounders, under command of Brigadier-General Wayne, took
possession of the town. The army still keeps its old position.
What our future destination will be is yet unknown.
Orders have arrived from the Secretary of War, to form the
Pennsylvania troops into one regiment; the formation has taken
place, and General Greene has ordered the officers present upon the
spot to be arranged inclosed you will please to receive a copy of
the arrangement. This strikes at the principle of seniority, and
must displease the senior captains and subalterns in the State. My
mode of arranging, upon a supposition that we raise two regiments
only, would be thus
The oldest captain in the first regiment.
The next oldest in the second regiment, and the same rule to be»
adopted with the subalterns.
But the grand objection to this arrangement would be that the
troops would remain without officers; therefore, General Greene, to
avoid fluctuation, has thought proper to arrauge the officers here
upon the spot, and his intention is that the arrangement should be
permanent.
In consequence of the resolve of Congress of the 7th August last,
which directs a reform of the army to take place on the 1st of Jan
uary next, and that the staff officers shall be taken from the retir
ing officers, I have resigned my post of Adjutant-General of the
Southern army, and taken immediate command of the regiment.
The General has been pleased (in orders) to compliment my eonduct
while in that department. Major Edwards is my successor,
and Lieutenant-Colonel Mentgez is appointed inspector to the
Southern army.
I do myself the honor of inclosing you a copy of the last return
of the regiment. I expect, in a few days, to be able to obtain cloth
ing sufficient for the men, and then we shall cut the proper military
appearance.
Be pleased to present my compliments to Dunn and Keene 1
1 Aids-de-oump to St. Clair.
r

General St. Clair to General Washington.
November 2&lh, 1782.
Dear Sir:—Agreeably to my promise, I ought, in a very few
days, to set out on my return to the army, but, I am sorry to say
it, I find it will be impossible at the time I proposed, as I am now
so far from having completed the purpose for which your Excellencv
was pleased to allow me to be absent as the day of my arrival. I
have had several interviews with Mr. Morris; he says, and I am
sure it is so, that he is making every exertion in order for a hand
some payment to the army, and that he has expectations of soon
having it in his power, but that, notwithstanding it depends upon
so many contingencies, he will not venture to fix upon the time. I
could not ask him for a partial payment to me, though I am per•suaded that, if he had been in cash, from the friendship that has long
subsisted betwixt us, he would have offered it, as I let him very ex
plicitly into my present circumstances, which is, in short, Sir—I am
not master of one single shilling, nor will any thing that I am pos
sessed of command it; I am in debt, and my credit exhausted, and,
were it not for the rations I receive, my family would actually starve.
This is rather hard, after sacrificing, as I have done, ease and inde
pendence, and the best part of my life, and having settled accounts
in my hands for more than three thousand pounds, and considerable
sums due, the accounts of which have not yet been liquidated. This
will, I hops, induce you t:i excuse my overstaying the tima limited
for my return, whilst you do me the justice to believe that, whatever
uneasiness I feel from the distress of my private circumstances,
which, I own, is not a little, I have not less from being forced to a
breach of my duty, the first of the kind in my whole life, and that
I shall be happy to return to it the moment I can, by any means,
put myself in a situation 1
1 Tho distressed situation in which General St. Clair s family were placed
in 1782, by the failure of the Government to pay him what was due to him
caused him the greatest pain and anxiety. He had, hitherto, made up nil de
ficiencies out of his own private means, hut when landed property no longer
brought even a twentieth of its value, that source failed. When in South
Carolina, he wrotea pressing letter to the President of Congress, asking that
his accounts might be settled and some of the sums he lfad paid out for the
Government refunded; and, when ho returned to Philadelphia he laid full
details of his condition before his friend Kobert Morris. The latter sympa
thized deeply, and assisted him to the extent of his power; but it was a
time when he was struining every nerve to supply means to keep troops in

General St. Clair to General McDougall, Colonel Ogden,
and Colonel Brooes, a Committee from the Army at
West Point, to Congress 1
December (without day), 1782.
Gentlemen:—As it is of consequence that the representations to
the field. How he found relief for his family is not told in his papers, hut
that the trial was a long nnd distressful one, is shown by the fact that he
was able to remain with the army but a few days in December, and that
Washington found it necessary to recall him in February. See letter of the
19th February.
1The close of the year 1782 and the winter of 1783, when there was a
prospect of peace, but an uncertainly as to whether or not negotiations
might fail and a new campaign be required, was a period of great anxiety
to the leading patriot0, and of very great danger to the cause of u republic.
There seemed to be no resources left, and there was a total want of harmony
between Congress and the States. In October, 1782, Washington wrotrf to
the President of Congress, referring to the proposition to reduce the army:
"I can not help fearing the result of the measure in contemplation, under
present circumstances, when I see such a number of men goaded by a thou
sand stings of reflection on the past nnd of anticipations of the future, about
to be turned into the world, soured by penury and what they call the in
gratitude of the public, involved in debts, witheut one farthing of money to
carry them home, after having spent the flower of their days, and many of
them their patrimonies, in establishing the freedom and independence of
their country, and suffered every thing that human nature is capable of en
during on this side of desth. I repeat it, that when I consider these irri
tating circumstances, without one thing to soothe their feelings or dispel the
gloomy prospects, I can' not avoid apprehending that a train of evils will
follow of a very serious and distressing nature. On the other hand, could
the officers be placed in as good a situation as when they camo into service,
the contention, I am persuaded, would be, not who should continue in the
field, but who should retire to private life."
When the army had taken up their winter-quarters at Newburg, and,
during the days of idleness, reflected on their situation, with accounts un
settled, and no provision for future liquidation of them, there was much ex
citement, which resulted, finally, in the appointment of a committee to wait
on Congress and explain the grievances of the army. The committee con
sisted of General McDougall and Colonels Ogden and Brooks. The memo
rial which they were charged to present embraced the following points:
1. Present pay; 2. A settlement of the accounts of the arrearages of pav
and security for what is due; 3. A commutation of the half pay allowed by
different resolutions of Congress for an equivalent in gross; 4. A settlemei t
of the accounts of deficiencies of rations and compensation; and 5. A set
tlement of the accounts of deficiencies of clothing and compensation.
This was courteously received by Congress, and resolutions adopted look.

be made to Cjngress on the part of the army should be general, and
all the different lines agreed as to the subject of the proposition,
but from their situation it is impossible that the sense of some of
them—-of the Pennsylvania line in particular—can be known in
time to be conveyed to you, I have thought it might be of some
use to state what I conceive ought to be their sense of mattery
which you are at liberty to make such use of as you shall judge
most conducive to the end in view. The State of Pennsylvania
very liberally adopted the resolution of Congress recommending the
half pay, and has enacted a law entitling the officers who shall con
tinue in service until the end of the war to receive it during the
residue of their lives, but they have provided no funds nor ap
pointed any mode for the payment of it. As this law was founded
on a promise of Congress, the Pennsylvania line will not consider
the United States as discharged from the obligation of that promise
should the State fail to carry the law into execution, and would cer
tainly be very desirous that a fund should be provided by their au
thority to render the receipt of the half-pay unequivocal and it is
indeed a very reasonable and modest expectation that some provision
should be made for them in the future, as a recompense for the time
they have given to the public, for the sacrifice of their best years
and all their prospects in life and perhaps it might not be amiss to
remind Congress that when they took up arms it was not with a
view to make them a profession. Certainly, had it been expected
that the war would have been drawn out to the length it has been,
many, particularly those who have families, and have thereby ruined
them, would not have engaged in it. I say, then, I have no doubt
but that, at the same time that they have the firmest reliance upon
the honor and generosity of the State, they would be glad to see a
ing to nn adjustment of the claims. Pending tlio negotiations—there being
n divergence of views of the States as to the question of half pay—the exeitement
in camp was heightened by the appearance of anonymous appeals,
calculated to inflame the passions of the men, and giving rise to the suspicion
that Congress would be deposed and a government established with Wash
ington at the head. The latter whs equal to the emergency, and by rare
tact brought patriotism to the front, and succeeded in getting a declaration
from the soldics in that spirit, proposing to uphold the government. The
authorship of the remarkable papers was attributed to Major John Arm
strong.
For an account of the Newburg Addresses" and the proceedings of the
meeting of soldiers, over which General Gates presided, which forever put
at rest all doubt of the patriotism of the men whe had borne the brunt of
the war, see Spnrks Writings of Washington, Vol. VIII., pp. 551-568.

counter-security established by Congress. Neither is the forming a
fund all that strikes me as necessary the application of it should
likewise be pointed out—that is, an officer should know with cer
tainty the qualifications that will he necessary to entitle him to re
ceive it, and the times and the place to which he must resort. As
for past pay, I take it for granted there is no reason to expect it
will be paid up. That must, therefore, be put on a footing to secure
the payment of the interest regularly. Whether it would not be
the best mode with respect to that to coalesce with the other public
creditors is worthy of very serious consideration. It appears to me
that it would have this consequence that an interest in favor of the
army as general public creditors would be created in each State, and
the whole thereby have a better chance of being provided for;
whereas, were the army to insist upon a special and separate pro
vision, the weight of the other creditors would be against them, as
removing a provision for themselves to a greater distance. As to
the accruing pay for the present and every succeeding year, Con
gress ought to be informed, in the most express and positive terms,
that it is of absolute necessity that, without an immediate payment
and a certainty of it in future, at stated periods for that and every
succeeding year, the army can not be kept together, and that with
out it there is every reason to expect a convulsion of the most
dreadful nature and fatal consequences. These, then, I take it,
would be the expectations of the Pennsylvania officers, viz a Con
tinental security for their half-pay and arrears of pay, and an as
surance of their current pay in future. As to other demands, they
are precisely in the same situation with the rest of the army. What
satisfies that, will doubtless satisfy them. Permit me to remark
that, whatever mode is adopted to produce that purpose, the whole
army ought to throw themselves upon Congress. The services that
have been performed, from which the right to the demand arises,
have been performed for the United States; that, separately, the
States are not bound to recognize then), and that whatever disposi
tions some of them may discover, the sentiments of the different leg
islatures are extremely fluctuating, and when danger is past and in.
terest has its full operation unchecked by fear, they may be very
different from what they are now.
This nrat er may also be viewed in a political sense. The confed
eration is a very imperfect one. The grand committees of the na
tion are without power, and the individual mombcjrs may, as they
have often done, adopt the little local policy of their respective
States. They may be restricted by express instructions. If the

debts due to and the provision to be made for the army can be
thrown upon the continent at large, and the army kept together,
their hands would be strengthened. They could s{ieak with some
degree of authority to any refractory State, and it might be the
happy means of procuring justice to ourselves and others, of making
and keeping us a great and respectable people, by securing the na
tional faith and national character. Without something of this
kind, we have "the melancholy prospect of having spent our best
years, our fortunes, and our blood to no purpose, or to a very bad
one, that of becoming the most abject and despicable people on the
face of the earth. An objection, I know, arises from the dislike
some of the States have to the name of a pension. I can not be
lieve them serious in it, but make use of it only, to cover their dis
like to rewarding the men who have made them free—a horrid in
stance of ingratitude, which, though a disgrace to human nature,
is unhappily not uncommon. I have seen it somewhere laid down
as a maxim that kings may be ungrateful, but republics must be."
If there is, then, any thing in the nature of a republic that sub
jects it to this vice, so much the more reason have we to guard
against its operation.
But what I have proposed above by no means prevents the legis
lature of any State from entering into a compromise with the officers
of that State for their half-pay, but it would put the officers in a
situation to make the bargain upon more equal terms. Should a
State chi ose to give them a sum of money instead of half-pay, and
they agree to receive it, what is the consequence? Simply this a
ratio of the payments to be made by that State to the public pro
portionate to what the half-pay list of that State bears to the whole
half-pay list, would cease, and that Congress would very easily
manage.
Permit me to observe that there is a part of the army which must
depend upon Congress solely. These are the foreign officers, our
own brevet officers, and Ha2en s and Armand s corps. Some lines,
particularly that of Connecticut, arc also very averse to a depend
ence upon their States. Should the awny divide, and some throw
themselves upon Congress and some upon their respective States,
nothing will be done by either. Congress will want the power, and
the States, I fear, will want the will 1
1General St. Clair very clearly outlines the views of those who, while suf
fering in the 6eld for eight years, had found dependence upon the Slates n
broken reed, saw that the peace of society and permanency in government

General Washington to General St. Clair.
Headquarters, Newburgh, February 19</i, 1783.
Dear Sir :—It is a considerable time since I received the letter in •which you informed me it would be impossible for you to return to
the army at the period appointed, on account of your pecuniary and
domestic affairs. Sympathizing deeply in your private distresses, I
have delayed to recall your attention and presence to your com
mand as long as the circumstances of service, my own personal
feelings, and the duty I owe to the public, would suffer me to do it.
Before the receipt of this letter, you will have learnt my sentiments
respecting the duties that are expected of the general officers of
this army, from a late order transmitted to you officially by the
Adjutant-General. In addition to that information,'! now take the
liberty, in this private and friendly manner, to acquaint you, that,
in case you wish to retain a command in this army, it will be essen
tial for you to come on immediately, prepared to remain with it,
as I must make it a point for every officer who will have the honor
of commanding any corps of troops in it, to take upon himself the
charge and trouble of maneuvering, disciplining and forming that
corps for the field.
I do not here enter fully into a detail of the reasons which now
make it particularly necessary for the general officers, who have
been long absent, to join without loss of time. It will surely be
sufficient to mention, that out of nine generals assigned to the com
mand of the troops in this cantonment, seven are either actually
gone, or have made applications to be absent at the same time, so
that by gratifying their wishes (besides incurring public reprehen
sion) the whole weight of the business, the cares and the troubles of
the army, would devolve upon me, until a sunshine occasion, or a
prospect of some brilliant operation, should induce them to return
and share the pleasures and honors of service.
I request you will be so kind as to give me a line in answer to
this, by the very next post.
could only be secured through one general head. Hence, "Washington and
his associates afterwards favored a strong government, while these who did
not share in the sufferings and perils, and theorized on political affairs, fa
vored a greater reservation of power to the State.
37

Hon. John Potts to General St. Clair,
New York, January Sth, 1783.
Sir:—It is wit!i no small degree of satisfaction that I am just
now informed of your return from the unhealthy climate to the
southward.
Will you pardon me, dear sir, when I say that I greatly rejoice at
your presence in our country at this particular period, as it appears
to me very important to the future prosperity and happiness of
America.
Whether this country shall, after all its difficulties and distresses,
return to the full enjoyment of the blessings of peace, liberty, and
safety, or continue to suffer the miseries and hardships of war, will
depend on the determination of Congress this winter. What in
ducement any man who has the interest of this country at heart
can have to desire the continuance of this scene of distraction, I can
not conceive.
The difficulties of this country in regard to its trade, and in point
of resource, are notorious and although a very uninformed and
very retired individual, yet sufficient facts appear to justify my
conclusion that America might, at this period, put an end to the
calamities of war with the gratification of every reasonable wish.
It is not, nor I am persuaded ever will be, the desire of the gentle
man to whom I have the honor to address this, to make this country
the instrument of the exaltation of France, to the destruction of
England, even supposing that to be the possible issue, and if that is
not the intention, I confesss I am totally at loss to conceive the mo
tive which can operate to the continuance of the war.
The compass of a letter will not permit me to enlarge, even if I
was certain it would be agreeable, but will conclude with requesting,
as a very particular favor, that General St. Clair would honor me
so much as by a line or two to explain where the obstacle lies to
prevent the happy return of the blessings of peace.
I am persuaded your liberality of sentiment will pardon this lib
erty, for I beg you to be assured that, whatever my circumstances
or situation are or may be, I shall always retain a sincere and warm
afFection for my native country and its hardiness.
If you will have the goodness to indulge me in this request, and
deliver, or have it delivered, to Mrs. Potts, it will safely be con
veyed to mc, and lay me under very particular obligation 1
1 Mr. Fotts reflected the sentiments of those Americans whe had ever

General St. Clatr to Hon. TaojtAs Fitzsijbcons.
Philadelphia, January, 21, 1783.
Sir :—The House are well acquainted that another reform of the
army has taken place, in consequence whereof, a number of officers of
the line of this State retired from the service. The situation of these
men is truly deplorable. They find themselves, after a length of
time that has been entirely devoted to the public, and with very
considerable sums due them from it, absolutely destitute of the
means of subsistence—they can not return to their former employ
ments, their habits are too much changed, and if they had the incli
nation the want of money is an insuperable bar. From the deten
tion of their pay they have all contracted debts, and their credit
ors are pressing. As these gentlemen look up to me, for advice at
least (other assistance I can not afford them, as I find myself in the
same situation), I hope I may stand excused for taking the liberty to
address you on this subject, and requesting that you will bring the
matter before the House. An advance of money is of the utmost
consequence even to their existence, and, should it be denied, they
must be driven to desperation. They will gladly and thankfully re
ceive it as the bounty of the Assembly, but they have claim to it
on the strictest principles of justice. The State has taken upon
itself the payment of part of the money due to them and their halfpay.
The promise alone is of no moment, but they must and do
expect that some steps be taken to fulfill that promise. It is needless
to multiply words upon a subject that speaks for itself, and I have
so much trust in the justice and humanity of the House, that the
matter need only be brought before them to give it its full weight.
Poverty, nakedness, and a jail are not the balm they will pour into
their soldier s wounds, yet, if some relief is longer delayed, the retired
officers must experience them all, for, to my certain knowledge,
many of them can not purchase themselves a pair of shoes or a loaf
of bread, after having for seven long years braved every danger, in
every climate, to give happiness and ease to their fellow-citizens.
grieved over the unhappy difference between the colonies and the mother
country.

General St. Clair to the Officers of the Pennsylvania
Line.
Pottsgrove, Mardi 29, 1783.
Gentlemen :—Colonel Robison and Captain Keene have done me
the honor to call upon me with the resolve of Congress of the 22d
inst., respecting the commutation of the half-pay for a sum in gross,
and to desire my opinion as to what ought to be the conduct of the line
with regard to accepting or rejecting it. I am very free to tell you
that I think it ought, by all means, to be accepted, and my reasons
are, that it is more favorable in itself than the half-pay that the
army being joined with the other creditors gives both a better
chance of being paid, and that the public security is the proper se
curity, and safer than that of the individual States.
Independent of these, there are other reasons, of a political nature,
which should induce every person who wishes well to his country to
close with the proposal in the above resolve. A sum in gross equiv
alent to the half-pay, on the principle of annuities, is more favorable
to the officers than the half-pay itself, because that sum becomes at
once their absolute property, and whether it is paid in money or
only certificates granted for it, provided there is a sufficient fund for
the regular payment of the interest, and that interest is actually
regularly paid, it is the same thing. The certificates will immedi
ately bec;ime negotiable among ourselves for their full value;
among foreigners they will bear a preminm, our interest being so
much higher than in Europe, that there is not a doubt with me that
it will only want to be known to see them pressing their money into
our funds. This will be a public benefit, but the great advantage
to the officers is, that those who have families, instead of a pre
carious provision depending upon their lives, will be able to trans
mit them the whole, either as an annuity or a sum to be divided
among them, as they may think proper. To those who have no
families, the command of such a sum of money presents the oppor
tunity of entering with advantage into some other way of life. I
think the army being put on the same footing with the other cred
itors an advantage to both, as it promises more effectually to secure
payment to both. The funds for the payment of the interest of the
public debts must be provided by the States individually; but they
must be irrevocable, and the management of them confined to
Congress. The public creditors, exclusive of the army, are, in most
of the States, the body of the people. Their desires to be paid,
though not quite so well-founded, are not less craving than those

of the army. By joining with them, therefore, we take advan
tage of that disposition and bring it to operate in our favor, for no
individual legislature will, or dare, refuse to comply with the requi
sitions of Congress when those requisitions take in the interests of
themselves and their constituents but very differently might they
act if the army were offered, as insisted upon, a separate provision.
In the one case, we are sure of a great interest with us. In the
other, it would as certainly be against us. The sum need give no
alarm. I am pretty well informed that the interest of cur whole
debt, that to the army included, would very little, if any thing, ex
ceed six hundred thousand pounds per annum.
There is a variety of sentiment with regard to the security, some
preferring that of the individual States, and others that of the Con
tinent. Xor is it at all surprising that the officers of Pennsylvania
should lean towards a State security, for the State acted nobly
towards them. Notwithstanding, I am most decidedly of opinion
that we ought to look up to the Continent only, and heartily wish
the army may be unanimously of that opinion. Much, I think, de
pends on it. In the first place, while we have no legal claim upon
the States, it is the Continent our services have been given to, aud
it is the faith of the Continent that is pledged for a retribution.
True, the Assembly of Pennsylvania did take up the half-pay,
and have promised it shall be paid, but not a stop has been taken fur
ther in the business, nor is it clear that they could ever provide funds
for the purpose. The complexion of the House may change very
much. Danger is now at a distance, and the infamy that attends
ungenerous actions is, in public bodies, divided among so many that
none seem to feel any part of it, so that little reliance is to be
placed upon their honor.
They may haggle at the commutation, and examples of rejecting
the half-pay are sure to be set them. They can not take in the
public creditors along with us without burdening the State far be
yond her proportion, and, of consequence, we shall have all their
weight against us. But if none of this should happen, it will still
depend upon the will and pleasure of some future Assembly. The
half-pay, or the interest of the commutation, may be paid regularly
for some time. We are disbanded and dispersed, and no longer in
any way formidable. As pensioners, we become obnoxious, and an
act of Assembly puts au end to our existence. On the contrary,
the funds being irrevocably provided by the individual States, and
put into the hands of Congress, we have every security that can
reasonably be required, to which is superadded that care of the na

ttonal faith and national character which must ever operate strongly
npon that body, while it is very little felt by individual Legis
latures.
The reasons of a political nature that strike me most forcibly
are, that, by joining with the public creditors we should strengthen
the hands of Congress. We should give their recommendations
for the establishment of public credit almost absolute certainty of
being complied with, and a new chain of union would be formed
among the States of more consequence, and that would hold them
more firmly together than our boasted confederation.
On the whole, gentlemen, I am very clear that you should not
hesitate about the acceptance of the commutation on the footing of
the resolve of Congress. If you think with me, or if you think
otherwise, your determination should, as soon as it is obtained, be
sent to General Washington. At the same time, you should send
to Carolina an account of what you have determined upon, that
General Greene may transmit the sentiments of that part of the
line under his command in due time. Congress has directed the
sentiments to be taken by lines in our case, it is impossible, from
local situation, part being under the immediate command of Gen
eral Washington and part under that of General Greene 1
General Irvine to General St. Clair.
Carlisle, April 17, 1783.
Dear General:—On the question of the day, viz: half-pay, com
mutation, and, I fear, or nothing, might be added, how is the sense
of our line to be collected? I think the sooner some steps are taken
the better, particularly as I am much afraid even the small powers
Congress at present possesses will daily dwindle. There appears an
evident disposition in several States already to curtail them, and
this will become general. If this is a fact, what value will a resolu
tion of Congress be of, unless the States, severally, confirm them by
laws, which I conceive they will scarce think of with respect to the
army after their dissolution; for it seems that all public bodies will
not think of doing or enacting any thing unless they are petitioned
for the express purpose. How will the army, then, once disbanded,
be ever able even to ask justice collective!y and individually to hope
1 For further correspondence on this subject, see letters of St. CInir and
Irvine, following. The diseussion refers to the veteran soldiers, and not to
the raw recruits that mutinied in the following June.

to obtain it would be vain indeed. The eastern, or main army,
gives the tone. Do you think they are really satisfied with the late
resolution, and will they retire resting the matter as it now stands?
Whatever they do, the rest must follow their example but are not
their States disposed to do them justice? I think they are con
vinced of this or they would not give up the point so easy. Would
not n. correspondence with them be necessary They ought at least,
I think, to be felt, and I think you could do this without coming to
any explanation much depends on the conducting matters at this
juncture. I do not yet know whether I must return to Fort Pitt or
not but it is most probable I must, as I am informed, by express
yesterday, that the savages are killing and scalping all over the
country. These wretches, I think, must be extirpated.
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Philadelphia, May 6, 1783.
Dear Sir :—Your favor of the 16th of last month was delivered
to me about three days ago, and I am happy to have an opportunity
so soon to answer it, as I am one letter in your debt, and have, at
other times, been very tardy in replying but I entreat you to be
lieve it has not arisen from any neglect, but solely from a bad habit
I have contracted of never having a letter ready for a conveyance,
and very often, when the conveyance offers, it is impossible to write.
I have, however, for some time. past been so afflicted with the gout
that I really had neither ability nor inclination to write a line to any
living creature. I am now getting over it, and though I know you
would have sympathized with me in any case, it was with no small
degree of concern I learned that you have been confined almost all
winter with its cousin german.
As to the question of the half-pay commutation, I strongly recom
mended to our line that they should accept it agreeably to the resolve
of Congress, but not relinquishing the promise of the State in case
the States at large did not provide the necessary funds and that
they should unite with all the public creditors of every denomina
tion. This, I thought, would interest a great mfhiber of people in
each State whose weight would probably be exerted, in the different
Legislatures, against the army if they insisted on separate and dis
tinct provision that they should send on their determination to
that part of the line to the southward for their concurrence, and, in
the meantime, signify what they resolved upon to General Wash

ington within the last two months but I have been so indisposed
that I have not had opportunity to inquire what they have done,
and they have not thought proj)er to inform me. You justly ob
serve the eastern troops will give the tone, and it was certainly in
their power to have, without taking any improper or indecent
measures, induced a compliance with our reasonable demands but
they have, I believe, been wretchedly managed, and the opportunity
is, I fear, escaped forever; I believe they will disband. They will
be themselves the greatest sufferers!, for I am persuaded, after they
have mixed with the mass of the people, no manner of regard will
be paid to their claims, their services or their merits. Indeed, it pre
sents a very gloomy prospect to us all, but I have still some confi
dence in the honor and generosity of this Htate but bad examples
are very catching, and, God knows, we have many, even in our
House of Assembly, who are not possessed of the most liberal senti
ments. The mode you mention in your letter was, in a great meas
ure, pursued a committee came here from the army, and, after
hanging on Congress for a considerable time, and having obtained
as satisfactory an account of what was to be expected as could be
got, one of them was sent to the army to acquaint themwith it but
no good effect has been produced, and, indeed, for myself, I never
expected much, for I know the officers from that country look so
much to the civil line of life, and are so fond of either gaining
p ipularity among the citizens, or preserving what they have al
ready, that no measure that would put that to a risk had much
chance of going cordially down with them. A very little time now
will bring us to the ne plug ultra; yet still I flatter myself that, if
we can but be unanimous among ourselves, we shall get justice
done us by our own State. Our situation is, however, critical, and
requires both vigorous and prudent measures if we fail, wc shall
be the more wretched part of the community, with the constant
mortification before us of seeing every body else in ease and plenty
at our expense. I must bid you farewell, for the subject has made
me, as it always does whenever I think of it, very gloomy. Adieu.
P. H. —I had a letter from Fishbourn a few days ago, who says our
troops—what remained of them—were to march for the northward
the first of May 1
1The Pennsylvania troops ip South Carolina, under General Wayne.
Correspondence, Addresses, Etc 5S5
General St. Clair to General Irvine.
Philadelphia, June 2, 1783.
Dear Sir:—Dr. Rogers has beeu applying for leave that his
son, who is surgeon at Fort Pitt, might come to this place. His in
tention is to send him from hence to Europe, in order to finish his
education in the profession previous to his settling for life. I re
ferred him to you, as you were the proper judge whether his pres
ence could be dispensed with, and the only person that could dispense
with it at the same time, I informed him I had no doubt you
would comply with his request, for such a purpose especially, if it
could possibly be done.
The definitive treaty is not yet arrived nevertheless, the army is
about to be dissolved—not indeed actually disbanded, but what is
the same thing. All those engaged for the war are to be furloughed
until that time, and then discharged. What is to become of your
post I know no;, u«r, I believe, did Congress ever consider that
your command was composed entirely of men under the above
description. I presume, however, they will either be continued
until possession is taken of the posts upon the lakesor that they will
be relieved by some of those who stand engaged for three years, of
whom, I suppose, there will be near five thousand 1
I hope you have recovered your health, and heartily wish you the
continuance of it.
1The history of the services, sufferings and rewards of the veteran Penn
sylvania line will be completed by a statement that the disposition, sug
gested in the following letter, was finally made by the State in 1784:
President John Diceinson to General St. Clair.
Philadelphia, February 29, 1784.
Dear Sir:—The affair we lately conversed upon is likely to suffer for
"want of proper application. Gentlemen say they are not informed what
the sentiments of the officers of our line are.
There is to be a conference with a committee to-morrow. This may be of
some use; but I most earnestly wish that a short memorial on the subject
of paying the commutation and arrears, both which will amount, perhaps
to a million of dollars, according to the computations that have been com
municated to me, in lands.
We have it now in our power to do justice to the officers and soldiers, and
to provide comfortably for them and, happily for us, the same measure will
render essential service to the Slate, and demonstrate the truths of the old
saying that "Honesty is the be>t policy." If any mistake is made at this
time, it will be impossible to compensate for it by any future acts. I, there
fore, beg leave to call for your assistance, in order that this very important
business may be brought to a desirable conclusion.

General St. Clair to General Wayne.
Philadelphia, June 15th, 1783.
Sir;—I have written to you by this conveyance, informing you
that the troops under your command are to be landed at Wilming
ton and marched to Lancaster. I think it necessary to inform you
of the reasons that induced such directions to be given. It was
found to be next to impossible to keep together the men engaged for
the war, who composed much the greatest part of the main army
after the proclamation of an indefinite cessation of hostilities, at the
same time there was a great and striking indecorum in our disarm
ing entirely, until the articles of the provisional treaty were carried
into execution. This induced Congress to adopt the expedient of
allowing as many of them as chose to go home upon furlough, and
to be discharged upon the ratification of the definite treaty. The
whole, I believe, accepted the furlough, those excepted of the Penn
sylvania line in this State, so that the men engaged for a time other
than the duration of the war are all that now compose the army.
The entire derangement of our finances put it out of the power
of the public to make the provision they wished, and that ought to
have been made before a dissolution of the army took place, which
you will see this expedient of the furloughs really amounts to. But
the regiments at this place have refused to accept of furloughs, and
have shown a disposition that has justly given some alarm to the
citizens. Their numbers are too inconsiderable, it is certain, to be
formidable, yet, nevertheless, should they break out into any ex
cesses, they might do infinite mischief, and should the troops from
Carolina, who can not reasonably be expected to be in very gixid
temper, be joined to them, the same spirit would instantly run
through the whole, and the evil become more extensive. I am per
suaded you will think it necessary they should be kept separate, and
take such measures for those under your immediate command being
marched to the place assigned them, as will Ik; the most proper, both
to keep them in temper, and tend to the safety and quiet of the
citizens 1
1 The situation was thought to be so critical that General St. Clair, by
order of General Lincoln, Secretary of AVar, dispatched Captain Talbot to
the bay with orders to the pilots not to proceed up the Delaware beyoDd
"Wilmmgton, where the troops were to debark, and then march to Lancaster.
General Lmcoln had expressed the opinion Ihut great consideration should
be shown to the soldiers on account of the "peculiar distress in which they
are involved."

MASOk Jackson1 to General St. Clair.
War Office, Thursday, June 19th, 1783.
2:30 o clock p. M.
My Dear General —The inclosed note was this moment delivered
to me by the messenger of Congress.
The pressing manner in which the President writes will not per
mit me to give you a detail of the circumstances which require your
presence.
The troops at Lancaster have mutinied, and are now on their
march to this city.
1 A. Jackson, Assistant Secretary of War.
2 The note was as follows:
"Thursday, 2 o cloce p. m.—The President of Congress1 presents his
compliments to the Assistant Secretary of War, and informs him that it is
ordeied by Congress that he do immediately send an express to Major-General
St. Clair, directing him to repair to this city without delay. The Assistant
Secretary will not communicate this measure to any person whatever.
1 Ellas Boudmot was President of Congress.
On the fourteenth of June, the Secretary of War had instructed General St. Clair
as follows Sheuld any of the men now at Lancaster decline receiving their furlomins,
you will please to form them in complete corps and cause them to be
marched to the barracks in Carlisle. The requisite orders were sent to Colonel
Hampton, whe was in command there. The soldiers whe were recent recruits de
manded an immediate settlement, and, upon this being refused (there was nobody
with autherity to make such settlement), marched in force for Philadelphia, with
the view of compelling compliance from Congress. Arrived at Philadelphia, they
were joined by some of the soldiers stationed there, and three hundred strong
marched to the State-House, where both Congress and the Council of Pennsylvania
were sitting, which they surrounded. They then demanded, in writing, of Council,
that power be granted them to cheose officers to lead them, and autherity to take
such measures as they theught proper to redress their grievances, and gave Council
twenty minutes to consider of it, or abide the consequences.
General St. Clair was sent by Congress with unlimited powers to try, in conjunc
tion with Council, to quiet them, and, if possible, to get them to return to their bar
racks. He at last prevailed on them to cheose a committee to confer with Council,
which was agreed to: but they could not agree among themselves upon the men;
and the contention was so warm that one of the sergeants marched off a part of the
men, and the rest followed witheut doing any damage, contrary to my expectation;
for 1 assure you it was a serious affair, for above one-half of them was drunk. They
kept us about three heurs, and we had no military force to suppress them.
Congress was so offended at the insult offered to the majesty and sovereignty of
the United States, thut they adjourned next day to Princeton, and have not returned
since. Whether they will return is not yet known, but they have ordered down two
or three regiments of Connecticut troops, which arc now on their way here. On the
Wednesday following, the soldiers laid down their arms and surrendered to their
officers, and made submission to us. They have taken furloughs, and are almost all
gone.—John Byers, Member of Council to General Irvine, July 1, 1788.

General St. Clair to General "Washington-.
Princeton, July 2, 1783.
Sir:—The unfortunate and disgraceful event that has lately hap
pened in Philadelphia must have occasioned your Excellency much
uneasiness, and you ought to have received an account of it from
me, but I was prevented from giving it by the very ill state of my
health, and the total uselessness of my right hand, from a violent
relapse into the gout, which, indeed, I have not been one day free
from since the second of March. It will be useless now to enter
into that detail, as you must have received it through Congress and
the War Office, but I am happy to be able to inform you that the
affair is over, and the troops returned to their obedience. From
what yet appears, a Captain Carberry, a deranged officer,
ami Lieutenant Sullivan, of Moylau s dragoons, were the principal
instigators of the mutiny they have absconded, and I believe did
get on board a vessel at Chester that was ready to sail for London.
There is reason to think that some other officers, and most of the
sergeants, certainly, were concerned in it. Three officers I left in
arrest, and ordered the sergeants who appeared to be ring-leaders
to be confined as soon as an examination, which the Chief-Justice
was directed to make in order to discover whether they had not
been prompted by some of the citizens, should be over. In these I
was happy to find I had anticipated the wishes of Congress, and
every thing in my power, either directly or in aid of General Howe,
to detect and bring to condign punishment the authors and abettors,
[am led to do so by every motive of duty and inclination. Your
Excellency will have seen in Oswald s piper, of Saturday Inst, a very
strange account of the matter, together with am I illiberal attack
upon Congress, and in which I am also placed in no very favorable
1 Party fooling was brought into this matter, and a wide difference between
Congress and the. Council of Pennsylvania was developed. The former
body appointed a committee, consisting of Alexander Hamilton, Colonel
Pickering, and Mr. Ellsworth, to confer with the State authorities as to the
best mode fur rebuking the insult offered to the legislative bodies. The
committee advised calling out the Stato militia and disarming the mutineers
by force. This the council refused, and resorted to a temporizing policy.
Thereupon, Congress withdrew to Princeton, whence they sent for General
St. Clair to confer, and orders wero given to General Howe to put two regi
ments in readiness for inarching to Philadelphia. The matter was adjusted,
as indicated in St. Clair s letter to Washington. The officers condemned
wero afterwards pardoned by the Stato Legislature. For a statement of

point of view. I flatter myself that your Excellency knows me well
enough to believe that no improper concessions would easily be
drawn from me on any occasion. On this, no promise of any kind
was made the soldiery, but that their accounts should be settled, and
they put on the same footing as the rest of the army. They re
quested that they might be permitted to appoint a committee of
three or more officers, either now on actual service or that had
been, to confer with the executive of the State to this, with the
approbation of Congress and Council, I consented, and got them
sent to their quarters, and, indeed, without vanity, I believe it was
fortunate that I was able to come to town, as my presence had some
effect in restraining them from greater enormities.
The troops under the command of General Howe, I met yester
day near Trenton, and this day they were to proceed on their march
for Philadelphia. I gave him every necessary information, and, as
I shall return in a day or two, will give him every assistance; in the
meantime, if the Judge-Advocate can be spared from the army, I
could wish your Excellency to order him down, both because there
may be many officers to try upon a very delicate point, and that the
State may be somehow involved in the issue of the inquiry, it there
fore seems to me it would be best it should be conducted by the
proper officer, and with more attention to form than might happen
if it was done by an officer appointed for the occasion.
The charges I have exhibited against the officers arc suspicion
of being concerned with Captain Carberry and Lieutenant Sullivan,
who have absconded, in exciting the late mutiny among the troops,
or aiding and abetting the same and against Captain Chrystie, who
happened to be the eldest officer in the committee, and acted as
their chairman, behaving unlike an officer in refusing to communi
cate, as chairman of the committee, to me what proposals the troops
had made of returning to their duty, or whether they had made
any. This charge lies equally against the whole, but, in the first
instance, can be brought forward against him only. It would be too
tedious to give your Excellency the particulars on which this last
charge is founded, but the committee has promised that they will
make no representations on the part of the soldiery until they had
made proper submission to Congress and to the State for their be
havior on the 21st; and it was the refusal of that communication
which induced the committee of Congress to advise the adjournment
both parties to the controversy, the render is referred to the Work* of Alex
ander Hamilton, Vol. 1, pp. 374-393; and the Life of President Reed,
Tol. II.

of that body to this place indeed, all the information I got was ex
torted, which led both them and me to imagine that they, the com
mittee, at least and perhaps many more, were concerned.
Paul Jones to General St. Clatr.
On board the Washington Packet, Delaware Bay,
November 10, 1783.
Dear General :—After I had the honor to see you last at Philadel
phia, I had occasion to go to Princeton. General Washington did
me the honor to read the papers I showed to him, and his Excel
lency told me, on returning them, that he must confess he could not
see upon what principle ofjustice Congress had acted respecting my
rank."
I have, however, said nothing to that great body on the subject
The object for which I am now here on my way to France is to so
licit justice to the officers and men I had the honor to command in
Europe. When I have obtained proper satisfaction for them, I in
tend to return to America. The Chevalier de la Luzerne and Baron
Steuben have proposed to obtain a vote of the Society of Cincionatus
for my admission at the first general meeting.
If I am elected a permanent member of the society, my friend
and attorney, John Boss, Esq., will pay seventy-five dollars, the
month s pay of a colonel, which I have by virtue of my election to
command the America. I shall place dependence for my admission
on your interposition.
AFTER THE WAR—PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC AF
FAIRS DURING THE LAST COLONIAL DAYS.
The Society of the Cincinnati.
Camp on the Hudson River, J. June, 1783,
Sir:—The plan for the formation and institution of the Society
of the Cincinnati 1 I hope you have received, as, by a resolution of
1 After the close of active hostilities, and wliilo negotiations for peace were
pending, Sir Guy Carleton held the city of New York for the British, while
the headquarters of the American army were at JCewburg, on the Hudson.
No longer engrossed with thoughts of duties in the field, t he iO<ficex8 turned
their attention to some method for perpetuating the memories of the eight
years' struggle for Independence. They decided on a Society, and on the

the convention, Major-General Heath was desired to forward and to
request your approbation of it. I have now the honor to inclose
the proceedings of the convention since that time, by which you
JOth May, 1783, they converted the name of the Roman dictator into a Latin
plural— Cincinnati—and adopted it. The Institution of the Order was
drawn up by a committee consisting of Generals Knon, Hand and Hunt
ington, and Captain Shaw, of General Knox s staff, who acted as secretary.
On the 13th May, the representatives of the army met at the quarters of
Baron de Steuben (who presided on the occasion), and formally accepted and
approved the Institution.
"The fundamental articles upon which it was based are these: An in
cessant attention to preserve inviolate those exalted rights and liberties of
human nature for which they hud fought and bled, and without which the
high rank of a rational being is a curse instead of blessing.
"An unalterable determination to promote and cherish between the re
spective States, that union and National honor so essentially necessary to
their happiness and the future dignity of the American Empire.
To render permanent the cordial affection subsisting nmon; the officers."
Besides this, the Society was to be eleemosynary—each officer contrib
uting one month s pay towards the creation of a fund for the support of in
digent widows and orphans. '•Another and most important object was to confer appropriate henors
upon their noble allies, the officers of the French army and navy, who had
so materially assisted them in the late struggle." —Alexander Johnston s Con
tribution to the Hist. Soc. of Pennsylvania.
To Major l-'Enfa nt, of the French engineers, was intrusted the task of
providing a decoration. It consists of a bald eagle of enameled gold, bear
ing upon its breast a medallion charged as follows: On the obverse, the prin
cipal figure is Cincinnatus; three senators present him with a sword and
other military ensigns; he is reclining upon his plow, and at his side are
minor implements of husbandry. On the reverse, the sun rises over a city
with open gates, vessels are seen entering the p rt, and in the midst Fame
crowns Cincinnati with a wreath, inscribed 'Viriutit premium.' Below, hands
joined support a heart, with the motto, Esto perpetun.' The whole is pendant
to a blue ribbon, edged with white, descriptive of the union between France
and America. Around the principal charge is the legend, 'Omnia relinquit
servare rrmpublicain."
Major-General Arthur St. Clair was elected President of the Society for
the State of Pennsylvania. In December, he received the following notice
of the first general meeting of the Society
Mount Vernon, Dee. 28, 1783.
Sir:—After [a long delay caused by] various circumstances, and mature
consideration, it is deemed proper to appoint [the city of] Philadelphia to
bo the place for the general meeting of the Society of the Cincinnati on the
first Monday in May next, agreeably to the original Institution.
The object of this letter is to communicate the determination of the day
and place of meeting thereof, that proper notice may be given to the delor

will see that the members of the Society, who were present at the
last meeting, have made a choice of officers to fill the different de
partments, until the general meeting in May next.
This step, dictated by necessity, I hope will be agreeable to you,
and that you will give your assistance in perfecting this infant
institution, which is founded on principles the most meritorious and
honorable 1 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, sir,
your most obedient humble servant, Steuben, Major-General.
To Hon. Arthur St. Clair, Major-Gcncral.
General Washington to General St. Clair.
Mount Vernon, 31 August, 1785.
Dear Sir:—Your favor of the 21st ultimo, inclosing a letter
written in behalf of the Society of the Cincinnati in the State of
gates [chesen from the various State organizations] of the Cincinnati So
ciety, whese attendance will be required at the time and place mentioned.
Having made this communication. I have only to suggest that it may per
haps be preferable to give the necessary notice to your delegates by letter
rather than by [printed or other form] of notification; [as it is the] wish
that there may be adopted means to prevent a failure of communication.
I havo the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant, G. Washington. P. S. —Please to acknowledge the receipt of this letter.
To Major-General St. Clair, President of the State Society in Pennsylvania.
The first general meeting was held at the State House, Philadelphia, 4th
May, 1784. Saturday, May 15,'the following officers of the National So
ciety were elected: President, General Washington; Vice-President, MajorGenernl
Gates; Secretary, Major-General Knon.
General Washington was continued as President as long as he lived. The
statement met with in the American histories that Washington looked with
disfavor on the Society, or that the original Institution was ever changed so
as to abolish the clause providing for hereditary succession, are erroneous.
Alexander Johnston, in looking over the records and papers of the So
ciety, found autographs of the following distinguished personages:
Washington, St. Clair, liochambeau,
Lafayette, Lincoln, Luzerne,
Hamilton, Putnam, d Estaing,
Knon, Paul Jones, de la Grasse,
Gates, Pinckney, Destouches^
Greene, Moultrie, Gouvion,
Steuben, Wayne, du Plessis,
Lee, Mifflin, de Noailles,
De Segur, the Prince of Conde', Louis XVI.

Pennsylvania, on the 9th of July in the preceding year, came to
this place in my absence on a tour up the river Potomac.
I am perfectly convinced that, if the institution of this Society
had not been parted with, ere this we should have had the country
in an uproar, and a line of separation drawn between this Society
and their fellow-citizens. The alterations which took place at the
last general meeting have quieted the clamors which in many of
the States were rising to a great height but I have not heard yet
of the incorporation of any Society by the State to which it belongs,
which is an evidence, in my mind, that the jealousies of the people
are rather asleep than removed on this occasion.
I am always made happy when I hear that any of my fellowlaborers
have received appointments, that may in some measure
compensate them for their past services and losses in the late revo
lution. I feel it in two respects first, as it benefits the individual
and next, as it is a testimony of public gratitude. Be assured, then,
my dear sir, that your appointment to the office which you now
hold gave me much pleasure, as I am told the emoluments of it are
handsome. My best wishes will ever attend you.
Suggestions for a Plan of Government 1
The Committee of the Council of Censors, to whom it was re
ferred to report those articles of the Constitution which are de The
Constitution of Pennsylvania formed in 1776, provided that, In
order that the freedom of this commonwealth may be preserved inviolate
forever, there shall be chosen, by ballot, by the freemen in each city and
county respectively, on the second Tuesday in October, in the year 1783,
and on the second Tuesday in October in evory seventh year thereafter, two
persons in each city and county of this State, to be called the Council of
Censors, who shall meet together on the second Monday of November next
ensuing their election the majority of whom shall be a quorum, in every
case, except as to calling a convention, in which two-thirds of the whole
number shall agree, and whose duty it shall be to inquire whether the Con
stitution has been preserved inviolate in every part, and whether the legis
lative and executive branches of Government have performed their duty as
guardians of the people, or assumed to themselves or exercised other or
greater powers than they are entitled to by the Constitution; they arc also
to inquire whether the public taxes have been justly laid and collected, etc.,
etc. These powers they shall continue to have for one year from
the day of their election, and no longer. The said Council of Censors shall
also have power to call a convention, to meet within two years after their
meeting, if there appear to them an absolute necessity of amending any arti

fective and suggest alterations and amendments, reported January
19 1784:
That, by the Constitution of the State of Pennsylvania, the su
preme legislative power is vested in one House of Representatives,
chosen by all those who pay public taxes. Your committee humbly
conceive the said Constitution to be, in this respect, materially de
fective
1. Because, if it should happen that a prevailing faction in that
one house was desirous of enacting unjust and tyrannical laws, there
is no check upon their proceedings.
2. Because an uncontrolled power of legislation will always ena
ble the body possessing it to usurp both the judicial and the execu
tive authority, in which case no remedy would remain to the people
but by a revolution.
That, by the said Constitution the supreme executive power is dele
gated to a council 2 Your committee conceive the said Constitution
to be in this respect materially defective:
cle of the Constitution which may be defective, explnining such as may be
thought not clearly expressed, and of adding such as are necessary for the
preservation of the rights and happiness of the people; but the articles to be
amended, and the amendments proposed, and such articles as are proposed
to be added or abolished, shall be promulgated at least six months before the
day appointed for the election of such convention, for the previous consid
eration of the people, that they may have an opportunity of instructing their
delegates on the subject."
To this Council of Censors Arthur St. Clair was elected in October, 1783,
from the county of Philadelphia. He was made a member of the commit
tee appointed "to report those articles of the Constitution which aro mate
rially defective, and absolutely require alteration and amendment." The
members chosen were: Samuel Miles, Themas Fitzsimmons, Arthur St.
Clair, Themas Hartley and John Arndt. The report was drafted princi
pally by General St. Clair, and the essential parts, which have been found in
his handwriting, have been included in this work for the purpose of exhib
itmg his views of the principles of constitutional government. Although tinreport
was sustained by a majority, it lacked the requisite two-thirds, and
a new convention was not called at that time.
2 An executive council is a monster. It may do great harm, and never
can do any good—it will ever want that energy and promptness that are
essential to an executive body, for it is not executive but deliberative. It
destroys all responsibility, and is a very useless expense. If the President
has abilities, the council are but the solemn witnesses of his acts; if he is
ambitious at the same time, they will be found to be his useful instruments;
if he is cruel or revengeful, at once his ready tools and a defense behind
which ho at any timo can shelter himself; if rapacious, they will share with
him in the plunder of their country, I wish, for the honor of human no1. Because the constant sitting of a council is expensive and bur
densome.
2. Because a numerous body of men, though possessed of wis
dom necessary for deliberation, will never possess the decision nec
essary for action on sudden emergencies.
3. Because, where a Council act either weakly or wickedly, there
is no individual so accountable to the public as every man ought to
be in such cases.
4. Because a single man would never be able of himself to do
such acts as he may persuade a majority of his Council to concur in
and support by their numbers.
5. Because, the election of the President being by joint ballot of
the Council and Assembly, if a prevailing faction should ever happen
in the assembly so as to lead a considerable majority, the President
thus chosen will have nothing to fear from the Legislature, and, by
influencing the Council, will possess exorbitant authority, without
being properly accountable for the exercise of it.
That by the said Constitution the judges of the Supreme Court
are to be commissioned for seven years only, and are removable (for
misbehavior) at any time, by the General Assembly. Your com
mittee conceive the said Constitution to be, in this respect mate
rially defective
1. Not only because the lives and property of the citizens must,
in a great degree depend upon the judges, but the liberties of the
State are evidently connected with their independence.
2. Because, if the Assembly should pass an unconstitutional law,
and the judges have virtue enough to refuse to obey it, the same
Assembly could instantly remove them.
3. Because, at the close of seven years the seats of the judges
must depend on the will of the Council wherefore, the judges will
naturally be under an undue bias, in favor of those upon whose will
their commissions are to depend.
That great care is taken by the said constitution to establish a ro
tation in sundry offices, which your committee humbly conceive to
be improvident
ture, no such combination could over be found; but wo know they have existed
together in other countries—they may exist together in this. All the
dangers of an inconvenient aristocracy are justly to be dreaded from such
a body as our present Council. The rotation of its members is no security.
Our Assembly will soon degenerate into an oligarchy, and the wretched
people be destroyed by it.—Note by Arthur St. Clair.

1. Because the hope of reappointment to office is amongst the
strongest incentives to the due execution of the trust it confers.
2. Because the State is thereby necessarily deprived of the serv
ice of useful men for a time, and compelled to make experiment of
others who may not prove equally wise and virtuous.
3. Because the check intended by such principle of rotation can
be of no good effect to repress inordinate ambition, unless it were
extended so as to preclude a man from holding any office whatever.
4. Because the privilege of the people in elections is so far in
fringed as they are thereby deprived of the right of choosing those
persons whom they would prefer.
[Having thus pointed out the defects of the Constitution, the
committee proceeded to elaborate the principles indicated by setting
up new articles more in the spirit of republican government. In
this I shall not follow the completed report, as submitted to the
Council of Censors, but such parts as I find among the St. Clair
Papers which were the originals of the report.]
To the end that the laws may be more maturely considered, and
the blessings of free and equal government extended and secured
to the good people of this State, the supreme legislative power shall
be vested in two separate and distinct bodies of men The one
to be called the Legislative Council or Senate the other to be
called the House of Assembly who shall meet once, at least, in
every year, for the dispatch of public business, and shall be styled
The General Assembly of Pennsylvania.
The Senate shall consist of members from each county in this
State, chosen annually from amongst the body of the freeholders at
the time and place directed by law for the election of members of
Assembly, and shall respectively be possessed of an unincumbered
estate of the value of pounds. All bills framed in the
House of Assembly shall be sent to them for their consideration,
and, if concurred in by a majority, they shall be sent back to the
Assembly, and shall become, when signed by the Speaker, the laws
of the land, but they shall have a negative upon every bill of what
kind soever, for the use of which they may assign their reasons to
the Assembly, or otherwise, at their pleasure, and no bill shall pass
into a law without their consent. The Legislative Council shall
have power to appoint a President, who shall have a casting voice
in all debates in that body, but no other vote and, in case of the
absence, death, or resignation of the Governor, he shall administer
the Government, and have and exercise, for the time being, all the
powers and privileges of the Governor.

The House of Assembly shall consist of persons most noted for
wisdom and virtue, to be chosen by the freemen of every city and
county therein respectively.
(The people of every county ought to be constitutionally at lib
erty to choose representatives from any part of the State. It is
confining the idea of representation too much, and the people have
the undoubted right to judge who will best serve them and the pub
lic at large, and to elect them whether they are residents of the re
spective county or not.)
The members of the House of Assembly shall be chosen annu
ally, by ballot, on the second. Tuesday of October, forever, and shall
meet on the fourth Monday of the same month.
All money bills shall originate in the House of Assembly only,
and may be altered, amended, or rejected by the Legislative Coun
cil. All other bills and ordinances may take rise in the House of
Assembly or Legislative Council, and may be altered, amended, or
rejected by either. They shall sit on their own adjournments, but
neither body shall have power to adjourn themselves for longer time
than two days, without mutual consent. They shall judge of the
elections and qualifications of their own members they may ex
pel a member, but not twice for the same cause they may admin
ister oaths on examination of witnesses, and have all other powers
necessary for a free and independent branch of the Legislature.
No reasons against a law ought to appear upon the minutes. If
the bill passes by a majority of one only, it is as binding and an
equal obedience is due to it as if it had passed with unanimous
consent. A dissent with reasons on the minutes can answer no end
but to foment party disputes, and weaken the force of the law, and
impede 'its execution. But the happiness of a State is so inti
mately combined with a vigorous execution of and prompt obedi
ence to the laws, that, where these are wanting, anarchy "must en
sue. If the laws are found imperfect or oppressive, they should be
amended or repealed. The privilege of entering the yeas and nays
is all that any member should desire, and is as much as is consistent
with order and good government.
There shall be a Governor, to whom shall be intrusted the execu
tion of the laws and the appointment of all officers, civil and mili
tary, the officers of both Houses of the Legislature excepted, who
shall be appointed by each House respectively. The Governor
shall be chosen annually by the freemen of the State, qualified as is
required to entitle persons to vote for members of the House of
Assembly, at the same time and place or places. He shall be, in r

virtue of his office, Commander-in-Chief of the forces of the State,
but shall not have power to march the militia beyond the bounda
ries of the State without the consent of the Legislature. He shall
have power to convene the General Assembly on extraordinary oc
casions, and to pardon, to mitigate punishment, or reprieve persons
convicted of crimes, other than those that may be convicted on im
peachment or of treason. It shall be his duty to lay before the
General Assembly, at every session, a statement of the condition
of public affairs, and call attention to such business as may re
quire legislative consideration. All bills shall be presented to him
for his approval but if he objects to the passing of such bill, he
shall return it, together with his objections, to the House in which
it originated.
The Judges of the Supreme Court, and of the Courts of Com
mon Pleas, shall be appointed by the Governor, and hold their
offices during good behavior 1 They shall be incapable of holding
any other office.
A court shall be appointed for the trial of impeachment, and shall
consist of members of the Assembly and Legislative Council, to be
chosen by ballot.
They should hold their offices during good behavior. Nothing is of more
importai co to the peoplo than the able and impartial administration of jus
tice; but that can not happen unless tlio judges are taken from the bar. To
acquire any eminence in the profession of the law, requires a long and la
borious preparation —after much toil and study the road to ease and import
ance opens by degrees, and an assiduous application to business seldom fails
to obtain thi m. Will any man whe is in that train quit it for the precarious
enjoyment of an offico which must determine in seven years—where, though
he may be re-elected, he has no certainty of it? Indeed, the only certainty
he can derive arises, not from a steady unbiased execution of the office, but
from an interested and variable attention to the fluctuations of parties and
party polities.—Note bxj Arthur St. Clair.
The following observation on juries, in connection with courts, has also
been found:
The trial by jury is an inestimable privilege, yet there is something very
absurd iii the construction of juries as they now stand. A man must either
bo starved or damned if ho happens not to be able to think as some others
do. Let the juries consist of twenty-five, and the verdict be given by a
majority, then no man can be convicted or acquitted, b t by the unanimous
voice of at least thirteen of his fellow-citizens.—Arthur St. Clair.
The report of the committee led to a prolonged debate, in which St. Clair
participated. Parts of several speeches are preserved, but they are argu
ments based on the above constitution al principles, and need not be repeated
here.

Arthur St. Clair to John Dickinson 1
Philadelphia, July lGtli, 1785.
Sir —Having heard that the agents for forfeited estates for the
County of Westmoreland are about to sell the buildings in Fort
Pitt as the property of Alexander Ross, an attainted traitor, per
mit me to inform you that no part of the buildings which were left
standing in that fort at its evacuation by the British ever were Mr.
Ross s property. A part of them belongs to me by grant from Gen
eral Gage, and part to other people, and some buildings have been
erected therein since it has been occupied by the United States.
The ruins, which consisted of the materials of a very good house,
that was pulled down the revetment of rampart and parapet—a
squarred log redoubt, and a number of pickets or palisades were
purchased by Mr. Ross and the late General Thompson, for, I think,
the sum of fifteen or eighteen pounds but, during the residence of
the one and the life of the other, no claim was set up to the build
ings that were on foot. The disposing of the houses by the agents
may embarrass the owners as well as the purchasers, and, for my
part, I am not inclined to sell mine at all. Should Council desire it,
I will wait upon them to give fuller information, and, in the mean
time, have to request that the sale may be ordered to be postponed 2
President St. Clair to James Monroe.
New York, Angust 20th, 1786.
Dear Sir:—I have been favored with your letter of yesterday,*
and thank you for the communications it contains, upon which I
will truly give you my sentiments. A treaty with Spain I consider
1President of the State of Pennsylvania.
2Which request was complied with. The facts are more fully stated in a
letter to John Penn.
2The letter of Mr. Monroe is missing, but his opinions as to the proposed
treaty with Spain were diametrically opposed to those expressed by St. Clair in
the above letter, and in that respect he represented not only Virginia, but lour
other Southern States. The other Virginia members, excepting Henry Lee,
held the same views. Briefly stated, the situation was this: Spain, in 1785,
appointed Don Diego Gardoqui, Entargardo de Kegorios, M representative of
that Court in this country. The rank was not high, but it was at a time
when the new Republic was grateful for any kind of recognition. John
Jay, Secretary of Congress for Foreign Affairs, was commissioned to ncgoti

as very important to America, at the same time it is certainly orn
ate with Gardoqui a commercial treaty. The original instructions were re
pealed by Congress, and new ones substituted, which required him to stipu
late the right of the United States to their territorial bounds, and the free
navigation of the Mississippi from its source to the Gulf. This latter stipu
lation proved an insurmountable barrier to the progress of the negotiation.
It was a point that Spain would not yield, and could not be enforced except
by war. After months spent in fruitless correspondence, Mr. Jay requested
that the instructions be modified, and recommended a compromise, by the
proposal of a treaty in which for an equivalent of commercial advantages ui
the United States, they, witheut renouncing the right to the navigation to
the Mississippi, should agree to forbear the exercise of that right for a term
of years, to which the duration of the treaty should be limited.
Upon this proposition a debate sprung up in Congress which brought to
the front the sharp differences that had been developed during the Revolu
tionary war between the Northern and Southern States. Mr. Rnfus King,
of Massachusetts, was especially active in supporting the proposed com
promise, and I find that St. Clair, on behalf of Pennsylvania, joined in the
debate with great zeal. Memoranda of a speech now before me, show that
in his remarks on the floor of Congress, lie went even further than he has in
the letter above to Mr. Monroe. He remarked that the fact that the United
States would be prevented, by force, from navigating the Mississippi, and
that it was not then necessary to them, were reasons why they should con
sent to forbear the navigation. It was certainly better policy to waive the
exercise of a right which they could not maintain and obtain something for
the waiver, than by pertinaciously insisting upon it, lose the advantage and
endanger the right of it. Whereas, if Spain should accept the waiver, the
right of the United States would be established for the future, when they
should be better able to maintain it.
What was proposed to Spain was a commercial treaty, not an alliance.
The importance to the United States, in the present urgency, for extending
business relations and restoring a sound financial basis, would be better un
derstood when it was known that she would take the American products, and
pay in the precious metals. He attributed the anxiety of Spain to form this
relation to America, to her desire to strike a blow at Britain by helping to
create a new maritime power. If the opportunity offered should be rejected,
then the United States would again be placed at the mercy of Great Britain.
Two months alter the date of St. Clair s letter to Mr. Monroe, Henry Leo
wrote to General Washington on the same subject. He stood alone in the
Virginia delegation in support of Mr. Jay, and he believed that his old com
mander held to the same opinions. In that letter he said: "The Eastern
States consider a commercial connection with Spain as the only remedy for
the distresses which oppress their citizens, most of which, they say, flow from
the decay of their commerce. Their delegates have consequently, zealously
pressed the formation of this connection, as the only effectual mode to revive
the trade of their country. In this opinion they have been joined by two
of the Middle States. On the other hand, Virginia has, with equal zeal, op
posed the connection, because the project involves expressly the disuse of the

duty to endeavor to obtain it upon the best terms possible, indeed,
if it was possible to give up nothing to procure it but I believe that
can not be done, for, it seems, as I have been informed, that Spain,
notwithstanding she is desirous of being in amity with us, has
directed her Minister to stipulate as the price of her friendship an
acknowledgment on our part of her right to navigate, exclusively,
the Mississippi River. The Minister of the United States is directed
to insist in their behalf on the right of navigating that river freely
with Spain. It is obvious that without one or the other party reced
ing in part, the business ia at an end. The question then is: Is the
friendship of Spain worth any concessions in resjiect to that river
I think it is. Mr. Jay suggests that forbearing to use for a limited
time the right we pretend to have to that navigation, which would
be a concession on our part, might enable him to proceed on the
business in which he can not advance one step under present cir
cumstances. In this view, I am clearly of opinion that the restric
tive clause of his instructions ought to be repealed, but as Mr.
Grayson s proposition is more favorable to theUnionthan the abso
lute forbearing to navigate for a given time, how short soever, I
think it ought to have a trial, and, therefore, I wish to make it an
instruction to Mr. Jay, but by no means an ultimatum.
As to taking the negotiations out of the hands of Mr. Jay and
committing it to our Minister in Europe, I can not thiifk it advisable.
navigation of the Mississippi for a given time, and eventually, they think,
will sacrifice our right to it. The delegation is under instructions from the
State on this subiect. They have acted in obedience to their instructions,
and, myself excepted, in conformity to their private sentiments, I confess
that I am by no means convinced of the justice or policy of our instructions,
and very much apprehend, unless they are repealed by the present Assembly,
the fatal effects of discord in council will be experienced by the United
States in a very high degree."
In his reply. General Washington said: "My sentiments with respect to
the navigation of the Mississippi are known to you. They are controverted
by only one consideration of weight, and that is, the operation which the
occlusion of it may have on the minds of the Western settlers, who will not
torrsider the subject in a relative point of view or on a comprehensive scale,
and may be influenced by the demagogues of the country to acts of extrav
agance and desperation, under the popular declamation that their interests
are sacrificed."
Washington s prediction was verified some years later, when he was Presi
dent and St. Clair was Governor of the North-western Territory, in the
commotion in the West on account of the exclusive jurisdiction of Spain
over the Mississippi. At this session, as only seven States voted for the com
promise proposed by Mr. Jay, when nine were requisite, the treaty failed.

So far from being acceptable to the court of Madrid, it strikes me
that it would be offensive, and if it would be at all necessary that
Mr. Gardoqui should be attended to, it would be impossible for the
investing of Mr. Jefferson, or any other person, with the character
of an Envoy Extraordinary, and sending him to Madrid, would
virtually sunersede Gardoqui. It appears to me we could not
possibly tak.; a more effectual step to defeat the measure, which, in
the light in which it presents itself to my mind, I think would be a
real misfortune to our country. Indeed, I do not think there is an
other commercial nation in the world but would feel gratified in hav
ing Spain come forward in the manner she has done to us nor one
that would not be pleased at seeing the opportunity slip through our
fingers. Consider, my dear sir, that Spain has, in some measure,
committed herself, without waiting until we should desire her friend
ship. She has offered it without requesting us to send to Madrid to
negotiate the terms and all nations consider it important to have
negotiations carried on under their own eyes, as it gives them a
larger influence in them, and the opportunity of improving every
circumstance that offers. She has sent her Minister to negotiate a
treaty here. It is evident the friendship of the United States is
valued highly, or a step so uncommon from so haughty a Court
would not have been taken. And what reason can we suggest for
desiring to put the negotiations in a train that other nations would
studiously avoid? I can sec no good ones, but I can see two that
will very readily present themselves to the Spanish Minister One,
that Mr. Gardoqui is not acceptable, and we will not do business
with him another, that delay is all we have in view until we can
feel the pulses of other Courts, and put ourselves in a situation to
assert by force that which we claim and they dispute.
The first certainly makes an enemy of Gardoqui, and all his in
terest with the Spanish Ministry, be it much or little, will be ex
erted unfavorably for America. The second, as certainly, determ
ined the Ministry and the nation against us.
That Mr. Jay may have been endeavoring to get his instructions
repealed I neither doubt nor wonder at, because I think they were
in the highest degree improper. It seems to me that if it had been
the design to give Mr. Gardoqui the ascendant in the negotiation,
to put it in his power to know the utmost latitude of Mr. Jay s
power while he could conceal his own, nothing could have been con
trived better to answer the purpose. But if Mr. Jay is deemed an
unfit person, or if he has not hitherto managed the business in a
manner satisfactory to Congress, take it out of his hands, and com

mit it to some other" person; but let the negotiations go on here.
Your communications with your Minister may be as frequent and
easy as you please, and if it should, at any time, be found necessary
to throw obstacles in the way of its progress, it can be done with
more ease than at Madrid.
I am an entire stranger to the circumstance you allude to relating
to Mr. Jay.
I shall always be happy to receive any communication you may
please to make. I have replied with the same freedom and with
the utmost candor, which, as I intended, I trust you will accept as a
testimony of the esteem and regard with which I am yours, etc.
President St. Clair to Governor Huntington 1
New York {without date), 1787 2
Sir:—The want of a due representation in Congress, so frequently
as it has happened, and for so great a length of time together, has
very greatly embarrassed the affairs of the Union, and given much
dissatisfaction to the States which generally keep their representations
up, as well as disgust to the members who attend from those States.
It has very often been complained of, and the States not represented
pressed to send their delegates forward too often, I am sorry to be
obliged to say, sir, with very little effect, although it must be obvi
ous that, independent of the great national concerns which thereby
often suffer an inconvenience, at least, if not a disgraceful delay, their
own particular interests run some risk from public measures being
adopted without the aid of their counsels.
What must the nations of the world think of us when they shall
be informed that we have appointed an assembly, and invested it
with the sole and exclusive power of peace and war and the man
agement of all national concerns, and, during the course of almost
a whole year, it has not been capable, except for a few days, for
want of a sufficient number of members, to attend to those mat
ters? Since the first Monday in November last to this time there
has been a representation of nine States only thirty days, and ten
•Samuel Huntington, Governor of Connecticut.
2 Either in the early part of June, or in August, 1787, as reference is made
to the Constitutional Convention, sitting in Philadelphia. St. Clair had
been chosen President of Congress at the beginning of the session, in Feb
ruary.

States only three days, and as the representation of most of the
States has consisted of only two persons, no great business could be
done without the unanimous consent of every individual member.
We are now, sir, reduced to six, although matters of the highest
importance are pressing for a decision, and can not be long delayed,
without compromising the dignity of the Government and exposing
the peace and safety of several of the States. Besides, sir, the
National Convention, which the people look up to for much good,
will soon rise, and it appears to be of great consequence that, when
their report comes under the consideration of Congress, it should be
a full Congress, and the important business which will be laid be
fore them meet with no unnecessary delay.
The secretary wrote, not long ago, to the unrepresented States,
but no effect has yet appeared to follow from it. I must, therefore,
again repeat the request, and in the most pressing terms, that your
Excellency would use every means in your power to hasten forward
the delegates of your State 1
General William Irvine to General Richard Butler.
New Yore, July 19, 1787.
Dear Sir —The President 2 and myself arrived here last Tuesday
morning, in time to take our seats the same day, and make up, at
the same time, nine States. The inclosed Ordinance 3 had passed
two days before. Who the officers of that government will be I
have not heard nor inquired.
I fear nine States will not be held up long, as some talk of going away soon whether they will be replaced soon is uncertain. l
The bargain or sale, as you will see by the inclosed sketch, is
1This letter affords h pertinent illustration of the weakness and inefficiency
of the old Confederation, when the States possessed the chief power, and
wero either indifferent to or neglected the appeals made by the Continental
authority for means to carry on the affairs of government. Similar letters
were addressed to the Governors of Georgia, Maryland, Khode Island,
and New Hampshire, which were unrepresented.
1 President St. Clair.
3 The Ordinance for government of North-west Territory.
4 It was difficult to keep a representation from the States under the Confederation.
See the urgent appeal of St. Clair to Governor Huntington,
ante

nearly completed for that fine tract of country 1 For my own part,
I have no objection to that mode of sale, because I think it most
advantageous for the United States, as it will sink the national debt
without any additional expense for surveying, etc., provided they
pay for all that is secured to them—and that they are confined a t
once to certain bounds—Congress at liberty to do what they please
with all the rest at any time. I confess to you I am opposed to a
pre-emption to any company or set of men, I think, on sound prin
ciples and I hope to prevent this passing with that tail, however
beneficial the body might be without. I have no idea, in making a
sale, to bribe a person to get him to take my commodity with another
article of equal or more value.
Your dispatches have been read and committed, and I suppose
will soon be taken up but in the meantime the Dominion, accord
ing to custom, are pressing partial measures for the purpose of defeuding
Cane-tucke," as they say. I wish for general arrange
ments at once. At present I can not properly say more. You
will soon hear what is doing.
General Gates to President St. Clair.
Traveler s Rest, Berkeley County, Virginia,
Augiai31, 1787.
Sir :—I had the honor to receive your Excellency s letter of the
9th inst., with the elegant medal in gold, which the most honor
able the Congress, in their names, and in behalf of the inhabitants
of the thirteen United States, were pleased to direct the Board of
Warto have struck and presented to me. Nothing could add to this
distinguished mark of the favor and approbation of Congress but
my receiving it in so polite a manner from the hands of your Excel
lency from you, sir, whom, in the course of thirty years, I have so
often had the honor to accompany on a vast variety of military service.
Permit me, likewise, to declare the satisfaction I feel in seeing your
Excellency s merits crowned by the high station you now fill with
such acknowledged ability.
That the prosperity, honor, and happiness of the United State:;
may last to the end of time, and that your Excellency may continue
to enjoy the best blessings fortune can bestow, is my constant, ardent
wish.
1 This refers to the negotiations between Dr. Cutler and Congress for a sale
of public lands in the Territory.

The United States ik Congress Assembled to Abthur St.
Clair, Esq.
We, reposing special trust and confidence in your integrity,
prudence, and ability, have constituted and appointed, and by
these presents do constitute and appoint you, the said Arthur St.
Clair, Governor in and over the territory of the United States of
America North-west of the river Ohio and Commander-in-Chief of
the militia therein to order, rule, and govern the same, conform
ably to the Ordinance of the 13th July, 1787, entitled "An Ordi
nance for the Government of the Territory of the United States
North-west of the river Ohio," which is hereto affixed and we do
hereby give and grant to you, the said Arthur St. Clair, all the
powers, authorities, and prerogatives assigned to the governor of the
said territory in and by the said Ordinance. And we do strictly en
join all persons to pay due obedience to this our commission. This
commission to take effect from the 1st day of February, 1788, and
to continue in force for the term of three years thereafter, unless
sooner revoked by Congress.
President Benjamin Franklin to Arthur St. Clatr and
other Delegates in Congress 1
In Council, Philadelphia, September 22, 1787.
Gentlemen:—Inclosed2 is a letter to General Clinton, which we
1This correspondence refers to conflicts growing out of the claims of citi
zens of Connecticut to lunds in the Wyoming country, in what is Luzerne
county. Grants of lands were originally obtained by citizens of Connecti
cut of the Indians, lying on the rivers Susquehanna and Delaware, within
the boundaries of Pennsylvania, and land companies formed bearing the
names of those rivers. Settlements and improvements were made, and theState
of Connecticut exercised jurisdiction over them for some years, and during
the Revolutionary War. A dispute arose between the two States as to juris
diction, and the matter finally came before Congress. The decision was in
favor of Pennsylvania. A large number of the citizens of Wyoming, the
chief of which were two men named John Franklin and John Jenkins, re
fused to recognize what was styled the Trenton decree, and during the years
1786 and 1787, a. condition of affairs bordering on anarchy prevailed in that
section. The Susquehanna Land Company prevailed on Colonel Ethan Allen,
of Vermont, to visit that country, and that eccentric officer, with John Frank
lin, attempted to organize the citizens in opposition to the government
of Pennsylvania, and declare that section an independent State. The
1 See note 1 next page.

send unsealed for your perusal, with the several papers of intelli
gence that accompany it. The Council have thought of sending a
few resolute men, authorized to apprehend and bring off Franklin
scheme failed and Allen returned homo. Franklm, however, continued his
violent opposition, and, at the head of a mob, seized Colonel Timothy Pick
ering, chairman of the board of commissioners appointed to hear and report
on the claims of the Connecticut settlers, carried him away, and subjected
him to insult. An armed force was finally sent by Doctor Benjamin Frank
lin. President of Pennsylvania, to seize Franklin and other disturbers of the
peace, as set forth in the correspondence above. The mob caught the spirit
of the Shay s rebellion of Massachusetts. John Franklin was apprehended
and imprisoned for a long time, which led to correspondence between the
executives of the States of Connecticut and Pennsylvania. All the difficul
ties were happily arranged with the aid of Congress—the latter setting
apart a bi dy of land on Lake Erie, west of New York, for the use of such
Connecticut settlers as chose to move thither and avail themselves of free
lands. •The letter to Governor Clinton, which was inclosed, was as follows In
Council, September 22, 1787.
"Sir:—Your Excellency will see by the papers and letters of intelligence,
which I have the honor of communicating to you, that thero are a number
of disorderly people collecting near the line that divides our two States, who
are impatient of regular government, and seize upon and presume to dispose
of lands contrary to and in defiance of the laws. It has appeared to mo by
other evidence, that their numbers are daily increasing by vagabonds from
all quarters, and that they expect reinforcements from Shay s late partisans,
and purpose defending their pioceedings by force of arms. Your Excel
lency will be sensible with us of the mischief such a body of banditti may
be capable of occasioning to both our States, if suffered to increase and es
tablish themselves in that country; the vicinity of the boundary line afford
ing them at present an imaginary security, since, if pursued by the authority
of one of the States, they can easily step over into the others. Your Excel
lency s readiness manifested on other occasions to aid the operations of gen
eral justice, even in neighboring governments, leaves no room to doubt of
your concurring with us in the measures that may be necessary to defeat the
projects of those people, some of whose leaders are said to be inhabitants of
your State; for the concerting such measures, the council of this govern
ment unanimously and earnestly request your Excellency would be pleased
to permit our delegates in Congress to have a conference with you.
"I have the honor to be, etc.,
"B. Franelin, President."
"In Council, September 26, 1787.
"Sir;—You are to take what number of militia you think necessary and
proceed with the greatest dispatch to Wilksbarre, in the county of Luzerne.
When thero, if you think it necessary, consult Colonel Pickering on the best
method you can take to apprehend John Franklin, John Jenkins, Zerah

and Jenkins but if they should be on the York side of the line,
it might be impracticable without the concurrence of that govern
ment. You will see that we have requested the Governor to have
a conference with you on the subject, in which, if it take place, we
desire you would not only discuss what may be proper for the se
curing the ringleaders of the sedition, but concert some general
measures for the two States to take, that it may be effectually and
totally suppressed, and that you would report to us the result of
your conference as soon as may be.
P. S. —You will see the propriety and necessity of keeping the
proceedings secret, as well as the names of the informers, and you
will return the inclosed papers.
Arthur St. Clair to Benjamin Franklin.
New Yore, September 28, 1787.
Sir :—In pursuance of your Excellency s letter in Council of the
22d instant, the delegates of the State had, yesterday, a conference
with Governor Clinton upon the subject of the intelligence con
tained in the papers inclosed to him.
Governor Clinton seems perfectly well disposed to concur in any
general measure that may tend to preserve the peace of the two
States; but he apprehends no danger from most of the persons
mentioned in those papers on the contrary, he seems to think they
are disposed to become peaceable and orderly citizens of the State
of New York, particularly Ar. Moodrey in whom he appeared
to have a confidence. As General Irvine and Mr. Bingham are
both going to Philadelphia, I beg leave to refer your Excellency to
them for more particular information.
As to Franklin and Jenkins, the delegates are of opinion that no
more proper method can be pursued than that suggested in your
Excellency s letter—of sending a few resolute men to take them off;
and should they be on the York side of the line, or take refuge
within that State, the apprehending them will give no offense to the
Government. On the contrary, the Governor is ready to concur
Beach, and John McKinstry. Should you take all or any of these men
prisoners, you are to bring them to Philadelphia. If you take Franklin at
Wilkesbarre, do not proceed any further, or run the risk of losing him by
endeavoring to apprehend the others. Council have the utmost reliance on
your secresy and your prudence in conducting this affair. If opposed by
force, you arc to use force and execute the warrant at all events.
B. Fbanelin, President. "To Colonel John Craig.

with the measure, and to that end has proposed that the warrant
that may be thought proper to issue against those men be sent here,
when he will get it hacked by the Chief Justice, and aecomjiany it,
so Imcked with his own warrant, under the privy seal, commanding
the inhabitants (for they have no magistrate) of that district to be
aiding and assisting in apprehending them. Should Council then
adopt the measure, if you will please to inclose the warrant to me,
no time shall he lost in presenting it to Governor Clinton, and re
turning in to your Excellency.
Paul Jones to President St. Clair.
New York, November 6, 1787.
Dear General:—Having in view the attainment of a contract in
France for supplying the marine with masts, building timber and
naval stores from this country, and having reason to hope that my
friends, Mr. Robert Morris and Colonel Wadsworth, will connect
themselves with me in the contract if I can obtain it, I accept, with
great pleasure and thaukfulness, your kind offer to write to General
Washington and endeavor to obtain from him a letter to the Marquis
de Lafayette in favor of my project. Such a letter would insure
the exertions of the Marquis, and might be particularly useful to
me if any opening should offer within the military line, or otherwise,
while I remain in Eurojie. It may be forwarded (under cover to
me) to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs here, who will send it to its
destination. Permit me to otter you my thanks for the many marks
I have received of your kind regard, and for the flattering honor
you do me by accepting my bust, which will be sent to you as soon
as I arrive in Paris. I should be happy to hear from you and I
pray you to he assured that no man has more respect for your
character, talents and greatness of mind than, dear General, your
most obedient and most humble servant.
