Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES 1st Jan, 1812 
Ha/r. Pa. 567 
Sir: 
My friend Thomas Randolph Esq. who fell in the late action [Tippecanoe] acted as Judge Advocate of a Gen. Court Martial which sat at this place last spring and from the suggestions of one of the officers he made out an account and drew upon you for $156 in favor of Messrs. [Peter] Jones and [Touissant] Dubois of this place. The Draft was protested but the account has since been settled by the Accountant and the sum of 78 Dollars allowed him which has been transmitted here by the Treasurer (since Randolph's death) in a treasury Draft payable to Mr. Randolph's order. It was his intention that Messrs. Jones and Dubois should receive whatever was allowed him (as they had actually advanced him the $150 upon his draft) and they received authority from him to take out of the office and open the letter which he expected to receive from the accountant and appropriate the money which it was expected to contain to their use. But as the Draft was payable to Mr. Randolph's order they can make no use of it. They have therefore applied to me as the nearest friend of Mr. Randolph who has for several years made a part of my family to devise some mode for their relief. I can think of none that is likely to answer the purpose but to request you to accept the Draft of Mr. R. to the amount of Seventy-eight Dollars and pay the money to the bank to which it has been assigned. For this purpose I have the Honor to enclose the Draft of Mr. Randolph on you and the Treasurers Draft for 78 Dollars. Mr. Randolph's affairs were so deranged and his property of so little value that it is not thought proper to administer upon it. His wife has been in a state of mental derangement for many months. His nearest friends have recommended to me to adopt the measure which I am now taking with regard to his claim on the War department. I have the Honor to be with Great Respect Your Humble Servant 
William Henry Harrison 
The Hon. William Eustis Esq. Sect, of War 
{I)  
_i 
Burton to Harrison 
i 
ViNCENNES Jan 5, 1812 
Har. Pa. 570-571 
Sir : 
By sentence of A [General] C. Martial in July 1810 Capt.[William C] Baen was suspended from ranks pay for one year, previous to which he was entitled to a Majority. His suspension in all probability prevented his being promoted the last session of Congress. This suspension of Capt. Baen suspended my promotion for the same time, as I should have succeeded to the Command of his Compy. Capt. Baen being unfortunate in the action of Nov. 4th 1811 [killed] leaves the vacancy to which he was entitled to be filled by a Capt of the 4th Regt and of course a Subaltern of the same Regt. will fill the vacancy caused by the promotion of the Capt.— This Sir denies me of rank, pay as Capt. from May or June 1810 to Sept. 1811 — not through my fait (I hope) but the misfortunes of Capt. Baen. I have thought proper to submit the above statement to your consideration and should consider it as an unfeigned [ ?]favor if you would have the goodness to represent the same (with your interest on the subject) to the proper department. I am with sentiments of esteem respectfully Sir your Humble Servt.0. G. Burton Lt. Uh Inft. Wm. H. Harrison Esq. Governor of Indiana Territory 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
Vincennes, 6th Jan. 1812 
Ha/r. Pa. 568-569 
Sm: 
The ardent desire which I feel to some [of] those brave men who fought under my command in the late action with the Indians may be the occasion of my giving you more trouble than I ought to do, But the motive which governs me will I am persuaded, with you, form a sufficient appology. From the enclosed letter of Lieut.[Oliver G.] Burton [see Jan. 5, above] of the 4th Regiment it appears that he is likely to suffer materially in his rank by the unfortunate fall of Captain Baen. If it were possible consistently with the rules which govern such cases to date Mr. Burton's commission as captain from the day that the majority became vacant to which Captain Baen would have succeeded it appears to me that it could not be considered an injustice toward any other person. Lieut. Burton is a sober steady industrious and Brave officer. Captain James Hunter^ who commands an uniformed Light Infantry Militia Company in the town of Louisville Kentucky wlshes to become a captain in one oT the Infantry Regmts which are about to be raised. Capt. H. entered as a private volunteer in the company which was raised by Col. Guiger for the late Campaign in the neighborhood of Louisville and acted after he joined the army as adjutant to the Mounted Riflemen. I am not very well acquainted with Capt. Hunter but I have no doubt of his making an good officer. He behaved extremely well in the action & was wounded in the arm. I Have the Honor to be with great Respect Sir Your Humble Sevt. William H. Harrison Hon. Sec. William Eustis Esq. Secy, of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES 7th Jan. 1812 
Har. Pa. 572-575 
Sir: 
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favour of the 11th ultimo. It gives me great pleasure to find that the galland conduct of the troops which, fought under my command in the action with the Indians is so justly appreciated by the Government. They are certainly deserving of all the praise which has been bestowed upon them. As I am fully convinced Sir that you take an interest in the fame of all the persons who served upon that occasion I must beg leave to call your attention to the enclosed declaration [Jan. 8, below] of a considerable majority of the officers of the 4th Regiment and to the separate certificates of several of them.[Dec. 21, 1811, above] By these it will be seen how far the late action de
1. James Hunter was born in Kentucky ; served as adjutant in Capt. Guiger's company at Tippecanoe; appointed captain in the 17th Infantry Mar.12, 1812; discharged honorably June 1, 1814. Congress voted him a medal Feb. 13, 1835, for gallantry at -the Siege of Fort Stephenson.._ Lossing, War of 1812, 502 serves the epithets of complete surprise "Horrible butcheiy". It will be seen also that notwithstanding the suddenness of the attack, the companies which were first fired on were in such a state of preparation that the officers were enabled almost to complete the fomiation of them before they sustained any injury and that it is a matter of gi'eat uncertainty whether the Indians derived the least advantage from their perfidy. With respect to the gi'ound upon which the troops were encamped altho it was favorable to the approach of the Indians from the quarter upon which the attack was commenced it united every other advantage excepting that of a sufficient space of firm gi'ound for Cavalry to act upon. This was only to be found upon the two flanks. In fact not a single impediment presented itself not a bush or a tree to be found for a very considerable distance. Covered indeed with long grass and too soft for cavalry to charge upon but sufficiently firm for any evolution of Infantry. This the Indians well knew and they withdrew from the front to the flanks as soon as day light began to shew itself. This company and Captain Bartons were the two which received the first fire of the enemy. My reason for troubling you ^\^th them is to show you the opinion they entertain of the man [Judge Henry Vanderburgh] "by whose unexampled imprudence their comrades were butchered."I must confess that I have ever believed until corrected by a late conversation with Captain Barton and Lt. Gooding that their company suffered much more severely before they were foimed than I now find they did and hence the observation in my official account of the action that several of the men had to contend with the enemy in the doors of their tents. I believe that a solatary instance of the kind only occurred and that in Guiger's Company. Captain Snelling arrived at this place from Fort Harrison some days ago and shortly after him some Wea chiefs bearing a speech from the Kickapoos and Winnebagos the same in substance with that which I had the honor to transmit by the last mail. The Captain says that he was informed confidentially by a Wea Indian that the Disposition of the Kickapoos and Winnebagos was by no means such as they wished us to believe. That many of them still retained their confidence in the Prophet who had assured them that his want of success in the late action was caused by and accident of an uncommon kind.^ That many of them believed that they would all die as soon as the Prophet was put to death. He further said that he had heard some of them declare that if their offer to make peace was not speedily accepted and themselves relieved from the miserable situation in which they were placed that they were determined to make the white people suffer also by attacking the frontiers. It is but just however to observe that the Kickapoo Orator warned the captain not to place entire confidence to every thing that the Miamis asserted whom they (the Kickapoos) believed to be their worst enemies. My own opinion however is that the repentance of the gi'eater part of them is not sincere and that they regret the want of success rather than the commission of the crime. I have the Honor to be Most Respectfully Sir Your Humble Servant. William Henry Harrison The Hon. William Eustis Esq. Secty. of War 
[Endorsed] Vincennes 7th Jan 1812 Gov. Harrison inclosing sundry statements from the officers relative to the battle of Tippecanoe, rec. Feb 6th 1812 
Reports by Officers 
Vincennes Jan 8, 1812 
Ha/r. Pa. 576-5S2 
The Battle of Tippecanoe having terminated a campaign which led us to victory and honor, it is with pain we behold aspersions in the public prints aiming to destroy the confidence of our country in our late commander in chief.[See Dec. 21, 1811, above] 
Governor Harrison having relinquished the command of the army lately employed against the Indians and probably as an officer left us forever the present statement cannot be attributed to sei'vile flattering but to true and honest expression of our real sentiments in favor of a General whose talentsmilitary science and patriotism entitle him to a high rank among the worthy of the Union and whom we consider injured by the gi*oss misrepresentation of the ignorant or designing who are alike inimical to the best of Goveniments and the best of men. We therefore deem it our duty to state as incontestible facts that the Commander in chief throughout the campaign and in the hour of Battle proved himself the soldier and the general ; that on the night of the battle by his order we slept on our arms, and rose on our posts, that notwithstanding the darkness of the night and the most consummate savage cunning of the enemy in eluding our sentries and rapidity in rushing through the Guards we were not found unprepared ; that few of them were able to enter our camp and those few doomed never to return; that in pursuance to his orders which were adapted to every emergency, the enemy were defeated with slaughter almost unparaleled among savages. Indeed one sentiment of confidence respect and affection toward the commander in chief pervaded the whole line of the army which any attempt to destroy we shall consider as an insult to our understandings and an injury to our feeling. Should our Countiy again require our services to oppose a civilized or savage foe we should march under command of Governor Harrison with the most perfect confidence of victory and fame. ISAC Cook Capt Ath Inft. JosiAH Snelling Cavt Uh U. S. R. Inft. R. C. Barton Capt. Uh Inft 
0. G. Burton, Lieut 4th Inf. N. F. Adams L. M Reg. Inft 
Charles Fuller Lieut.4 Reg. Inft 
A. Hawkins Lieut Uh Inft 
George Gooding 2d Lieut. Uh Inft. H. BURCHSTEAD Ensign 
JosiAH D. Foster Sergt. U In 
HosEA Blood Acting Asst Sergt of Uh Regt. Adams' Statement ^^I 
Har. Pa. 577, 579 
I certify on honor that on the evening on the 6th of Nover , ber that the field officers were assembled for orders and tl , the watch word was given as usual that it had been a standing order for the men to sleep on their arms with their accoutrements on, that though and attack was not expected proper precautions were used to prevent a surprise, that at the commencement of the attack I attended Governor Harrison to the left of the rear line where the firing was heaviest, that Capt. Barton's Company had formed under the fire of enemy and Brown's Wentworth's and Cook's companies were formed that the Governor ordered Cooks and Wentworths company to form a line across the Camp and when formed ordered to march up to support Capt. Burton where they silenced the fire of the enemy, that the companies of the Front and Right flanks had time to fomi before the attack and those of the left flank though more suddenly attacked completely checked the progress of the enemy. That as Adjutant of the army I attended the Commander in Chief during the engagement except when carrying his orders or seeing them executed which gave me and opportunity of seeing every part of Camp and knowing the state thereof. Nath F. Adams Lt. Uh Regt. of Inft. Adj of the Army under Comm of Gove. Harrison 
Barton's Statement 
Fort Knox Jan. 8, 1812 
Har. Pa.57Gooding's Statement \ 
Fort Knox Jan. 8, 1812 
Har. Pa. 579 
I George Gooding Lt. of the 4th Reg and Commanding the late Capt. Welch's company, while in the action of the 7th of Nov. was attached to Capt. Barton's company do certify on honor that the above statement of Capt. Bartons contains sincerely my opinion of the situation of the company when the attack was made upon it. I also certify that I saw the first fire that was made by the Indians on Capt. Geigers Company (which was with ours) and that the fire was immediately returned by that company. Cook's Statement 
Fort Knox Jan 8th 1812 
Har. Pa. 579 
Honored Sir: 
Agreeably to your wish and a duty I owe to my commander and the rest of my brother officers I shall give you a correct and impartial statement of the position of the company under my command on the night of the 6th and morning of the 7th of November. The situation of my company being in the centre of the left ling and it happened to be the most advanced place in the line. At or near 4 o'clock in the morning I was alarmed by the discharge of a gun on which I immediately reported to my company where I found my men all paraded at their posts. The position of the men during the night together with myself while at rest was lying on our arms with all our clothes on — as for myself I lay with my boots a great coat and accoutrements buckled to me with my rifle in my arms. At the report of the gun I had no more to do than to throw off my blanket put my hat on and go to my company who were eight or ten steps from my tent, the time possibly might have been one or two minutes where I found every man as above mentioned. In this situation I remained a few minutes when I received orders from the Commander in Chie, or one of the Aids, I am not certain, to march my company u/) , to the right of the left line to reinforce which I immediatel. V obeyed. In this position I remained be the time more or lest.1^ until day light when I received the second order from the \ Commander to march my company to the extreme right to support that place which I immediately did and on my arrival I found it necessary to make a charge which was done with success immediately after the fire ceased, three cheers were given by the army and that closed the battle — then received orders to return to the tents. I have the Honor to be with Great Repsect 
Your Excellency's Most Humble Servant 
ISAC Cook Capt Uth Reg. In. His Excy Gov. Harrison 
Snelling's Statement 
ViNCENNES, Jan, 8th 1812 
Har. Pa. 5S0-5S1 
At the close of the late campaign such a general sentiment of respect and confidence in the Commander in Chief pervaded the whole army that I did not expect any measure would be necessary to support his reputation or vindicate his conduct, but since my arrival in Town I have been informed that persons actually by sinister motives have attempted like assassins who walk in the dark and stab unseen, to blast his character and destroy the confidence placed in him by Government and the people. As no defense on his part can avail against accusers who shun the light and who while they do the injury are studiously careful to conceal the quarter from whence it came it becomes the duty of every friend to Governor Harrison, to honor and justice, to come forward with such statement of facts within their knowledge as will tend to make the truth appear and silence the tongue of slander. On the night of the 6th of November preceding the late action, the company under my command slept on their arms with their cartridge boxes on in obedience to a general order I had received some nights before and which had not been countermanded. I was awakened by the firing of the first gun, seized my sword and ran to the door of my tent where I met the orderly sargeant of my company who asked me if the company should form in front or rear of the tents. The men were then in rear and recollecting that the light of the fires in front would expose them to the fire of the enemy and probably occasion some confusion, I directed them to form in rear and I 
4—22664 
i\  
counter march to the front. The whole time occupied in forming could not have exceeded four minutes and I had faced to the right for the purpose of marching them to their place in the line, when Gov. Harrison rode up and ordered me to cover the left flank of the encampment where the Riflemen of Major Robb had fallen back — Not perfectly knowing the position 1 requested him to show me the ground he accordingly rode with the company and pointed out to me the post I should occupy and it was not until formed in this position that we received the first fire of the enemy. In this situation I had an opportunity of hearing the order given Major Da vies to charge the enemy and saw the unfortunate effect of it, the fire growing warmer I called to Col. Boyd who was near and asked his permission to charge he authorised me to do it but seeing the Governor approach I repeated the question to him and received his orders before I moved the company and I am fully confident that every movement of my company during the action was made by his orders given in person. Unbiassed by hope of favor and perhaps acting in a manner by some thought not so favorable to my personal interest I thought free to make the above statement from a sense of duty and love of justice and I trust that while I retain a consciousness of having acted from such motives it will fully compensate me for any personal inconvenience I may sustain. J. Snelling Capt. Jfth U. S, Reg Inf. Larrabee's Statement 
Fort Knox, Jan 8th 1812 
Har. Pa.5Sl 
Sir: 
I have the honor to state agreeably to your Excellency's request the situation of the company under my command on the night of the 6th of November 1811 and at the commencement of the action on the morning of the 7th. At the commencement the Company were at rest in their lines with their clothes and accoutrements on their guns lying by their sides loaded and Baynets fixed and were by my order paraded in line of battle — ready to meet the enemy within forty seconds from the commencement of the action all of 
which was performed one or two minutes before a man of the company was wounded and am very 
respectfully your Excellency's Obt. Sevto 
C. Larrabee Lieut. M In ft Corns. Comp. Gov. Harrison 
I do hereby certify that the foregoing seven certificates were correctly copied by me from the Originals. H. Hurst 
Taylor on the Camp 
Feb. 22, 1817 
■ ' Dawson, Harrison, 208, 200 
The above account, taken from M'Affee's History of the War in the Western Country, as it relates to the situation of the camp occupied by the army under the command of Governor Harrison on the night between the 6th and 7th of November, 1811, is entirely correct. The spot for encampment was selected by colonel Clarke, (who acted as brigade-major to the general Boyd) and myself. We were directed by Governor Harrison to examine the country up and down the creek until we should find a suitable place for an encampment. In a short time we discovered the place on which the army encamped, and to which it was conducted by us. No intimation was given by the Indians of their wish that we should encamp there, nor could they possibly have known where the army would encamp until it took its position. The only error in the above extract is, in saying that major Clarke and myself were sent back, by which it would appear that the army retrograded to take up its encampment; this is not the fact; the army filed off in front of the town at right angles to the Wabash, to reach its encampment. It has ever been my belief that the position we occupied was the best that could be found any where near us, and I believe that ninetenths of the oflicers were of that opinion. We did not go on the Wabash 'above the towTi, but I am certain that there was no position |below it that was eligible for an encampment. I Waller Taylor Snelling on the Camp 
Washington February 28, 1817 
Dawson, Harrison, 209 
My situation as a platoon officer prevented my having a personal knowledge of the transactions above related, so liar as respects the selection of the encampment of the army under General Harrison by his staff officers: but having carefully perused the extract from M'Affee's history, I have no hesitation in saying that I believe it to be substantially correct ; and that, in my opinion, the ground on which the army encamped combined the advantages of wood, water, and a defensible position, in a greater degree than any other ground in that section of the country; the ground on the Wabash was wholly unfit, the highland being destitute of water, and the interval (or bottom land as it is called) being without wood, and incapable of being defended. J. Snelling Lieutenant-Colonel 8th Infantry 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
Vincennes, 14th Jan. 1812 
Har. Pa. 583-5SU 
Having seen a letter from Mr. [John] Johnson the late Indian agent at Fort Wayne published in many of the Western papers^ in which he asserts that there were but 350 Indians in the late action and finding that it had occasioned great irritation amonst the Troops who served on the campaign I hav3 thought proper to procure the deposition of Mr. [John Baptiste] LaPlante to show the number of Indians that were with the Prophet late in the month of August when La Plante left the town. It is agreed by every one that the whole of Wincmac's party of the Potawatomies fought against us and it is also equally well known that he received a considerable reinforcement of Kickapoos and Potawatiomies from the Illinois river a very few days before the action. The 450 which he had with him agreeably to the Delaware account some tim( 
1. In an Extra of the Liberty Hall, printed at Cincinnati Jan. 3, 1812, is a upoii by an exprcis from Fort Wayne containinR rumois from Tippecanoe. Also i(i th( l)hio Sentinel of Pi(iua, but most of the news came from the Louisville, Frankfort nn(i LcxinKton papers. 
before the action were those whom they saw in the principal Town where the Prophet lived and did not include those which were hunting (and Mr. LaPlante says that there were always fifty out) nor those which must have been left in the other Villages dependent upon the Prophet. Of these there are three and one of them fifteen miles distant. Laplante had a much better opportunity of ascertaining the number than the Delaware chief as he had for many years resided there and there spent the greater part of the last summer. Indeed he did not leave the town more than four weeks before the Troops marched from this place. The Delawares on the contrary were but a very few days at the Prophets town and had never been there before at least not since the Prophet's establishment commenced. Capt [Josiah] Snelling had also taken much pains to ascertain from the Indians he has seen at Fort Harrison the amount of their force he examined four or five different persons and marked down the numbers of each tribe as given by each of those persons. Upon adding them as he found that the accounts varied from 560 to 702. Upon explaining this difference to the man who furnished him with the smaller number he observed that he had enumerated only the great warriors whereas the others had included some that were old and others that were two young to fight well. From the above circumstances it is impossible to believe that there were less than seven hundred Indians in the late action. Indeed the warmth of their fire and the length of their line, indicated a greater number. What could have induced Mr. Johnson to publish an account so false it is difficult to determine. He seemed indeed to have been governed by a most singular infatuation in giving credit to everything that was said to him by the Indians. But the most extraordinary part of his conduct is that in sixteen days after action he was replenishing the powder horns and pouches of many of those Indians whom he knew to have been engaged in it. I sincerely believe however that his conduct proceeded from no bad motive or principle but from error of judgment./l have the honor to be With great respect Sir 
' Your Humble Servt. I William Henry Harrison 
Honble. William Eustis Secty. of War Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department, January 17th, 1812 
DawsoRj Harrison, 260 
Sir, 
Your Excellency's letter of the 24th December, with its enclosure has been received. Accounts have also been received from Mr, [John] Johnson and Mr. [William] Wells, which are contradictory in their nature, and not calculated to produce any useful result.^ In one thing they agree, namely, that the chiefs had been invited, or permitted, to meet you at Vincennes. As it is peculiarly desirable at the present crisis, that measures should be adopted to re-establish the relations of peace and friendship with the Indians, I am instructed by the President to communicate to you his intention to receive, at the seat of government, such of the chiefs, as, in your judgment, it may be expedient to send for that purpose: and that Tecumseh, with his brother the prophet, or either of them, may be among the number. The manner and the terms on which this is to be effected, must depend upon their situation, conduct, and disposition, of which, as it is impossible for the President, from the information before him, to form a satisfactory opinion, your Excellency will judge. It may be intimated to them, that the President is justly and highly offended; and that he has it in contemplation, to raise a large force in the spring of the year, to drive beyond the great waters, all those who have been or shall be found in arms; that in doing this the innocent may suffer as well as the guilty, as it may not be in the power of his officers to distinguish the one from the other ; that they will, in that case, have brought a gi-eat calamity upon themselves, which he is desirous they should avoid for their sakes, if it be possible; that he cherishes a sincere regard for his red children, and is willing to receive and to hear such of them as desire it, and are sincere in heart. The Winebagoes, Potawatamies, and those of the other tribes who joined, or have been connected with the prophet, mukt return to their respective tribes. The President will forgive them, provided they remain at home and are peaceable. I 
The President, being authorized by law to raise six corjpanies of rangers for the protection of the north-westein 


' '-.•',?,■ ^.-i^i 
frontier, will proceed to the appointment of the officers, who will be instructed to enlist their men, and to hold them ready for immediate service. One object in raising this force, is to admit of the removal of the 4th regiment to a scene of greater action, as soon as circumstances and the season will allow.^ 
Should there, at the time of receiving this letter, be sufficient cause in your judgment to require a variation or delay of the course herein proposed, you will be pleased to advise this department, and in the mean time, adopt such measures as the public interests may require. With sentiments of respect, sir, your Excellency's Ob't sv't. W. EUSTIS His Excellency Gov. W. H. Harrison, Vincennes 
Snelling to Harrison 
Fort Harrison January 18th 1812 
Har. Pa. 585, 586 
Sir: 
Peter the Indian who has for a long time been an inmate of this garrison returned yesterday from a hunting expedition he has for some time been engaged in with a party of the Miamis. He was accompanied by an Indian called Jem, and sometimes "Five" who reported that it was the determination of all the Indians to go to War with the United States, that they told him it was true the United States had a great many warriors, but when they were united they would also have many and that he might expect some hard fighting in the Spring. He also informed me that Stone Eater, (who promised when he left this place that he sould return and tell me how your Excellencie's message was received) told the Miamis 
1. This act was sipncd Jan. 2, 1812, providinp; for not to exceed seven companies 
of about 70 men each to patrol the frontier. Annals, 12 Cong. It, 2228, 231,5 
, Two companies were orsanized in Ohio, Jan. 17. On Feb. 11 a company was 
formed at Vincennes, Parmenius Beckcs, Capt., Walter Wilson, Ist Lieut., Thos. Scott, 
2d I. leut., John Batthis, ensiprn. May 5, 1812 Joseph Biown, 1st Lieut., and Samuel 
Little, 2d Lieut., were added to the Indiana rangers. Apr.12, 181.1, throe companies 
of .♦•anKcrs were provided for. In the First Williamson Dunn was Capt., Henry Bren
^ 1st Lieut., Henry Ristine, 2d Lieut., David Hillis, 3d Lieut., Green B. Fields, 
_ n. In the Second Pierre Andre, Capt., Hyacinth Lassolle, 1st Lieut., Homer Johnen' 
2d Lieut., John Hadden, 3d Lieut., David Grcprp:, ensign. In the Third, appointed 
.30, James BiKPrer was Capt., John Carr, Ist Lieut., James Curry, 2d Lieut., 
•^im P. Meredith, 3d Lieut., John Owen., Jr., ensiprn. May 20, Frederick Shoults 
appointed a captain, but of which company is not stated. These seem to be alif the Kickapoos and Winnebagos did not like it, he wculd neither return to Fort Harrison or Vincenncs and conchided his address to them in these words "My Brothers if the Kickapoos and Winnebagos will not accept of the terms offered them let us fight and die altogether."Wishing to obtain all the information I could on the subject I called in and examined Peter who corroberated the story told by the other, he said he believed their intentions were bad, but suspecting Kim of partiality to the Whites they were guarded in their con^'xrsation before him. He added that a Pottawattamie Indian called the White Pidgeon, had been with the Miamis witi a message from Fort Maiden the purport of which he could not discover, that he was now gone to the other tribes and was coming to this garrison in about thirty days, for the purpose as he expressed it "of looking at us," that many of them were preparing for a journey to Fort Maiden where they expected to receive rifles and ammunition and they declared it was their intention to commence hostilities in the Spring when the corn was about two feet high, which he expressed by holding his hand that distance from the ground.[See Feb 10 below] 
I must confess Sir I feel myself placed in the predicament either of being thought too credulous and ready to give an ear to every idle story or on the other hand of withholding information of the greatest importance to my country. I have however determined to communicate all the information I receive, wishing your Excellency to understand that I do not give implicit confidence to all the stories I hear, neither do I entirely discredit them. I have directed Peter to go out in pursuit of further intelligence and shall use all other means in my power to obtain correct information. Should I receive your Excellencie's commands to that effect I will secure the White Pidgeon or take such other measure as may defeat the object of his visit. In speaking of the Miamis I wish your Excellency to understand that those commonly called Eel river Indians are meant. I have the honor to be with the highest respect Your Excellencie Obt. Sevt. J. Snelling Ccqd J/th- biff. Com Ft. Harrison Tlis Excellency Wm. H. Harrison Governor of Indiana 
P. S. I wish in addition to infoi'm your Excellency that Pete/ dii-ectly charges youi- friend Mr. Mcintosh and Tom Jont« 
witli being engaged in a treasonable correspondence with the Bri Lish agent at Ft. Maiden. If I can obtain any information which may enable you to unmask the traitors it will be my ple4sure as well as duty to do it. Detachment Orders 
U. S. Detachment Main Quarters, ViNCENNES, January 21, 1812 Burton, Historical Collection, ISO 
I{n taking leave of this command which I am authorized to do [by the Honorable Secretary of War, permission of the 12t!ji ult., and to which my private concerns in New England compel me I cannot suppress the regret I feel in separating myself for a time from a Corps eminently distinguished for bravery in the field, for the proud honor of its officers and its pei-fected state of discipline./Whenever it appeared consonant with the principles of duty, it/iias ever been my aim to make accommodation a pleasing P\art in the regulation of my conduct and to give satisfaction t(L) those who I have had the honor of commanding while a faithful and independent discharge of my duties has been a Prominent and anxious wish. I cannot now take leave of the Regiment and rifle company whose happiness is indivisibly blended with my own without ri^mindin them in the strongest terms of the necessity of rigidly persevering in the cultivation of harmony the slightest relapse from which growing out of trifling differences between members of the same Corps, indulged, producing party rancour, and discord too often becomes epidemic and diseases tiie whole, let me recommend that . Esprit de Co7'ps which makes a whole body tenacious of its reputation and solicitous [to presei^e it unsullied from the Colonel down to the Private. j The command of the United States troops in this Territory 'devolves on Lieut. Col. James Miller of the 5th Regiment In(fantry who will be pleased on assuming the same to report to ^he War Department.■i The support and zealous cooperation of Lieut. Col. Miller 
-vhile Major in bringing the 4th Regiment to its present state of discipline has merited and commands applause and it would 
oe an omission of Justice not to place this testimony on r 
Detachment Order , 
ViNCENNES, January 24, 1812 
Burton, Historical Collcction\, ISl 
In obedience to Colonel [John P.] Boyd's order of the !23rd inst., Lt. Col. Miller assumes the command of the U. S. Trt)ops in the Indiana Territory, and directs the orders now in fprce to be strictly adhered to until further orders. j 
Signed James Miller, Lt. Col. 5th Regt. Infy. 
''Little Turtle to Harrison i 
Fort Wayne, 25th January, 1812. Dawson, Harrison, 258 
Governor Harrison : \ 
My friend — I have been requested by my nation to speak to you, and I obey their request with pleasure, because I believe their situation requires all the aid I can afford them. When your speech by Mr. [Touissant] Dubois was receiv^:d by the Miamies, they answered it, and I made known to you their opinion at that time. Your letter to William Wells of the 23d November last, has been explained to the Miamies, and Eel river tribes of Indians. My friend — Although neither of these tribes have had any thing to do with the late unfortunate affair which happened on the Wabash, still they all rejoice to hear you say that if those foolish Indians which were engaged in that action would return to their several homes and remain quiet, that they would be pardoned, and again received by the President as his children. We believe there is none of them that will be so foolish, as not to accept of this friendly offer; whilst, at the same time, I assure you, that nothing shall be wanting on my part, to prevail on them to accept it. i 
All the prophet's followers have left him, (with the exception of two camps of his own tribe) Tecumseh has just joined him with eight men only. No danger can be apprf^hended from them at present. Our eyes will be constantly kept ^them, and should they attempt to gather strength again, w^e will do all in our power to prevent it; and at the same time give you immediate information of their intentions. 
[e are sorry that that peace and friendship which has so longj existed between the red and white people, could not be presierved, without the loss of so many good men as fell on both sides, in the late action on the Wabash ; but we are satisfied hat it will be the means of making that peace which ought to e:dst between us, more respected, both by the red and the white people. We have been lately told, by different Indians from that quaJ-ter, that you wished the Indians from this country to visit you'; this they will do with pleasure when you give them information of it in writing. My friend — The clouds appear to be rising in a different quarter, which threatens to turn our light into darkness. To prevent this, it may require the united efforts of us all. We hope that none of us will be found to shrink from the storm that threatens to burst on our nations.
'■ ;: Your friend, - V-^ 
; ./' ,^ • V ^ MiSCHECQUOCQUAH, or LITTLE TURTLE 
' For the Miami and Eel river tribes of Indians 
Witness: '.,,..^:, ^.., 
;Wm Turner >?,..; 
i Surgeon's Mate, U. S. Army . "'■- • - ;.'/ 


certify that the above is a true translation., .: .. W. Wells 
Petition from Madison 
January 28, 1812 
•' Mss. Indiana State Library 
I To his Excellency william henoery harrison Governor of the Indiana teritory, the citizens of the town of Madeson humbly yhueth unto your Excellencey that theay haive Graite neede of a notht-^ Magustrate in this plaice for to Discharge the ordiIry bu ness of this town and a Greeable to owr request we lie unde, seigners Do recommend our Worthey friend Abrajjam T. fisk to your Excellencey to sarve us as a magustrate lif you Excellencey will Gratify your patitioners request in this purticular thcay will feall them selves in duty Bound to pray 
Patitioncrs Names this 28th Day of January 1812 
Charles Eastin 
David Vancleave 
Phil Eastin 
William Downey 
Abraham Smocke 
Jacob Smock Senr 
Jacob Smock Junr 
Jacob Yunt 
Tno Ryker 
Gevardus R. Robbins \ 
Jacob kelly | 
John Storm ^ 
Lewis Waggener ^ 
Leonard Barnes 
Samuel Hensley 
benjanen Devason 
Robert Marchus [date written on outside, Feb.23.]Harrison to Secretary of War 


( 
ViNCENNES 29th Jan. I8I2 
Har. Pa. 587, S\S8 
Sir: ( 
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favoui-s of the 25th and 26th Ult. with their enclosures. The Honorable mention which the President has beei pleased to make of my own, and the conduct of the Troops commanded in the late action amply consoles me for all the) falsehoods and calumnies of hireling and party writers. Mj^ warmest thanks are due to the President for the good opinioi of me which he has been pleased to express and to you Sir, fol the polite manner in which it has been communicated.[Dcj cembcr 18 and 19, 1811, above] 
The Presidents approbation of and his thanks for their goo'i conduct have been communicated to the several corps whiclk served upon the campaign in a general order. 
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a letter latolj^ received from Capt. Snelling.[Jan. 18, above] It is almost impossible to select the truth from tha mass of falshood and inconsistency with which information derived from Indians always abounds. I know the Peter mentioned by the Capt. and I do not think that implicit credit is due to what he says.— However he has always been on our side. The people whose horses were stolen last Spring, and in the spring of 1810 by the Potawatomies, and Kickapoos, who were attached to the Prophet are very clamorous for compensation. Permit me to recommend that $500 be stoped f^ut of the annuity of each of those Tribes to satisfy t^^Ode claims. I also beg leave to recommend that half of the Piankeshaws and as much of the Kickapoos annuity be confiscated by the Government in consequence of their having permitted their warriors to join the Prophet and make war upon us. Considerably more than half the Kickapoos were with him and nearly half of the Piankeshav:^. The Potawatimies, ought also to be made to suffer for tVieir conduct — but that tribe is so large that the annuity which they now receive is not sufficient for them. I am. with great respect Sir 
, Your Humble Servant. William Henry Harrison The Honorable Wm. Eustis Esq. Secretary of War 
I 
\ William Wells to Secretary of War 
i Fort Wayne, 10th February, 1812 
Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 805 
i At the request of the Little Turtle, I enclose you his speech to Governor Harrison, of the 25th ultimo.[See Jan. 25 Jiibove] 
I On the 12th ult. two British emissaries passed through this ilieighborhood, on their way to see the Prophet. On the 21st I 'mo. they called at my house, on their return to Maiden ; tl y were two Munsey Indians. It appears that their busi: -ss was to invite all the Indians to meet at Maiden very early i . the spring. What took place between them and the lr,rophet, I have not as yet learnt.[See Jan. 18 above] 
i The Pattawatamy chief, Marpack, has been in the neighborhood of Maiden since August last; he now is near the white  
settlement on the river Raisin, in Michigan territory, and visits Maiden every eight or ten days. He has about one liundred and twenty of the best warriors in this country with him, stationed in such a manner as to be unobserved by the whites; that is to say, eight or ten in one place, fifteen or twenty in another, and so on; but within such distance of each other, as to enable him to collect them all in twenty-four hours. I know this chief is hostile inclined towards the United States, and have no hesitation in saying, that he is kept at that place by the British agents at Maiden ; and in case the United States have war with that Powcr, this chief will attack our settlements immediattV, I believe many of the warriors that fought Governor Harrison, have, and are now about to join him.[Extract] William Wells 
Charles Mehl to Martin Mehl, Tippecanoe 
ViNCENNES Knox County Indiana Teritory Febuary the : 10 : 1812 
Mss. in State Library 
Dear Uncle I take this opertunity to inform you That My father Received your leter of the twenty Fourth of July : 1S09 and to let you know that We are all in good health and I hope these few Lines will find you and your famely in the same State of health and we are extremely sorry to Here of the death of our friends and Relations And to inform you of the time that my Uncle Charles Mehl left this place is almost Imposable to me at this time but I believe that [mutilated] time in March 1808 and the [mutilated] he was then in was nothing perticu — [mutilated] he had money when he left this place [mutilated] to bear his expense but he had not [mutilated] Journey until he got in a [mutilated] money was stolen fronrj him [mutilated] some men that ware going to Kentucky and met with an oppertunity of Working at his trade he was there some time and in what Situation he left that I Cannot info i you I now undertake to infoiTn you of the battle that \ " fought on the seventh of November 1811 Between the Whi riv people of this place and the Neighbouing indians, Consistir in of Shawaynoes Potawatamies Pyankcshasos Kickapoos an/* Winebagoes Which Was Commanded by the Shawaynoes Prophet And which bandity Consisting of from six to seven 
Hundred which had combined on the Wabash river And have been here too or thre different times to Take the town But on there aproach to this place The people knowing there intentions the militia Were Called together and stationed in the town Which prevented any hostilaties from taking place It being agreate injury to our Country the People resolved to disband them from that Place We Randavozed on the seventeenth of September last and marched the twenty third With about nine hundred men Commanded by Governor Harison preceded about sixty miles Up the wabash and built [mutilated] Purpose of leaving the sick & preceded ab [mutilated] thirty Miles farther & built a Block house [mutilated] the purpose of protecting our boats [mutilated] sick Then preceded to the proph [mutilated] of November past the [mutilated] A mile from the [mutilated] of Holding a conference the next morning but in vain the next morning at fourocloc to our Surprise the Indians began to play on our sentinals The Battle Comecid the Indians were in the Camps as soon as our men the guard on the Left flank not doing there duty the indian^ Were in the lines before the men were formed in A line of battle But nevertheless they sustained But little dammage before they were formed The fireing Continued for too houc's and fifteen Minutes without intermision During Which tinre we lost many of our dearest Friends and best Citezens the number of whites That fought in the battle did not excede seven Hundred and fifty the loss sustained was one Hundred and eighty eight kiled and wounded Of white people the loss of indians is said to be Upwards of too hundred the Indians defeated and Left the ground we did not pursue them until the Next morning we went to the town and found it Avacuated and we burnt there town and Returned Home without further interuption [mutilated] 
My best Respects to you and your famely and Relations 1 shall expect an answer as soon as time will permit and only add that I Am your ever well wisher 
Charles Mehl To Mr. Martin Mehl Snelling to Harrison 
Fort Harrison, February 17th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 591, 502 
Sir: 
On the afternoon of the day I last WTote you [See Jan. 18, above] Little Eyes accompanied by Laprousier came to the Garrison, returned me the enclosed package and said that the young man whom he sent the Second time met some Indians who told him it was not necessary to cany it, that there was to be a general peace and of course it would be of no sei*\'ice ; he therefore had brought it to me, that I might deliver it to your Excellency. They informed me that the Indians were about to assemble in the neighbourhood of Tiermans [Creek] from whence they would proceed to Vincennes. They staid in the Garrison that night and in the evening Laprousier told Mons. Broullette the Indians were well assured that the President disapproved of your Excellencies conduct towards them, and as soon as they have settled the terms of an and accomodation a deputation of two from each tribe, would start for Washington to seek redress of their great Father. In addition to this Peter who has been with the. n some time informs me he learned that when Laprousier, White Pidgeon, and some others were at Vincennes last Spring they had a Council at midnight in the house of Joseph Basidon where IMcIntosh and Thomas Jones attended, and an Indian called Piankeshaw Dick^ acted as Intei-preter. That the Wea Chiefs at the instigation of Mcintosh signed a Declaration setting forth that their lands had been taken from them without their consent, which declaration has been prewarded [ ?]to the Indiana delegate [Jennings] to be made use of as occasion required. Mcintosh told them he had been a great sufferer having lost Four Thousand dollars for speaking in their behalf and they promised to indemnify him should they recover their lands. Jones was also to be rewarded with a tract three miles square bounding on Raccoon Creek. They were to have a new 
1. Piankeshaw Dick or Pop-in-Dick was an Indian who had been reared by Thoraas Jones, the gunsmith for the Indians at Vincennes. John McGowan, a young man fiom Pennsylvania, also worked at the shop. Pop-in-Dick burned his foot on a piece of aot iron for which he blamed McGowan. Later, May 1812, he killed McGowan at his hoine at the ferry over White river at Hindostan. MsB. by Dr. Wm. McGowan, OaktoWTi 
Governor and this was to be (in Indiana) the Golden Age. I cannot but be diverted at these Indian stories and communicate them to your Excellency rather to be laughed at, than treated seriously. I have the honor to be with the Highest Respect Your Excellencies Obt. Servt.(Signed) J. Snelling His Ex. Wm. H. Harrison 
The packet mentioned in this letter was a dispatch for the agents at Fort Wayne which the Wea Chiefs promised to have carried to them. W. H. H. 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES, 19th February 1812 
- Ha/r. Pa. 590, 591 
Sm: 
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 17th Ultimo, [above] 
I have been in expectation of the arrival of some of the Kickapoo, Winebago and Miami Indians for some time past at this place. I apprehend that they have been stoped by the severity of the weather. When they do arrive I shall take measures for making a proper selection of Chiefs for the proposed visit to the Seat of Government. If they accept the invitation it will be conclusive evidence of their peacable disposition. I do not believe however, that either the Prophet or Tecumseh can be prevailed upon to go, not at any rate without our giving a hostage for their safety. Shall this be done?I could perhaps get M. Laplante to take upon himself that character. The information received from Governors Howard [Mo.]and Edwards [111.]does not indicate a peacable disposition amongst the Indians of that quarter. There is no certain mode of obliging them to remain quiet but by intimidating them. But it is vain to threaten them unless they see something of the danger. I think it is probable that the Prophet will wait until he hears 
6—22664 what success Tecumseh has met -with in raising the other Tribes before he will submit. It is my fixed opinion *ihat if the Regular Troops are withdrawn without being replaced by other troops the Indians will again commence Hostilities, unless we can prevail upon some of the Influential Chiefs to set out to Washington before the Troops move. I have the honor to be with gi'eat Respect Sir Your Humb. Sevt. Wm. Henry Harrison The Honble William Eustis Esq. Secy of War Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES February 26th, 1812 
Hot. Pa. 593, 59^ 
Sm: 
I have the honor to enclose you the copy of a letter received last week by express from Capt. Snelling [Feb 17, above], on the 25th Inst, another express arrived from him which brought the information of the arrival at his post of Eighty Indians, deputies from all the late hostile tribes [are] (the Shawanoes excepted) on their way to this place. They have not yet arrived being detained as I imagine by High Waters. I have sent up [Joseph] Barron the Interpreter to meet them on the Frontiers to learn the number of each particular tribe, to know of the Chiefs why they have brought so large a number of their warriors and to propose to them either to send back to Fort Harrison all but a few Chiefs from each tribe or that the whole of them should deliver up their arms. Prudence required that something of this kind should be done, particularly as I have received a hint from a young man of the Delaware tribe to be on my guard against them. The anecdote of the meeting mentioned in Capt. Snelling's letter is no doubt founded on fact. Finding that there was very little lead at Fort Knox and being desirous to have a quanity of fixed amuniuon prepared, I purchased about ten days ago 1,000 lbs. and drew on in favour of Messrs. Jones & Dubois for one Hundred Dollars 
the amount of the purchase. The lead has been dehvered to the (Quarter master of the 4th Regiment. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir your Humble Sevt. William Henry Harrison 
The Honble Wm. Eustis Secretary of War 
P. S. I have this moment received a dispatch from Gov. Edwards covering extracts of letters from Gov. Howard and from [Nicholas] Boilvin and [Maurice] Blondeau Indian Agents on the Mississippi all of whom appear to be appehensive that the Winnebagoes intend to attack our settlements. They have no doubt written to you on the subject. If the party which is now on its way from Fort Harrison have no treacherous intention the Winnebagoes will certainly make no trouble until their friends are there. W. H. H. 
Wells to Secretary of War 
Fort Wayne, 1st March 1812 
Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 806 
In my letter of the 10th ultimo, I informed you that the Indian chief Tecumseh, had arrived on the Wabash. I have now to state to you, that it appears that he has determined to raise all the Indians he can, immediately, with an intention, no doubt, to attack our frontiers. He has sent runners to raise the Indians on the Illinois, and the upper Mississippi; and I am told has gone himself, to hurry on the aid he was promised by the Cherokees and Creeks. The Prophet's orator, who is considered the third man in this hostile band, passed within twelve miles of this place, on the 23d ultimo, with eight Shawanese, eight Winnebagoes, and seven Kickapoos, in all twenty-four, on their way as they say to Sandusky; where they expected to receive a quantity of powder and lead, from their father. the British.[Extract] 
WILLLA. M Wells 

Jennings to 


Washington City 6th of March 1812 
Mss. in State Library 
Dr. Sir 
We have been so long in a state of uncertainty as it respects • Peace and War, that I have scarcely any thing new to give you. Measures preparatory to War still occupy the attention of Congress almost entirely, insomuch at least that the Territories appear to be almost forgotten — But I shall do every thing in my power and I hope something of advantage for the Territory before this Session rises. Only let our friends hang together and the day is ours. I have many assurances that we shall get rid of Harrison by some means or other, but keep this to yourself by all means, although I shall be very much deceived if you do not find it true, before nine months — on this subject you shall hear from me again after a little while — 
I enclose you a map of the Territory from which you will be 
able to discover the inginuity of H n to keep the seat of 
Government at Vincennes by making very small purchases of the Indians on the Eastern part of the Territory and very large purchases on the Western part — in order to get the great body of population on the Wabash River and its watersKeep [James] Dill out of the Legislature if possible — I am your friend unchangably 
Jonathan Jennings 
George Hunt to Harrison Wayiie County (I. T.) Near Salisbury March 17 1812 
Mss, in State Library 
Most Excellent Sir — Since I received your friendly and interesting letter dated 17 of December last I have wrote but as our letters are generally intercepted a repetition I hope you will excuse — I obeyed your Order Respecting the Second Major in the 8th Regt. James Brown was re-elected altho' it was with some persuasion that his name cou'd run He is a decent young Man I commissioned him immediately — We want a number of Commissions Still for the Regt. Observing the provision in the late act for a Colo — I ordered an Election — I send you enclosed the Certificate we want a Commission for 
John Smith and one for Absalom Harvey Ensign — A Captains Commission for John Ireland — In the course of the summer we shall probably want commissions for a Battallion on the west fork of White Water The above Named Oflicers His Excellency will please to Commission as they are Now in Service Majr Hanna will be a safe hand to bring them together with any Commands he may send me 
We have had some Stir here about the remonstrance handed in to Congress by my friend Jonathan [Jennings] against Govr. Harrison.^ some of the party have denied assigning it, therefore I have wrote on to my friends in Congress to send me a Certified Copy with all the names annexed intending to publish it as soon as it reaches me I assure you Sir, I want to know the enemies of my country, for God knows we have hard rubbing here but I hope the worst is over, the sons of 76 (or rather those in that Spirit) Still have the ascendency and I think our side is growing while I hope we may safely Compare the party of Honest Jonathan to the House of Saul — We here are waiting to know who will be our candidate for Congress in the Next election, we are looking toward Knox — Jennings is Very busy sending letters here but I see none of them but he has lately wrote that you were "anxious to have a command in the Army & if so you must resign your appointment as Govr."&c &c. &c. A number of things beneath my notice — & certainly — your — I will only observe that from the Treatment you have received since the Battle we shoulnot have been surprised if your Excellency had resided — But for Gods Sake leave us not if you can possibly Bear with us, we know Jonathans drift — I have no foreign News I am seriously afraid that our Government will not attend to the Widow and Orphan as well as the Officers & Soldiers under your Command, and if Neglected I certainly shall feel Cool myself — I Do not know whether jMajr.[Joseph] Hanna or Mr Neely will Bear this to you — But as Mr. Neely has been with us. You will please inquire of him for particulars — please to give My Compliments to Mrs Harrison, Judge [Benjamin] Park & family Capt T. Jones & Family — with the friends of the Territory While yourself Sir shall receive my warmest acknowledgements for j^our favours & c &c I am yours at Command 
George Hunt^ Govt. W. H. Harrison 
George Beck to Harrison 
Harrison County April 13th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 596 
Dear Sir: 
I conceive it my duty to inform you of a late murder committed on Driftwood on one Hinton supposed to be done by the Indians. Hinton went out to hunt his horses up Drift into the New purchase and stayed longer tham was expected the neighbours went to search for him and came on his trail and followed on to where they supposed he was killed, where they found a small piece of blue cloth and some pieces of rope they followed the trail on the bank of Driftwood where they threw him do\vn the Bank. Just in the edge of the water he was stripped and scalped. He was found on Saturday last they supposed there were four men by their trails, they took off four horses with them, two men followed the trail to Sandy where they parted. They followed on one of their trails near two miles where they fournd that two of them came together. They thought it not safe to follow any further — Also two yound men are missing since Sunday week they were 
2. George Hunt was a North Carolina Quaker. He came with his father and family to Wayne Co. in 1807. settling on Elkhorn and building a grist mill. In 1810 he was appointed Clerk of Franklin Co., and in 1814 Clerk of Wayne. He had early made the acquaintance of Jennings and his political methods. Young, History of Wayne Co., H9 
the sons of Rodgers. They went out to hunt horses without guns, and has not been heard of since. I am about to raise a few men to go out and see if I can find where they have gone. Capt John Beck^ is the bearer of this letter. I am with respect your friend 
& Humble Sei-vt. 
(Signed) George Beck^ [Endorsed] W. H. Harrison 
Copy of a letter from ^Major G. Beck to Gov. Harrison. Snelling to Harrison 
Fort Harrison, April 14th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 601, 602 
Sm, 
I have this moment arrived and I find the aspect of aifairs so serious that I deem it necessary to advise you of it by express. The Miamis have abandoned their camp and gone off after robbing the Settlers of every movable article they posessed. They have previously in several instances been very insolent and their going off leads to strong presumption that they were accessoiy to the murders on the other side. Capt.[PaiTnenius] Beckes requests me to inform you that in obedience to your orders he followed the path to the house of Hutson where he ascertained that the murders had been perpetrated as reported, that he should have gone farther out but found that Capt.[Toussaint] Dubois had preceded him and therefore took his course to this place through the river bottom. The aspect of affairs on this side is so alarming that Captain Beckes has thought it proper with the advice of the officers at this post to wait further orders from you before he proceeds on his rout homeward. Stone Eater has recently been here and reported that many of the Indians, the Pottawattomies in particular are disaffected but let the resultof their council be what it may he promised to give the earliest possible information. I pray you Excellency to pardon the stile of mwriting, the haste which is necessary renders it impossible to revise, correct and amend it. With the highest respect, I have the honor to be your Excelly's 
Most obt. Sevt.(Signed) J. Snelling, Capt. P. S. Monsieur [Michel] Broulett had been sent to the upper camp about five miles from this by Lieut.[John] Smith previous to my arrival, he has just retuiTied and reports that Laprousier and Negro Legs are there and profess total ignorance of the matter. It appears the party who committed the robberies on this side were headed by Little Eyes who went away four days since. Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES 14th April, 1812 
Ha/r. Pa. 597-599 
Sir: 
The persons for whom Commissions were forwarded as officers of the company of Rangers assigned to this territory were duly notified of their appointments.— Capt.[Parmenius] Beckes has accepted, but all the subalterns have declined.[Walter Wilson, Thomas Scott, John Batthis] I beg leave to recommend Joseph Brown as 1st Lieut and Samuel Little as Ensign. I have not yet selected a proper person to recommend for 2nd Lieut.[They were appointed May 5] 
From the general aspect of Indian affairs I thought it proper to direct Capt. Beckes to complete his company as soon as possible and to call the whole of them into service. The 30 assigned to this county are enlisted. The remaining 30 were directed to be recruited in another part of the Territory and will be up in a few days under Messrs. Little and Brown, who will serve as Sergants until their commissions can be sent on. It is with great regret that I inform you Sir that the hopes which I had entertained of our being able to avoid a war with the Indians are entirely dissipated.— The Prophet and his Brother were either altogether insincere in the professions which they made in February or they had been induced to adopt other politics in consequence of the probability of War between the United States and Great Britain. Messrs [John] 
Shaw and [William] Wells have I presume informed you of the Grounds which they have for believing that they are again organizing a force for hostile purposes and I have now to communicate a most distressing and unequivocal proof of the existence of this disposition. On Saturday evening last a Mrs. Hutsons family consisting of his wife four small children and a hired man residing in the Illinois Territoiy about 35 miles above this place, was most cruelly murdered. The house was set on fire with the bodies of the woman and children in it and the young man whose body was most shockingly mangled left in the yard. There were only three Indians in the party. A detacliment of Rangers are in pursuit of them but there is little probability of their being overtaken. I shall endeavour to asscertain the tribe to which these scoundrels belong but I have no hopes of their being delivered up. One of the most mischievious and successful of the Prophets schemes is that of destroying the influence of the Chiefs amongst the Pottowattimies and Kickapoos particularly. The young men are under no kind of control, each man does as he pleases, and we have in my opinion no alternative but War. The propriety of its being undertaken immediately and prosecuted with vigor is an opinion which pervades I believe the whole Western Country. In Kentucky and in this Territory I know that it does. The circumstance of some of the tribes being friendly and others not so will occasion great embarressment, 
I hope to receive instructions upon this subject and the course that is to be pursued as early as possible. I shall proceed to put the frontiers in the best possible state of defence but no defensive measures can possibly be effectual against Indians. I observe that the President is authorized^to call out any number of Militia but I suppose that ordinary Militia is meant. For such expeditions as an Indian War calls for (unless it is intended to take possession of any particular point or to occupy the county by a chain of posts) mounted men are absolutely necessary, of these I am authorized to say that as many as may be wanted could be procured in Kentucky and Tennessee in three weeks notice. I shall execute your wishes with regard to the removal of Wells as soon as possible. At present he is engaged in effecting a meeting of the Indians at Mississineway under the auspices of the Turtle and the Five Medals. As these two chiefs are particularly friendly to Wells and are certainly and unequivocally on our side it would I imagine be bad policy to remove him at this moment. I have the honor to be Sir With great respect you Most Obt. Servt. William Henry Harrison 
P. S. The captain of the Rangers or some other person there should be authorized to discharge men of that corps who are unfit for the service. It requires the best men and for the price that is given the best can be got. In spite of the vigilance of the officers some of a contrary description will be enlisted. Honble. Wm. Eustis Esq. Secretary of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES 15th April, 1812 
„ Ha/r. Pa. 603, 60^ 
olR, 
Last evening an Express arrived here with the letter of which the enclosed is a copy, [April 13 above] — the Driftwood Settlement [Vallonia] ^ mentioned in it, is upon the South East Branch of the white river about 75 miles nearly due East from this place; the object of the Hostile Indians in committing murders in that direction is beyond all doubt to implicate the Delawares. I am really much embarrassed to know what steps it would be proper to take, to preserve the neutrality of that tribe and the Miamis. The one which appears to me most practicable is to get them to occupy the whole country, from the main branch of White River to the Boundary established by the Grouseland Treaty and oblige them to undertake to prevent the hostile Indians from committing any depredations in that direction. Something like this must be done or they must be entirely withdrawn from their present position. I take the liberty to assure you, Sir, that there is not the least necessity for two companies of Rangers in the state of 
1. Vallonia was settled by Kentuckians and Burr refuKees in 1810. There were between 30 and 40 families in the settlement by 1812. For details of the Indian fighting on this frontier see Ind. Mag. of Hist. X, 256; Brownstown Banner Aug. 26, 1874; History of Jackson County, 316; and best, John Ketcham, Autobiography. Ketchara was one of the first settlers and writes from personal knowledge.[See end of 1812 below.]
Ohio, only a small point of their Frontier (in the neighborhood of Greenville) is approachable by the hostile Indians. No just apprehensions can be entertained of the Shawanoes on the Auglaize or the Wyandots of Sandusky — 
I have the honor to be with great respect .^^ ., ^ _ 
Sir, your humble Servant, ■'' "' ' <-y = > 
William Henry Harrison 
P. S. 9 o'clock. An express has this moment arrived from Fort Harrison w^ith the letter of which the enclosed is a copy.[April 14 above] There is no doubt but the Little Eyes therein mentioned was in the action and has long been in the interest of the prophet. His object is to force his tribe (the Miamis) to take a decided part on the same side. Honorable William Eustis, Esqr. Secretary of War 
Harrison General Orders Headquarters, Vincennes 16th April, 1812 
Ind. Mag. of History II, 185 
As the late murders upon the frontiers of this and the neighboring Territories leave us little to hope of our being able to avoid a war with the neighboring tribes of Indians, the commander-in-chief directs that the colonels and other commandants of corps should take immediate measures to put their commands in the best possible state for active service. The field officers who command battalions will visit and critically inspect the several companies which compose them and make a report in detail of their situation, particularly noting the deficiencies in arms, ammunition and accoutrements, and such measures as the laws authorize must be immediately taken to remedy those deficiencies. The commander-in-chief informs the officers that the most prompt obedience and the most unremitting attention to their duty will be required of them — the situation of the country calls for exertion on the part of the militia, and the officers must set the example to their men. If there are amongst them any who have accepted appointments for the mere motive of gratifying their vanity by the possession of a commission to which a title is annexed, without having the ability or the inclination to encounter arduous service, in justice to their country and to their own fame they should now retire and not stand in the way of those who are more able or more willing to encounter the fatigue and danger incident to actual service in the Indian war. From the specimen which the commander-in-chief has had of their conduct in the field he has every reason to be proud of them, nor does he believe that there are better militia officers to be found anywhere than those of Indiana, but in a crisis like the present they should be all good. The field officers are to see that proper places are appointed for the rendezvous of the companies upon an alarm or the appearance of danger, and will give orders relatively to the mode of their proceeding in such exigencies as the situation of the companies respectively call for. When mischief is done by the Indians in any of the settlements, they must be pursued, and^the officer nearest to the spot, if the number of men under his command is not inferior to the supposed number of the enemy, is to commence it as soon as he can collect his men. If his force should be too small he is to send for aid to the next officer to him, and in the meantime take a position capable of being defended, or watch the motions of the enemy, as circumstances require. The pursuit must be conducted with vigor, and the officer commanding will be held responsible for making every exertion in his power to overtake the enemy. Upon his return, whether successful or not, a particular account of his proceedings must be transmitted to the commander-in-chief and a copy of it to the colonel of the regiment. The commander-in-chief recommends it to the citizen on the frontiers of Knox county, from the Wabash eastwardly across the two branches of the White river, those on the northwest of the Wabash and those in the Driftwood settlement in Harrison, to erect blocked houses or picketed forts. It will depend upon the disposition of the Delawares whether measures of this kind will be necessary or not upon the frontiers of Clark, Jefferson, Dearborn, Franklin or Wayne. Means will be taken to ascertain this as soon as possible and the result communicated. The Indians who profess to be friendly have been warned to keep clear of the settlements, and the commanderin-chief is far from wishing that the citizens should run any risk by admitting any Indians to come amongst them whose designs are in the least equivocal. He recommends, however to those settlements which the Delawares have frequented as 
much forbearance as possible towards that tribe, because they have ever performed with punctuality and good faith their engagements with the United States, and as yet there is not the least reason to doubt their fidelity. It is also certain that if they should be forced to join the other tribes in war, from their intimate knowledge of the settlements upon the frontiers they would be enabled to do more mischief than any other tribe. By the commander-in-chief 
A. Hurst, Aid-de-camp 
Snelling to Harrison 
Fort Harrison, April 16, 1812 
Ha/r. Pa. 608, 610 
Sm, 
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellencies letter of yesterday. You must. Sir, have misunderstood me if you conceived I thought it necessaiy for Capt.[Parmenius] Beckes to stay at the post, my reason for advising his waiting your orders here was, I imagined from the alarming reports I heard on my arrival, that you might think it necessary to detach him in a different direction from his original destination, this opinion was afterwards confirmed by a report of Negro Legs who informed me that the night before he was continually disturbed by the barking of dogs round his camp and in the morning he discovered a large trail going towards the settlements. Sergt.[Daniel] Baldwin who arrived the evening of the 13th also reported that he saw on the lower prairie three Indians who fled at the approach of his party and concealed themselves in the woods. In the afternoon of the 16th [?]I sent for the Wea Chiefs who were emcamped on the creek five miles above, informed them of the murders committed on the other side and required that they should take such measures as were in their power to discover the murderers which they promised to do. I then spoke to them of the depredations on this side, affected to believe they were committed by the young men without their knowledge, represented the absolute necessity of restraining them, told them that next to murder the white people considered a violation of their property the greatest crime and that should they persist in such practices they would inevitably be killed. They seemed to agree in opinion that the robberies were committed by Little Eyes and a party which went off with him a few days since but I am sorry to say that although my speech was delivered with all the gi*avity the occasion required it was treated by them with levity I never before witnessed. Laprousier particularly affected to ridicule the idea of killing them for stealing and frequently interrupted INIonsieur Broulette with bursts of laughter. Negro Legs was much disturbed but spoke little and appeared to be veiy ill. Yesterday morning they came in great numbers to the garrison bringing apparently the proceeds of their whole winters hunt which they bartered with Broulette for such articles as he had for sale. The Squaw of Negi'o Legs told Broulette she was sorry to see him leave because she liked him very much and did not w^ant the Crows to eat him which she thought would soon be the case, he was also told by Jem to be on his guard for the Shawanos would soon be after him. In the afternoon they generally went off but a few of them lingered about the gate and one attempting to pass in was stopped by the sentinel whose gun he seized but the sentinel instantly recovered it and gave him a severe cut across the face with the bayonet, his comrades were much enraged and expressed their determination to have revenge saying in a few days they would return with a great force and take the garrison, this day not an Indian has been seen. I have now Sir given you a minute detail of the incidents which have occurred since my arrival and your Excellency may be assured that every circumstance even the most trifling shall be communicated to you and I shall be extremely careful to guard against, surprises. I have the honour to be with the highest respect Your Obt. Sen^ant 
J. Snelling, Captain His Ex. Wm. H. Harrison. P. S. I had entirely forgotten to mention that when I informed them your Excellency would pay for as many rails as they wanted Lapresieur replied he thought they should not want any for he believed they would not plant any this season. 
Harrison to Davis Floyd 
ViNCENNES 17th April 1812 
Har. Pa. 615-617 
Sir: 
Conceiving it to be a matter of great importance to keep the Delaware Tribe faithful to the United States I have thought it proper to send some person to them to ascertain their present disposition and to endeavour'to arrange with the chiefs some plan to prevent them from being forced into war which it appears but too probable we are about to be engaged in with most of the other tribes. I have selected you for the purpose, the first and most desirable plan that has occurred to my mind is that the Delawares should unite with the Miamis, and any other of the tribes which remain faithful to us to drive off the Prophet and his party from the Wabash and to declare to the hostile tribes that they will not permit them to make war on this side of the Wabash. If the disaffection amongst the Miamis should be such as to render this plan impracticable, or the strength of the hostile confederacy so formidable as to render them unable to prevent them from crossing the Wabash, it would be desirable that they should occupy the country between the White River and the boundary of the Grouseland treaty and undertake to prevent any depredations from being committed in that quarter whilst the Sha^vnese of the Auglaize and the Wyandots of Sandusky should enter into the same engagements for the frontiers of Ohio adjacent to them. There is no other mode that I can think of which would effectually preserve their neutrality but that of removing to their friends on the Mississippi or joining the Sha^\^lese of the Auglaize. You will be pleased to represent to them in the strongest teiTns the anxiety of the government to keep them clear of that ruin and destruction which the folly and \\ickedness of the other tribes will bring upon themselves. Their situation will however require the greatest care and circumspection and it is particularly necessary that they explain their intentions with the utmost frankness and truth and that they scrupulously perfonn what they promise. The strength of the United States particularly of the western part of it is such that they stand in need of no assistance to crush any combination that the Indians can form. But the situation of the Delawares and Miamies is such that it is ab


j solutely necessary that they should adopt some plan similar to those I have mentd. for if the hostile Indians are permitted to pass through their country to strike our settlements, in the pursuit of them our warriors will be unable to discriminate and our friends will in many instances suffer for the crimes of others at any rate our citizens who suffer from war parties which pass in the direction of the Delawares, and Miamis towns will become jealous of their fidelity and in all probability will attribute depredations to them of which they may be innocent. It is probable also that the hostile tribes will strike our settlements in that direction for the purpose of implicating our friends and I strongly suspect that the murder lately committed [Hinton] in the Driftwood settlement was intended to produce that effect.[April 13, above] 
You will get all the information in your power, with respect to the designs of the Hostile tribes, and will endeavour to make an arrangement to have information of their movements regularly conveyed to me through some channel or other. You will be allowed three dollars a day from the day of your departure from home until your retura. I am respectfully your Humbl. Servt. Wm. H. Harrison Major Davis Floyd 


Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES, 22nd April, 1812 Har. Pa. 607 
Sir, 
The letter from Capt. Snelling which is- herewith enclosed [April 16, above] contains the only information of consequence that I have received upon Indian affairs since my letter of the fifteenth was written. Mr. Newton E. WestfaP declines the appointment of Ensign in the 2nd Regt. and I take the liberty to ask it for Mr. Thomas Lawrence, a grand son of Gen. St. Clair's. I have seen this young gentleman but once but I have sufficient authority for saying that he is a genteel young man, intelli
1. Newton Edward Westfall was appointed coroner of Knox county Apr.13, 1810; Jan. 6, 1813, he waa superseded as he had left the county. The family has been well known about Vincennes since about 1800. 


r .<../.^^ 















Facsimile of one of Iljinison's letters. Original is on file in the archives of the War Dei)artment. 
gent, sober and correct in his conduct. Mr. Lawrence resides at Lawrenceburgh a post town in this territory. I have the honor to be with great respects, Sir, Your Humble Servant, 
William Henry Harrison The Hon. Wm. Eustis, Esqr., Secretary of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES 22nd, April 1812 10 O'clock p. m. 
Har. Pa. 605, 606 
Sir, 
A colonel [John] Small has just arrived from the Settlement on the Embarras River five miles west of this place Avith the information of the murder of another family by the Indians about 8 o'clock this evening. A gentleman who arrived last evening informs me that a number of Winebagos, Sacs, Kickapoos etc. are now with Governor Edwards [of 111.]in council at Cahokia. What faith in future can be placed in the promises of these scoundrels or what other course is there left for us to pursue but to make a war of exterpation upon them?If some offensive operations are not soon commenced against them we shall loose more of our citizens than the most bloody battle would cost us. I have dispatched a party of Rangers and militia in pursuit of the Indians and I think there is a great probability that they will be overtaken. I send this letter after the mail carrier by a special Express. And am with great respect 
your Humble Servant 
Wm. Henry Harrison The Hon. ble. William Eustis, Esqr. Secy of War 
Rec'd. May 9, 1812 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES 29th April 1812 
Har. Pa. 811-813 
Sir: 
In a letter which I had the honor to write to you in the night of the 22nd inst. I communicated the information which 
6—22664  
I had just then received of the murder of a family upon the Embarras River about 5 miles from this place. The report proved but too true. On the succeeding day Col. [James] Miller went to the spot with a detachment of the regular troops and buried the bodies of Mr. and Mrs. Hariyman and five small children. A violent rain which fell the night after these murders were committed rendered it impossible for the detachment of mounted men which were sent in pursuit of the Indians to discover the route they had taken.^ 
On the 11th inst. another family was attacked by the Indians a few miles from the Ohio, about 10 miles below the yellow banks [opposite Owensboro, Ky.] and about 75 from this place, the owner of the house [Atha Meeks] was killed and one of his sons badly wounded. Another son however with the assistance of the women of the family killed one of the 3 Indians and drove off the others. I have not been able to ascertain the Tribes to which the parties belong which have committed any of the late murders. It appears to me however to be very evident that their design is to distract and divide our attention to prevent the militia from embodying and certainly no plan could be more successful than that which they have fallen upon.- The murder committed near the Ohio where I supposed that there would be no danger even in the midst of an Indian war has so alarmed the people in that quarter that it would be impossible to make the militia turn out to march to the protection of any other place. The killing of the men upon the Driftwood fork of White River has produced similar affects in all the settlements eastwardly and southwardly of that place. It is impossible Sir to give you an adequate Idea of the alarm and distress which these murders have produced. The account transmitted to you by Governor Edwards of the situation of the Illinois territory after the murders were committed there last year affords a better picture than I can draw of the scenes which are daily exhibited here. Families, abandoning their homes and flying they know not whither and many of them without any means of support, are seen in every direction. Nor is the situation of this town by any means such as offers security to the fugitives. The expected departure of 
1. For a further account of this tragedy see Adam Walker's Journal above.2. For the details of the Meeks tragedy see Ind. Mag. of Hist. XIV, SOU and references there given. 
the regular troops and the revival of the design by the Prophet and his Party (as communicated by Mr. Shaw) to surprise it by a water expedition caused it to be viewed as a place of greater danger than any other and the fugitives pass through it as expeditiously as possible. I have formerly described to you its situation and the impossibility of defending it with its own militia and under the present alarm it is impossible to get a single company nearer than the neighbourhood of the falls of the Ohio. For offensive operations I believe the men would turn out willingly and I understand that the People of Kentucky and Tennessee are anxiously waiting for an order to that effect. The company of Rangers have been so much employed in detachments for some time past as to allow no opportunity for mustering them. It was however done yesterday and I have made such a distribution of them, as appeared to me to be best calculated to secure the settlements from surprise, I have so placed them that the countiy to the northwest north and east of this place in advance of all the settlements will be reconnoitered daily for nearly one hundred and fifty miles. If they do their duty it will be impossible for any large number of Indians to pass them unobserved and very difficult for a small party but there is still a considerable frontier below us and above (through the Delaware country) that is entirely exposed nor can the Rangers give us here timely notice of the approach of an enemy by water as they can descend the Wabash much faster at this season in their canoes than a horse can travel. Conformably to the idea suggested in my letter of the 15th inst.[see above] I have thought it proper to send a special messenger to the Delawares I selected for the purpose Major Davis Floyd who is well acquainted with the chief s and I do myself the honor to enclose you a copy of his instructions [April 17 above] which were accidentally omitted to be sent by the last mail. Since his departure a man of the tribe has arrived here with letters from Connor and Capt. Hendricks and a speech from the chiefs, the object of all these was to assure me that the Delawares had no hand in the late murders; that that committed on Driftwood was intended to implicate them, and induce us to take satisfaction of them which would be the means (as the hostile Indians expected) to force the Delawares to take part with them in the War — the murderers as the Delawares say were Potawatomies. On their return they passed near to the lower town of the former on White River and were seen by some of the women and they were tracked in that direction by some of our people and it will take proof equal to that of holy writ to convince them that they were not Delaware; I have and shall continue to do everything in my power to prevent this impression from becoming General. There are two veiy powerful considerations for preserving the neutrality of the Delawares if it be possible. In the first place the uncommon faithfulness with which they have [remainder of letter lost] 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES 6th May 1812 
^ ■ , Har, Pa. 618-620 
On Sunday evening last a party of Indians attacked a house on White River [Hindostan] about 35 miles from this place killed the owner (Mr. John McGowan) but were driven off without doing any further injuiy.^ Most of the citizens in this country have abandoned their farms and taken refuge in such temporary forts as they have been able to construct. Nothing can exhibit more distress than those wretched people crowded together in places almost destitute of every necessary accomodation. Unless something can be done soon to enable the people to return to their farms I fear that there will be little or no com planted this season. On the 2nd Inst. I received a letter from Mr. [Benjamin F] Stickney" containing the result of the Council lately held at Fort Wayne which has no doubt been communicated to you. This letter was brought to Fort Harrison by an Indian who was employed by Mr. Stickney for the purpose. On his way he was joined by the Chief Winemac with nine other Potawatomies. They were very desirous of coming here but were very properly detained by Captn. Snelling [at Fort Harrison]..<...._.1. John McGowan, with his parents, came to Vinccnnes from Washinprton county Penn. in 1787. With William and Jonathan Purcell and their families they came from Pittsburg in boats to the falls and thence overland. The story of the McGowan murder was written up by Dr. William McGowan, no doubt as he had it from his mother, and read at an old settlers' meetinK in Vinccnnes May 27, 1874. See Ind. Mag, of Hist. XV 111. No. e. 
2. Benjamin F. Stickney succeeded John Johnson about this time as Indian agent at Fort Wayne. He served till 1820, when he located at Toledo, O. 
Griswold, Fort Wayne, index 
I have refused to suffer them to come further because I am convinced they would be killed in despite of any endeavours of mine to prevent it. I also suspect that there are spies amongst them sent by the Prophet. Those people were at Fort Harrison when the murder was committed on McGowan and very probably by a part of the same tribe. It is thus that we are served by these scoundrels Whilst some of them are making warm professions of friendship and enjoying our hospitality others are murdering our citizens. The people of this town and neighbourhood are in great alarm and consternation since the arrival of the order for Col. [James] Miller to march and they expect with great anxiety the adoption of some measure by the government for their protection. There is no artillery of any description in this Territory. A few of those small pieces which were cast for Genl. Wayne's army a number of which must be at Massac or Newport and which are fit for nothing else would be serviceable in defending the forts against the attacks of Indians. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect. Sir Yr. Humbl. Servt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison The Honble. William Eustis Esqr. Secty. of War 
James Noble to Harrison 
Brookville, May 6th 1812 
Har. Pa. 625-629 
To his Excellency William Henry Harrison Governor of the 
Indiana Territory Sir: 
I send you a copy of the speech made by the Dellaware chiefs at White river and a copy of Jno. Conner's letter, which reached me shortly after I received the general orders for the militia. The minds of the people are much agitated ; upon the reports of the different murders, committed on the frontiers of our Territory by the Indians together with the news contained in the speech of the Dellawares and Conner's letter, as it respects the pottawattomies, and the Dellawares I suppose or some other tribes of Indians now and then on our frontiers also the raising of the militia in the state of Ohio to march to the north, has created such alann, that a number of families have left the county and in order to prevent the whole of the inhabitants on the west fork of White Water, from moving away, and to quiet the minds of the people, tomorrow morning thirty men of the rifle company under the cominand of Capt. Herndon will march up the west fork of White Water and act as rangers, stationed at two block-houses fifteen a.^ each where they will be supported, and remain until I hear from you. In some part of the county five and six families have come together given up all pretensions of making a crop on their own farms. If those men are to be kept out in service, you will be good enough to chalk out the method by which they are to be supported and paid. I hope the minds of the people will soon be at rest, everything has been done in my power to reconcile the people. Upon the receipt of Conner's letter I wrote him, advising the Dellawares to keep clear of our settlements. They might be injured through mistake, and at the same time observed that confidence was placed in them by you sir. Doctor Eastman just arrived in their place states that a man was killed and sculped near Eaton State of Ohio about forty miles from this place, a party had gone out in pursuit of the Indians that had done it. I have raised detachments from my Regt. sixty men and four sergeants from each Battalion and designated by whom to be commanded and to be in readiness together with the rifle company also appd. the places for rendezvous, block houses are erecting in the bounds of each company district and two or three men of each company, are ranging as far as the company extends; I send sir, a rough return of the strength of my Regt. you will readily see the deficiency of arms and ammunition which is the only difliculty with me. I am placed in a very unpleasant situation. A number of the inhabitants offended with me for not ordering out a larger body of the militia. I am sorry to see the country depopulating, most distant idea with me that the difficulty will be great with the Indians if the Dellawares remain friendly. Please to give me the particulars, as to the prospect of arms, etc. I am sir with sentiments of respect your fd. In haste &c. j^^^^s Noble^ 
1. James Noble was a VirKinian by birth, and a Kentucklian by training. Although prominently and honorably connected with the first 25 years of our state history there is not sufficient biographical details of his life in print to justify a reference. He was a member of the Constitutional Convention at Corydon 1816 and then entered the U. S. Senate where he remained till his death at Washington, Feb. 26, 1831. 
A Brief return of the Strength of the 7th Regt. I. Fy. M. (commd. by Lieut. Col. Commd. James Noble,) to the Commander in chief of the Militia of Indiana Territory. Privates 540, Rifles 214, pounds of powder 68%, Balls 1212, pounds of lead 55, Flints 337, Powder horns & shot pouches 198, Companies 9. The above number of privates exclusive of noncommissd. officers. James Noble to Harrison 
May 7, 1812 
Har. Pa. 629 
To his Excellency William H. Harrison, Governor of the Indiana Territory: Sir: 
You discover that I have not named the number of officers in my Regt. the reason of it, but four commissd. in it. I hope you will excuse me, until I can if ever, have it full of officers, there will be a district formed on the west fork White Water for a company to be consid. as infantry, and so soon as officers can be elected, will call for commissions. Please to send a commission for Thos. Clark, Lieut.- and Wm. Morgan Ensign.2 If you should deem it proper it might save you trouble, send a parcel of blanks I will attend strictly to them, the bearer Mr. J. W. Morrison^ formerly commd. a rifle company previous to the division of Dearborn, but some time ago resigned it in consequence [stead] of it, a light company, was raised, in that Batt. Morrison residing therein. I think proper to mention the circumstances. If you have concluded to send the commissions I wrote for some time ago please to let the bearer have them. I am Dear Sir Your sincere frd. James Noble 
2. Thomas Clark and "William MorRan received their commissions May 24, 1812. The blanks were sent as requested but the Executive Journal does not make it clear that they were ever returned. There is evident confusion alonp; here in the Journal.3. Joseph Washington Morrison was commissioned captain in the Dearborn militia Aug. 22, 1810. The Morrison family is one of the oldest in Dearborn county, Ephraim Morrison, a Revolutionary soldier, having settled there with his family in 1797, Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES May 13th 1812 
Har. Pa. 621-62^ 
Sir: 
An express has just arrived from the county of Franklin in this territory, by which I have received a speech made by the Delaware Chiefs to [John] Conner the Interpretor of that Tribe and a letter from Conner to a Col. [James] Noble of the militia informing him that a party of Potawatomies having passed their to^^^l and taken the direction of our settlements, with an intention as the Delawares supposed of committing hostilities. Their opinion happens to be but too well founded, as it appears from the letter of Col. [James] Noble, which I do myself the honor to enclose, [May 6, above] that a citizen of the State of Ohio was killed about the 1st of this month near Eaton about forty miles from the Colonels residence. I am perfectly at a loss as to the orders proper to be given in the present state of the countiy. I do not conceive myself authorized to order out any militia at the expense of the United States. I had hoped that the Eastern settlements would have escaped the Indian Depredations, but it appears that they are determined to diffuse their favours as widely as possible — from the motive no doubt which was suggested in a fonner letter, viz. that of distracting our attention, and thereby preventing the Militia from embodying. Altho the people of this part of the Territoiy are generally in Forts it is impossible to make any disposition of a company of Rangers to prevent small parties of Indians from penetrating the settlements to do mischief, and our line of frontier is so extensive that even the kind of protection which the Rangers do afford, cannot be extended to more than one fourth of it I must beg leave to call your attention to the enclosed statement of the deficiency of anus in Col. [James] Noble's regiment. Great as it is I believe that there are more arms reported in it than in any of the 8 Regiments in the Territoiy, excepting the two in this county, amongst whom the 500 muskets which were forwarded to me have been distributed. Numbers of the Militia would purchase guns but they are not to be had in the western country and our sole dependance is 
upon the publick arsenals. A few days ago two Wea Chiefs arrived here, being dispatched as they said by the Winebagos to inform me that several chiefs of that Tribe had arrived on the Wabash with the intention of going to visit the President, but that they were apprehensive that the late murders committed, as they said, entirely by the Potawatomies, would prevent them from being permitted to proceed. I have no idea of the least sincerity in this declaration — and I am also persuaded that the Weas were sent in as spies. I gave them assurances however of their being well received and committed to them a letter to the agent at Fort Wayne directing him to provide the means of sending them on should they apply to him for that purpose. The Territory is depopulating very fast and will no doubt continue to do so untill effectual measures are taken for its protection. There is some great deficiency in the Mail between this and the seat of Government proceeding I suppose from a part of it being retained at some of the offices in consequence of its being too heavy for the ordinary conveyance. The envelope which covered the appointments of Captain Chunn and his subalterns had the Washington post mark of the 16th Ultimo, but it did not reach this place untill yesterday.[May 12]^ 
I have the Honor to be with groat respect Sir your Humble Servt. WiLLM Henry Harrison The Honble. William Eustis, Secy, of War 
P. S. The information given by the party of Potawatamies mentioned in my last to Captain [Zachary] Taylor at Fort Harrison was that the Prophet was in the neighbourhood of his former residence with about 300 winebagoes and about 200 of other Tribes and that he was daily gaining strength, Speeches of Indians at Massassinway^ 
By the Wyandots : 
May 15, 1812 
Dawson, Harnson, 2GC, seq. Younger brothers, you that reside on the Wabash, listen to what we say; and in order that you may distinctly hear and clearly understand our words, we now open your ears and place your hearts in the same position that it was placed by the Great spirit when he created you. Younger brothers, we are sorry to see your path filled with thorns and briers, and your land covered with blood ; our love for you has caused us to come and clean your paths and wipe the blood off your land, and take the weapons that have spilled this blood from you, and put them where you can never reach them again. Younger brothers, this is done by the united voice of all your elder brothers, that you now see present, who are determined to not be disobeyed. The deteiTnination of your elder brothers, to put an entire stop to the effusion of blood, has met with the approbation of our fathers, the British, who have advised all the red people to be quiet and not meddle in quarrels that may take place between the white people.1."It appears that the mission of major Floyde had a most salutary effect upon all the tribes with whom he communicated, except the adherents of the prophet and Tecuraseh."A grand council, it seems, was held at Mississinway, and twelve tribes were there represented. They all seemed heartily in favour of peace being made, and continued with the white people, and they all but Tecumsch reprobated the murders and depredations which had been committed on them, particularly since the battle of Tippecanoe, and they as unanimously denied having sanctioned them. Tecumseh's speeches, however, were of a different complexion ; he hypocritically professed himself the friend of peace, avowed the attack on his people in his absence as unprovoked, and still continued to harp upon the old string, the impropriety of any of the tribes selling lands to the United States ; he carefully kept out of view the foul aggressions committed by his people, and if he admitted that any such had been committed, it was by the Potawatamies, and when retorted on by the latter, who disowned those of their tribe who had by the evil counsels of the prophet committed those enormities, and declared themselves willing to have them put to death, he dexterously evaded the point, and said, that the good advice they gave their brothers was misrepresented, and openly defied any one to say that they had directly or indiiectly advised any living creature to make war upon their white brothers: but he carefully evaded touching upon the point of the frequent demands which had been made for the murderers being given up, and the stolen horses restored, and the uniform refusals which had been made to comply with those demands: and in order the better to elude the strong observations made by the other chiefs, he again reverts to the sale of the lands by those who he pretended had no right to sell' them."Dawson, Harrison, 265 
There were represented at the council Wyandots, Chippewas, Ottawas, Potawatomies, Delawares, Miamis, Eel Rivers, Weas, Piankeshaws, Shawanoes, Kickapoos and Winnebagoes. 
Tecumseh, the prophet's brother, replied: 
Elder brothers, we have hstcd with attention to what you have said to us. We thank the Great Spirit for inchning your hearts to pity us ; we now pity ourselves ; our hearts are good, they never were bad. Governor Harrison made war on my people in my absence : it was the will of God that he should do so. We hope it will please God that the white people may let us live in peace; we will not disturb them, neither have we done it, except when they come to our village with the intention of destroying us. We are happy to state to our brothers present, that the unfortunate transaction that took place between the white people and a few of our younger men at our village, has been settled between us and" Governor Harrison ; and I will further state, that had I been at home, there would have been no blood shed at that time. We are sorry to find that the same respect has not been paid to the agreement between us and Governor Harrison, by our brothers, the Potawatamies ; however, we are not accountable for the conduct of those over whom we have no control; let the chiefs of that nation exert themselves, and cause their warriors to behave themselves, as we have and will continue to do ours. Should the bad acts of our brothers, the Potawatamies, draw on us the ill will of our white brothers, and they should come again and make an unprovoked attack on us at our village, we will die like men, but we will never strike the first blow. The Potawatamies spoke: 
We are glad that it should please the Great Spirit for us to meet to-day, and incline all our hearts for peace. Some of the foolish young men of our tribe, that have for some winters past ceased to listen to the voice of their chiefs, and followed the counsel of the Shawanoe, that pretended to be a prophet, have killed some of our white brothers this spring, at different places. We have believed that they were encouraged in this mischief by this pretended prophet, who, we know, has taken great pains to detach them from their own chiefs and attach them to himself. We have no control over these few vagabonds, and consider them not belonging to our nation ; and will be thankful to any people that will put them to death, wherever they are found. As they are bad people, and have learnt to be so from the pretended prophet, and as he has been the cause of setting those people on our white brother, we hope he will be active in reconciling them. As we all hear him say, his heart is inclined for peace, we hope we may all see that declaration supported by his future conduct and that all our women, and children may lay down to sleep without fear. The future conduct of the Potawatamies will evince the great desire they have to effect tliis desirable object. Tecumseh replied: 
It is true, we have endeavored to give all our brothers good advice ; and if they have not listened to it, we are soriy for it. We defy a living creature to say we ever advised any one, directly or indirectly, to make war on our white brothers. It has constantly been our misfortune to have our views misrepresented to our white brethren ; this has been done by pretended chiefs of the Potawatamies and others, that have been in the habit of selling land to the white people that did not belong to them. Tecumseh was then called to order by the Dela wares, who 
said: 
We have not met at this place to listen to such words. The red people have been killing the whites, the just resentment of the latter is raised against the former. Our white brethren are on their feet, their guns in their hands ; there is no time for us to tell each other you have done this, and you have done that; if there was, we would tell the prophet that both the red and white people had felt the bad effect of his counsels. Let us all join our heaiis and hands together, and proclaim peace through the land of the red people. Let us make our voices be heard and respected, and rely on the justice of our white brethren. The MiAMis spoke as follows:. We feel happy that we all appear of one mind, that we all appear to be inclined for peace ; that we all see that it would be our immediate ruin to go to war with the white people. We, the Miamis, have not hurt our white brethren since the treaty of Greenville. We would be glad if all of the other nations present could say the same; we will cheerfully join 
our brethren for peace, but we will not join you for war against the white people. We hope our brothers, the Potawatamies, Shawanoes, Kickapoos, and Winebagoes, will keep their warriors in good order, and learn them to pay more respect to their women and children than they have done by going and murdering the innocent white people. The white people are entitled to satisfaction ; it is the interest of the Indians to give it to them immediately. Let us do justice to our white brethren and expect justice from them; by doing this, we shall insure the future peace and happiness of our women, and children. Then the Kickapoos spoke: 
Elder brothers, we, your younger brothers, have listened to all you have said with attention. It only remains for us to say, that we are glad to hear you say you have pity on our women and children and wish to stop the eifusion of our blood. We have settled our disputes with Governor Harrison, and are sorry the Potawatamies have not acted more like men than they have done, by killing the white people after we had made peace with them. We have not two faces, and despise the people that have. The peace we have made with Governor Harrison we will strictly adhere to, and trouble no person and hope none will trouble us. The foregoing is a true translation. William Wells May 24th, 1812 


B. F. Stickney to Governor Hull 
Fort Wayne, May 25, 1812 
Am. St a. Pa. Indian Affairs I, SIO 
Sir: 
The time appears to have arrived, when it is necessary, if possible, to cut off the communication between the Indians within the territory of the United States and Canada. But I do not know how far it would meet the views of the Government, at the present moment. Many circumstances having come to my knowledge upon this subject, I will give you an outline of them now, and more particular when I have more time ; considering you the most proper person to give the immediate information to.[Cf. July 8, below] 
It has for some time been well understood, that the British Government has agents among the Indians within the United States ; but has been almost impossible to distinguish them. There is a man here now, who is called Shetoon, [Esidore Chaine] who represents himself to be a Wyandot chief from Brownstown. His mother is said to have been a Wyandot squaw, and his father a Frenchman. He appears to be more of a Frenchman than an Indian. He came here last February, and brought a letter of introduction from Mr. [Reuben] Atwater^ (your Secretary) to this agency. He remained near here (with the Little Turtle) till April. The first of my seeing him was at a conference I held with the Indians, soon after I came here, about the 16th or 17th of April. His conduct appeared to me rather suspicious then; and I mentioned my suspicion, in writing to Governor Harrison. Since then he has called a general council of Indians on the Wabash, at Massasinaway, where twelve tribes were represented. They broke up their council at Massasinaway about twelve days ago, to meet here to inform me what they had been doing. When they met here, he took the lead ; and it is said he took the lead at Massasinaway; when he returned here, with full evidence, having the confidence of the Miamies and Delawares, my suspicions were much abated. But at length, by the observation of interpreters in my absence, of friendly Indians, and my own observation, the matter is put beyond all doubt with me, that he is an emissary employed by [Matthew] Elliot, although the evidence is not of that kind that would convict him in a court of law., Whether this business is fully known to his nation or not, does not appear. But it appears from the collected mass of circumstances, that he has been sent by his nation to preach peace to the rest, and that he has been employed by Elliot to preach peace in general, and tell the real views of the British Government to a few. He carries many speeches of war, as well as peace. Black wampum and white wampum. He told to one Indian, where he though he was safe, that he was employed by the British Indian agent to go and advise all the Indians of this western country to be at peace with the United 
1, Reuben Atwater was secretary to Governor Hull, later acting governor and collector of the port of Detroit. Mich, Hist, and Pioneer Col. Index 
States : and to form a system, by which they may all be united as one nation. And the agent told him that he was going away off, where a greater agent (or chief) lived, where he was to have all the tribes ready to send each of them one chief, and one war chief, to the agent in Canada, where they would receive instructions what to do. This was told by Shetoon between here and Detroit, on his way coming here. His conduct has corresponded with this: but I believe he has been cunning enough to conceal his views from nearly all the Indians who are sincere friends to the United States ; nor do the white people here suspect him of any improper views. Since he has returned from Massasinaway, he has told in his public speeches, and in public generally, that Tecumseh, the Kickapoos, and Winnebagoes, all acknowledge the peace with Governor Harrison, and were really disposed for peace. But at length he let it out to a Shawanee chief, with whom he was not so well acquainted as he supposed himself to be, that Tecumseh was going home to plant corn for himself, and should send his young men again to Canada, to get more powder and lead.(There were twenty four of Tecumseh's men passed here on their way from Canada, the 1st of April, loaded with ammunition) . Shetton asked the Shawanee if he thought it was likely Tecumseh's men would be permitted to pass unmolested. Shetoon, in all his communications to me, or the Indians, appeared to be anxious to have everything left loose and uncertain. I had at length to fetch the matter to this point : that as they had told me many fine things, that they meant to try to do, I would give them one moon to give up their murderers, and make the other necessary restitutions. I pledged myself to them, that the army would not strike upon them to destroy them, in less than a moon ; if the restitution was not made within that time, I would not hold myself accountable any longer for what the warriors might do to them. The army was ready and at hand to strike when our Great Father should give the word. They have dispersed, with the appearance of a full determination to apprehend the murderers, and fetch them to justice. I have the honor to be, your humble servant. B. F. Stickney, Indian AgenStickney to' Secretary of War 
Fort Wayne, May 25, 1812 
Am. Sta. Pa. Indian Affairs I, 810 
My last was on the 15th instant. I told you then of the measures I had taken to make peace with the relations of the two Indians who were killed at Greenville. Before receiving this, you will undoubtedly have received more correct information of the circumstances than I could give you. The women and child who were taken prisoners, were sent to me by Mr.[John] Johnson, with three or four horses, and as much of the other propertj' that was taken, as he could obtain, under the care and protection of two Shawanee chiefs and ten warriors. Thej^ arrived four days ago, when there was a general collection of Indians forming, to inform me what had been doing at a grand council they had been holding on the Wabash, where twelve tribes were represented, consisting of the Wyandots, Chippewas, Ottawas, Pattawatamies, Delawares, IMiamies. Eel River IMamies, Weas, Piankoshaws, Shawanese, Kickapoos, and Winnebagoes.[May 15 above] The council here continued two days and amounted to but very little more than that they had united to secure and maintain peace. I cannot explain the whole better than by enclosing you a copy of my letter [May 25, above] to Governor Hull.[Extract] 
B. F. Stickney 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
Vincennes May 27th 1812 
Har. Pa. 631 
Sm: 
Since I had the honor to "\^T:ite to you on the 13th inst. no further mischief has been done by the Indians that has come to my knowledge. There have however been several parties within the settlements and a detachment of Militia are now in pursuit of four that were discovered about 7 miles from this place the evening before last. The Indians are much favoured in their situation from the unusual wetness of this season which enables them to travel for miles in ponds or overflowed low gi'ounds. Yesterday evening I received a dispatch from Captain [Zachaiy] Taylor containing the speeches of Lapousier and 
Stone Eater, who have just arrived as they say from Mississinway by the way of the Prophets Town. They assert that the Council at the former place terminated in an unanimous resolution upon the part of the tribes who vrere present to remain at peace with the United States. Their speeches contain much profession of friendship, but not one word upon the subject of the Chiefs going on to Washington or the delivery of the murderers — one or both of which was required by me as the only evidence that could be relied upon of their disposition to remain at peace with us. I daily expect more correct information from Fort Wayne. I have heard nothing of My.[Davis] Floyd since the 2nd Inst. He was then at the Delaware Towti. I am a little apprehensive for his personal safety, as a man of the Delaware Tribe was very unnecessarily and improperly killed near the Ohio in this County since Floyds departure, [in connection with the Meeks tragedy] 
I have the honor to be, with gi'eat respect Sir your humble Sei-vt. 
William Henry Harrison Hon. William Eustis, Sec. of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES June 3rd, 1812 
Har. Pa. 636, 637 
Sir: 
I had the honor this daj'' to receive your favor of the 13 & 14th Ultimo by the same conveyance. I also heard from Col. [William] Russell^ who is gone to the Red banks [Henderson Ky.] to march across a company of Rangers whom he expects to meet at that place. The Col. in his letter to me says "My csvn opinion has always been to defend the frontier in the best manner for the safety of the inhabitants is always to cany the war into their own country. Should you sir be able to ascertain the To^vns that are unfriendly I would without being better informed deem it my duty to embody the Rangers and one company of the troops and move against them and burn and destroy any such town".1. William Russell was of Va. parentaKC. He was a Lieut, in the Rev. Later he came to Ky. where he became a Lieut. Co\.1792; Col. 7th Inf. May 3, 1808. He served through the War of 1812. Died July 3, 1825.7—22664 If Col. Russell has any instructions to commence offensive operations I should be thankful to be informed how far it is expected that my opinions and advice are to govern or control his measures. I do not by any means wish to shun any responsibility that the Government should think proper to impose upon me. But it appears to me that unless the Col. possesses instructions that are very different from those which I have had the honor to receive (which refer altogether to defensive measures) I should not sanction or can permit so decisive a step as he speaks of. But if any advice or assistance of mine shall be deemed of importance to the Colonel or to any other person to whom may be committed the task of repelling or chastising the aggressions of the Indians I beg leave to assure you Sir that it shall be afforded with frankness and candor. I have the Honor to be with Great Respect Sir Your Humble Servant 
Will. Henry Harrison Hon. Wm. Eustis Esq. Secty of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES 3rd June, 1812 
Har. Pa. 632-635 
Sir: 
I have no information of any recent depredations committed by the Indians and you will have been informed by the agents at Fort Wayne that the council at Mississinway resulted in a determination by a large majority to remain at peace. Indeed that all professed that intention. There is however nothing but these professions to evince the existence of any such disposition upon the part of the heretofore hostile bands. The only proofs of their sincerity which they could give or we could accept after being so repeatedly deceived — viz the going on of the Chiefs to the seat of Government or the delivei'y of the murderers have been entirely evaded, altho the former constituted the basis of the agreement made with me on the first of March last. The information received within a few days from Gov. Edwards (and he has better means of acquiring it than I have from the intercourse that is kept up between the Tippecanoe & the Illinois River) confirms that which I have previously received from a principal Potawatimee Chief — viz that the major part of the Winnebago Tribe are at 
Tippecanoe with the Prophet and Tecumseh and that they have also been joined by many small bands from the Illinois River and the east of lake Michigan — making a force at least equal to that which they commanded last summer and that their intentions were entirely hostile. The Gov.[Edwards] also says that there are at this time nearly eight hundred Warriors embodied at Peoria. That the British agents were endeavoring to effect a peace between the Sioux and Chippewas for the pui-pose of uniting both those Tribes in the War against us and that they were making large deposits of Indian goods at their establishments on Lake Michigan and other convenient locations between that lake and Lake Superior. Major [Davis] Floyd has returned from the Delaware towns. He was detained by the Chiefs until they could learn the result of the Council at Mississinway. This tribe is entirely to be depended on. They have determined to follow the Wishes and Directions of the President implicitly. Upon the whole Sir there is nothing in the suspension of Indian aggression for the last three weeks to induce a belief that the present is any other than one of those deceitful calms which frequently occur in Indian Warfare and which are always succeeded by increased activity in their depredations. I have heard nothing from Col. Russell but on Friday last a company of mounted volunteers arrived hear from Frankfort Kentucky.^ The information of the danger to which we were exposed induced these patriots to come on without the hope of pay and at their own expense. I have however offered them such provisions as the contractors Stores would supply. Two other companies have organised themselves and have tendered their services to come on at any time that I should send for them. But as the object of all of them is to be actively employed I shall not send for either of the others and shall dismiss the one that is now here unless the face of affairs should change in a few days or I should receive some orders from you to justify their detention. With gi*eat Respect I am sir your 
Humble Servant 
William Henry Harrison The Hon. William Eustis Esq. Sccty. of War 
1. This company was comma nJod by Capts. John Arnold and Anthony Crocket who had served with Harrison under Wayne. The company consisted of 70 men and remained 20 days. McAfee, The Late War, 110 Tecumseh to Elliott 
Amherstsburg June 8, 1812 
Wood, Canadian War of 1812, 812 
Father & Brothers Hurons ; 
Brother Hurons, [see June 16 below] 
You [Chettoon or Chaine] say you were employed by our Father and Your own Chiefs to come and have some conversation with us, and we are happy to see You and to hear Your and our Father's Speech. we heartily thank you both for having taken the condition of our poor Women and children to Your Considerations: We plainly see that You pity us by the concern You shew for our welfare ; and we should deem ourselves much to blame if we did not listen to the Counsel of Our Father and our Brothers the Hurons. Father and Brothers!We have not brought these misfortunes on ourselves; We have done nothing wrong, but we will now point out to You those who have occasioned all the mischief. Our Younger Brothers the Putewatemies (pointmg to them) in spite of our repeated counsel to them to remain quiet and live in peace with the Big Knives, would not listen to us — When I left home last Year to go to the Creek Nation, I passed at Post Vincennes and was stopped by the Big Knives> and did not immediately know the reason, but I was soon informed that the Putewatemies had killed some of their people; I told the Big Knives to remain quiet until my return, when I should make peace and quietness prevail — On my return I found my Village reduced to ashes by the Big Knives — You cannot blame Your Younger Brothers the Shawanoes for what has happened: the Putewatemies occasioned the misfortune. Had I been at home and heard of the advance of the American Troops towards our Village, I should have gone to meet them and shaking them by the hand, have asked them the reason of their appearance in such hostile guise — 
Father & Brothers!You tell us to retreat or turn to one side should the Big Knives come against us; had I been at home in the late unfortunate affair I should have done so, but those I left at home were (I cannot call them men) a poor set of people, and their scuffle with the Big Knives I compare to a struggle between little children who only scratch each 
others faces — the Kickapoos and Winibiegoes have since been at Post Vincennes and settled that matter amicably. Father & Brothei^s. The Putewatemies hearing that our Father and You were on the way here for peaceable purposes, grew veiy angry all at once, and killed Twenty-seven of the Big Knives. Brothers!We Shawanoes, Kickapoos and Winibiegoes, hope You will not find fault with us for having detained You so long here; We were happy to see You and to hear Your and Our Father's words; and it would surely be strange if we did not listen to our Father and our eldest Brothers. Father & Brothers!We will now in a few words declare to You our whole hearts — If we hear of the Big Knives coming towards our villages to speak peace, we will receive them ; but If We hear of any of our people being hurt by them, or if they unprovokedly advance against us in a hostile manner, be assured we will defend ourselves like men. And if we hear of any of our people having been killed. We will immediately send to all the Nations on or towards the Mississippi, and all this Island will rise as one man — Then Father and Brothers it will be impossible for Your or either of You to restore peace between us. William Glaus to Brock 
Amherstburg 16th June 1812 
Wood, Canadian War of IS 12, 310 
Sir, 
On my arrival at this Post two days ago, the enclosed Speech [See June 8, above] from Teekumthie, in answer to the Message sent to him by the Superintendent of Indian affairs [Matthew Elliott] by your order, was put into my hands. I immediately sent to the standing stone [Near Gadiz, 0.]for Esidore Ghaine,^ a Huron, who was the bearer of the message and received from him the following information. Teekumthie on hearing of Ghaine being on the way with a Message advanced to Machekethe [Mississinewa] about Sixty miles West of Kickayuga, or Fort Wayne, with twelve different Nations, amounting to about Six hundred men, two leadinChiefs of each Nation ; they had plenty of Com ^^dth the exception of the Shawonoes, who lost fheir's after the engagement with Governor Harrison — Teekumthie left at his Village three hundred men when he advanced to meet Chaine; they have been constantl}' employed in making Bows and Arrows, not having any ammunition ; Teekumthie was much dissatisfied \vith liis Brother for engaging Governor Harrison, last fall, as their plans were not sufficiently matured — he further states, that Governor Harrison held a General Council about the Full Moon in May, and called on the different Nations to deliver up their men who had conmiitted murder on the BigKnives, (meaning the Americans) the Potowatamies being particularly pointed at, replied, that before they could give an answer they must consult their Nation and that at the next full-moon they would give him an answer — he replied that it was very well, and that he would wait with patience, but if he did not hear from them by that time, he would march against that nation and cut them off. Chaine mentioned to me that the Indians knew the Americans too well, to believe that their intention was to attack only the one nation, and if they struck a blow, it would be against the whole, and that they would not be asleep — That all the Nations are aware of the desire the Americans have of destroying the Red people and taking their Countiy from them. On examining the issues of Ammunition to Indians at Amherstburg, for the last six months, I find that in Powder that they have received only 1,200 pounds, making a difference of nineteen hundred and twenty-one pounds less than at former periods — of Lead, not one ounce has been issued to them since last December, which will account for the increased consumption of provisions. I have the honor to be Sir Your Most Obedient An Very Humble Sei-vant.^ Claus D. S. G. 
John Tipton, Journal 
CORYDON June 30, 1812 
Tipton Collection in the Indiana State Library 
On the 30 day of June 1812 Capt.[Jacob] Zenor^ and myself Received Letters from a number of Citizens on the drift
1. Jacob Zenor served under Spencer in the Tippecanoe campaign and for many years thereafter in the Harrison county militia. As a representative of Harrison county he sat in the 1, 2, 4 and 5 General Assemblies. 
wood fork of Wliite river Requesting us to come out and fetch a Company to gueard them again the Indians and to Pertake of a diner on the fourth day of Jul3\ 
On the Second day the Capt. marchd vrith 9 men Myself and some others ware to follow on the fifth. I accordingly started Sunday the fifth in Company with one of the rangers. Went to where we were to meet our Company found they had left us. Rained hard wether wett, I killed a deer. We went to Mayjr Harber^ and took dinner thence on to Blue river and staid all night at a house had some whisk5^ 
Monday the Sixth the day Cloudj^ We moved early 10 miles overtook hour company, thence on to Wm. Hoggeths^ to Beckfast moved on to Prices lick Stopt had our horses fed thence on to a Mr. [William] Logans* took diner and had our horses fed and mooved Coss [cross] Muscak-I-tuch thence on to fort Pleasant found towo of our Company who infonned us that the Capt. was at fort difiance. I then went on to fort difiance Late at night found all well the Capt informed me thee [they] had a fine dinner on the fourth of July. Tuesday the Seventh we divided our Company being thii-teen in Num Sent three to fort Pleasant Sent three to fort Alexander and mj'-self with two others staid at ft. difiance. One of the citizens of ft. difiance mooved home and Capt Zenor with four men went with him. Wednesday the 8th a Cloudy day myself and some of the rangers went to shooting then I went with Lt. [Alexander] Littele^ to the Plaice where Capt. Zenor was stationd found that called their ft fort Recovery took som whiskey then retumd home in the time of a hard wind one of my men killed 2 Deer. Thursday the 9 My two men and the citizens Went to pull flax and I started to town towt met our men comeing up turad back with them went to ft. recoveiy then went to shooting then to other amusement hard rain at twelve took some whisky went home in the evening 
2. John Harbison was appointed a major in the militia of Clark Co., then including Harrisonf riday the 10 the day very hot. I went with one of my men and Littell to gueard hour flax pullers We all work hard till late then went to shooting rain in the evening 
Saturday the 11 the day clar and verry hot we all went to Valonia and mustered went to Shooting then returned home took dinner and I wrote this Journal wile I am ritting our fort people returned and told me that they ware done pulling flax 
Sunday the 12 The day Clier and hot I staid all day in fort 
•Monday the 13 a Clier warm day in the morning Went to shooting and then to pulling flax. Tuesday the 14 The morning Clier I went with one of our men to help the Citizens to Lift flax hard rain at one clock returned home 
Wednesday the 15 The day Cloudy and warm my mare lost in the morning all our men met at fort difiance to muster in the evening I went to to^vn and found my mare went hirty, [warnt. hurt] 
Thursday the 16 the day Clier I went with another man to hunt I killed a deer at twelve returned at twelve found the men had went to draw a sain I went no fish caught 
friday the 17th the day cloudy we went to the river to gigg fish. Caught some Returned went to pulling flax heard the armey was defeated [perhaps Hull at Detroit surrendered Aug. 16. such reports were continually spread among Indians] 
Saturday the 18 in the morning went to Valonia then came Back thence to ft. Recovery to muster after muster to shoot Then returned home then went to fishing in Company with Lt. Litle and others Caught some fish and killed a Squirrel and returned home 
Sunday the 19 the morning Clier and hot I staid in foii; and was riting at three P. M. very hard thunder and raind and is now raining. It continued raining untill late at night most tremendious hard 
Monday the 20th the morning Cloudy we maid Preparation to start home Capt. Zenor came on with his men from ft. Recovery and told us they had to swin a Creek on the way at 7 We set out for home came to Vallonia thence on to ft. Pleasant drank some whisky then mooved on Cosst Miscakituck then on two miles got some whisky thence on four miles 
got half bushel of rotton Corn for 25 cents thence on Six men all merry shooting and hallowing one of our men Lost a blanket women went to find it three of the men came up Could not find the Blanket We stopt and got more whisky thence passt Prices lick thence on to hoggatts mill Staid all night 
tuesday 21st the morning Cloudy we moovd at day light on to Will Coxes took breckfast and some whisky mooved again got to shooting one of our horses run off and throo the rider and hurt him verry much came — Stopt where one of our men took dinner mooved on Shieldses One of our men and myself left the Company and came home — at dark after being out 20 days and doing no good after indians 
July the 22d 1812 
(not signed G. P.) 
Harrison to Hargrove 
ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory Sunday, July 5, 1812 
Cockrimi, Poaneer History of Indiana, 348 
Captain Hargrove: - Dear Sir: 
This letter will be handed you by interpreter John Severns, Jr.^ The times are so full of threatenings that it is thought best to reorganize a ranger service which you proved j^ourself so competent in commanding during the year 1807, and with a view to that end, I now invite you to come to these headquarters for consultation. I would suggest that you come as soon as convenient for you to do so. The Indians are much better than the British and if they were not constantly urged to take up the tomahawk against the Americans there would be no trouble in keeping peace along the border; but from this on, as long as the war continues, there will be much trouble with all the tribes in the northwest and along the Wabash. John Gibson, Acting Governor 
Indiana Territory in absence of Governor Harrison.[Harrison was on a tour of eastern Indiana] 
1. John Severns Jr. was a son of the old settler at Severn bridj,'e over the Patoka 
in Gibson county. lie spoke the Indian lanRuaL'e and was a scout and interpreter on 
the Tippecanoe campaign._,., ^., ^ , ^ 
Stonnont, Gibson County, iO 
force at Vincennes as forming a very useful diversion in favor of Gen. [William] Hull.^ A company of United States infantry and another of Rangers are now here on their way to Vincennes, by order of Col. [William] Russell.^ In addition to the force which the Col. has under his immediate command, I have directed the Colonel, commanding the regiments of Militia in the vicinity of Vincennes to furnish him with any number of men he may call for. As my family are at this place and there appears to be no immediate necessity for my being at Vincennes I shall not return until towards the last of the present month, employing myself in the meantime in assisting to discipline the tree regiments of Militia which border on this state, the fartherest of which is not more than sixty miles from this place. Should you have any orders for me in that time I must request them to be sent to the office here; but as it is possible that some event may precipitately recall me to Vincennes I must ask the favor of having a duplicate sent there. I have the honor to be very respectfully Sir Your Humble Servant 
William Henry Harrison 
Hon. Wm. Eustis Esq. Sect, of War 
• Harrison to Secretary of War 
Cincinnati, July 8th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 6JtO-6^3 
Sm: 
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your circular letter of the 11th ultimo & have dispatched a speech to the chiefs of the several tribes within the Indiana Territory requiring them to meet the commissioners at the appointed time and place. I fear however that an arrangement which has been made by Gen. [William] Hull to assemble them at Brownsto^vn near Detroit, on the 18th inst. will prevent their attendance at Piqua at the time proposed. The invitation tthe chiefs given by Gen. Hull came to mj' knowledge incidentally only a few days ago. Having been informed by Col. [Frederick] Geiger, Capt.[William] Well's father in law, that he (Wells) intended shortly to resign his appointment and retire into Kentucky, and believing that in the present critical state of our Indian affairs that the public sei*vice sound be benefitted by his remaining some time longer at Fort Wayne and thinking also that it would be pro])cr that he should be under the controle of Mr. [B. F.] Stickney whilst he was there; I wrote to the latter and informed him that he must consider Wells under his immediate orders and that he should employ him in any manner in which his services might be useful. I have just received an answer from M. Stickney in which is the following curious paragraph — "With respect to what you say respecting my employing of Capt. Wells. In all my instructions from the secretary of war, both written and verbal, he has not given me the least intimation that I was to consider myself under the direction of any other officer than himself. And as I received my appointment from the secretary of War by the approbation of the President it appears to be a dictate of common sense that I should consider his instructions as the rule of my conduct. And he has instructed me to have nothing to do with Wells and that Wells is to have nothing to do with Indian affairs at Fort Wayne, Nevertheless every commiunication from you shall be attended to by me with the greatest cheerfullness and conformed to as far as my instructions with the War Department will permit". I am convinced Sir, that if M. Stickney's statement that he has not been informed that he was to receive orders from any other officer than yourself be correct, it has been occasioned by the extraordinary press of business in your office at the time that his instructions were composed. The general regulations for the government of the Indian Department published in the year 1802 or 3 by the immediate directions of the President, which have never been rescinded that I Imow of, prescribed: "That the superintendants in their several territories should be responsible for the conduct of Indian affairs in the same and that the agents and subagents should from them receive their instructions & through them correspond with the Department of War."And it was thought so important to preserve a proper subordination in the Indian Department that 
at a subsequent period when the then agent at Fort Wayne manifested some disposition of hostility against me, he was made to understand by the Secy, of War that the President would retain no one in that office whose conduct was in the least disrespectful towards his superior and his then continuance in office was made to depend upon my forgivness. The above regulations have indeed been but partially observed. The agents have generally corresponded immediately with the war office. They have all however heretofore acknowledged their obligation to obey the orders of the superintendant, and it has been reserved for the "common sense" of Mr. Stickney to discover that no such obligation existed because he derived his appointment immediately from you. The present situation of Indian affairs calling in my opinion, not only for the utmost vigilance from the officers in that department, but for harmony and concert in their measures, I directed Mr. Stickney, conformably to the ancient regulations of the Department, to correspond regularly and constantly with me; but in order that you might be informed without delay of every event of importance, he was directed to forward immediately to you copies of all letters and reports containing such information. The advantages attending this plan are too obvious to require enumeration, and provided you are promptly and correctly informed of the events passing at Fort Wayne it must certainly be very immaterial whether they come in a letter addressed immediately to yourself, or in the shape of a copy of one directed to me. It is this order that has wounded the pride of Mr. Sticloiey. His delicacy is offended by the idea of receiving orders from any other source than one of the principal departments of the Government. It appears to me to be essential to the public interests that his error should be immediately corrected and although Mr. Stickney has kindly offered to attend to any communication which I shall make him not inconsistent with his orders from the War Department, yet as he evidently assumes to stand upon ground independent of me, his measures may be in contradiction to mine and our interpretation of instructions so different as to produce a jarring and discord more fatal to the public interests than even the intrigues of the enemy. Indeed I have every reason to believe that the construction given by Mr. Stickney to his powers has already produced mischief. A Wea Chief immediately from Fort Wajme told Capt.[Zachaiy] Taylor a few weeks ago at Fort Harrison that he had been informed that I was shortly to be deprived of my office. I have no idea that Mr. Stickney authorized such a report but I am convinced it had its origin in his assertion of Independence in a station which the Indians well knew had been entirely under my control. With regard to Wells it is scarcely necessary that I should observe to you Sir that I could have no motive but a regard to the public interests to keep him at Fort Wayne. I have before explained to you the particular circumstances which made his presence important, at that place. Hated & feared as he is by a great majority of the surrounding Indians, he is nevertheless able from his influence over a few chiefs of great ability to effect more than any other person particularly with regard to the now all important point of obtaining information. Indeed he deserves some credit from the circumstances that the line that separates his friends amongst the chiefs from his enemies being precisely such as I should designate to separate those who are sincere friends to the U. States from those who are so in profession only. Such however is the way^vard disposition of the man that he began to affect an independence of Mr. Stickney, to send dispatches to me without his knowledge and to transmit information which had not previously been cominunicated to Mr. Stickney. This was the cause of my order to the latter to take Wells under his direction & to Wells to receive and obey instuctions & through him only communicate with me and it was my intention upon the first discovery of any improper conduct to Sticlmey to have requested his immediate removal from office. I shall probably see the commissioners on their way to Piqua & shall cheerfully give them any infoiTnation in my power. I have the honor to be with gi'eat 
Respect Sir Your Humble Sevt., „, ,. William Henry Harrison 
Hon. William Eustis, Esq. Sec. of War 
Secretary op War to Harrison 
War Department, July 9th, 1812 
_ Dawson, Harrison, 272 
Sir, 
By letter from Governor Edwards [111.]it appears that the Indians are again collecting. Should the regular troops and rangers under colonel [William] Russell, with the reinforcements ordered to be funiished on your requisition, be inadequate to the protection of the frontier, your Excellency will please to consult with governor Edwards, and to request from the governor of Kentucky, such detacliments from the militia of that state, as emergencies may require. The Governor of Kentuclvj^ will be advised of this instruction to your Excellency, and no doubt can be entertained of his cheerful co-operation. Should ojffensive measures become necessary, the command within the Indiana territoiy vdW devolve upon you ; and v\dth the consent of governor Edwards your military command may be extended in the Illinois territoiy. With gi'eat respect, etc. W. Eustis 
Gibson to Hargrove ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, July 11, 1812 
Cockrum, Pioneer History, SlfS 
It is hereby ordered that on and from this date, William Hargrove shall be in command of the rangers in Indiana Territory and to all whom it may concern, he is duly authorized to so act with the rank of Lieut. Col. commanding the rangers who will be stationed at diiferent points in this Territory and will be so obeyed by the militia and all other troops enlisted for the defense of the Territoiy. John Gibson, Acting Governor Per J. T. D., Clerk. Instructions for the Guidance of Lieut. Col, William Hargrove Commanding Rangers in Indiana Territor2. You will accept none but the best mounts for the men as speed in this service will be the object to gain. The men must be good horsemen and if possible, men who have had practice in shooting from horseback.3. The most inportant point to guard will be the country east of this for twenty miles up to sixty or seventy miles east ; and, that you may be able to have your men well in hand, it is thought best that you have a permanent stockade station between the White Oak Springs blockhouse [Petersburg] and the Mudholes. At this station you will keep a platoon of men and four sergeants to rank as first, second, third and fourth sergeants, to be men in every way competent to take charge of a squad of troops in any emergency. The next station will be at a point about ten miles east of Blue river and to be far enough to the north to furnish protection to the few settlers who have advanced beyond the line of safety in that direction. It will be necessary to have twenty men at this station, with three sergeants to rank as first, second and third sergeants.4. The sections of country about Robb's Fort [Hazelton] and to the southwest of it are amply able to take care of themselves and furnish you all the men that j^ou will want. It is thought best to locate a post at a point northwest of [Jesse] Kimble's mill on the foothills of the Wabash river [South West of Princeton] . The need of this station is, that there will be a large territory east and west of the Wabash river which is a dense wilderness and a large body of Indians could concentrate there and successfully raid any of the settlements in that section. Twenty men, with three sergeants, should be stationed at this point.5. It is thought best that a station with ten men be at a point about twenty-five miles north of the mouth of the Wabash river, to be established under the command of two sergeants. All these stations should have a strong stockade that incloses all the ground that will be needed for the horses when inside and for barracks for the men. A strong, small house should be erected to hold the rations and ammunition.7. The territory around all the stations from whence the Indians are most likely to come, should be closely watched, and a vidette station as far front as it is practicable to place it. This should be done every day. At night two men should be selected to act as advance sentinels. These men should be 
placed at points where they can see the surrounding country with as Httle exposure to themselves as possible.8. The arms should be of the best that can be secured, not of the army musket, as that is too heavy, but of the regular hunting rifle, with the caliber of a size that would make fortj' balls to the pound. For convenience in carrying, if the barrels could be cut down to about three feet and a half in length, it would be better. For the rest of the armament, the usual hunting outfit will be all sufficient.9. The stations on the north frontier of Harrison County should patrol the section in their front to the north as far as they are safe to go, and to the northwest and northeast. The central and southern portion of Harrison County can take care of any raids that may come to them. They have a company called "Minute Rangers," that is commanded by Captain John Tipton, that patrol all the country as far south as the Ohio river and some miles west of Blue river and east until it touches with guards from Clark's Grant or Jeffersonville.10. If you think best you can detail one man at each station for hunting game. In that way there will be no need of meat rations being drawn from the Commissary at this post.11. You will have a platoon of not less than fifteen men with you at the place which you shall choose for the headquarters. As a suggestion, this, headquarters would recommend that you have such a station at or near the White Oak Springs Fort. From there it will be easy to visit any of the stations and you will be near where it is thought the most likely place for the Indians to attempt to come into the settlements and near these headquarters. Done at Vincennes, Indiana Territory, July 11, 1812. Harrison to Scott 
Cincinnati, 14th, July, 1812 
Penn. Mag, of History, XXXII, 116 
Dear Governor : 
The President has lately sent a message to Congress recommending that he may be authorized to appoint an additional number of general officers. I have i-eceived a letter from an officer of the army at Washington in which he says that it was intended to give me one of those appointments and the 
8—22664 command in this department. The bill however which was brought in consequence of the President's message has been rejected, but as a substitute for it another has been introduced authorizing him to appoint the officers of the volunteer corps. Now the object of this letter is to request you to write to the President and state to him (if such in your opinion should be the fact) that the volunteers from your state would serve under me as well as under any other person. I have been vain enough to think that there is no doubt of this fact — it has been declared to me by innumerable letters & by the declarations of almost all the officers whom I met with in passing through your State. However, I have no doubt of your being perfectl}^ acquainted \Wth the inclinations of your warriors & what would or would not please them. When I passed through Georgetown the citizens who were assembled (& I was told that it was the most respectable meeting that they have ever held there) appeared warmly to resent the neglect with which it was said I have been treated by the Government and one of their number Gen. Henry or Gen. [John] Paiyme was requested to speak to me on the subject to know if I could infomi them the reason of it. The officer whom I mentioned to have received a letter from informs me that the Sec'y of War is really friendly to me— I have however reason to doubt this, I had rather if you should think proper to do it that you would write a letter directly to the President. You see My Dear Sir that I trust you mthout reserve — use the same freedom with me & if there is anything improper in my request do not hesitate to say so. I shall write to Col. [William] Allen & Dr. [John] Scott on the subject. If the volunteer were generally to express their sentiments the probability is that they would be successful — I calculate that there will be at least a Division in Ky. Ohio & Ind. I shall remain here for several weeks, a letter will of course find me. Present Mrs. Harrisons best Regards to the ladies as well as those of Dr. Sir. Your hum. Servt. WiLLM. H. Harrison His Excellency Gov. ScoTT 


JOHN GIBSOX 
John Gibson was born at Lancaster, Pennsylvania, May 23, 1740. His early life was spent in this frontier settlement. He received some education, perhaps as good as could be obtained at that place. He was attracted to the Indian trade and in 1758 took advantage of the opportunity oifered by General Forbes' expedition against Du Quesne to go to the most remote post on the border. After the capture of Du Quesne, Gibson remained there and engaged in the Indian trade. He spent several years as a captive among the Mingoes, during which time he married the sister of Logan, the Mingo chief. By 1774 he had returned to Pittsburgh and was engaged in the Indian trade there when Dunmore's war broke out. He served in this war and a short time later raised a regiment and joined Washington at New York. After the retreat through New Jersey, in which he participated, he was sent west to command at Pittsburgh. After the war he resumed his trading business, serving his state occasionally in a political capacity. In 1800 he was appointed secretary of Indiana territory. He arrived at Vincennes in July, 1800, about six months ahead of the governor. When Governor Harrison took charge of the western troops in the war of 1812 Gibson became acting-governor and so continued until May, 1813, when he was relieved by General Thomas Posey, who had been appointed governor. Colonel Gibson lived for a few years afterward at Vincennes and then joined his son-in-law, George Wallace, at Braddock's Field, near Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Here he died April 10, 1822. 
Gibson to the President 
ViNCENNES 15th July 1812 
Har. Pa. Ul, U2 
Sm : 
I have the honor of inclosing to your Excellency the Resolves of a INIeeting of a number of the citizens of Vincennes and its Vicinity. I have the honor to be \\'ith sentiment of high consideration your obdt. Sen^t. Jno. Gibson James Madison Esqr. President of U. S. 
Resolutions on War with England 
At a meeting of a number of the Inhabitants of Vincennes and its Vicinity, on the 9th July 1812, Genl. John Gibson being called to the chair, and William Jones appointed as Secretary, the following Resolutions were moved and unanimously adopted viz. Resolved that we do highly approve of the declaration of War against Great Britain, and pledge ourselves that we ^vill exert all the means in our power in support of a measure so just and honourable. Resolved that we have entire confidence in the Executive and Congi-ess of the United States. Ordered that the foregoing Resolutions be published in the Western Sim and a Copy thereof forwarded by the Chairman to the President of the United St-ates. Jno. Gibson, Chairman Will Jones, Secty. Gibson to Hargrove 
Headquarters, Indiana Territory, Vincennes, July 20, 1812 
Cockrum, Pioneer History, S51 
Col. Wm. Hargrove, Commanding the Mounted Rangers of 
Indiana Territory 
This will be handed you by a Piankashaw Indian named 
Minto. Yesterday (Sunday) morning a French boy and his 
mother were out to the east in a cart, eight or nine miles from 


this post, when they were met by eight Indians and robbed of their horse and cart. The woman thinks they were Shawnees. She says that she was on the old Delaware trace and was then some four or five miles north of White river. There was a cavalry company sent out from here to try to intercept them. The reason for reporting this to you is that the eight Indians seen may be only a small band of a much larger one that may be hovering on the frontier, with the hope that they may find an opportunity to raid some of the settlements. You had better send some of your men to several of the new settlements on the border and notify them of this, and inform the people that they must at once prepare to go into the fort at the first note of alarm. The British will cause the Indians to do all the harm that it is possible for them to do. I have just had an intei'view with the French woman who was robbed. I asked here why they did not take her and her boy prisoners. She says they seemed to want to be friendly and only wanted the loan of the cart to haul several deer into their camp and in less than one-half moon, they said, they would. bring it back to her at Vincennes. This, of course, was only a pretense hoping that she would report to this post that they were friendly Indians. The reports from difl'erent points of the Territory indicate that the Indians are concentrating at various places on the northern frontier. It will be best to keep a vigilant lookout, for we cannot steer clear of trouble if the war continues, and it is much better to be prepared for trouble, if it is a little inconvenient to do so, than to wish that we had been, when it is too late. John Gibson, Acting Governor 
Wells to Harrison 
Fort Wayne 22d July 1812 
Har. Pa. 650-653 
Sir: 
I consider it a duty that I owe to my country and particularly the inhabitants of Vincennes to make the following statement to you. On the 17th June, Tecumseh arrived at this place and said he was on his way to IMalden to receive from the British government 12 horse loads of ammunition for the use of his people at Tippecanoe. 
He went on to Maiden and arrived at that place a few days before Genl.[William] Hull with his army arrived at Detroit and immediately declared that he would join the British against the United States. On the 12th instant his brother the prophet arrived at this place with nearly 100 Winabagoes and Kickapoos who have been ever since amusing the Indian agent at this place with professions of friendship and it is now evident that he has completely duped the agent [Stickney] who has suffered him to take the lead in all his councils with the Indians, given him ammunition and etc. to support his followers, until they can receive a supply from Tccumseh. On the 19th Inst, an express arrived in the prophet's camp from Tecumseh in order that it should make the better speed the express stole a horse from some of the inhabitants at the river Raisin and rode night and day. The horse gave out within 20 miles of this place. This express was directed by Tecumseh to tell the Prophet to unite the Indians immediately and send their women and children towards the Mississippi while the warriors should strike a heavy blow at the inhabitants of Vincennes, that he Tecumseh if he lived would join him in the country of the Winabagoes. The Prophet found no difficulty in keeping this information to himself and one or two of his confidential followers and forming a stoiy to suit the palate of the agent here and on the 20th inst. dispatched two confidential Kickapoos to effect the objects Tecumseh has in view. In order that these two Indians might make the better speed they stole my two riding horses and have gone to the westward at the rate of 100 miles in 24 hours at least. To keep the agent blind to his movements the prophet went early in the morning yesterday and told the agent that two or his bad young men was missing and that he feared they had stole some horses, the agent found no difficulty in swallowing the bait offered him and applauded the prophet for his honesty in telling of his bad young men as he called them stealing my horses. To keep up appearances the prophet has this morning dispatched 2 men on foot as he tells the agent to bring back my horses & that he and all his party will certainly attend the commissioners of the United States next month at Piqua. This he will do if he finds he cannot raise the western Indians against the United States jbut if he finds they will join him you may rely on it he will strike a heavy blow as Tecumseh says against the whites in that quarter. You may rely on the correctness of this statement as I received information relative to the view of Tecumseh last night from a quarter that cannot be doubted. The conduct of the agent towards the prophet I have been an eye witness to. I send this letter by an Indian to Fort Harrison and hope you will authorize me to pay him 12 dollars. Genl. Hull is now at Sandwich with his army. I heard from him last night, it is believed that the British will make little or no defence in Maiden. The Indians have all with the exception of Tecumseh and about 100 abandoned the British. It is supposed that Maiden has surrendered to General Hull before this time.[Compare July 8, above] 
I have the honor to be Sir 
respectfully your most Obt. William Wells His Excellency Governor Harrison 
P. S. The Prophet and his party leaves this place today for the Kith Tippecanoe. I have no reason to believe he has sent after my horses. He will remain at his village until he knows the intentions of the Western Indians if they wont join him he will endeavour to save himself by professions of peace to the commissioners at Piqua. Harrison to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES July 28th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 6hU-Qh7 
Sir: 
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 18th inst. together with the inclosed duplicate of the 9th. I have lately received some information through [John] Conner, the Delaware Interpreter, which induces me to believe that the Indians who were assembled on the Illinois River had dispersed from the want of provisions. Yet as the Green Corn will soon be in a state to supply them it is more than probable that they will collect again unless they should be deterred by the impressions which our army may make on Canada and even in the event of our complete success in that Country it is probable that the followers of the Prophet may make a desperate effort previously to their returning to the 
country between Lake's Michigan and Superior and the Mississippi where it is said the British have made deposits for supplying them. In your letter of the 9th inst you observe that should offensive measures become necessary the command within the Indiana territory will devolve on me & with the consent of Gov.[Ninian] Edwards may be extended to the Illinois territory. In the present situation of our country I should think myself highly censurable if I suffered any individual opinions & feelings to counteract the intentions of the Government and I certainly shall endeavour most zealously to discharge any duty which the President may think proper to assign me. That candor however with which I have been permitted to express my sentiments induces me to say that if a military expedition is carried on against the Indian tribes composed of Regular Troops and Militia it appears to me that it is important that it should be commanded by a regular officer. That kind of Military rank which the Governor of a Territoiy acquires by being designated to command in a letter is submitted to with reluctance by many of the Regular Officers ; and indeed I have been told that some of them who are most respectable for military information have ventured to doubt its legality. An authority which is thus questioned is by no means sufficient to support that rigid subordination which is so essential in an army. And experience has convinced me that under such circumstances a single mischievious individual may jeopardize the safety of an army & defeat the object of a campaign. To the employment of a regular officer there can be but two objections, the one derived from his want of local information & the other arising perhaps from a regard to my feelings. If the latter has had any effect in inducing my nomination to command in case of offensive operations I must request that it should no longer stand in opposition to what I consider the public interest & I beg you to believe Sir, that my communications with any officer who may be employed near me shall be as frank and all the information I possess as faithfully communicated "as I would purge me of my sins to Heaven."The multiplicity of your duties and the absolute impossibility of your being able to complete every arrangement emboldens me to observe that as it is probable that an expedition may be necessary from the Wabash as soon as the season will permit, the person who is intended to command it should be immediately authorised to make the necessary arrangements which must necessarily be incomplete if they are postponed until the event shall happen which will call the troops immediately to the field. In the arsenal at New Port there are but a few hundred Cartouch boxes and no rifles or rifle equipments. Supposing that the Kentucky volunteers would want all that are there, I would not take but a small part of those which were wanted for the Indiana Militia. It is necessary also that the contingencies which would justify offensive measures should be defined and to what extent those measures should be carried, whether they are to be desultory expeditions or whether the country under certain circumstances is to be taken possession of. I do not wish, Sir, by any means to avoid any responsibility which the Government may think proper to impose as far as I am to be concerned. But I wish to know how far 1 am to take upon myself the responsibility of acting and in what cases I am to wait for definite and positive instructions. From the information lately received from Governor Hull's army I hope and expect that he will succeed in reducing Maiden, but it is said that he is not well supplied with provisions and I fear that the small convoys which are sent from the frontiers of this state will be not only inadequate, but that they may be cut off from the smallness of the escorts. Indeed nothing but the ignorance of the British as to their movements can save them. With proper information upon this subject they can send across the lake in six hours a force sufficient to take the block house erected at the rapids of Miami, intercept the convoy & return before a possibility of their being counteracted.[Exactly what happened] 
I have the honor to be with great 
respect Sir, your Humble Servt. William Henry Harrison Hon. Wm. Eustis Secretury of War 
Gibson to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indian Territory, July 29, 1812 
Cockrum, Pioneer History, 352 
Col. Wm. Hargrove, Commanding Mounted Rangers: 
For about ten days a man has been around this post claiming to be an expert engineer and that he has built many forts 
for the mounting of heavy ordinances in the states east of the Alleghanies. He had such good papers of recommendation that he was permitted to go where he pleased and was all through the fort and barracks. Last night he disappeared. He took with him a veiy fine saddle horse which belonged to Col. Luke Decker, together with a fine saddle and a pair of heavy pistols in the holsters. It was thought he went toward the Ohio river and may come near some of your stations. You had better inform your men by a courier. There is no doubt that he is a British spy and it is very desirable to capture him. A description of him given by those with whom he was, is: A heavy man, five feet ten in height : would weight about one hundred and eighty pounds ; dark hair, black eyes, and he wore a fine velvet vest and a dark blue long-tailed coat both ornamented with silver buttons. A pair of fine white dressed buckskin knee breeches with silver buckles at his knee ; a pair of fine leather shoes with silver buckles ; a swiveled hat, made out of beaver skin. Have your men keep a good lookout for him. I wdll here again inform you that in the near future there is danger ahead if the war lasts any length of time. This lull is only the forerunner of certain stirring times. Be sure that everything is in readiness for what may come. John Gibson 
By the hand of a friendly Delaware Indian. Return him in two days with anything that you wish to say. Harrison to Secretary of War 
Cincinnati 6th August 1812 
i 
Har. Pa. 6It8, 6^9 
Sir: • • 
I have this day received by express from Gov.[Charles] Scott the enclosed letter and I shall immediately obey the summons. The information received a day or two ago from Detroit is of the most unpleasant nature. The loss of Michilamacinack will be probably followed by the capture of Fort Dearborne and the suspension of ofi'ensive measures by Governor [William] Hull's army will I fear give great strength to the British party amongst the Indians. The assemblage of Indians mentioned by Governor [Ninian] Edwards upon the Illinois river is also calculated to excite apprehensions for the safety of the settlements of Kaskaskias or Vincennes. It is however my opinion that it will be the object of the British to draw as many of the Indians as possible towards INIalden to cut off the supplies from and ultimately to capture Governor Hull's army. To prevent this even if there should be no real intention of carrying on offensive operations from Vincennes or Kaskaskias feints from either or both would be highly useful to keep the Indians at home. I shall do myself the honor to write to you from Frankfort and communicate the result of the interview with Governor [Charles] Scott. The camp equipage, quarter master's stores, rifles, cavalry arms and equipments, which were ordered to New Port, have not arrived nor have they been heard of by Major [Thomas] Martin. The difficulty of selling drafts for small sums with an account annexed as has been my practice for contingencies has induced me to draw upon you in favor of the cashier of the Miami Exporting Company for one hundred dollars to pay express and other expenses of the kind. There is indeed so little demad for drafts at this time that there is a great probability that money will be wanted for the Public Service in the Western Country unless it is sent from the Atlantic States. I have the Honor to be with great respect sir your humble servant 
William Henry Harrison The honble. William Eustis Esq. Secretarij of War 
Taylor to Harrison 
Fort Harrison August 9th 1812 
Har. Pa. 659-661 
Dear Sir : 
I have been informed in the course of 2 or 3 days last past by three different Indians that Tecumseh was preparing considerable force to strike an important blow somewhere against the white people and the full of this moon was the time fixed for his commencing hostilities. It is possible his first attempt will be against this post or Vincennes. They all agree that his present force is much larger than it was last fall and one of them says that he expects a large reinforcement about the time he has fixed on for commencing his operations, pri 
cipally of Kickapoos and wliat he has with him at present was composed of the same tribes that were with him last fall, and that the prophet had held a council for some time past with a number of chiefs of different tribes and that there was no dependance to be placed in anything Laprusier or Stone Eater told me, for that they were in the prophets interest. Laprusier has been here frequently since my last communication for the purpose of drawing provisions but I do not comply with his requests as your instructions to the commdg. officer is to furnish those only with provisions that come on business and then sparingly which instructions I have strictly complied with. He did not appear to be very much pleased with my refusing him and sayd you told him last spring that whenever he visited the garrison he would receive provisions. if those are your wishes you have only to let me know them and they will be complied with. There is a subject I ^vish your opinion on viz. The cattle that is at this place which belongs to the citizens and contractor which would feed a considerable body of Indians for a month should it meet with your approbation in case the hostile intentions of the Indians are confirmed I will have the whole of them driven down to the settlement. I trust Sir I shall be pardoned for giving the above information even should it not be eventually found to be correct nor should I have troubled you on the subject if information to the same effect had not been given from a source that was more to be depended on. I remain Dear Sir with the Greatest Respect your friend 
and Obt. Sei-vt. rz m .... ^„ z-r j. r^ , 
Z. Taylor Ca%>t. Comdg. His Excy. Go. Harrison 
Gibson to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, August 10, 1812 
Cockrum, Pioyieer History, 353 
Col. Wm. Hargrove Commanding Mounted Rangers: 
The new men can be mustered in and the two young boys 
will be returned to their homes. Two scouts from this post were at a point at the forks 
[White river] and saw two old Delaware Indian men who 
have a lone wig^vam at that place. These Indians were friendly and have been for a long time. They said that several Pottawattamies had recently been at that point and told them — 'Soon ^^'e will go to the Ohio river — get heap horses — maybe get scalps — the British drive Americans away soon.'The scouts report that there is a general movement among the Indians, a sort of nervous unrest that forebodes trouble and that the Indians did not seem to show that hearty friendship as formerly. One friendly Indian was ^\ith the scouts pretending to be a hunter, and said that if an opportunity offered, the Indians would strike our people soon. John Gibson Acting Governor 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
Lexington I^nty. August 12th 1S12 
^ Har. Pa. 65:,-C>.5S 
Sir: 
Upon my arrival at Frankfort on Saturday last I was favored by Gov.[Charles] Scott [Ky.] ^^ith the perusal of a late Communication from Gov. Edwards [111.]covering a number of documents which unequivocally prove the existance of a combination amongst the Indian Tribes more formidable than any previous one. And as the only obstacle to the commencement of offensive operations on their part (the want of ammunition) has been removed by the taking of IMacinac I have ordered some companies of the Indiana j\Iilitia to march from the counties bordering on the Ohio to Vincennes and they will soon be followed by a Regiment from this state. I have also informed Gov. Scott, that all the remaining quota of this state will be required for active service northwest of the Ohio. Previously to the taking of any other steps, however I have thought it proper to recur to you for further instructions and most respectfully to offer you the result of my reflections on the subject of the employment of the disposable force in this quarter of our country. As it appears from your letter of the 9th ultimo that the Govt, had determined upon offensive measures against the belligerent Indians, the first thing to be considered is the nature and extent of those measures. T^'o species of warfare have been used by the United States in three contests with the Tribes upon the northwestern frontier viz. rapid and desultory expeditions by mounted men having for their object the surprise and destruction of particular 
villages, or the more tardj' but more effectual operations of an army composed principally of Infantry penetrating the country of the enmy and securing the possession by a chain of posts. In the war which was terminated by the peace of Greenville both of these plans were used but the former as auxiliary only to the latter, which was regarded as the effectual means for procuring and preserving peace. If under present circumstances the Govt, should think proper to rely upon desultory expeditions only they would naturally be directed against those villages of the enemy which are nearest and which of course would most annoy our settlements. But the direction to be given to the efforts of an army of the other description requires more attentive consideration. In the present posture of affairs it appears to me that one of two plans which I have the honor to submit might be adopted with advantage. The first is to establish a chain of posts upon the Illinois River from the Mississippi to Chicago, and the other to march immediately a considerable body of troops to Fort Wajme. If it were certain that Genl. Hull would be able, even with the reinforcement, which is now about to be sent to him, to reduce Malden and retake Macinac there would be no necessity for sending other troops in that direction. But I greatly fear that the capture of Macinac will give such eclat to the British and Indian arms that the northern Tribes will pour do\^ni in swarms upon Detroit oblige Genl. Hull to act entirely upon the defensive and meet and perhaps overpower the convoys and reinforcements which may be sent him. It appears to me indeed highly probable that the large detachment which is now destined for his relief under Genl. Col. [Samuel] Wells will have to fight its way. I rely greatly upon the valour of these troops but it is possible that the event may be adverse to us and if it is, Detroit must fall, and with it every hope of reestablishing our aft'airs in that quarter untill the next year. I am also apprehensive that the provisions which are to be sent with Col. Wells are by no means equal to the supply of the army, for any length of time, encreased as it will be by his detachment, they must then depend upon smaller convoys which can never i*each their destination in safety, if the British and Indians think proper to prevent it. Commanding as they do the navigation of the Lake, the British can with the utmost facility transfer their force from one side to the other, meet our Detachments and overpower them if they are small, whilst performing a labourious and circuitous march through a swampy country, at any point they think proper. To prevent these disasters or to remedy them should they occur, a considerable covering army appears to me to be the only alternative. For should any of my apprehensions be realized it is out of the question to suppose that troops could be collected in time to render them any essential sei*vice. There is another consideration which strongly recommends the adoption of this measure. I mean the situation of Chicago which must be in danger, and if it is not well supplied \vith provisions the danger must be imminent. It is possible Sir that everything may yet go on well that no considerable number of Indians may^ be collected at Maiden and that our Detachments and convoys may reach their destination in safety, the reverse however appears to me, to be the most proabable, and I am fully persuaded, that the opinions and wishes of the people in the western country are unanimously in favour of the most vigourous and effectual measures. In this state particularly the spirit of the people is aroused to the highest pitch and the Govt, may rely upon the utmost efforts. To be furnished with arms and to be allowed to exert their energies, to establish our affairs upon the north western frontier is extremely desired by every description of persons. Our army going in the proposed direction particularly if it was sent to Fort Wayne, would serve as a considerable check upon the tribes of the Wabash and those to the west and south of Lake Michigan. Supplies could be easily procured in the highly cultivated part of Ohio between, the Miami and Scioto Rivers. If the plan here proposed should be adopted, some display of military force by way of feint would be highly useful, both at Vincennes and in the neighbourhood of Cahokia or St. Louis, Indeed some troops are necessary for the defense of those places and the adjacent settlement. The only objection to the scheme of erecting a chain of Posts from the Mississippi to Chicago arises from the lateness of the season, which would perhaps render it impossible to collect the supplies, which are necessary for the very large force that this expedition would require. It cannot be undertaken with a probability of success with less than 5000 men. Moving in the manner proposed the Indians would be apprised of the o 
ject and there can be no douht that every effort would be made to defeat it and as little, that they would be enabled to collect a force at least equal to that Vvhich I have stated as the necessary amt. of ours. If the advanced season should prevent the plan from being completed it might at least be so far effected as to occupy Peoria (an important point) erect an intermediate post between it arid the mouth of the Illinois River. A slight inspection of the map of that country and a reference to the position of the several tribes will at once explain the great advantages to bo derived from the prosecution of this plan. It would as completely cover our settlements as a chain of posts could cover them, and it would have the effect so highly desirable of bringing the Indian tribes to a general and decisive action. From the inclosed letter Capt.[William] Wells [July 22, above] it appears that the Prophet had abandonned all Idea of remaining upon the Wabash and that it was his intention to retire after making a stroke at our settlements to the country of the Winebagoes. As the orders of Tecumseh were given however under the impression that Maiden would shortly fall into our haiids it is highly probable that the procrastination of that event, and the suspension of offensive operations upon the part of Genl. Hull's army has inspired them with other hopes, and given rise to other schemes. If this should be the case and he remains upon the Wabash and neither of the othei' plans which I have recommended are adopted, a second expedition against him, might be undertaken from Vincennes, or the driving him off might form a part of the plan to be executed by the army proposed to be collected at Fort Wayne. With the opinion which I entertain of the situation of affairs at Detroit I give a decided preference to the Fort Wayne expedition. I do think it highly probable that the Indians have been collected in very considerable numbers to relieve their friend at Maiden. But I have no farther evidence of it nor indeed of the extensive combination which I supposed to exist among the Indian Tribes, than what is or will be before you at the time you receive this. Your favour of the 9th Inst. I have submitted to Gov. Scott, Mr. [Henry] Clay Mr. Bledsoe^ and other conspicuous friends 
1. Jesse Bledsoe was born Apr. C, 1776, in Culpepper Co., Va. Came as a hoy fo LcxinRton, Ky. Graduated from Tran.-. ylvania. Sec. of Slate under Gov. Scott at this time. Later, professor of law at Trmisylvania. Collins, Kentucky, SOS of the administration and they have all recommended that I should not put any other part of the troops in motion untill I hear from you excepting the few companies that have been ordered for the protection of Vincennes. Should the Govt, think proper to authorize the employment of a larger force than the amt. of the quota ordered from this State no fears need be entertained of its not being obtained. I will pledge myself to raise in ten days two thousand men for any expedition which may be authorized totally independent of the Regular Militia or of the quota which has been organized. I am constantly solicited to suffer independent companies to be raised of both horse and infantry. I should be thankful to be informed of the proportion of cavalry that will be allowed for any expedition which I may command. It is a description of force to which I am very partial in Indian warfare. If a sufficiency of swords and pistols cannot be procured I would recommend that some of the Dragoon Companies be armed with the small rifles now used by the United States Rifle Corps. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir yr. Humb. Svt 
William Henry Harrison 
P. S. I set out today for Louisville but shall not return to Vincennes unless I receive positive information which may make my presence there necessary until I receive an answer to this letter. Any communication for me had parhaps better be directed to the postmaster here who will forward it to me if I should not return before it arrives. W. H. H. The Honble. WiLLM. EUSTIS Esqr. Secy, of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
Louisville Ky. 18th Augt.1812 
Har. Pa. 662-G66 
Sir: 
The Regiment of the Kentucky volunteers [Wilcox, Miller and Barbour] destined for Vincennes Rendezvoused at this place yesterday. The pressing engagements of Gov. Scott previously to his leaving his office which takes place in a few days and the occupation of Genl.[Zachary] Taylor's agent (the pay master of the District) at the Rendezvous of the Detachment destined for Detroit induced the Governor to put 
this Regiment entirely under my control and to leave to me the preparations necessary for the prosecution of their march. Amongst the most difficult of these is the procuring the means and making them an advance of two months pay. The first has been gotten over by the offer of the Bank here to advance the necessary sum. But as we have no correct information as to the precise amount of the two months allowance of clothing it has been determined to pay the men ten dollars apiece only. The paymaster of the Regiment is now making the estimate which will be forwarded by this or the ensuing mail and the money will be procured by drafts drawn by him and endorsed by me. I have the Honor to enclose his Bond for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office. He is personally a stranger to me but is highly spoken of and either of his securities are equal to the payment of the penalty of the Bond. I have the Honor to enclose you an original letter from Capt. Taylor the Commandant of Fort Harrison which was sent to me by Express.[August 9 above] A gentleman immediately from Vincennes infonns me that the citizens there are under great alarm and that information received from every quarter corroborates the account of the intended attack. I have sent off one company from the Indiana Regiment of Militia adjacent to this place and have agreed to dismiss them in a month on condition of providing themselves with horses. When the Reg'iment now here marches to Vincennes it will, with the militia of the Territoiy already ordered out, be amply sufficient for the defence of that settlement. But I fear that Col. [Joseph] Wilcox^ will not be able to leave Jeffersonville until the 20th Inst. I have not been able to procure any tents for the troops the country being entirely exhausted of materials for making them by furnishing the Regiments destined for Detroit. They are also entirely destitute of canteens all these articles are understood to be on the way from Pittsburg but they had not arrived at New Port on the 15th Inst. I have directed Lieut.[James W.] Bryson- to forward a proper proportion of the Equipments and Camp equipages as soon as he receives them and I shall have them escorted to Vincennes by 
1. Joseph Wilcox was born and reared in Du)>lin, Ireland. On account of political troubles he left Ireland and came to America; enteiinp; the army in time to take part in the War of 1812. lie was killed leading a charKo at Fort Erie, Auj,'. i, 1814. Niks' Rcf/istcr VII, A pp. S5 
2. James Washington Bi-yson enlisted from Pa. Apr.23, 1808, as cnsinn in the First Inf. After servinp; through the War of 1812 he was discharKcd June 15, 1815.»— 22664 a company of militia to be left for that purpose. As there was not more powder in the arsenal of New Port than the quantity necessary to supply Gcnl. Hulls order I have caused 1000 lbs. to be purchased here. In my letter of the 10th inst. I observed "that it has been determined in a consultation with the friends of the administration that it would be better to suspend the marching of any more of the militia of the Kentucky Quota until your further directions should be received or some further indications of hostility on the part of the Indians should make it necessary". Upon my return to Frankfort however a further consultation with Genl. Scott took place and upon a representation being made by one of the Colonels in vrriting stating that it would be utterly impossible to collect the Troops time enough for any offensive operations this fall unless the order for their assembling should be soon given we both united in opinion that it would be neecesary upon the uncertainty of their being wanted that a distant da\' should be appointed for their Rendezvous at their different posts. They day fixed upon is the first September and the places designated are Frankfort, Louisville and Henderson (Red Banks) the former for the Cavalry and two regiments of infantry and at each of the other one regiment of infantry. If none or a part only of those troops should be wanted they can be disbanded and the only consequences will be some disappointment in the men but if they had not been ordered to assemble and there should be occasion for their services some time in September it would have been found to be almost impossible to get them to any distant scene of action until the season for such operations would have been too far advanced. Should the hopes which have been formed of the favourable effects of the Council of Piqua not be realized the government at the moment which shall ascertain its failure will have at its disposal a formidable force ready to take the Field. And the points of Rendezvous have been so fixed as to give as great a choice as was possible as to the direction in which it may be needed. These were my motives Sir for calling upon Gov. Scott under the authority of your letter of the 9th ultimo requesting him to cause the remaining part of the militia quota of this state to be in readiness to march and rendezvous as above mentioned. Genl. Winchester has accepted of a troop of twelve months volunteer Dragoons from this st<^te. There are two others 
of that description that have tendered themselves to me under Captains Quarles and [David] Tremble. Having no authority to accept them I have turned them over to Gov. Scott who will send on their Polls and the names of the officers for commissions. I have assured these gentlemen however that they will certainly be employed. They will serve either as the Dragoons or as Mounted Riflemen. I have the Honor to be with great respect Sir your Obt. Svt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honble. Willm. Eustis Esqr. Secty of tvar 
Gibson to Hargrove 
ViNCENNES, Indiana Territory, August 20, 1812 
Cockrum, Pioneer History, 359 
Colonel Wm. Hargrove, Commanding Mounted Rangers: 
General Harrison has been commissioned Major General by the Governor of Kentucky and placed in command of the militia of that state, who are ordered to report to him in this territory.^ There will soon be a large number of troops crossing the Ohio river into this Territory. This apparent security will not in the least change your duties. The men under your command will still keep up the same vigilance. The militia of this Territory will in a great measure leave for the north. Then our force of able-bodied men will be much reduced and it will be necessaiy to carefully watch every point of our frontier. John Gibson, Acting Governor 
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department August 22d, 1812 
Har. Pa. 20, 21 
Br. General W. H. Harrison Sir : 
Your letters of July 28th & 12th [see above] Instant have been received. Herewith inclosed you will receive the appointment oBrigadier General. A commission cannot be forwarded until the meeting of Congress, when the appointment will be laid before the Senate for their confirmation.[Confirmed Dec. 2, 1812] 
The western frontier of Indiana and Illinois will be embraced in your Command, extending to a cooperation \^ith General Hull [Hull had surrendered 6 days before] in Canada & with Governor [Benjamin] Howard in the jMissouri Territorj^ at such points as in your opinion the public Service may require. It is desirable that you should correspond & consult with the Governors of Illinois & IMissouri, relative to military operations within their Territories. The Regular Troops, Rangers & Recruits in those Territories are subject to such disposition as you may please to direct. You will be governed by the movements of the Indians, & the operations of the Enemy in the Vicinity, according to your own discretion & the ordei-s you may hereafter receive.; 
Thomas Buford Esq. Depy. Commissary at Lancaster Kyi [2] has been furnished with funds & will be directed to make such purchases as you may order. Major [Thomas] ]Maii;en, Military Storekeeper, & Lieut.[James W.] Bryson, Asst. Depr. Qr. Master at Newport will be notified of your appointment & made subject to your orders. Copies of the contracts within your command are herewith inclosed. Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department August 22d, 1812 
Har. Pa. 22 
Br. General Wm. Harrison Sir 
I have the honor to inform you that the President has been pleased to appoint you a Brigadier General in the Army of the United States. 
Chambers to Proctor 
Detroit 24th August 1812 
Wood, Canadian War of 1812, 498 
Sir 
In conformity to your Orders I on the 19th Instant proceeded in a Batteau to the River au Raisins at which place I arrived on the following day. on my arrival I met with Captain [Matthew] Elliott of the Essex Militia, who had collected and Embarked all the Arms, and secured such Stores as remained in the House of Mr. Lascelles, I then Effectually destroyed the Two Block Houses, which were surrounded by a Strong Stoccade and capable of Making a vigorous Resistance : this with my Instructions assured the Inhabitants of the Effectual Protection of his Majestys Government. But it is with Extreme Mortification I feel myself compelled to state, that notwithstanding every Effort on my Part, to Insure it to them so strong was the disposition on the part of the Indians in Particular the Wyandotts, to Pillage Ravage and destroy, that I could not Succeed, scarcely a House in that Settlement having escaped Pillage. Indeed it was an Universal scene of desolation. You may Easily conceive Sir with what repugnance to my feelings, I was constrained to Witness Scenes so disgraceful to Humanity and which I do not Hesitate to say might have been in a great Measure prevented had the Proper officers Exerted the Necessary Controul, but I am Compelled by a Sense of duty to state that it was with the Utmost difficultj% I could prevail on any of them to interfere and when they did it was with so little Interest it was of no avail. I must however in Justice to Major [Alexander] McKee say that He exerted himself to put a Stop to scenes so shocking and disgusting. The Next Morning I proceeded to the Foot of the Rapids of the Miamis to accomplish the Object of my Mission. I then saw the Block House destroyed and Embarked the Public property found. I am sorry to say the same Ravages took place there as at the River au Raisins notwithstanding my utmost Efforts to prevent it. It affords me great pleasure to say that the Conduct of Tecumthe the Shawanoe Warior and Round Head of the Wyandotts, was such as to reflect on them the Highest Honor. I enclose a retuni of the property found. I omitted to mention that the Indians nuirdcred and Scalped one of the Canadians who belonged to the Gun Boat Commanded by Lt. Bender and fired three Shots at another. I have the Honor to be Sir, 
Your Most Obedient, Humble Servant 
Peter Latouche Chambers Major & Capt.41st Rt. To General Proctor 
General Orders 
Headquarters, August 28, 1812 
McAfee, The Late War, 118 
The troops \\\\\ continue their march in the direction of Dayton by the way of Lebanon, at an early hour on to-morrow morning. The commandants of the several corps will at every convenient opportunity commence drilling their men to the performance of the evolutions, contemplated by the commander in chief for the order of march and battle. The principal feature in all these evolutions, is that of a battalion changing its direction, by swinging round on its centre. This however is not to be done by wheeling, which by a large body in the woods, is impracticable. It is to be performed thus: the battalion being on its march in a single rank, and its centre being ascertained, the front division, comes to the right about, excepting the men in the rear of that division, who steps two feet to the right ; at the same time the front man of the second division, takes a position about six feet to the left of the man in the rear of the front division, and dresses with him in a line at right angles to the line of march. These two men acting as markers or guides for the formation of the new alignment, at the word "form the new alignment — march," the men of the front, file round their guide and form in succession on his right. At the same time the men of the rear division, file up in succession to the left of the guide, and dress in a line with him and the guide of the front division. This manoeuvre may be performed by any number of men — by company and platoon as well as by battalion. Wm. H. Harrison, Maj. Gen. Commanding 
Gibson to HARGROMi: 
ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory, August 28, 1812 
Cockrum, Pioneer Hisionj, o59 
Colonel Wm. Hargrove,' 
Commanding INIounted Ranger of Indiana Territory: General Hull ingloriously and cowardly surrendered Detroit and two thousand troops to the British on the 15th inst. It is feared that this success on the part of the Biitish will cause the Indians who have been apparently friendly to go to their standard. There is no doubt of the ultimate outcome of this war, but there seems to be much incompetency in high places. John Gibson, Acting Governor 
Shelby to Haerison 
Frankfort, Ky., Aug. 28, 1812 
From Govoiwr Isaac Shclbi/'s "Letter Book A'\ page 1 
His Excellency, 
William H. Harrison Dear Sir: 
Since you left here and my having given orders for the rendezvous of the two regiments under the command of Col. Jennings and Barbee to be at Ne\^^3ort, from an inspection of Gov. I have been influenced also to adopt this course from the con
1. The following incident may refer to Captain Ilarfirove: 
In the month of December, 1780, a hotly of Indians defeated a small party of whites, at the mouth of Buck creek, under the command of Captain llariirove. The Indians made their attack in the niyht, killed one inan, and severely wounded Harfrrove. An Indian, who had probably fiied his rifle, made an onset on • Captain HarKrove with his tomahawk, and a fierce encounter ensued. Each party exerted himself to the utmost. Hargrove finally succoeded in wresting the tomahawk fi-om the hand of the Indian, and bore it ofif. Collins, Kentucky, iS$ sideration that these troops can not possibly arrive in time to join your detachment or afford relief to Detroit, if it has not fallen, or if it has, as is rumored, but which there is great reason to disbelieve, it does not appear to me likely they can be marched there in time for any other operation. And this point should they be ordered on as part of a reserve toward that quarter, is but little out of their way. Should they be required to march toward the Wabash or Illinois it is also nearly in their route. Indeed it would seem to me that a pretty strong movement in one of the latter directions will become necessary, whether Detroit has fallen or not, to make a diversion and protect the territories. But it is not my intention to proceed to any definite measure without some authority on the subject, which is expected will soon be received by mail in the dispatches to you or the orders to the Governor of this State. And should these troops with others be needed to carry on offensive operations against the Indians under j^our directions, it does not appear to me how they could be employed without such direction. You will, of course, perceive th<^ necessity of an early attention to this subject as well for their destination as equipment and subsistence. To that end I shall endeavor to give you the earliest possible information received by me from the Secretary of War. With, &c., &c., 
Isaac Shelby 
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department, August 28th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 23, 2U 
Br. General Wm. H. Harrison 
Lexington, Ky. 
Sir: 
The objects of your command and of the force authorized in my Letter of the 22d Instant are to restore peace with the Indians, afford effectual protection to the whole of our Northwestern frontier, to disperse any combination of a hostile nature, to demand of the Pottawattomies, Winnebagoes, Shawoenesc, & Kickapoos the murderers of our citizens and in case of refusal or longer delay in delivering them up, to punish the Tribes to which they belong, and to aid & cooperate 
as far as may be practicable, with our other forces, particularly those under General [William] Hull.[The latter had surrendered two weeks beforeHarrison to Secretary of War 
Cincinnati 2Sth Aug. 1812 
Har. Pa. 667-071 
Sir: 
Before this reaches you a dispatch from the Governor of Kentucky to yourself and another from the Honble JMr.[Henry] Clay to the Secretary of State will have arrived at Washington communicating the circumst-ances which occasion my having the honor to address you from this place. Being at Frankfort on the 24th inst. making arrangements for the eventual march of the residue of the Kentucky quota to the Indiana and Michigan territories an express arrived at that place with dispatches for Governor [Charles] Scott containing information of Gov. Hull's being shut up in Detroit and the probability of his being obliged to surrender unless immediately relieved. Upon a consultation with Governor Scott it was thought advisable as he was the next day to go out of office, to wait the arrival of his successor Gov.[Isaac] Shelby'^ and to request the advice and assistance of all the principal public characters of the state within reach, and expresses were sent to solicit their attendance on the next day. The meeting accordingly took place, consisting of Gov. Shelby, the former Governor [Christopher] Greenup,- the speaker of the house of representatives of the U. States, [Clay] several other members of Congress, the Judges of the United States and of the Supreme courts of the State, General [Samuel] Hopkins, the Major General of the Kentucky Quota, and it was unan^nously recommended to Governor Scott to order another detacliment of the state quota to follow the one which had marched under General [John] Payne to request me to take the command of the whole and for the pui-pose of removing all difficulties to give me a commission of Major General by Brevet of the Kentucky militia. I could not permit myself to hesitate when urged by an authority so highly respectable especially when 
1. Isaac Shelby was of Welch descent, born near Haserstown, Md., Dec. 11, 1730. He served at Point Pleasant October 10, 1774, where his father. Gen. Evan Shelby, commanded, lie served throughout the Revolution, especially at King's Mountain. He was in Ky. 1775 surveyor for Henderson. He aided Harrison in every way and at the critical moment joined him at the front. Their friendship and co-operation is one of the most beautiful incidents of the war. Con:j:ress voted him a medal for the battle of the Thames. He died July 18, 1826. Collins, Kentucky, 523. Lewis Collins, the historian, served under him.2. For a biography of Gov. Christopher Greenup see Collins, Kentucky, 33i. 
assured by the lai'ge concourse of citizens from all parts of the state, who had collected on account of the inauguration of the new Governor that it was the unanimous wish of the people of Kentucky that I should do so. Before I left Frankfort Gov. Shelby urged the propriety of sending one regiment more to Newport than was at first intended, And fearing of the fall of Detroit, a few miles from that place (Frankfort) sent back and recommended still another. My command then consists of three regiments of Kentucky troops Col. [Samuel] Wells' detachment and a troop of twelve months' volunteers making an aggregate of about two thousand one hundred men at this place, and three regiments of Infantry, five troops of Dragoons, and five hundred mounted volunteer riflemen on their way to join me. Those that first arrive will not however be here before the 30th inst. and it will be impossible to get them from here for some days after. Until this day I had some hope that the account of the fall of Detroit was not true. But a letter which was received a few hours ago from Messrs. [Thomas] Worthington^ and [Return J.]Meigs* by Col. Wells leaves no longer room for doubt. Three persons of the quartermaster department have returned to Piqua who were in Detroit when it was surrendered. The object of the letter from Messrs. Worthington and Meigs w^as to request Col. Wells to hasten his march and to take the route by Dayton and Piqua rather than the direct one to Urbanna, for the purpose of relieving Fort Wayne, which was said to be in danger of an immediate attack. By a gentleman who has this moment arrived from Piqua the taking of Chicago and the massacre of the garrison is also put beyond doubt. Poor [William] Wells has also perished in endeavouring to save Capt.[Nathaniel] Heald with his company. I shall march tomorrow moniing with the troop that I have here taking the route of [ ?]and Piqua. The relief of Fort Wayne will be my first object and my after operations will be governed by circumstances until I receive your directions. Considering my command as merely provisional, I shall cheerfully conform to any other arrangement which the Government may think proper to make. The troops which I havwith me and those wliich are coming on from Kentucky arc perhaps the best materials for foiTning an army that the world has produced. But no equal number of men were ever collected who knew so little of military discipline. Nor have I any assistant who can give me the least aid in training them (if even there were time for it) but Capt.[Nathaniel F.] Adams of the 4th Regiment who was left here sick and whom I have appointed Deputy Adjutant General until the pleasure of the President can be known. He is well qualified and I hope the appointment will be confiiTned. You may rely Sir on my utmost exertions. But the confusion which exists in every Department connected with the army is such as can only be expected from men who are perfectly new to the business they are engaged in. No arms for cavalry have yet arrived at New Port and I shall be forced to put muskets in the hands of all the dragoons. I have written to the quarter-master at Pittsburgh to request him to forward all the supplies of arms, equipments and quartermasters' stores as soon as possible. I have also requested him to send do^\^l four or five pieces of artillery without waiting for your orders and expect your instructions as to further number. There is but one piece of artillery an iron four pounder anywhere that I can hear of in this country. If it is intended to retake the Posts we have lost and reduce Maiden this season the artillery must be sent on as soon as possible. There is no longer a possibility of getting money for drafts in this country. The paymaster (Genl.[James] Taylor's deputy) still continues to act. I have been obliged to agree with the bank here (called the Miami Exporting Company) that the U. States shall be at the expence and risk of sending on the specie for the drafts that are now given for the pay of the troops that are coming on and for the quarter master's department. I think it proper however to state that until very lately General Taylor has made the bank pay a premium of one and one and a half per centum on all his bills. I will obtain a particular statement from the bank in order that he may be charged with it. Permit me to recommend that the monies received here by the Receiver of the Land office be deposited in the bank of the Miami Exporting Company. It is now sent to Lexington and the bank here is quite as safe as that of Lexington. I herewith enclose a receipt of the Surgeon and another of the quarter master of the regiment which is gone to Vincennes for supplies furnished  
them. The bonds given by the paymaster and quarter master were found after they came into my possession not to have been witnessed. They were sent on to Vincennes to have the mistake rectified and will be forwarded to the war office. I write this, Sir, under the inconvenience of considerable interruptions. When I advance a few days I will do myself the honor to communicate all the information which I receive, my opinion of the state of affairs, and submit the result of my reflections. as to the course to be pursued. With sentiments of Respect I have the honor to be Sir, Yr. 
Obt. Servt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honble. William Eustis esqr. Secretary of War 
John Gibson Alien Residents 
Territory op Indiana Secretaries Office, Vincennes, August 28, 1812 
Western Sun, Oct. 20, 1812 
For the information of those concerned, I publish, subjoined hereto, in obedience to orders received from the department of state, two acts of Congress, the one entitled "An act respecting alien enemies" approved sixth July, one thousand seven hundred and ninety eight — the other "An act supplementary to the act entitled 'An act, respecting alien enemies' " approved sixth July, eighteen hundred and twelve. It is moreover required by these orders that all British subjects within this territory make forthwith, to the undersigned, their respective reports in writing, in which shall be truly stated: their age; the time they have been in the United States or in this territory; the persons composing their families ; the places of their residence, and their occupations and pursuits ; and at what time, if ever, they applied to the courts preparatory^ to their natui'alization. For the county of Knox, these reports must be made personally to the undersigned ; but for the accommodation of those who reside at a distance, I have appointed the following persons to receive them : 
For the county of Harrison, John Plurst. For the county of Clark, James Lemon. For the county of Jefferson, John Pauh 
For the county of Dearborn, James Dill. For the county of Franklin, Jas. Noble. For the county of Wayne, Geo. Hunt. These gentlemen will please transmit to this office, every week by mail, the reports which they may receive, carefully retaining copies thereof. John Gibson, Acting Governor 
Brock to Lord Liverpool 
Upper York, Canada, Aug. 29, 1812 
Wood, Canadian War of 18r2, 508 
[To Lord Liverpool] 
Among the Indians whom I found at Amherstburg, and who had arrived from distant parts of the country, I found some extraordinary characters. He who attracted most my attention was a Shawnee chief, Tecumset, brother to the Prophet, who for the last two years has carried on (contrary to our remonstrances) an Active Warfare against the United States — a more sagacious or a more gallant Warrior does not I believe exist. He was the admiration of every one who conversed with him: from a life of dissipation he is not only become, in every respect, abstemious but has likewise prevailed on all his nation and many of other Tribes to follow his example. They appear determined to continue the contest until they obtain the Ohio for a boundary. The United States Government is accused, and I believe justly, of having corrupted a few dissolute characters w^hom they pretended to consider as chiefs and with whom they contracted engagements and concluded Treaties, which they have attempted to impose on the whole Indian race. Their determined opposition to such ficticious and ruinous pretensions, which if admitted would soon oblige the Indians to remove beyond the Mississippi, is the true ground of their enmity against the Americans. The jealousy with which they view the British Merchants continue their commercial intercourse with the Indians has likewise been attended with serious inconvenience. Under the difficulty the Merchant experienced few goods could bo introduced into the interior, and their own measures, the operation of the non intercourse, pr  
eluded even their own people from furnishing the Indians with clothing of the first necessity'-. The consequence has been fatal to many. Deprived of amnmnition the poor Indian vi^as unable to provide the necessary quantity of food or even cover his nakedness with the skins of animals. The Armistice concluded between His Excellency L. Gen. Sir George Prevost and General Dearborne, has suspended all active operations. However wise and politic the measure must be admitted to be, the Indians who cannot enter into our views Vvdll naturally feel disheartened and suspicious of our intentions. Should hostilities recommence I much fear the influence the British posses over them will be found diminished : no efl;ort however of mine shall be wanting to keep them attached to our cause. If the condition of this people could be considered in any future negotiation for peace, it would attach them, to us forever. The reinforcements lately arrived from the Lower Province places this portion of the country beyond the likelihood of an attack. The enemy must encrease his present force considerable before he can hazard an Invasion with a view of keeping possession of the country.[Extract] I have the honor to be, My Lord &.& 
(Signed) Isaac Brock M. C. & President 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
Cincinnati Opiio 29th August 1812 
Har. Pa. 872-S75 
Sir: 
I did myself the honor to write to you yesterday and dispatch the letter [see above] by an express hoping that he would be able to overtake the mail at Chilicothe. The troops marched this morning for Piqua. I shall follow and overtake them tomorrow. Another letter was received from Genl.[Thomas] Worthing-ton last night covering one from Capt.[James] Rhea^ of Fort Wayne stating that a large body of 
1. James Rhea of New Jersey joined the army as a Lieut, in 1791 ; promoted to captaincy in 1807 and resigned by re<iuest Dec. 31, 1812. He toolc command at Fort Wayne in 1810, succocding Nathaniel Heald who was transferred to Fort Dearborn. He was accused of drunkenness and seems to have been a poor soldier. Harrison arrested him but permitted him to resi^jn and escape a couit-maitial. Griswold, Fort Waipic, Index 
Indians were thci-e and he expected to be attacked that night. I shall lose not a moment in marching to his relief and I think it more than pro1)able that we shall have to encounter all the Indians who assisted at the taking of Detroit, those to whom Chicago was surrendered and a veiy large number of others who will be induced by the same fame of these exploits to join the hostile party. Permit me to recommend that a considerable supply of tents, swords and pistols, camp kettles, cartridge boxes, rifles, flints, and artificers tools of every description be fonvarded immediately as well as the artillery and eveiy species of ordnance stores. Medicine, instruments and hospital stores of every description will also be wanted for the large force which it will require to reinstate our affairs upon the northwestern fronter. It is impoilant I think that some disciplined troops should also be sent here. A company or two of aililleiy and an experienced engineer will be indispensible. I have caused a traveling forge to be purchased and ammunition waggons are now building. It appeared to me Sir, necessary that some one should undertake the general direction of affairs here and I have done it. The critical situation in this country in my opinion, authorized a departure from the conmion line of proceedure (to wait for orders) and should it be considered by the Government to have been improper I shall I hope be pardoned for the purity of my motives. You may rely upon it Sir that the western country was never so agitated by alarm and mortification as at this time. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir, Yr. Humb. SeiTt. William Henry Harrison 
The Honble William Eustis Esqr. Secretary of War 
P. S. I must again obsei'\^e that considering my situation provisional only I shall cheerfully acquiesce in any arrangement which the President may make and shall not think that I have the least right to complain at being removed from it. There is no direct mail from Chilicothe to Piqua. Letters to me therefore should be sent from the former by express. Received Louisville 21st August 1812. of Gov. William Henry Harrison nineteen kegs gun powder containing one thousand pounds and thirty camp kettles for which I have signed dupUcate receipts. Tho. S. Wingate Quartermaster 8th Regt.. 
Received Louisville 22d August 1812 of Govern. William Henry Harrison three casks and a box containing the following articles viz.10 gallons vinegar 101" sugar 20 chocolate 1" gingers 1" allspice 5" tea and 13-'^,4 Gallons French Brandy for which I have sigTied duplicate receipts. J. A. Wright Thomas B. Charlton Surgeon 8th Regt. Kentucky M. 
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department August 30th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 25, 26 
Sir: 
Since my Letters of the 22d & 28th Listant inofficial accounts have been received of the defeat of General Hull & of the surrender of the important post of Detroit. This disaster opens a new scene and may require a change in your operations. Fort Dearborn with our other Posts, will claim your attention. You will extend your eye over all the circumstances, & communicate with General [James] Winchester, or officer commanding the Troops from Kentucky. It is left to your discretion to join him with any part of the force under your Command, and to afford such other aid and cooperation as may be in your power. Br. General Wm. H. Harrison Lexington, Ky. 
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department Sept. 1, 1812 
Har. Pa. 27 
Sir: 
It is the determination of the President to regain the ground which has been lost by the Surrender of Detroit & the army under General Hull, and to prosecute with increased vigor the important object of the campaign. The protection of the Frontier claims a primary attention. After having provided effectually for the security of the frontier of the Territories, and provided a competent officer can be found to execute the 
10— 2266i command lately designated for you, it is extremely desirable that you should join General Winchester, commanding the Troops destined to reinforce General Hull, with a force from Kentucky, as large as circumstances may permit. In case you shall not be able to join him, you will by your movements cooperate with him as far as may be in your power. A field Officer of the Artillery is dispatched to Pittsburg to forward ammunition and other supplies. A Reinforcement of Fifteen hundred men from the State of Pennsylvania, and of the same number from Virginia has been ordered to join General Winchester. Efforts are also making to obtain the command of the Lakes. By the mail of this Evening I have time only to add the Respect with which I am &c. 
Br. General, Wm. Pa. 680 
Fellow-Citizens 
At a moment like this I appeal to your valor and patriotism. for a short expedition. Genl. All those who will embrace this favorable opportunity of distinguishing themselves under an able commander, and of rendering to the state of Ohio a valuable service, will in their equipments and movements follow the directions of General Harrison hereto subjoined. R. J. Meigs Gov. Those brave men who may give their sei-vices on this occasion may be assured that an opportunity of disti  
guishing themselves will be afforded. I shall command the expedition in person ; and the number of troops employed will be entirely adequate to the object proposed. I wish also to hire a number of substantial horses. Fifty cents per day will be allowed for each horse which is provided with saddle and bridle. Those patriotic citizens who are unable to afford their personal subsistance, will render essential service to their country by furnishing the horses, which must be delivered in Dayton on the 14th inst. to a person who will be authorized to receive and receipt for them. William Henry Harrison 
McJuNKiN Ferriage 
September 1812 
Mss. in Indiana State Library 
The Genl Government Dr to John McJunkin for ferriage of 120 men called into actual service by Genl Gibson on the 9th day of Sept 1812 $15-00 
The above acct is Due to John McJunkin 
Certified By RoBT. M. Evans Col 4th Regt I. M. 
September 11 1812 
Thi is too seryfy that John McJonkin has Freid my Company 
Concinting of Eighteen Men and horse given onder my hand 
Thos Spencer C'pt^ September the 03 
This is to certify that Jhon McJunkin at a nother time ferried all men more of My men and horses on thare way to the army at vincins givin under my hand this day and date above mentined 
Thos Spencer Cpt 
Crosed at Mr John McJunkin ferry Twelve Melition men under my Command on a tower of Duety in Pesuance to an order to me Directed for Which I Sartify that no Ferage was Paid in Testimony Where of I have hercun to Set my hand and Seal this 13th Day of Sept 1812 
Samuel R. Morris Capt 3th B Wi R I. S. MHarrison to Secretary of War 
PiQUA (On the Big Miami) 3d Sept. 1812 
Har. Pa. 676-679 
Sir: 
Your favor of the 22d ultimo [see above] with the accompanying packets reached me yesterday by an express from Lexington. I am honored and gi'atified by the appointement which the President has confered upon me and I must request you, Sir, to present to him my sincere aclaiowledgements for this renewed instance of his confidence in my zeal and patriotism. Under present circumstances however, I trust I shall be forgiven for postponing my decision as to the acceptance of the appointment until I receive your further instructions. My letter to you from Cincinnati ^^ill have explained my situation here, and the information of the fall of Detroit will no doubt, have caused other arrangements than those which were in contemplation when your letter was written. I have therefore thought it advisable not to vary the destination of that part of the Kentucky troops which you were informed was coming on in aid of the detachment which marched under Genh [John] Pa\me, which appears from a letter received from Genl.[James] Winchester to be consigned to him. I arrived here on the 1st inst. I found the whole country in dreadful alami on account of the fall of Detroit and Chicago and the supposed investiture of Fort Wayne by the Indians. Seven hundred mounted volunteers had been assembled for the purpose of relieving it and had advanced as far as the St. IMary's twenty five miles from this, but they have after several ineffectual attempts by the commissioners [R. J. Meigs, Thomas Worthington, Jeremiah Morrow] to get them in advance, at length declined it until they could be reinforced. As soon as this was ascertained I dispatched an express for [Col. John] Allen's^ select rifle regiment (one of Payne's brigade) and it has this moment arrived. John Allen was born in RockbridRe Co., Va., Dec. 30, 1772. Came with his parents to Ky. and settled near Danville, 17S0. Educated at Bardstown and in 1S12 was practicini?law at Shelbyville. He was one of the leading men of Ky. when he was killed at the Raisin. Collins, Kentucky, ICS  
troop of Dragoons, and endeavour to force his way to Ft. Wayne. His force will amount to jfifteen hundred men, and I hope will be fully equal to the dispersion of the Indians. It is however impossible to ascertain their force. Every attempt which has been made to reach Fort Wayne by the Commissioners for some days past has been ineffectual even with the assistance of the friendly Indians at this place. I should have increased Allen's force with another regiment at least, but for the want of fixed ammunition. Upon my arrival at Cincinnati I found but 12,000 cartriges and the troops had been put in motion without any means being adopted to procure a supply other than that of the arsenal which yielded from 1000 to 1500 per diem only. On Sunday last, however, the citizens of Cincinnati offered me their service to make cartridges and I left them progressing rapidly. On Monday evening last I am informed 12,000 set out as I had directed in a light waggon. They have however not yet arrived. When they do arrive another detachment will be sent after Col. Allen and the remaining part of Payne's brigade will follow on the same route as far as the St. Mary's I have ordered Allen to reconnoitre to a considerable distance in his front with mounted men and should he discover that the enemy are superior in number to his troops to fortify a camp and send back to apprise Genl. Payne or Winchester (who will be here tomorrow) of his situation. Upon a reference to the Commissioners to ascertain the disposition of the Indians towards us I am informed that all but these who are here must be considered hostile excepting the Miamis who are still wavering. I have therefore determined to commence offensive operations against them immediately and to make a sweeping blow at them beginning with the prophet at Tippecanoe and extending it up that river to the villages of the Potawatimies upon it and the head waters of the Illinois. The lateness of the season makes it necessary that it should be done by mounted men, unincumbered with any other baggage than what they carry upon their horses. I calculate upon a sufficiency of men being obtained of that desciiption who will serve thirty days with no other reliance for pay than the bounty of the Government. I am unable, at this moment to give you the particulars of my plan for this expedition and the arrangements for the other pai't of the frontiers. My rendezvous is fixed at Dayton on the 15th instant and my route such an one as gives me great hopes of effecting a complete surprise which could not be expected either down the Wabash from Fort Wayne or up it from Vincennes. With regard to my own situation, Sir, I assure you the rank of Brigadier is highly gratifying to me, but as the object for which Genl. Winchester was ordered to take the command of this detachment is now unattainable and as my judgment points out the propriety of commencing my operations from this quarter I wish to know how far I am to be subordinate to him in the main design of regaining our lost territory and retaking Maiden. There is in my opinion a necessity of having one head in the western country to direct all the military movements. It might perhaps be presumption in me to compare my military information with that of Genl. Winchester and his extreme amiableness of character will insure him respect and esteem where he is known. But that happens not to be the case either in this state or Kentucky. The backwoodsmen are a singular people. They are susceptible of the most heroic achievements but they must be taken in their own way. From their affection and attachment everything may be expected but I will venture to say they never did nor never will perform anything brilliant under a stranger. I will venture to add another thing also. No general can act in this country without a personal knowledge of the country. Beyond the survey there is no map that can at all be relied upon. I acknowledge that I have no other claim to the command beyond that of other brigadiers but what may be supposed to arise from personal influence in the states which are to supply the troops, and knowledge of the country in which I have risen from the youngest ensign in my regt. to the command of an army. I wait for your further orders, those which the state of things so different from what was supposed when your last letter was written requires. It is unnecessary to state to you Sir, that with General Hull's army were captured all the heavy artillery and almost all the ordnance stores in the western country and that the arsenal at Newport is entirely deficient in many essential equipments. I am with great respect Sir your Humble Servt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honble. Wm. Eustis Esqr. Secretary of War  
Shelby to Secretary of War 
Frankfort Ky. September 5tli, 1812 
McAfee, The Late War, 112-117 
Sir— 
In a government possessing the same extent of territory as that of the United States, with her inhabitants scattered and detached, and organized as it is, that energy cannot be exercised as in governments more compact. Impressed with the truth of the preceding fact, and being called by my fellow citizens to fill the executive department of the government of this state, and having entered on the duties of the important station, I feel it a duty incumbent on me, to state to you, sir, my ideas on the subject of war measures northwest of the Ohio river. When the northwestern army, commanded by general Hull, marched, all western America were flattered with the hope of success ; too soon have we experienced a reverse, and that hope which beamed in every countenance a few days since, is now followed by astonishment, by mortification and anxiety, arising from a rapid succession of misfortunes, unknown in the annals of our historical events. The surrender of the foii; of Michilimacanac and its garrison — Detroit and the army commanded by general Hull — the evacuation of Chicago, and the murder of the garrison, on the way from thence to fort Wayne by the Indians, are distressing facts. The Indians, thus elated with success, encouraged and supported by the British from Canada, will now endeavour to extend their savage and barbarous devastations, along the extensive frontier of the state of Ohio, and the several territories, unless checked by the detachment of militia lately ordered from this state by my predecessor, and the regular troops who have marched under colonel [Samuel] Wells. It is believed from information received from various sources, that the Indians are collecting in force, at several points from Lake Michigan to the Mississippi river, with intent to make vigorous attacks on both the Indiana and Illinois territories; and should they be successful in a direction toward Vincennes, we shall, I fear, for a time have the Ohio river for a barrier, from the mouth of Kentucky to the junction of Ohio and the Mississippi. To regain possession of the posts on the waters of the Lakes will require time; but in the mean while, to sto]) the invasion of the enemy is all important to the welfare of our common country. It is expected that the troops which have jnarched, and are now marching from this state, the state of Ohio and Indiana territoiy, will be so arranged by governor Harrison, in whom they have great confidence, as to protect the great extent of frontier, and to act offensively likewise, if properly supplied with provisions and other necessaries. It is not to be expected from the success our Indian enemy have met with, and the aid they will receive from the British, that they will be subdued this campaign; they are elated and will act with more vigor, and be more determined than usual. To subdue them is the important question. The time of the present detachment of militia now in service, will expire next February; to keep the enemy in check, it is conjectured their places will be supplied by troops of a similar description, ready to take the field next spring at as early a period as the nature of the country in which they will have to act, and other circumstances will justify the measure. To march an army at a critical moment to act offensively, is an object ever to be desired, and on such movements the success of the campaign often depends. So remote is the scene of war in western America from the seat of the general government, and so various are the measures to be pursued, which are to guide an army to honor and success, against a subtle wary enemy; it appears to mo impossible for the President to adopt with certainty, a line of operations to be observed by any officer, appointed to command in this section of the United States: however skilful the commander, and however judicious the arrangements may be at the moment when made, circumstances often occur which render a change necessary. On an emergency of this kind, to be compelled to have recourse to the war department, forward a statement of facts, and receive an answer, will not only greatly retard the movements of an army, but may wholly defeat the desired object. From the same source other causes may arise, which will often delay the marching of an army, perplex both oflicers and soldiers, have a tendency to disgust men with the service, and in a long tedious war render it difilcult for government to call forth those resources, which the exigency of the case may require. 
The cases here alluded lo, will arise from occurrences which it will be impossible for you to correct in due time; and which have come "within n\y own observation in times past. Inattention, or any other mi,:conduct, in quarter masters, contractors, commissai'ios and paymasters, or either of them, in the western country, so distant from you, may produced irremediable misfortune. The circumstances which lead me to these reflections, arise from the delay Avhich took place in marching the first detachment of the militia from this state, under general [John] Payne. Notwithstanding- the emergency of the case required the utmost promptitude, being intended to succour general Hull ; yet every thing nccessarj'- for their equipment, except arms and ammunition, was purchased and prepared after marching orders were issued ; and the dispatch at last is greatly to be attributed to the exertion of individuals; nay, even the patriotic spirit of the ladies in making markees and tents. Although it would have been impossible for this army, under any arrangements to have reached Detroit in time to have relieved gcnei-al Hull — yet, if it had not been detained at Georgetown and Newport, waiting for the necessary supplies at both places, possibly by forced marches the garrison at Chicago might have been saved. I am not disposed to find fault with any arrangement which has been made, nor with any officer of any department of the government; yet, when important facts occur they ought to be made known, and the evil in future prevented. When the orders issued for calling into actual service, three regiments of this state's quota of the 100,000 militia, they were promised two months pay at the place of rendezvous. This I am informed was complied with. In two or three days after these regiments marched from Georgetown, a requisition was made for the residue of this state's quota : Three regiments of infantry and about 300 cavalry have marched to join general Payne; and three otiier regiments have crossed the Ohio below into the Indiana and Illinois Territories. These troops are certainly entitled to every compensation and equipment, which those first ordered into se)'vice received ; — yet, I am induced to believe, they have not received the two months pay in advance, nor scarcely any other article of equipment to make them comfortable, and protect them from the inclemency of the weather, nor hospital stores. Such is the fact as respected two regiments, and the cavalry, that passed this place. Men who engage for so long a tour as six months, arc compelled to expend money for necessary articles of clothing, and the cavalry in considerable addition to that of the infantry. Many thousand dollars of debts have been contracted, under a confidence that two months pay in advance would be made to the whole of the militia, when called into actual service. Both debtors and creditors have been disappointed, except as to the three first regiments; which has occasioned murmurings and discontent — a circumstance to be regretted, not only as it respects the soldiers and their creditors, but as to the effect it may have on a future call of the militia. To aid the great objects of the government in arranging and carrying on the necessary war measures, is the duty of every American citizen ; but more especially is it the duty of those characters who are selected in the several states, to carrj'- into eft'ect the executive departments thereof. Since coming to my present office, I have seriously reflected on the present situation of our northwestern frontiers, and am induced to believe, that unless some change of measures is adopted, the objects of the President as contemplated at present, will be defeated, however wisely planned, much blood be spilt unnecessarily, immense sums of money improperly spent and, what I most apprehend and dread, a dissatisfaction among our citizens to the great cause, from some of the reasons heretofore assigned. To remedy the mischiefs apprehended, I will take the liberty of suggesting to the President, the propriety of appointing a board of respectable characters, resident in the western country, responsible to him, in any way which it shall be his pleasure to direct, with power to call into service, under the laws of Congress, the militia which may be required, from time to time, from the states of Kentucky, Ohio, and the territories of Indiana and Illinois, to direct their operations either of offence or defence, to require from the war department all the munitions of war necessary for the supply of the troops, and all necessary equipments, to have the controul over the subordinate agents of the war department, within the district assigned and to make it the duty of the boai'd to report to the departments of war, from time to time, the measures by them adopted. 
Proclamation 
Har. Pa. 682 
Whereas the United States are now at War with Great Britain whose forces are aided by savages of the most  
ferocious nature and the frontiers of the state of Ohio are exposed to their cruelties and dopivdations as well as to the machinations of Traitors and Spies — creating discontent among our citizens and giving to our enemies information of our situation, forces and movements. In order therefore (as far as lays m our power) to prevent such Cruelties, machinations, treachery and spying — I issue this proclamation, EXHORTING all the citizens and inhabitants of the state of Ohio to the strict olxservance of all their duties as such; requiring all militaiy ollicers according to their rank to be strict, in their attention to the Discipline, Arms and Order of all those under their command, and to hold themselves in constant readiness for active service. Also requiring all magistrates, conservators of the peace, and all civil officers and others, to be vigilant in the apprehension examination, and commitment of all such traitors or spies, in order that they may be dealt with according to law. R. J. Meigs Governor of Ohio 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
PiQUA 5th Sept. 1812 
Har. Pa. 6S3, 68A 
Sir: 
I have the honor to inform you that I received information last night that a British [illegible] on the 18th ultimo for the purpose of attacking Fort Wayne and if successful Fort Harrison and Vincennes. I had yesterday dispatched a detachment of 900 choice men to join the mounted men of this state which are in advance and proceed to relieve Fort Wayne from the attack of the neighbouring Indians. I am now engaged in preparing cartridges and boring touch holes of the muskets all of which are too small and to some guns there are none. I shall set out early by tomorrow and bj^ forced marches overtake the detachment. I had intended to have given up this command to General Winchester and have written to him to that effect. The situation of Fort Wayne however admits of no alternative. I have invited him to join me or to bring up the troops in the rear. From the information received since I wrote you there is little doubt but all the Indians (JMiamis included) will participate in the attack of Fort Wayne. Having succeeded in relieving it, I shall be governed by circumstances. I have conveyed the above Intelhgence by express to Vincennes and requested the Governor of Kentucky to send mounted volunteers there to reinforce the two Regiments now there. I have also requested a Reinforcement to be sent to Kaskaskias. I have the Honor to be with much Respect your obt. Svt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison The Honble. William Eustis Esqr. Secty. of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War Head Quarters Sept. 6th 1812 (At Piqua) 
Har. Pa, 685 
Sir: 
I have this day drawn upon you in favor of Mr. John H. Piatt^ purchasing commissary appointed by Genl. Hull five bills of one thousand dollars each for which I have taken duplicate receipt for the purpose of completing the purchase of supplies and transporting them to the army. One of the duplicate receipts enclosed. I am respectfully, WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
Honble. William Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 
H. Qrts. Piqua 6th Sept. 1812 
Har. Pa. 6S6 
Reed, from Genl. Willm. H. Harrison five drafts of one thousand dollars each bearing date herewith on the Secy, of War for the purchase of supplies for the N. Western Army. John H. Piatt Purchasing Commissary 
Hd. Qrts. Piqua Sept. 7th 1812 
Har. Pa. 687 
Received from Genl. Wm. H. Harrison a draft in my favor for one thousand dollars for the purpose of procuring equipment &c. for the public service. Jesse Hunt [See next letter] 
1. John H. Piatt was a ilcsccnclant of a Huguenot family which came to America about 1740. Four of them served in the Revolution from N. J. Capt. William Piatt was killed at St. Clair's Defeat. Two other sons of the cmiKrant came with Symmes to North Bend. John H. Piatt was a younger brother. He was one of the wealthiest men of Cincinnati at the time and became a contractor for the army. He lost his entire foitune and died a pau))cr. His lonjc struRKle with the government to recover his losses are recorded in the Annals of Congress.,^ Howe, Hist. Col. of Ohio 11, 05  
Harrison to Secretary of War 
PiQUA 7th Sept. 1812 
Har. Pa. 688 
Sir: 
As it is supposed from the situation in which Genl.[James] Taylor^ is placed that he can no longer act as agent and paymaster in the district of Cincinnati I beg leave to recommend for that appointment Mr. Jesse Hunt of Cincinnati who has been a resident and merchant of that place for twenty years. He possesses a very large property and has as extensive credit as any merchant of that flourishing towTi. I am persuaded that the appointment of Mr. Hunt will be very advantageous to the public interests. I have employed him to hire a number of horses for an expedition and have drawn in his favour for one thousand dollars to procure the equipment.[See above] 
I am respectfully Sir, with great regard Yr. Humble. Servt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
P. S. Govr. Meiggs recommended Mr. Hunt to me (Before I thought of him) as the most proper person in the state for the appointment above mentioned. The Honble The Secretary of War 
Shelby to Thomas Buford 
Frankfort, Ky., September 7, 1812 
Reg. of Ky. State Hist. Soc, VIII, 15 
oiR : 
I am requested by Governor Harrison to direct you to forward supplies of provisions of every kind that compose the ration, to Vincennes for two regiments of the Kentucky Detached Militia ; and all the supplies in the upper part of the State to Cincinnati, and provide also the means of transport from thence to the head of the settlements in the direction of Fort Wayne, of which you will govern yourself accordingly. Y. Mo. Ob., 
Isaac Shelby 
1. Gen. James Taylor was born in Carolina Co., Va., Aiir.19, 1769. Came to Ky. 1781. His home was at Nowi)ort. He was <iuartcrmastcr Kcnoial under Hull and surrcntlcrcd at Detioit. When asked to help make out the capitulation i)apci. s he refused. He had not been jjarokd when this letter was written. He was one of the wealthiest men in the west. Collins, Kcntuckii, 227 Shelby to Hopkins 
Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 8th, 1812 
_ _ Reg. Ky. St a. Hist. Soc. VIII, 15 
Dear General: 
It appears from the enclosed copy of a letter which I have just received from Gen. Harrison, that great danger is apprehended from, the attack of the British and Indians upon the weak and defenseless settlements of Indiana and Illinois Territories, and particularly as to the safetj^ of Fort Harrison and Vincennes.[See Sept. 5 above] 
I have in consequence of this information, and the requisiiton of Governor Harrison, thought it proper to invite as many of my fellow citizens to volunteer their services for a short period, as will be sufficient to afford relief to that frontier, and if deemed necessary to follow the enemy to their country and lay it waste. To this end I have addressed my countrymen in a hand bill which is circulated for that purpose through all the lower and southern counties of this State, sundry copies of which are forwarded to you to disperse. From what passed between you and myself when I had the honour to see you here, I have thought proper to name you as the officer to command the expedition, which I hope, my good sir, will be agreeable to you. The situation of our countiy at this momentous crisis calls for the service of her most experienced military characters, and although this is not just such a command as I should be pleased to see you at the head of it, it is perhaps the only one in which you can serve your country this present season; but should you decline this command, be so good as to appraise General Winlock of your determination by the earliest opportunity. Should you on reflection think it most advisable to direct the rendezvous of the volunteers of the lower counties to assemble at any other place than that of Louisville and so form a union at Vincennes, you can use your own discretion, as I am not so well acquainted with the geography of the lower counties to advise you. It appears to be the wish of General Harrison that Col. [Philip] Barbour's' regiment should be followed by some 
1. Philip Barljour was liorn in Culpepper Co., Va., June 27, 1770. While young he located noar Louisville, bi<HlKr-in-law of Picsidcnt Taylor. After the death of hi. s first wife married the dauKhlor of Ccii. lloid. ins and moved to Henderson. He died  
mounted men to Kaskaskia ; you can direct as many that way from the lower counties as you may deem expedient for the security of that territory. I enclose you a hand bill just circulated through the upper counties by Governor Harrison to collect volunteers to join him; he has some object in view which I am not yet apprised of. You will have heard before this reaches you that he has been appointed a brigadier in the U. S. Army, and that Gen. Winchester is appointed to command the detachment ordered on from this State to reinforce General Hull, to wit: Payne's and Well's corps. He has left Lexington on his way to join the army. I don't know what effect this arrangement may have on the success of the expedition. I am. Etc. Isaac Shelby 


Gov. Shelby to Citizens of Kentucky 
Frankfort, September, 8, 1812 
McAfee, Histonj, 156 
Fellow-Citizens of Kentucky !I have received information from his excellency governor Harrison commanding the army northwest of the Ohio, dated the 5th inst. at Piqua, that the British and Indians had besieged fort Wayne and perhaps had taken it; [see Sept. 5 above] that it was the object of the enemy to push on to fort Harrison and Vincennes and he has required of me to leave nothing undone to relieve those places. In addition to this, information is also received, that the Indians have murdered twenty-one persons not more than twenty miles north of the Ohio [Pigeon Roost] and that a very extensive combination of savages, aided by the British from Canada, are momently expected on the frontier of Indiana and Illinois territories. With this information before us and the requisition of governor Harrison, that a number of mounted volunteers be requested to march to the aid of our suffering fellow-citizens, it is hoped that it will rouse tlie spirit and indignation of the freemen of Kentucky and induce a sufficient number of them 
while on a visit to Coryiion, Iml., Oct. 6, 1818, and is buiicil there. His son Philip N. Barbour was killed in the battle of Monterey, >Sei)t. 19, ISlfi. YouHK, Battle of the Thames, H9 
11—22664 to give their senices to their countiy for a short period on this interesting occasion. It is proposed to accept the service of such a number of mounted vohmteers as may be adequate to the defence of the said territories and if necessary, follow the enemy, and carry olTensive war into their country, and lay waste their towns. Tlie vohmteers Vv'ill rendez\ous at Louisville on the 18th daj"" of this month, with at least thirty days provisions. The whole will be commanded by major general Samuel Hopkins, an officer of great merit and experience. Should any company of volunteers not be able to rendezvous on the day appointed, they can follow on and join the army on their march. Kentuckians!ever pre-eminent for their patriotism, bravery and good conduct will, I am persuaded, on this occasion give to the world a new evidence of their love for their country, and a determination, at every hazard, to rescue their fellowmen from the murders and devastations of a cruel and barbarous enemy./n/nIsaac Shelby 
WiNLOCK TO Gibson 
Bear Grass Camp near Louisville September 8th 1812 
Mss. hid. State Libranj 
Sir, 
I have just received yours of the 5th Inst, by express — I was ordered to rendezvous at this place on the 1st Inst, with two regiments of the Kentucky Militia, but Governor Harrison has taken one of those regiments on towards Fort Wayne — 
I arrived here on the 1st with Col. Miller's regiment and expected to have found the necessary equipage for the men, and have marched on immediately' — but there was only 300 muskets — 200 pounds of powder — 20 Camp Kettles and 300 flints for upwards of Six Hundred men, which there is in this regiment, (including officers) — I have been busily engaged since my arrival, in procuring what articles were deficient — but having no public money at my command, I found great difficulty in procuring them — We have had 300 Cartridge boxes &, Cartridges for them to make. 
I think we can be ready to march on the 10th Inst.— Yon may be assured I will be at Vincenncs as soon as possible — A great many of the men say they will not cross the river unless they receive the same pay in advance that the other troops received who march'd from this State — but I am in hopes very few will be unwilling when we are ready to march 
Since writing the above I have reed, a copy of a letter from Govr. Harrison to Govr. Shelby a copy of which I herewith enclose you — 
I have the honor to be 
your Obt. Servt. I. WiNLOCK B. G. Comd. t. The Honble John Gibson 
Shelby to Gen. Hopkins 
Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 9th, 1812 
Reg. Ky. Sia. Hist. Soc. VIII, 16 
Dear Sir: 
I have received a letter from Governor Harrison of the 4th inst. stating that Major George R. Floyd was anxious to raise a battallion of mounted riflemen to march immediately to Vincennes, and the Governor requests that I would confer on the Major the necessary power to carry his wishes into effect. I do not consider myself as invested with power to issue commissions, only in the line of the militia of this State. But I very highly approve of Major Floyd's pretentions to command a battalion of the mounted volunteers that are expected to serve under you on the contemplated enterprise for the defense of the Indiana territory, etc, etc. And when the volunteers shall assemble at the place of rendezvous, you have my most cordial consent to appoint Major Floyd to command in any station under you that you deem proper. The Major is an officer whose military character and prowess in the field entitles him to great confidence and I feel no doubt but any of the volunteers will be glad to be attached to his command. I am, etc., 
Isaac Shelby Major General Samuel Hopkins General Orders H. Q. Second Crossinc, of St. Marys, Sept. 10, 1812 
McAfee, History, 12 U 
The signal for a general charge will be beating the roll. At night the officers and men will lie upon their arms and their clothes. Two or more guns firing in succession will constitute an alarm, at which the whole army will parade in the order of the encampment, which will be a hollow square, unless otherwise directed. When a sentinel discharges his gun in the night, the officer of the guard to whom he belongs, will immediately ascertain the cause; and should he have sufficient reason to believe on examination, that an enemy is near, he will cause two guns to be fired in quick succession. Should the firing proceed from an insufficient cause to give an alarm, the officer will immediately call out "all is well", which will be repeated through the army. The same shall take place upon an accidental firing in the day time. The order of battle, for a rear attack in the day time, while the army are on the march, will be so far attended to, with respect to the rear line, that the rear battalions of colonels Lewis and Allen's regiments only are to turn upon their centres, while the heads of the front battalions are to close up to the front lines, then facing from the centre, march out until they respectively gain the flanks of the front line. Should the attack be in front, the senior officer nearest the flank battalion, will judge of the propriety of bringing up that battalion to form on the flank of the front line. The 2nd battalions of colonels Lewis and Allen's regiments, will in all cases close up, as the leading battalions shall advance and make room for them. Captain Garrard's troop forming guard will also close up and act as circumstances may require. Wm. H. Harrison Miij Gen Comvianding 
Taylor to Harrison 
Fort Harrison, September 10.1812 
Historical Register H, 129, Ap. Dear sir, 
On Thursday evening the 3d instant, after retreat beating, four guns were heard to fire in the direction where two young men (citizens who resided hero) were making hay, about 400  
yards distance from the fort. I was immediately impressed with an idea that they were killed by the Indians, as the Miamies or Weas had that day informed me that the prophet's party would soon be here for the purpose of commencing hostilities; and that they had been directed to leave this place, which they were about to do. I did not think it prudent to send out at that late hour of the night to see what had become of them; and their not coming in convinced me that I was right in my conjecture. I waited until 8 o'clock next morning, when I sent out a corporal with a small party to find them, if it could be done without running too much risk of being drawn into an ambuscade. He soon sent back to inform me, that he had found them both killed, and wished to know my further orders; I sent the cart and oxen, and had them brought in and buried ; they had been each shot with two balls, scalped, and cut in the most shocking manner. Late in the evening of the 4th instant, old Joseph Lenar, [Renard] and between 30 or 40 Indians arrived from the prophet's to^nl, with a white flag; among whom were about 10 women, and the men were composed of chiefs of the different tribes that compose the prophet's party. A Shawanoe man, that spoke good English, informed me that old Lenar intended to speak to me next morning, and try to get something to eat. At retreat beating I examined the men's arms, and found them all in good order, and completed their cartridges to 16 rounds per man. As I had not been able to mount a guard of more than six privates and two non-commissioned officers, for some time past, and sometimes part of them every other day, from the unhealthiness of the company, I had not conceived ni}^ force adequate to the defence of this post should it be vigorously attacked, for some time past. As I had just recovered from a very severe attack of the fever, I was not able to be up much through the night. After tatoo I cautioned the guard to be vigilant, and ordered one of the non-commissioned officers, as the sentinels could not sec every part of the garrison, to walk round the inside during the whole night, to prevent the Indians taking any advantage of us, provided they had any intention of attacking us. About 11 o'clock I was awakened by the fii'ing of one of ''he sentinels; I sprung up, ran out, and ordered the men to tl 'i' posts; when my oi'derly serjeant (who had command of ^ ' ^pper block-house) called out that the Indians had fired th '•er block-house which contained the property of the contractor, which was deposited in the lower part, the upper having been assigned to a corpoal and 10 privates, as an alarm post. The guns had begun to fire pretty smartly from both sides. I directed the buckets to be got ready, and w^ater brought from the well, iuid the fir.- extinguished immediately, as it was hardly perceivable at that time; but from debility or some other cause, the men were very slow in executing my orders. The word fire appeared to throw the whole of them in confusion ; and by the time ihcy had got the water and broken open the door, the fire had unfortunately communicated to a quantity of whi^k':'y (the ctock having licked several holes through the lower part of the building, after the salt that was stored there, througli v. hich they had introduced the fire without being discovered, as the night was very dark), and in spite of every exertion we could make use of, in less than a moment it ascended to the roof, and baffled every effort we could make to extinguisli it. As that block-house adjoined the barracks that make part of the fortifications most of the men immediately gave themselves up for lost, and I had the greatest difficulty in getting any of my orders executed and, sir, what from the raging of the fire, the yelling and howling of several hundred Indians, the cries of nine women and children (a part of soldiers' and a part of citizens' wives, who had taken shelter in the fort) and the desponding of so many of the men, which was worse than all, I can assure you that my feelings were very unpleasant and indeed there were not more than 10 or 15 men able to do a great deal, the others being either sick or convalescent and to add to our other misfortunes, two of the stoutest men in the fort, and that I had every confidence in, jumped the picket and left us. But my presence of mind did not for a moment forsake me. I saw, by throwing off part of the roof that joiricd the block-house that was on fire, and keeping the end perfectly wet, the whole row of buildings might be saved, and leave only an entrance of 18 or 20 feet for the Indians to ento" after the house was consumed; and that a tem])orary breastwork might be erected to prevent their even entering there I convinced the men that this could be accomplished, and it a])Pf^ared to inspire them with new life, and never did men act ^vlth more firmness and despei-ation. Those that were able (wliile the others kept up a consta^fire from the other blockhouse and the two bastions) mou»d the roofs of the houses,   
witli Dr. Clarlc at their head (who acted with the greatest firiniiess and presence of mind the whole tiiue the attack lasted, Vv'liJch was seven hours) under a shower of bullets, and in less than a moment threw off as much of the roof as was necessary. This was done only with the loss of one man killed, arid two wounded, and I am in hopes neither of thsnii dangerously. The man that was killed was a little df^rangod, and did not get off the house as soon as directed, or he would not have been hurt and although the barracks were several times in a blaze, and an immense quantity of fire against them the men used such exertions that they kept it under, and before day raised a temporary breastwork as high as a man's head, although the Indians continued to pour in a heavy fire of ball and an innumerable quantity of arrows during the whole time the attack lasted, in every part of the parade. I had but one man Idlled, nor any other wounded inside the fort, and lie lost his life by being too anxious. He got into one of the gallies in the bastions, and fired over the pickets, and called out to his comrades that he had killed an Indian, and neglecting to stoop down, in an instant was shot dead. One of the men that jumped the pickets, returned an hour before day, and running up toward the gate begged for God's sake for it to be opened. I suspected it to be a stratagem of the Indians to get in, as I did not recollect the voice. I directed the men in the bastion, where I happened to be, to shoot him let him be who he would, and one of them fired at him, but fortunately he ran up to the other bastion, where they knew his voice, and Dr. Clark directed him to lie down close to the pickets behind an empty barrel that happened to be there, and at day-light I let him in. His arm was broke in a most shocking manner; which he said was done by the Indians which I suppose v., . s the cause of his returning. I think it probable he will not recover. The other the. y caught about 120 yards from tlic garrison, and cut him all to pieces. After keeping up a constant fire until about 6 o'clock the next morning, which we began to return with some efi'ect after day-light, they removed out of the reach of our guns. A party of them drove up the horses that belonged to the citizens here, and as they could not catch them very readily, shot the whole of them in our sight, as well as a number of hogs. They drove off the wh(;le of the cattle, which amounted to 65 head, as well as the public oxen. I had the vacancy filled up before night (which was made b,v the burning of the block-house) with a strong row of pickets, which I got by pulHng down the guard house. We lost the whole of our provisions, but must make out to live upon green corn until wo can get a supply, which I am in hopes will not be long. I believe the vdiole of the Miamies or Weas were among the prophet's party, as one chief gave his orders in that language, which resembled Stone Eater's voice; and I believe Negro Legs was there likewise. A Frenchman here understands their different languages, and several of the Miamies or Weas, that have been frequently here, were recognized by the Frenchman and soldiers, next morning. The Indians suffered smartly, but were so numerous as to take off all that were shot. They continued with us until the next morning, but made no further attempt on the fort, nor have we seen any thing more of them since. I have delayed mforming you of my situation, as I did not like to weaken the garrison, and I looked for some person from Vincennes, and none of my men were acquainted with the woods, and therefore would either have to take the road or river, which I was fearful was guarded by small parties of Indians that would not dare attack a company of rangers that was on a scout; but being disappointed, I have at length determined to send a couple of men by water, and am in hopes they will arrive safe. I think it would be best to send the provisions under a pretty strong escoit, as the Indians may attempt to prevent their coming. If you carry on an expedition against the prophet this fall, you ought to be well provided with everything as you may calculate on having every inch of ground disputed between this and there that they can defend with advantage. Wishing &c. &c. „ „ 
^ Z. Taylor 
Ilis Excellency Governor Harrison 
Secretary of War to Johnson 
War Department Sept. 10, 1812 
gjj,. Har. Pa. 28 
You will comply with the Requisitions of Brig. General William H. Harrison. D. II. Johnson, AhsU D. Q. M. Pittsburg Pa.  
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department Sept. 10th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 28 
Sir: 
Your letters of August 28th & 29th [see above] have been received. You will perceive by my communications of August 22d and 28th [see above] that you have anticipated the wishes of the President. In addition to the Instructions to Mr. [Thomas] Buford Deputy Commissary and to the assistant Deputy Quarter Master at Newport to furnish whatever you might require, the Asst. D. Q. Master at Pittsburg has been directed to forward with all possible expedition, arms, ammunition equipment, tents and other camp equipage. Arrangements have been made for increasing those supplies and Major [Amos] Stoddard of the Artillei-y is now at Pittsburg, to give additional enei'gy to those mcasui'cs, to pi'epare artillery & other necessary munitions for that sei'vice, & correspond with the Commanding General relative to the same. You must be sensible that to make carriages & get up a Train of Artillery will require time. You will perceive by the Act to Establish the Quarter Master's Department &c. the Officers recognized in that Act are subject to the Orders of the Commanding General for all necessary supplies, and every possible facility will be rendered by placing money in the Bank of the Miami Exporting Company, and at such other Convenient Points as may be found practicable. Brig. General Wm. H. Harrison Chilicothe Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters 17 miles from Fort Wayne Sept. 11th 1812, 9 o'clock P. M. 
Har. Pa. 689 
Sir: 
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 30th ultimo which was brought me this moment by express. The necessary arrangements for the procuring of provision and ammunition added to the trouble of establishing an issuing commissary department in consequence of the failure of our contractor has prevented me from reaching Fort Wayne as soon by one day as expected. I shall however reach it tomorrow. I have every reason to believe that it will not be without a severe contest. No information has been received from the Fort since the 3rd Inst, and should the Indians have been assisted by the British detachment I fear it would not have been able to hold out. A small detachment which I sent to endeavour to penetrate to the fort has just returned without being able to accomplish their object altho they encountered and defeated a small party of the enemy. You need not fear Sir the issues of the action which I expect will take place tomorrow, my troops are in high spirits and will I am persuaded do honor to themselves and their country. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Yr. Humb. Svt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble Willm. Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 
Philip Bardour to Gibson 
Head Quarters. Town Henderson Sept 11th.1812 
Mss. hid. State Library 
Sir 
I have dispatched Major Wm. R McGary with 211 men to your relief and in obedience to your order to me, armed as well as the nature of the case wou'd admit of. Considtn-iug your situation I have thought expedient to procure arms and amunition by impresment, having as yet not been furnished with them by the Government. I am in dayly expectation of receiving them and so soon as I do I will march the Balance of 



the Regiment under my Command to your relcif Majr JMcGaiy will receive your Ordcr. s untill I arrive at Vincennes, The major is Brave firm and determined, and I doubt not will g-ive you as good account of any Command you may be pleased to order him on 
Accept Sir assurance of the high respect with which I have the honour to be 
Your Obt Servt 
Philip Barbour Lt Col Gth Regt. K. M. 
Shelby to Hopkins 
Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 12th, 1812 
Beg. Ky. State Hist. Soc. VIII, 16 
Dear Sir: 
I have received your favor by Mr. [Robert] Latham to whom I have given a positive order upon the quarter master at Newport for all the articles which Col. [Philip] Barbour's Regt. are deficient in, and directed the paymaster to contrive that they receive their two months' pay in advance before they march from their present encampment. I flatter myself that this requisition can be complied with, as I am informed Cols.[Philip] Barbour's and [William] Jennings' Regts. have received their advance pay at Newport. I flatter myself that Mr. Latham will receive great part of the articles I have ordered, it is said a fresh supply of some of them had reached Newport some days ago. Tents especially, I am told, are in abundance. You will before this have received my dispatch by Mr. Quarles, I am taking every step in my power to induce the volunteers to turn out. I hope you will have a respectable command, and believe you will have much to do in the quarter to which you are destined. I have wrote to General Hai-rison fully on the subject and feel no doubt but he will sanction every step I have taken, indeed, I thi)ik his letter of the 5th, of which I sent you a copy, fully justifies all I have done. He writes me that the Government has invested him with extcMisive powei's as to the defence of the frontiers of the two territories, and no step is yet taken but what is indispensable. In my letter of the 8th by Mr. Quarles, I did not say any thing respecting your taking command of Col. [John] Millcr's, 



Wilcox's and [Philip] Barbour's Rgls., in the event of their forming a junction with the volunteers, as this would be a matter of course while you acted together, and as such I wish you to understand me. I have recommended to Govei'noi- Harrison to push hard for Detroit, and leave the Indians on Wabash and Illinois for you to settle with. I feel no doubt that you will have a force equal to the object. Whatever I hear from him shall be communicated by express to you. I said something to you about sending on some of the mounted volunteei's to Kaskaskia. I wish you to govern your decisions on that point according to the emergencies which may present themselves to your mind. I am, etc. etc. Isaac Shelby Major General Samuel Hopkins 
Shelby to the Quarterisiaster at Newport 
Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 12th, 1812 
Reg. Kij. State Hist. Soc. VIII, 16 
Sirs: 
I have just now received information by express from Lieut. Col. Philip Barbour, commanding the Sixth Regt., of the Detached Kentucky Militia, that his regiment had been at the point of rendexvous since the first day of this month, ready to proceed to their destination as ordered by Governor Harrison, but that for the want of the necessary supplies, they were unable to proceed. This will be handed to you by Mr. Robert Latham, an officer and adjutant of the said Regt., to whom you will please deliver the following supplies for that corps of militia, to-wit: 500 lbs. gunpowder, 600 lbs. lead, 100 tents, 1,000 Hints, 100 knapsacks, 200 cartridge boxes, 100 muskets, 60 axes, and 60 camp kettles (one-half for Col. [John] jMiller at Louisville), and fui'nish him with the means of transporting them to the ti'oops at Henderson town. It is hoped that if in your power you will issue the above articles immediately, as the service of that Regt. is now required by the acting Governor at Vincennes, who informs that the Indians in great force have attacked Fort Harrison, and they are wanted for the relief of that place. It is also indispensably necessary that the two months' pay duo to these men should be sent on and paid to  
them before they march from their present encampment. It is therefore expected th;M you will attend to this point also. I am Sir, etc., 
Isaac Shelby To the Acting Q. Master, Newport, Kentucky 
Shelby to Paymaster at Newport 
Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 12th, 1812 
Reg. K7J. Stale Hist. Soc. VIII, 16 
Sir: 
I have written to the Q. Master at Newport to forward on sundry supplies for the use of Col. Miller's and Barbour's Regts. You will please to forward on the two months' pay in advance to those Regts. if in your power. The Quarter Master will furnish you with the means of conveyance. Miller's Reg. is about 690 and Barbour's 656 as detached. This is judged indispensable as it is believed they will be unable to go on without an advance. I am, sir, etc., 
Isaac Shelby The Paymaster, Kentucky Detached Militia, NewiDort 
Gibson to Hargrove 
Vincennes, Indiana Territory, September 12, 1812 
Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana, 360 
Col. Hargrove, Commanding Rangers ; 
The brave defense made by Captain [Zachary] Taylor at Ft. Harrison is one bright ray amid the gloom of incompetency which has been shown in so many places.[September 10, above] 
Your force east of Blue river was not expected to do anj^thing toward guarding the countrj^ for several miles this side of the frontier where the twenty-four foolish people were murdered.[Pigeon Roost] The militia of Clark county are supposed to be on duty in that direction and were not to blame. The venturesome people who are in all sections of the country cause their own destruction and keep the country in a gi'cat turmoil. The orders in regard to people moving beyond the line of protection from this date shall be obeyed and the venturesome people who are continually wanting to go too near the front, shall go into forts in touch with our guards or be brought back inside of the line. There is great need of vigilant watch being kept. The Indians will attempt in many ways to wreak vengeance on the white people. John Gibson Acting Governor 
, Taylor to Harrison 
Fort Harrison, Sept. 13, 1812 
Kliles Register HI, 91 
Dear Sir 
I wrote you on the 10th instant, giving you an account of the attack on this place, as well as my situation, which account I attempted to send by water, but the two men whom I dispatched in a canoe after night, found the river so well guarded, that they were obliged to return. The Indians had built a fire on the bank of the river, a short distance below the garrison, which gave them an opportunity of seeing any craft that might attempt to pass, and were waiting with a canoe ready to intercept it, I expect the fort, as well as the road to Vincennes, is as well or better watched than the river. But my situation compels me to make one other attempt by land, and my orderly sergeant, with one other man sets out to night with strict orders to avoid the road in the day time, and depend entirely on the woods, although neither of them have ever been in Vincennes by land, nor do they know any thing of the country, but I am in hopes they will reach you in safety. I send them with great reluctance from their ignorance of the woods. I think it very probable there is a large party of Indians waylaying the road between this and Vincennes, likeb'^ about the Narrows, for the purpose of interce])ting any party that may be coming to this place, as the cattle they got here will supply them plentifully with provisions for some time to come. Please &c. &c. 
Z. Taylor His Excellency Gov. Harrison  
Governor Shelby to Clay and South 
Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 16th, 1812 
Reg. Ky. State Hist. Soc. VIII, 18 
Sir: 
I have received your favor of the 14th inst. I am glad to learn that the citizens of Madison seem so hearty in the defence of their country, but I presume the spirit and meaning of my address to my countrymen is not entirely understood. It was not intended as a call upon the militia in the ordinary way, but it' was an appeal on the present emergency to the spirit and patriotism of my fellow citizens to volunteer their services for a short period for the defence of the frontier of Indiana and Illinois territories, which seem to be invaded by the savages. No man need offer his services on this occasion who cannot mount and arm himself equipped with everything necessary for his support at least thirty days, for there is not a single stand of public arms at my disposal, nor any kind of camp equipage, blankets, etc., which you inquire for, nor is there any means in my power to procure them. I am, Etc., 
Isaac Shelby 
N. B.— This is considered as an answer to Gen. G. Clay^ and Saml. South. Secretary of War to Shelby 
War Department, September 17, 1812 
McAfee, History of the Late War, 117 
Sir— 
Your excellency's letter of the 5th inst. has been received and laid before the president.[See Sept 5 above] The intelligence and patriotism which have dicated the useful information which you have been pleased to communicate is duly appreciated. The embarrassments attending the organization, direction, and supplies of any force, with the dilliculty of determining the amount fi*om the seat of government, have been sensibly 
1. Green Clay was born in Powlmtan Co., Va., Aug. 14, 1757. While a boy he came to Ky. where he became a surveyor. After the War of 1812 he returned to his farm in Madison Co., ICy., where he died Oct. 31, 1826. Collins, Kcnturly, lii felt. To find an adequate remedy, has engaged much of the attention of the executive. From a board of intelhgent, influential, and patriotic citizens much useful information, and other essential advantages might be derived. Whether they could be clothed with the powers suggested, is a question requiring consideration. To meet existing emergencies after consulting the lawful authority vested in the president it has been determined to vest the command of all the forces on the western and northwestern frontier in an officer, whose military character and knowledge of the country, appear to be combined with the public confidence. General Harrison has accordingly been appointed to the chief command, with authority to employ oflicers, and to draw from the public stores, and every other practical source, all the means of effecting the object of his command. In the great and unexpected demands created by the late disasters, it will necessarily happen that deficiencies in the supplies will be experienced. Every exertion, however, is making to provide for the troops, the munitions which they require. I have the honor to enclose a copy of a requisition made on governor Scott Should requisitions be made beyond the quota assigned to the state of Kentucky, the president is assured of a prompt co-operation on the part of the executive, under the act of February, 1795. I have the honor to be, very respectfully Sir, Your obedient Servant. His Excellency Gov. Shelby Wm Eustis 
P. S. In addition to the supplies ordered from Pittsburgh, ten thousand pair of shoes, five thousand blankets, tents, camp equipage and quarter master's stores, are on their way from Philadelphia for the northwestern army. A part of them at least are on their way, and will be followed by the remainder without loss of time.• Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department Sepr.17th 1812 
Sir: Har. Having provided for the protection of the Western frontier, you will retake Detroit; and with a view to the Conquest of Upper Canada, you will penetrate that country as far as the force under your Command will in your judgment justify. Everj^ exertion is making to give you a Train of Artillery from Pittsburg — to effect which you must be sensible requires time. Major [Amos] Stoddard the Senior Officer of Artillery at that place will advise you of his arrangements and progress & receive your instructions. Captain [Charles] Gratiot^ of the Engineers will report himself to you from Pittsburg He will receive your Orders & join you with the first pieces of Artillery which can be prepared or receive such Orders as you may direct. Major [James V.] Ball- of the 2d Regiment of Dragoons will also report himself and join you immediately. Such Staff Officers as you may appoint conformably to Law, will be approved by the President. Copies of all the contracts for supplying provisions have been transmitted. Mr, [Ebenezer] Denny the Contractor at Pittsburg is instructed to furnish magazines of provisions at such points as you may direct. The Deputy Quarter Master at Pittsburg will continue to forward sto]'es and munitions of every kind, and will meet your requisitions.[?]draw and sell bills on this department. Genl. Wm. Henry Harrison, Commd. The N. IF. Army V. S, 


Harrison to Shelby Head Quarters, Fort Wayne 18th Sept., 1812 
Histoncul Regisier II, 133 
I arrived here with the troops on Saturday last; the Indians had closely invested the fort for several days, and burnt the 
1. Charles Giotiol of St. Louis joined the army July 1-1, 1804, and served continuously till Doc.6, 183S, when he retired as a brevet Drifj. Gen. He died May 18, 18.").'). For a history of the Grotiot family see Scharf, IJiilory of St. Louis, index.2. J.-irnea Vincent Hall of Va. served in the army from May 1, 17i)'l, till 1802; and from 1812 till his death Feh.21, 1818.12— 220Gi Uiiited States' factory, and many other valual^le houses. But three of our people were killed: they (the Indians) raised the siopfe the day before we reached here, and retreated precipilately. Not l)eing able to move on tovv'ards Detroit immediately, on account of the want of proper supplies, I determined to employ the intermediate time in destroying the touiis within two days march of this place. The whole force was accordingly divided and placed under the command of general [John] Payne and colonel [Samuel] Wells. The fonner was directed to dostj'oy the IMiami towns at the forks of the Wabash; and the latter directed to go against the potawat^mie villages at VAk Hart. I acconi])anied general Payne on the expedition; four of the Miruni villages wore burnt (three of them remarkably flourishing) and all their corn was cut up and piled, under the expectation that it would rot before the Indians could do anything to prevent it. I have this moment heard from colonel Wells: he has been equally successful, and has met witli no enemy who dared to oppose them. It is impossible to fmd language to convey my sense of the merits of the troops under my command from your state. Yes, n\v dear sir, I anticipated in this campaign a glorious triumph to our arms, and an ecpially glorious triumph to republicanism, .^ince it will prove the falsity of the theory which proclaims the necessity of standing armies, or, in other words, that a man must become a slave before he can be made a warrior. Gibson to Hargrove 
ViNCENNEs, Indiana Territory, September 18, '12 
Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana, S59, 360 
CoixxNT. L Hargrove, Commanding the Mounted Ranger Service: 
On^ last Thursday, the 3d inst., there were twenty-four people killed at a i)oint north of Louisville, some thirty or forty nu\v.<.[Pio-con lloost] The Indians who committed this murder came fi-om the north beyond White river. These foolhardy inoplo had moved away from all others and made no attenijjt at pi-eparing a place fore defense. 
You will go over your territory and at each post ascertain if there are people who are out beyond the line that you are protecting. If you should find such to be the case, then order thorn to prepare a fort and see that they do it, where there are as many as three families. If you should find less than three families at any isolated point, have them and their effects moved to a place where they can be protected and where the men of these families can help protect others. See that this order is carried out in the earliest possible time. John Gibson, Acting Governor 
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department Sept. 18th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 30 
Sir: 
The President has this day appointed James Morrison^ Esq. of Kentucky, Deputy Quarter Master General to the army under your command, which it is hoped will be agreeable to you. Genl. W. Henry Harrison, Com. the N. W. Army 
S. W. Culbertson to Mr. Chambers, editor of the Zanesville 
Messenger, 
1812 
Dawson Harrison, 289 
Mr. Chambers, 
I have just returned from Urbanna, where governor [Return J.]Meigs is at present with about 1000 soldiers. Brigadier-general Harrison is at Piqua with 2000 Kentucky soldiers, and 2000 more in his rear. Harrison's presence apl)cars to inspire every person with courage, and makes even cowards brave. His present conduct evinces a determination to reti'ieve the injured reputation of our country. He has made a most animated speech to the friendly natives at Piqua, who are numerous and sueing for a continuation of peace. He has promised them protection, at the same time assuring 
1. Jjimos Mon ison was born in Cuniherlaiul Co., ]\'nn., ITSG. He whh an Irishman, Forvcd six yiaia undrr Daniel Morgan in the Rev. Ijocalcd in Pittsburg where he remained till 1792 when he went to Lexington, Ky. Here he was a leading bu. sincss man, land (■(iinniirsiniicr, n venue collector, piesident of I-exinKton Rranch bank of U. S. contraiUir for army, and r4UHrtermaslcr Kencral till his death Apr.23, 1823. Collins, Kentucky, 277 them in terrific languag'e which struck terror to all hearts, that the name of an Indian foe should not long be lal0^^^l among us — that the American army will no longer be commanded by an old woman. Govei-nor Meig's late patriotic conduct and exertions appear to be rewarded only with ingratitude. He has ordered the 2d detachment of militia, which marched from this place under the command of colonel IM'Connell, to be dismissed, having been called out contrary to his instructions and intentions, which must have been misunderstood. s. w. culbertsox 
Harrison to Winchester , 
Fort Wayne, 19th September, 1812 
Dawson, Harrison, 295 
Sir, 
Having, by my general order of this day, relinquished the conmiand of the army, consisting of the detachment of colonel [Samuel] Well's regiment under that officer, captain [William] Garrard's troop of dragoons, and the three regiments of Kentucky infantry under general [John] Payne; I have now the honor to inform you, that any other part of the infantry under my command ^^^ll be made subject to your orders, that you may think necessa}'y to carry the directions you have received from the government into effect. The supplies which have been reported to me, or ordered by me, are as follows: 400,000 rations of beef, and 150,000 of flour, purchased by Mr. John H. Piatt under the authority of general Hull. A part of this flour, and about 50,000 lbs, of beef has been brought on and consumed by the army. The balance of the flour is cither on the way hither or to St. IMary's where it was directed to be deposited. I also directed Mr. Piatt to purchase and send on to St. Mary's, whiskey, and other component parts of the ration to make the 150,000 lbs. flour complete i-ations. Mr. [Thomas] IJuford, the purcliasing commissary in Kentucky, has also been directed to forward to St. Mary's 300,000 complete rations; and major White, the contractor to the list degree of latitude, to deposit at St Mary's 100,000 complete rations, besides the daily issues that may be wanted there; at Piqua, 30,000 rations besides the daily issues; and at Dayton, 50,000 rations besides the daily issues. The means  
of transportation are hired wagons, which may, with exertion, be procured to any amount ; between 3 and 400 pack horses in the hands of Mr. Piatt, and 300 others which Mr. Buford was directed to purchase. All these, sir, are made subject to your orders, together with the provisions above reported. I must request you to state to me what force you wish left at St. Mary's; the officer commanding which, will be directed to wait your orders. There is nothin more wanting to the army than a principal commissary to receive and superintend the issues of provisions. That department exhibits nothing at present but confusion. I had designated major Vooshees, [Peter Gordon Vorhees] of colonel [John] Allen's regiment, to that office ; ho is, I believe, eminently qualified for it, and he has been in the execution of the duties for some days. Any other explanations or assistance which I can give you will be afforded with pleasure.[Harrison had not yet received the letter from the Sec. of war, Sept. 17, above] 
I am, very sincerely. Your humble servant. William Henry Harrison 
Harrison General Orders 
Head Quarters Fort Wayne 19th Sept. 1812 
Har. Pa. COO, 691 
The President of the United States having designated Brigadier General James Winchester to the Command of the army originally destined to relieve General Hull and that officer having arrived at this place, the command is accordingly relinquished to him. Brigadier Genl.[John] Payne, Colonel [Samuel] Wells and Capt.[William] Garrard conmianding the several corps composing the army will accordingly report themselves to General Winchester and i-eccive his orders. H anything could soften the regret which the General feels at parting with Troops which have so entirely won his confidence and affection it is the circumstance of his committing them to the chai'ge of one of the Heroes of our glorious Revolution a man distinguished as well for the services he has rendered his country as for the iiossession of every qualification which constitutes the Gentleman. The General cannot take leave of this gallant army which he has commanded with so much satisfaction without expressing the high sence Avhich he entertains of thcii' conduct. For ton days past they have performed severe duty with scarcely a sufficiency of food to sustain them and cnliroI.\' witliout some of the articles vhich constitutes the ration. They have done it too without a murmur and vrith an alacrity which could only have been expected from Veteran Troops. The General requests Brigadier Genl. Payne and every other officer and soldier of the army to accept his thanks for the support they have given hi]]i upon every occasion and for the proinj-)titude and alacrity with which his orders have been obe>'ed. He has taken care to communicate to the governor of Kentuck>- and through him to the people of that State his ojiinion of their distinguished merits and his entire confidence in their perseverance in the path of Gloiy and Patriotism. The General feels equal pride and pleasure in acknowledging the i"»ei\sonal attachment which the army has manifested towards him and he assures them that their welfare and glory is the first object of his wishes, and as a means of securing both he most earnestly recommends and entreats that the confidence which they have so often expressed in him may be transferred to his worthy successors. As governor and commander in chief of the Indiana Territory the general assumes the command of the ti-oops in that Territory by virtue of an authority received from the Iloble. the Secretaiy of War and as a major general of the Kentucky (luota ho takes the command of all the Troops of that state north of the Ohio excepting the army of Genl. Winchester. Harrison to Winchester 
St diary's, 21st September, 1812 
Slli Dawson, Harrison, 296 
Colonel [William] Jennings' regiment is now^ here. I shall innn('diately set it to open the road from hence to fort Defiance, and will direct the contractor and commissary to push on theii- provisions. The secretary of war, in a letter received fi'om him since I saw you, urges me to join you, (supposing that I was then in Kentucky) with a reinforcement of the troops subject to my orders. As I have declined the appointment tendei-ed me of brigadier, I cannot comply with his rerpiest, as the commission which I have is of higher grade  
lliaii yours. I must, therefore, carry the wishes of the President into effect, so far as to place at your disposal the regiments of [Joshua] Barbee and [William] Jennings, and the quota of this state, which I have heretofore required of governor Meigs. The officers commanding these corps will be directed to report to you, and receive your orders. I shall retain the separate command of the mounted men and [Robert] Rogue's regiment, and will communicate to you by an express the particular object at which I shall aim. Be so obliging as to send orders to colonels Barbee and Jennings. The former is at Piqua, and the latter I shall place on the road to Defiance, as I have above intimated. I am, very respectfully. Your humble servant 
William Henry Harrison Brig. Gen. James Winchester 
Harrison to Secretary of War St. Marys 30 miles advanced of Piqua 21st Sept. 1812 
q Har. Pa. 69J-60G 
When I had last the honor to address you I was advancing to the relief of Fort Wayne, I reached it with the ai'my on the 12th Inst. A considerable body of Indians had besieged it closely for several days but retreated with precipitation upon our advance having previously consumed the factory and all the other buildings without the fort. Having allowed the troops one day to repose and being unable to pursue the route to fort Defiance until a convoy of provisions should arrive, I determined to employ them a few days in destroying the corn and other provisions at the Potawatomie and Miami towns of Elkhart and the forks of the Wabash. The participation of the Chiefs of both of those villages in the attack upon Fort Wayne having been ascertained by satisfactory testimony adduced to a council of war composed of all the field officers left me no room to hesitate upon the subject. Accordingly upon the Idth the troops were divided into two detachments the fu'st composed of the 4 companies of the 17th U. States Reg-t. [Dr. John M.] Scotts^ Regt. of Kenty. militia, 3 companies of 
1."Colonel John M. Scott, who cominamlnl the Ist joi-dnicnt oC Ivtiitucky volunt(•(■|^;, was born in Pcnnsylv:ini;i, . ninl stiuliid jihysic in Now Jci.-cy, utukr an nnrlo.>wi(ii (iu;ili(k'(l for (lie !))'orc. ssion, lie icoi'ived the aiijioinf nient of suij;con'. s mate, in Kentuckj^ mounted riflemen under the Ilonble Richd. M. Johnson- and about 100 Ohio Riflemen under Col. [James] Dunlap the whole under the command of Col. [Samuel] Wells directed against the Potawatomie village of Elkhart. The second detachment under the immediate command of Bi'igd. Genl.[John] Payne was composed of [William] Lewis's and [John] Allen's Regmts. of Kentucky militia and_ [William] Garrai-ds troop of Dragoons. I accompanied that detachment and we reached the To^yns at the forks of the 
the rcKimcnt then commanded by Kcncral Ilaimar, on the wostci n frontiers. Vv'hen Kt-ncral Wayne took the command of the vixstcin army, Scott was iiromoted to bo Eurpcon of the 2d United States regiment. It was in this cai)aeity that General Harrison, who was the aid-dc-camp of Wayne, first became intimate with him ; an attachment of more than brotherly love was formed between them. Some time after the l)cace of Greenville, they both leturned from the army. Scott married, and settled in Frankfot, Ky., in the practice of his profession. In both lie was very successful. Indeed, there never was a man more universally beloved than Dr. Scott. His uncommon wit, vivacity, and humour made him everywhere sou. uht for by the youn. y and lively, while his Kood sense, his professional skill, and his incorrui>tible honor and integrity procured him the esteem of the wise and Kood. His exticmcly chivalious siiirit, and his acquaintance with militaiy duty early pointed him crut to the youn;v men about Frankfort, and being first appointed to the command of an independent company, ho soon rose to the command of the regiment. Before wo proceed to mention the catastrojihe of this gentleman's fate, evincing his extreme devotion to his country's cause, we shall relate an instance of a different character, shewing the strength of his friendship no less than the tenderness of his nature. During the whole time that Governor Hariison remained at Vincrnncs, Dr. Scott I'esidcd at Franl-:foit ; the distance is one hundred and seventy miles, and at that time two-thirds of the way was unsettled, and yet this generous friend, U)ion every occasion of Mrs. Harrison's illness, left his p;actice, his family, and his business to administer relief to the wife of his fiiend. For some time before the war broke out in 1812, Dr. Scott was in such bad health (hat it was not supposed he coidd recover. It was, therefore, not the intention of governor Scott to apiKiint him to the command of one of the rep:imen1s which was to he sent to the relief of Hull. The colonel insisted upon his right, regardless of the conseiiucnces, and was accordingly appointed to the command of the Ist legiment of volunteers, to the deep regret of all his friends, who never cxiiecled his letuin. The jonewal of old scenes, however, in the army, and the exercise, without a great deal of fatigue, had obviously a good effect upon him, and by the time he reached Foil \Va>ne, he was evidently better. His regiment here, as above stated, was ordered on the command to destroy the Indian villages at Elk Hart. His officers, who were much attached to him, ur. ged him to remain behind on account of the great fatigue he would have to undergo. As he i>aid no attention to their remonstrances, the general interfered, and assured the colonel that there would be no fi. uhting in that direction, before the return of the troops. The colonel made no answer, but when he was rnounlin!': his horse which stood by, he observed, as if to the horse— 'As long as I am able to mount you, none but myself shall lead my regiment, either to fi;:ht or not to fight.'Ui)on the return of the troops from the cxiicdition, it was very apparent that the apprehensions of colonel Scott's friends won- well founded. The detachment had undergone great fatigue in a protracted march of nearly thiec days and niivhts. The colonel was scarcely ablo to reach the cami). Ho continued, ho\\ever, with the army until it reached fort Defiance, at the mouUi of the Auglaize, from which ))lace lie was sent to Frankfort in a litter, but died on the second day after his arrival, a victim to his ardent zeal for his country."Dav. son, Ilarrhnii, SOC-S. 
2. Richard M. . Johnson was a native of Kentucky, born 1781 at Floyd'. s Station near Louisville. Excellent liiograjihies arc found in Collins. Krnlurkif, ;!77, and Yoimg, Baltic of the Thuincs, ]S7. Harrison iilaced grr^at reliance on . Tohnson and was not disajipoiiited. Unfortunately they became somewhat cslianrx'd later. 
Wabash on the evening of the 15th they had been abandoned by the inhabitants several days about 1500 bushells of corn were cut up and destroyed as completely as the state it was in would permit. I returned to Fort Wayne on the 15th and the day after tlie detachment under Col. Wells returned also having succeeded in destroying the corn and the village at ElkHart whicli had also been several days abandoned by its inhabitants vrith every mark of precipitancy. Col. Wells Detachment performed the march to the village (GO miles) and back to Fort Wayne in 4 days and a half upon a very scanty allowance of food. The Col. had been ordered to take the late Turtles tovv'n in his way and destroy the corn there also, but he was not enabled to accomplish it from the want of provisions. Col. [James] SimralP who had arrived at Fort Wayne during our absence with 4 troops of Kentucky Dragoons (armed wiih muskets) was accordingly sent the next day on that service and accomplished it. I had no evidence of the inhabitants of that Town having joined in the hostilities against Fort Wayne but as they had fled from it, and the corn would support the hostile Indians in a second attempt upon fort wayne, it became necessary for the safety of that place that it should be destroyed. I have however no doubt of the hostile disposition of the Miami generally. Many of the chiefs are no doubt desirous of preserving their friendly relations with us, but as they are unable to control the licentious part of their tribe it is impossible to discriminate. If we have no alternative but operating upon their fears by severe chastisement I am convinced that the appearance of so large a force at Fort Wayne and the desti'uction of the Indian villages and property will be of considerable service to our future operations. Genl. Winchester arrived at Fort Wayne on the 18th. On the 19th the enclosed order v\'as issued surrcndei-ing to him the command.[See Sept. 19 above] In my letter of the od inst.1 took the liberty of requesting you to permit me to suspend my decision as to the acceptance of the connnission of Brig, which the President was pleased to confer upon me. I should not have done so if I were not fully convinced that it was the almost unanimous wish of the people of the western 
3. Jjimt's Simiall was born March 18, 1781, Jit West ChcsU'r. Pa. He moved to Va. and by 1792 was wilh his raicnU; at Shelbyville, Ky. When his fust roKiinont was disbamled he raised another in 181 1!. He was at the Inittle of the 'J'hames atid tool; charge of the IJiitish in isonois. He died Se|il.!), 182:'., while at the lead mines of Galena, 111., on busiiKss. YounK, Baltic of the Thames, 15S country that 1 should not accept of an appointment which would place mo in a subordinate situation in this army. Befor(' Cenl. Winchester left Lexingion to come on hither he w^as spokeji to by several members of Congress and others who w.'re appreliensivr of some collision betvreen us. He was understood to say that he would make no difficulty in giving nie tlio command, the Genl. however said nothing to me upon Ui!'subject and I was obliged to propose that we should divide tiie force and act in support of each other. Vfhen I left him it was my intention to have resumed the plan formerly communicated of an expedition against the Prophet's establishment 0)1 Tippecanoe and the Potawatimie Villages between that place and Lake IMichigan. Upon the way however I had the honor to receive your letter of the 1st inst. urging me to contribute towards the main object of the campaig-n by my personal assistance. It required but a moments reflection to deto'mine upon the course I was to pursue. From Fort Wayne there is a path which has been sometimes used by the French traders in their journeys to Detroit leading up the St. Josei)hs Piver and from thence across by the head waters of the Piver Pesin to Detroit. It appears to me highly practicable with the mounted force by this route to surprise and retake Detroit. The force which I was preparing for the Wal)ash expedition v^^ould answer for the purpose. Upon my an-i\-al ho'e hovrever I found that the agent whom I had employed to hire horses had not been so successful as was expected not more than 140 having been procured and the day of PiCndczvous having unfortunately been fixed too early, several co!ni)anies which were raised in Kentucky to join me for the expedition finding they would bo too late turned their course to Vincennes. I have however about 1100 mounted men and I have resolved to Avait here for some days until I ean make them 1800. This delay inconvenient from the inaction which it occasions to the troops already assembled is not without its advantages. If I should succeed in the surprise of Dot)'oit before the main army shall arrive at least as far as the Papids, it may be necessary to abandon it for the want f>r pj-ovisions and such is the state of the supplies for the anny that it will require all my exertions for 7 or 8 days to place them upon a footing which will give security to our future operations and which the rapidity of my movements heret  
fore would not permit me to attend. I have noted your observation upon the subject of the appointment of an officer to comjnand on the frontiers of the Territories. With respect to my appointment as a Brigd. I should certainly not think that I had a right to complain if the public service should make it necessary for the President to bestow it elsewhere nor indeed with any other arrangements but that which would reduce me from tiie chief to the second in command, an event which has perhaps never before occurred in any army, I have the honor to be Sir with great respect Yr. Hbl. Svt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honble. Wm. Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 
Mounted Voujnteers 
(The following has been distributed through the county in handbills) (Circular) .^ 
St Mary's, Sept. 21, 1812 
: , ^ Cindimati Liberty Hall, Sept, 25, 1812 
Sir: As the force which I have collected at this place (of mounted men) is not sufficient to accomplish the object of the expedition which it was proposed to set out from hence — ^you are hereby authorized to circulate through the country my wishes to be joined by any number of mounted men (corps organized will be preferred) under the authority heretofore given by governor Meigs. Companies may join me to serve on the expedition, and which will furnish their own horses, will have credit for a tour of duty and the expedition is not expected to continue more than 30 days and at any rate not extend beyond 40. I am 
William Henry HarrisoSecretary of War to Harrison 
War Department Sept. 23, 1812 
Har. Pa. SI 
Sm: 
Your letter of the 5th Instant [see above] has been received. As the difficulty of obtaining supplies particularly of provisions, through the wilderness, appears to be one of the greatest obstacles with which you will have to contend, which difficulty it is well known increases as the season advances, your own judgment, the information you possess and will acquire on this subject, will enable you to determine how far it may be practicable to advance and what posts or stations it may be expedient to maintain during the winter. You are already apprised of the solicitude of the Government that every thing that can be done should be done towards recovering the ground lost and extending successful operations into Canada. The Contractors, Commissaries and quarter masters Departments are subject to your Orders, and will be further urged to make every effort to comply with your Requisitions. B. General, Wm. H. Harrison, Comd. the N. W. army 
Harrison to Jennings Head Quarters, St. Mary's, 24th September, 1812 
Dawson, Harrison, 297 
Sm, 
It has become necessary to open a road from this place to fort Defiance by the way of Tawa town, [Putnam Co.0.]and to build a block house in the intermediate, as nearly central as a good situation can be had. You will, with your regiment, proceed to this duty immediately. Some of the friendly Indians will be employed as guides, and Mr. William Conner will attend you and act as interpreter. A number of wagons and pack horses will set out from this place to-morrow morning; it will be proper to send two companies to escort them, with directions to open the road only wide enough to allow the , wagons to pass, and direct them to proceed with the utmost expedition. It will be proper, also, that the pack horses should be detached ahead as soon as they arrive within 25 or 30 miles of Defiance, under an escort of thirty men; the remaining part 

 
of the regiment will follow the wagons, and open the road, so M to have all the small timber removed, at least to the disUncc of 30 feet; upon your arrival at the spot upon which you may think proper to erect the block house, you will immediately clear a place, and proceed to build it. It should be of the largest size of such buildings— not less than 25 feet in the bottom stor>\ 
You will be reinforced or relieved by colonel [Robert] Poaguc or colonel [Joshua] Barbee's regiments, if there should Ik?occasion for it before the work is completed. I am, very roniHH-tfully, your humble servant. Col. WM. Jennings, comtnanding 2d regt. Kentucky quota militia 


Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Piqua Sept. 24th 1812 
Har. Pa, 697-702 
Sir: 
1 arrived here late this evening for the purpose of expediting the supplies for the army where I had the honor of receiving your favor of the 17th Inst.[Command of the Northwestern army. See Sept 17 above] The important command which the President has been pleased to confer upon me, will call forth everjr faculty of my mind, for the service of my country, as it has every feeling of gratitude towards himself.■''^^M^'^''^^'^^hWm$r^i;'- ■ 
The situation of the troops in advance of this is three Kentucky Regiments of Infantry. Capt.[William] Garrard troop of twelve months Dragoons and Col. [Samuel] Wells detachment of Regulars making something above 2000 are manthing from Fort Wayne to the site of old Fort Defiance under Genl. Winchester; one other Regt.[Jennings] of Kentucky troops employed in cutting a road from St. Marys (designated on the map "Girtys town") to Fort Defiance and erecting an intermediate blockhouse; one Regt. compleating the Fort at St. Maiys and another will march from this place tomorrow morning; four troops of Dragoons (armed with muskets) and Major Richard M. Johnson's Battalion of mounted riflemen were at Fort Wayne a few days ago.1 authorized their return to St. Marys after they had consumed the com at the Turtles town. Before I set out this morning from St. Marys I directed Col. [James] Finley^ (an old Revolutionary Virg. Col. of mine) to move with his Regt. of mounted men 350 strong to destroy an Ottawa town on the waters of the AuGlaize about 40 miles distant ; their tribe are at war with us they furnished a large portion of the Indian force which assisted in capturing Genl. Hull and some of the same village are now known to be at Maiden. There are besides on St. Marys about 200 Kentucky mounted riflemen, and a troop (40 strong) of Dragoons, I accepted them for six months because they are the only corps in the whole army that were armed with swords and pistols. I expect an additional force in a few days of several hundred mounted volunteers, and should I not be able to take command of them myself, I will select an officer to execute with them (if not the surprise of Detroit) some achievement to give eclat to our arms. I have with me a servant of Genl.[James] Taylor's who made his escape from Maiden two weeks ago this day. He informs me that the Indians at and near Maiden had increased to a prodigious number and that they daily arrived in birch bark canoes from the north. A considerable number of them are encamped at Brownstown, a situation very favourable for surprising them, which shall certainly be attempted. Being fully persuaded that provision for the army may be obtained here much cheaper than at Pittsburgh, I have written to Major [Ebenezer] Denny not to purchase more than four hundred thousand rations until he should receive further instructions from you. There is an a"bundance of beef, flour and whisky to be procured here ; and unless it is expected to control the navigation of Lake Erie and send the provisions which Major Denny may purchase by that route to Detroit I am confident it would be better and safer to procure them here. I recollect that the army was several times during Genl. Waynes command upon the point of being starved from the difficulty of getting provisions down the Ohio in the fall season after they had been procured at Pittsburgh. I have put in requisition about five hundred and fifty thousand rations to be deposited at St. Mai^s and Urbana ; three hundred thou
1. Gen. James Flndlay was bom in Franklin Co., Pa., 1770. Came to Cincinnati about 1795, having first moved to Va. and then to Ky. He toolc a prominent part in the early history of Ohio, was associated with Harrison and Jacob Burnet and others In business. Died at Cincinnati, 1835. Howe, Hiat. Coll. II, H9 

sand will be at the former place by tomorrow evening ; and I shall forthwith direct a purchase of Four hundred thousand and shall then wait your decision as to the Pittsburgh Order. The road from Urbana to the Miami rapids will not answer for wheel carriages, it will do however for Packhorses, I shall consult with some inteligent persons from that quarter and determine upon the propriety of extending my base further Eastwardly and having a deposit towards Sandusky. I have had no return of the Ohio troops but believe them to be about nine hundred, they will take the Urbana route. I have provided for vigorous operations on the Wabash and hope to be able to extend them to the Illinois river. Upon my arrival at Fort Wayne charges of so serious a nature were exhibited against Capt.[James] Rhea that I arrested him ; He agreed to resign and I have given him until the 80th of December to return home, at which time his pay & emoluments will cease. Upon examining the valuation of tho horses which were hired for mounting the Infantry for the Expedition they were found to be valued so low and the delay in returning them likely to be so great, that it was thought best to purchase them at the valuation, for this purpose I drew on you in favor of Mr. Jesse Hunt whom I employed in this business for Six thousand Dollars on the 22 Inst and on the 21st for four thousand Dollars in favor of Mr. John H. Piatt, Dy. to Col. [Thomas] Buford to purchase nnd equip Packhorses, and on the 23 in favor of Maj. T. Bodley Q. Master Genl. of the Kenty quota a set of bills for One thousand Dollars, another set for two thousand Dollars and a third for three thousand Dollars, being for the general expenccs of the Quarter Master department. A detachment of Artillerists are much wanted from the Old Corps, I cannot suppose that the Offices of the newly raised Heift, of which there is a Capt. in this State understand much of Oicir duty 
1 have the honor to be with great respect Yr. hb. Servt 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison Tho Honble William Eustis, Esq. Sec. of war (Rccd Oct. 6, 1812) Harrison to Winchester 
Sept. 25, 1812 , . Dawson, Harrison, 301 
Dear Sir, 
I arrived here [Piqua] yesterday, for the purpose of making some arrangements in the commissary's department. After night, an express arrived, with a packet of letters from the office at Chillicothe, directed to me. Upon opening it, and breaking the seals, one after the other, I incautiously broke that of the enclosed letter, which I soon discovered was for you. The same express brought me another letter from the war department, announcing my appointment to the command of the north-western army. Need I add, that it would give me the most heartfelt pleasure if you could determine to remain with us. The secretary informs me, that the army is to be ten thousand strong, artillery is providing at Pittsburgh, an engineer is coming on, a major's command of cavalry, and every necessary power given. I shall necessarily be detained here for some days, expecting to see governor Meigs and general [Edward] Tupper.^ I hope at least that you will continue in command until my arrival. I have written to general [John] Payne, but have said nothing about my resumming the command, choosing that you should announce it in the manner you thought best./n/nJennings TO Harrison 
Tawa Town,^ September 26, 1812 Sir, 
My highest pride as a soldier is to be obedient to my superiors, and thereby render to my country all that she ought to expect. I may not be a judge of what a regiment in the woods can do, but my opinion clearly is, that more is imposed on me than can be well done. I have now under my cover near 300 bullocks and nearly 200 pack horses, besides a number of wagons. To say nothing about an enemy, I deem it impracticable to take care of the cattle upon a march and have to 
1. Edward W. Tupper lived in Gallipolis. He raised his regiment from Gallia, Jackson and Lawrence counties. Howe, Hist. Col. I, 680 
1. Tawa was an abbreviation of Ottawa. There were two Ottawa villages about two miles apart on Blanchard fork of the Auglaize. Tawa town was the lower village, near Ottawa. 
open the road. I am here in the situation above described and rest assured that nothing shall be wanting on my part to take care of the public property, and facilitate my movements towards fort Defiance as fast as possible, considering the duties I have to perform on my march. I am, dear sir, with sentiments of high respect, Your obedient servant 
William Jennings, L. C. C. 2d regt. Ky. vol. Major General Harrison 
Shelby to Harrison 
Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 26th, 1812 
Isaac Shelby's Letter Book, A, 2lt 
Dear Sir: 
I was honored last evening with the receipt of your Excellency's favor of the 18th inst.[see above] which is the first intimation we have had of your position for twenty days. General Hopkins rendezvoused at Vincennes on the 24th inst. I went to Louisville myself to forward them on by companies and detachments as they came up, and readily confess I have never seen such a body of men in the Western country, or anywhere else. I hope most sincerely that no difficulty will arise between you and General Hopkins respecting command. The Laws of the United States and the powers invested in you by the President, will, I assume, be a certain criterion and guide in this particular case. I cannot for a moment suppose that General Hopkins will attempt anything that is not strictly military, at the same time I believe he would assert his just right. I trust no difference of opinion will arise. The General had been requested to go on by Mr. [John] Gibson, the Acting Governor of Indiana, shortly before he received my instructions to do so. Your Excellency will at once see with me the necessity and propriety of opening a correspondence with General Hopkins, to appraise him of your movements, and of the route by which he could render most service to his country without interfering with your objects, or whether from anything you know that a junction of the two armies would redound most to the interest of our country; and it will be highly proper, my dear sir, that you should invest General Hopkins with power to direct the purchase of beef cattle where they are to be had to follow him on in case he should fail of a full supply in the enemy's country. I expect that on tomorrow or the next day he will move on from Vincennes against the nearest point of the enemy. I have no doubt but a few men could make their way from where you are to strike the trail of General Hopkins' amiy somewhere above Vincennes or as high as Foii; Harrison. Your whole force acting in concert would strike a fatal blow to the Indians and crush them at a moment when they little expect to see a force of any description in their land. I have deemed it so important to the public interest to appraise you of the force under General Hopkins, as to judge it necessary to send this express at public expense to you, which Your Excellency will be pleased to cover by your order to the proper officer if it should strike you in the same light. I have forwarded by mail this morning to General Hopkins  
a copy of your letter of the 16th inst. and herewith enclose you a paper which contains the latest accounts from Fort Harrison, and may be relied on as respects that place and the march of Col. [William] Russell, who I hope will give a good account of those fellows who infested that garrison so long. I have the honour, &c., 
Isaac Shelby His Excellency, Wm. H. Harrison ' Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department Sept. 26, 1812 
Har. Pa. S2 
Sir: 
I have the honor to inclose for your information Lists of Ordnance and Military Stores which have been ordered from Philadelphia and this place to Pittsburg since the 1st. Instant in addition to those at that place and coming in under contracts from that vicinity. The cannons, ammunition, shoes, blankets, and part of the other Stores are on the way, and most of them will probably reach that place before the 5th of October. Major [Amos] Stoddard the Department Quarter Master will continue to forward supplies to you and will advise you of all his issues to the Troops, as well as those sent forward to the Army, and keep you informed of all the resources at Pittsburg. The best information of our forces on the Lower Lakes is contained in the inclosed Extracts of a Letter from General Dearborn of the 14th Instant. Two thousand Militia from Pennsylvania, making part of this force, and destined for Niagara, were ordered by the Governor of that State to rendezvous at Meadsville on the 20th Instant, about 50 miles from Presque Isle, from whence they will continue their march and join the Regulars and other Troops assembling at Niagara. From these statements you will perceive that it is impossible for me to determine the precise time at which offensive operations will be commenced at that point, and it is desirable that you should communicate with the Commanding Officer at Niagara who will be able to inform you of the movements of the Troops under Command'of General Dearborn. Br. General Wm. H. Harrison Comd. the N. W. Armij Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Piqua Sept. 27, 1812 
Har. Pa. 703-7G9 
Sir, 
The final arrangements for the march of the Army toward Detroit is as follows. The right collumn composed of the Pennsylvania & Virginia Troops are directed to rendezvous at Wooster a To\vn upon the Head Waters of Moheccon John's Creek^ 35 miles north of Mount Vernon and 45 west of Canton and proceed from thence by the upper Sandusky to the Rapids of Miami. The middle collumns consisting of twelve hundred Ohio Militia will March from Urbana where they now are along Genl Hull's trace to the Rapids and the left column composed of the detachment of Regular troops under Col. [Samuel] Wells and four Kentucky Regiments will proceed from Fort Defiance down the Miami to the Rapids. The mounted force under an officer whom I shall sellect for the puiT)ose will take the route mentioned in my former letter from Fort Wayne up the Saint Josephs and across to the waters of the River Raisin. upon reflection I am induced to abandon the scheme of attacking Detroit for should it be successful as the infantiy will not be in readiness to support them it must necessarily be abandoned and the inhabitants be more exposed to the depredations of the Indians than they now are. A more useful employment will be to sweep the hither side of the straight and Lake of the Indians, who are scattered from Bro^^Tlsto^^^l to the Rapids rioting upon the plunder of the farms wiiich have been abandoned. I expect to have near Three hundred thousand Rations (purchased by the Commissaiy) at Fort Defiance in the course of the present week and two hundred thousand at Urbana, the latter to be taken upon Pack Horses, both these Deposits will be taken at two trips to the Rapids. I have directed the Contractor Wliite to deposit 200,000 Rations at the second Block House 42 miles beyond Urbana, 200,000 at a Block House which is now building between Saint INIaiys and Defiance and the like quantity at Wooster. At the latter place also Mr. John H. Piatt is about to deposit 500,000. Rations and to procure the means of transporting it to Detroit.1. Wooster, in Wayne Co. is on the old trail from Fort Ehiciuesne (Pittsburgh) to Sandusky. In Wayne Co. it crossed a Mohican hunting trail. The road crossed the Mohican at Mohican John's Town or Mohican Johnstown. 
I have also directed IMajor [Ebonezer] Denny to send to the same place the 400,000 Rations which he has been directed to purchase at Pittsburgh. I am confirmed in the opinion which I before gave that supplies of provisions can be obtained in this state. However I shall take measures to ascertain it and ^^'Tite to Major Denny if there should be a necessity for progressing in the purchase of the 1,980,000 Rations. I have dispatched an express this day to Pittsburgh to direct that the Artillery and all the supplies for the N. W. Army should be sent to George To^\'n upon the Ohio and from thence by New • Lisbon & Canton to Wooster. In consequence of my application to the Governor of Kentucky I have understood that 1600 mounted men have gone from that State to Vincennes. I have directed them to be employed against Tippecanoe and Peoria on the Ilinois River with the addition of the Rangers & some other companies in the Territories they will form a force of 2400 men. Agi'eeably to the authority given me by your letter of the 17th I have appointed Mr. John H. Piatt Deputy Commissary. He is the same person that was employed by Genl. Hull and \\ill I think make a most excellent officer. There is nothing that gives me more apprehension than the destitute condition of many of my men in the article of clothing and Blankets. It appears to me that it is impossible that they can act in such a Climate as that of Canada without warm clothing. I have applied to the Governor of Kentucky and have addressed the Citizens of that state on the subject myself. Great exertions will I am persuaded be made to relieve them but I must beg leave to recommend that some assistance if possible be afforded by the government. I have put in requisition all the woolens that have been sent on for the Indians and will have them distributed and accounts kept against the men who receive them that the price may be deducted from their pay. I have the honor to be with very great respect Sir. Your mo. ob. se. WiLLM. Henry Harrison The Honble William Eustis Secy of WaPeiTnit me to recommend that a supply of those articles and if possible Woolen Jackets & Overals be sent on from Pittsburgh to Wooster by land to be disposed of to the Militia in the same manner that the surplus clothing is to the Regular Troops. It appears to me proper also that the Government should furnish Watch Coats for the ^Militia Centinels. From the short period of their service they cannot purchase those things out of their own pay. I have therefore taken upon myself the responsibility of directing them to be procured. I fear however that materials cannot be found below Pittsburgh — Lieut Johnson has orders to furnish 150 from thence. It is fortunate that there is with the Army many members of Congi*ess [John Simpson, Samuel IMcKee, Thomas INIontgomery, Richard M. Johnson, George Madison & perhaps others] who will be enabled to give testimony that will not be questioned upon the floor of that body as to the propriety and necessity of many alterations in our military arrangements. I have no less than seven members Elect of the next Congi'ess under my command and two of them Messrs. [Richard M.]Johnson & [Samuel] McKee belong to the present House of Representitives.- tt^ -rr tt 
w. 11.11. Shelby to James Blair 
Frankfort, Ky., Sept. 28th, 1812 
gjj^ . Kif. Reg. State Hist. Soc. VIII, 20 
I submit the inquiries contained in the enclosed letter from S. J. Dawson, Comdt. of the 14th Regt. of the State INIilitia for your opinion thereon. 
As this is a case that may arise in various regiments, be so good as to examine the laws in force on these points and give me your opinion thereon as soon as convenient, and obHge, sir, etc. Isaac Shelby James Blair, Esq., Attij. Gen. of Kentucky 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters St. IMarys 29th Sept. 1812 
Har. Pa. 710 
Sir: 
I have thought it proper to appoint Mr. Thos. Butler^ to act as Quarter Master for the troops under Genl.[Samuel] Hopkins in the Indiana Territoiy until the decision of the President can be known. Mr. Butler was many years an officer in the Army and when he resigned (a year ago) was perhaps the oldest Lt. in his Regt. he has experience & capacity to qualify him for the appointment he ^vill accept of the commission of Ensign in any of the Regiments. I have the honor to be with great Respect. Yr. Hbe. Ser\i;. WiLLM. Henry Harrison The Honble Wm. Eustis Esq. Secy of War 
Harrison to the People of Kentucky 
about Oct. 1812 
Dawson, Harrison, JOS 
Fellow Citizens, 
The executive of your state acting, as it was believed, in unison with your wishes, have conferred on me the command of that part of the state quota of militia, which was destined to relieve Detroit. The general government has confirmed and extended my command to all the troops which have been called into service from the western states. Upon the point of leading these brave men into a rigorous northern climate, I discover that many of them are without blankets, and much the greater part of them totally destitute of every article owinter clothing. It is impracticable to procure the supplies necessary for them from the public stores, and there is no alternative but in your feeling and patriotism. A contribution of articles which ^\ill not be felt by you, will enable your soldiers to withstand the keen northern blasts with as much fortitude as they will the assaults of the enemy. Can any patriot sleep easy in his bed of down when he reflects upon the situation of a centinel exposed to the cold of a winter night in Canada, in a linen hunting shirt?Will the amiable fair sex suffer their brave defenders to be mutilated by the frost for the want of the mittens and socks which they can with little exertion procure for them ?I trust that I know my fair countrywomen too well not to believe that this appeal to their patriotism and liberality will be effectual. Blankets, overalls, roundabout jackets, shoes, socks, and mittens are the articles most wanted. Colonel Thomas Buford, the deputy commissary-general, will provide for the transportation of the articles, and will pay for the blankets and shoes, if required. Winchester General Orders 
Camp at Defiance, October 3, 1812 
Dawson, Harrison, 308 
I have the honor of announcing to this army the arrival of General Harrison, who is duly authorized by the executive of the federal government, to take the command of the northwestern aiTny. This officer, enjoying the implicit confidence of the states from whose citizens this army is and will be collected, and possessing himself great militaiy skill and reputation, the general is confident in the belief that his presence in this army, in the character of its chief, will be hailed with universal approbations 
J. Winchester, Brigadier-general U. States anfiy 
Harrison to Winchester Head Quarters, Fort Defiance, 4th Oct. 1812 
Dawson, Hanison, SO 9 
Sir, 
Being obliged to repair to Wooster, the rendezvous of the right wing of the ai-my, the whole arrangement for the su  
ply and march of the left wing is committed to you. The means and situation of the troops are as follows: There are now at St. INIary's nearly three hundred thousand rations of flour and whiskey, and the greater part of the small component parts, and 15 or 20,000 rations of biscuit and bacon ; at Jennings' block-house [S. W. Corner Putnam Co.0.]there were, on the 1st inst.240 beeves, supposed to average 400 lbs. and about 100 packs loaded with flour; 35 or 40 wagons loaded with flour and biscuit were to leave St. Mary's on the 2d instant for the said block-house; and upwards of 200 beeves were ordered on to the former place, (St. Mary's.)from the neighborhood of Hamilton. All these articles above enumerated have been purchased by the deputy commissaries, and are exclusive of the supplies provided by the contractor, who has been instructed to deposit 200,000 complete rations at fort Jennings, which is understood to be the last place upon this route within his contract. He has been further directed to provide for all the troops at and in the rear of that place. Of the three regiments belonging to your command which are in the rear, [Robert] Pogue's is employed cutting the road from Jennings' block-house to this place, [William] Jennings' is at the block-house, and [Joshua] Barbee's, and a battalion of Ohio troops under major [Joseph] Jenkinson, (which will continue under your command until the arrival of the army at the general rendezvous), have been ordered back to St. Mary's. The reasons for the latter arrangement were to afford the means of escort to the provisions between St. Mary's and fort Jennings, and to spare the provisions which have been purchased for the use of the army in advance of the district of major White. I have directed the commissary, Mr. [John H.] Piatt, to procure all the wagons in his power for transporting the provisions from St. IMary's to this place. Major [Thomas] Bodley, the quarter-master for the Kentucky quota, will also remain at St. Mary's \vith a deputy commissary, to superintend the transportation, and will attend to any orders you may give them. Major Bodley will also attend to the forwarding of the artilleiy and all the stores of the quartermaster's and ordnance department. He will be instructed to provide, under your order, for any deficiencies which may exist. With respect to your movements in advance, I must observe, that it is extremely desirable that you should occupy the rapids of Miami as speedily as possible, for the purpose of securing the corn which is growing there, and which is believed to amount to several hundred acres, an object of no little importance to the future movements of the army. The number of troops which it will be proper to leave in your rear to bring up the provisions, aiid other necessares, which you may be unable to take with you, is left to your discretion, and must depend, in a great measure, upon the quantity of them that may be left, the number of trips which it may require to bring them to the rapids, and the size of the escort which you may deem necessary to protect them. I will communicate with you frequently, and from St. Mary's will inform you of everything which I may think material to your operations. With great respect and consideration. Your humble servant, 
Wm. Henry Harrison Brig. Gen. Winchester 
Commanding Left iving of army 
Hopkins to Harrison ^^^^^^ Camp Bussaron Oct. 6th 1812 
Har. Pa. 731, 732 
Dear Sir 
Dispatches were received by me last evening containing yours made thro' the Governor of that State enlarging my power here. Those men have come on to this Country, unorganised and were arriving at Vincennes for eight or ten days, to organise them and make out such details as I conceived Necessary for their rights, was a labour of considerable magnitude added to this the dificulty of procuring provisions for so large an army the quantity for compleating the campaign being necessary to be in advance or nearly so, as we shall have no mode of transportation except on our horses, has detained us from the 25th. ult. until the present, we shall leave this tomorrow-morning tollerably provided for. My object certainly will be to break up and do as much damage as possible to all the hostile tribes on the Illinois & Wabash rivers as well as those between the Rivers. 
I do not understand the Secretary of War requiring explanations from several of those tribes, they are all considered hostile and will be dealt with accordingly. This army will probable cross the River at Ft. Harrisson and make the first stroke at Pioria, and proceed up that River as far as circumstances shall dictate best, and recross the Country to the Wabash, chastissing as many of the tribes on that river as we can meet with, and every exertion shall be used to make our campaign as extensive in its effects as possible. I have placed on the Frontier between Vincennes & Louisville about One hundred & fifty men well officered and arranged at different Situations with directions to range that Country so as completely to protect the citizens and the road. Col. [William] Russell this day receives orders to repair to the Camp on the Illinois, and as soon as possible prepare and commence a Campaign with all the force he can raise up that river so that he may probably meet us at Pioria, he thinks he can raise eight hundred men, that force it is presumed will be sufficient for that purpose. As the term of service for which the mounted men engaged is short, and part of that exhausted, I shall certainly persue the objects of my present expedition with vigour. The Brigade of six Months Infantry now under the command of General Wilcox will be prepared for operations which will commence after the mounted men are discharged. I have the honor Sir to be 
Yrs Mt Respectfully..^-^ ;-.. ■^K. H Saml. Hopkins 
P. S. I shall embrace every means to keep you advised of our operations & will be thankful for your cummunications Gov. Harrison 
Truly Copied George Trotters Junr.1. William Russell was bom in Culpepper Co., Va., 1758. In 1774 he joined Boone and by 1780 after serving in the Rev. was in Ky. having fought Indians in Tenn. He fought at King's Mountain and Guilford C. H. Later he was with both Scott and Wilkinson in their raids on the Wabash ; commanded a Ky. regiment under Wayne. He died at his home in Fayette Co., Ky., 1825. Collins, Kentucky, 50Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department October 7, 1812 
Sir, ^«'"- ^''' '' 
Your letters of Sept. 24th and 27th [see above] have been received. It appears by the Report of INIajor [Ebenezer] Denny that a proportion of Flour Whiskej", and Salt necessaiy for the 1,098,000 Rations ordered by my letter of Sept. 1st, a copy of which was inclosed to you & by your letter of the 27th seems to have [Missing] Br. General Wm. H. Harrison, Piqua 
Meigs to Harrison 
Urban A Oct 11 
gjj^ . Har.11th 1812 
SIR nar. Fa.723 
John Conner arrived here from the Delawares Yesterday and informs that the Miamis have sent them nine messages to invite them to go to War with the U. States in the short time of eighteen days and that the 2 last of them were while he was there on the 1st & 3d. inst. The one that arrived on the 1st left Mississinaway at the same time that the Messengers did to beg peace of you at St. Mary's. Connor says he was present when the Messengers delivered his message to the Delawares on the 1st and he says the Messenger pre?<'nted a large belt of Wampum painted red and urged very strongly the necessity of the Delawares joining in the War against the U. S. Altho the Delawares rejected firmly all the proposals of the Miamis to take part in the War, yet, they say they have so many sick that they cannot come to Piqua. I have the honor to be 
Yr. Obt. Servt. stickney 
Exy. WM. H. Harrison ^' ^' ^^ickney 
I certify the above to be a true copy 
Wm. p. Hunter A. D. C.  
W. K. Jordan to His Wife 
Fort Wayne October 12th, 1812 
Betsey : I now lift my pen to inform you that I am in a good state of health, after a long and sore journey through the Indian country. I started from Ft. Wayne on the 1st of August with Cap.[William] Wells, and 100 pretended Indian friends, to go to Foii: Dearborn, on Lake IMichigan, which is 200 miles from Fort Wayne. For guarding Cap. Heald and his company as he was in danger of being taken by the British, and had recieved orders to evacuate that Fort and march to Fort Wajnie. We got to Fort Dearborn on the 10th of August unmolested, destroyed all that we could not fetch with us and prepared for a March on the Morning of the 15th. The morning of tlie 15th now arrives, the most lamentable day I ever saw. Hold's men consisted of 100 men, 10 women, and 20 children, total amounting to 130. Wells and myself and our 100 pretended Indian friends making in all 232. Now we leave Fort Dearborn, about 8 o'clock in the morning, bound for Fort Wajme, and marched about one mile when we were attacked with 500 Kickapoos and Winebago Indians and our pretended friends joined them. Our engagement lasted about 10 minutes, when there was eveiy man, woman and child killed but 15, and, thanks be to God, I was- one of them. The first shot took the feather out of my cap, the next shot the epulett off my shoulder, and the third broke the handle of my sword. I had to surrender myself to four dammed yellow Indians. They marched up to where Wells lay, and one of them spoke English and said, "Jordan, I know you, you gave me some tobacco at Fort. Wayne. You shant be killed."But see what I will do with your Captain."He then cut off his head and stuck it on a pole, while another took out his heart and divided it among the chiefs, and they ate it up raw. When they gulped all they gathered in around ring, with us poor devils in the middle, and had like to fall out who should have the prisoners. But my old chief. The White Raccoon, held me by the hand. They stripped all of us of our shirts and trousers, and every family took one as long as we lasted, and then started for their towns. Every man to his tent, Isreal. But I will just inform you when I got to my strange lodging I looked like a cat in a strange garret. But I made myself as comfortable as possible under my preseiit circumstances. Night came on, they tied me hard and fast and placed a guard over me. I laid do^^^l and slept soundb^ till morning, for I was tired. They untied me in the morning and set me to parching corn. I worked all day very attentively. At night my old chief told me that if I would stay and not run away that I would be chief, but if I attempted to run away they would catch me and bum me alive. I told him a fine story, so they did not tie me that night. As for the particulars I haven't time to write them, but I made my escape on the 19th, and stole one of their horses and came to Fort WajTie on the 26th, (being seven days in the wilderness) where I was recieved joyfully. On the 26th the Indians attacked Fort Wayne, so they cut off all intercourse. They thought to starve us out, but one friend Indian came in and we sent him to Governor Harrison, which came to our relief on the 16th of September with 3,000 volunteers. When the Gov. came on he broke our Captain [Rhea] for cowardice. I just mention this that if it should be my lot to fall that you may know how to come to my right. I belong to Captain Jas. Rha, in the 1st regiment of Infantry. Our paymaster was Idlled, or taken, at Detroit, so I have not recieved one cent of pay, and but half of my bounty, which was 8 dollars.1 now am sargent, my pay is 7 dollars a month, I only sei*\'ed 15 days as a private. What spare time I have I assist the comasary, so that keeps me tea, sugar, and so forth. After all my fun I weigh 190. One word to you Betsey, for if I was now speaking to you it would be my own language. I have two letters of yours before me, and some of the soft hair of your head, and some in a small plait around my neck. I must say that I am sorry to see your pen breathe ridicule, for if I deserve it, it wont cure it. Don't conclude from these words that I am tired of your letters, but tell me how you are, and how the children are, and for God's sake try to send Mountford to school. It ain't one time in ten that I can write to you, but you can write when you please. I gave 50 cents for this paper. Direct your letters to the care of Lieutenant [Philip] Ostrander, for we have no cap. now. Tell me if the men is drafted in your country. You will do W. K. Jordan a favor if you send Hunter a copy of this letter. So give my comps to all inquiring friends. 
Give my best respects to your father and mother and all your 
brothers, and this line of kisses to my hearts delight , 
and the boys tell them what you please, and these for yourself . So I conclude with my best respects to you till death, or till I see you. So I subscribe by name this 12th night of October, 1812./n/nW. K. Jordan/ Seargent 
TuppER TO Harrison 
Urbana, Oct. 12th, 1812 
Niles Register III, 167-169 
Sir— 
On receiving your orders of the 4th inst. to proceed to the Rapids with the whole force of mounted men under my command, whose horses were in a condition to perform the service ; I caused an examination to be immediately had ; and found that there still remained 960 men including officers, in a condition to march, including also capt. Bacon, and one other company which left us the morning following. The beeves expected at Gen. Winchester's camp, did not arrive so as to enable us to draw, till the morning of the 5th: A good number of the men were destitute of provision the day you left Defiance. There being no flour to be issued to the mounted men, I ordered that eight days rations of beef should be drawn and immediately jerked, so as to lighten and prepare it for the expedition, intending to move off on the evening of the 5th. On examining our ammunition it had been found that during the excessive rains which fell, while you was marching us from St. Mary's to Defiance, it had become so damaged as to be entirely useless; not two rounds of sound cartridges were left to a man. I ordered returns made, so that each man should be furnished with 12 rounds. This retui'n amounted to 4500 cartridges for the musket men, exclusive of major Roper's battalion: the ammunition of the 
1. This letter is included here more to illustrate the general conditions than for any connection with Gen. Harrison. Waller K. Jordan lived in Morgan Co., Pa. He died at Fort Wayne. His family subsequently came to Jackson Co., Ind. Mrs. L. C. Mathers of Bloomington, Ind., who has the original of the letter, is a Kreat-RranddauKhter. The letter as published in Niics is considerably mutilated in translation, Jordan was a bar-icant under Rhea at Fort Wayne. The letter contains several errors of fact and has been severely criticised. The lettiMS were perhaps dictated. The Niles letter may be the copy sent to "Hunter". Either this is the case or one similar U referred to by John Johnston in his letter of Oct. 23, below.'* riflemen having received very little damage. Quarter-master Basey called on the quarter-master in Gen. Winchester's camp and returned without a supply. About 1 o'clock tliis day, a man belonging to [Capt. James] IManary's company of Rangers was killed and scalped across the Miami, within two hundred yards of our canip. I gave immediate orders to arms, and in five minutes to horse, but owing to our being compelled to confine our horses during the night, and graze them by day for want of forage ; the gi-eater part at this moment were under keepers nearly one mile from our camp up the Auglaise. conceiving from the bold manner in which the Indians had approached our camp, that it was possible a considerable body was not distant, I wished to form the men and proceed over the river, by which we should be in a situation to contend with a considerable force, or pursue to effect a small one. In the meantime I permitted major [Heniy] Brush to cross over with about 50 foot, to examine the bank, and see in what direction the Indians had retired, but before he reached the opposite shore every horseman whose horse was in camp was mounted to follow over. It was in vain that I made an attempt to keep them back till they were formed; they broke off in numbers from 20 to 30, mostly without their officers, and crossed the woods, in every direction ; a party of 15 fell on the trail of the Indians and at seven or eight miles distance overtook them; but as the Indians were superior to them, and formed, our men without waiting for a discharge from the enemy, returned to camp. Logan, and the other Indians in our camp, were of the opinion that there was a considerable force of the enemy lying dovm. the river and offered to spy down. Early on the following morning they left our camp with instructions to proceed four miles below the Little Rapids, a distance of 14 miles. They returned at evening, having found no trail of any size, excepting the party which had been pursued and those they computed at about 40 ; that they had proceeded on towards the waters of Lake Michi' gan, and not on the direction to the Rapids. That the Brit' ish and Indians which had fled before general Winchester, had retreated, with apparent precipitancy, driving their carriages over large logs, and tearing down every sapling that stood in their way. Scarcely had this scout left our camp, when I received the following order from general Winchester:  
Camp Ne.\r Defiance, October 6, 1812 Sir, BelievinfT it to be essential, that the Indians who committed the mui-der yesterday near your camp should be pursued and routed, or tlicir strength and situation ascertained, and as that duty can be best and most expeditiously done with mounted men, you will this morning pursue their trail with a part or the whole of your force, and dislodge, kill, and destroy them if in your power. This duty performed you can take the course directed by general Harrison. The attitude of the enemy requires this change in your destination, and, as commanding oflicer of the north-western army, I have deemed it my duty to make it; if you do not return to report, you will send an officer for that purpose. J. WiNXHESTER, Brig-Gen. com. left ^ving N. W. Anyiy. General Tupper 
I waited on general Winchester immediately on receipt of the foregoing order, informing him of having previously sent out a scout, and the object of it; that the Indians had the evening before been overtaken seven or eight miles from our camp; and their number computed at from 20 to 40. That in all probability they had then advanced too far to be overtaken without a long pursuit; that our horses were feeble, and that I wished to preserve as much of their strength as possible for the general object of the expedition ; and that if it was agreeable to him we would wait the return of the scout, to take such measures as were deemed proper on their return. General Winchester made no objections to this arrangement; at the same time I informed him that we had not three rounds of ammunition to a man, and requested of him to order me a supply. He replied to me that he would order his ammunition examined, and would endeavor to furnish me a part of what was required to complete the 12 rounds. My brigade quarter-master attended this day and returned this evening with information that no ammunition could be had. Early the following moniing I ordered the horses for a march and repaired to gen, Winchester's quarters and again requested a supply of two thousand cartridges, being about one third of the quantity required; without which I could not feel myself justifiable in proceeding on the expedition. In answer he stated to me, that he had but six thousand cartridges not issued ; that his men had but verj'- few in their boxes ; that he had a good supply of powder and ball, but no paper; the latter was in the waggons and expected to arrive that or the day follo\\ing — and then directed me to return to my camp and 
14-22G64 .. I .■■ ; , ,..;J -jj make report of the actual quantity on hand, and he would then inform me whether he would deliver the two thousand cartridges. I hastened back to my camp, and gave the necessary orders for furnishing the return ; but in a few minutes after, received from general Winchester the following order: 
General Tupper — Longer delay consistent with strict military principles cannot be indulged; you will therefore proceed immediately on the reconnoitring duty ordered yesterday with the troops under your command, except col. [James] Simral's corps who shall return without delay to the settlement, to recruit their horses, agreeable to general Harrison's orders. J. Winchester, Brig. Gen. 
Wlien Col. Simral's company moved off a large proportion of two companies of major Roper's battalion from Kentucky followed, which reduced that battalion, (being the whole force now remaining from Kentukcy) to less than eighty men. I was indebted to col. Simral for all the cartridges he had excepting two rounds; but as the most of them had been damaged and dried, they did not add one sound round to each man. I was on the point of taking up the line of march to execute general Winchester's orders, when col. [John] Allen, commanding a regiment of Kentucky troops in gen. Winchester's camp, came up, and informed me he had obtained leave to accompany me to the Rapids in any station I thought proper to place him, from a soldier upwards. I thankfully accepted his services and caused him to be announced as an aid. Col. Allen proposed, that as it was gen. Winchester's wish that the troops should move on the direct route to the Rapids, that none should be taken but such as would go freely. The experiment was made, when about 400 volunteered for the service ; scarcely had the troops moved forward from the rank, when col. Allen beckoned me aside and shewed me an order which gen. Winchester had that moment forwarded to him, giving col. Allen the command of the men ordered for the Rapids. I requested of col. Allen a copy of this order, which he declined giving. It would be difficult for me to describe the state of my feelings at this moment. I turned to the troops which had refused to volunteer, and ordered them across the Auglaise on the route you directed me to take, as the best calculated to carry your orders into effect. When it was found that general Winchester, had superceeded me in the command, the whole force from Ohio, crossed the Auglaise  
and refused to march as directed by gen. Winchester. Col. Allen and major [Henry] Brush returned to general Winchester who assured them he had mistook the object of col. Allen's request. General Winchester then proposed to divide the force and have a part to move on the direct route to the Rapids, the other to proceed by Tawa [Ottawa] towns, to unite at a certain time 12 miles above the Rapids. I was unwilling to consent to this measure ; the force united was not half the number you thought necessary to order on the most secret route; a division of less than 500 men to meet in an enemy's country, where many circumstances might prevent their junction, was to me a measure I could only consent to by compulsion — this measure \\'as in the end abandoned. It is a duty I owe to col. Allen that I have not the smallest reason to believe he was privy to the order of general Winchester, giving to him the command : his character, and every part of his conduct on that occasion, convinces me he is above it. The whole force proceeded to Tawa towns v^'here we reached the day following. Early on the morning of the 9th I ordered the march for the Rapids, when at the distance cf half a mile it was found our whole force was reduced to 200 men exclusive of officers; the other part of the force had refused to march, and remained in the encampment; scarcely a man marched from the second battalion of colonel Finley's regiment, commanded by major Taylor. INIanary's company of U. S. Rangers, both officers and soldiers, refused to march. When it was ascertained that our Vv'hole force for the Rapids was reduced to 200 men, I called a council of the officers to determine whether Vvith that force it was advisable to proceed on to the Rapids. The council considered that our force was not sufficient to carry the first object of your orders into effect; that we were too numerous to act as a spy party, and too weak to carry offensive operations into the enemy's country; and that it would be improper and unadvisable under those circumstances to continue the expedition. With the then remaining force I proceeded to this place, [Urbana] where I directed col. Findley and major Roper to discharge such men only as had continued to do their duty. Thus, sir, has terminated an expedition, at one time capable of tearing the British flag from the Walls at Detroit, wherein our troops might have returned with the pleasing reflection of having rendered their country an essential service. It is a duty, sir, I owe to the oflicers of the Kentucky forces, to col. Findley and oflkers of his first battalion, to say that they were zealous of pressing forward the expedition; while the oflficers of the second battalion, commanded by major Taylor, with few exceptions, were shrinking from their duty, and shamefully deserting the cause of their country. The detaching of col. Simral's regiment from our force stands prominent among the causes of our failure; already was there a panic in some parts of our camp ; the enemy that had retired at general Winchester's approach had been greatly magnified. The day succeeding the alarm general Winchester drew in one wing of his lines and strengthened his camp with a breast-work — even this circumstance was noticed, and urged as an evidence, that he apprehended a force superior to his own. Thus when imaginary obstacles, unite with those that are real to oppose the movement of a force so insubordinate, as that every man's will is his law, little can be expected to the oflicers, but a plentiful harvest of mortification and disgrace. It cannot be denied that at the time those men refused to march, that there was a scarcity of provision in the camp, not three days rations of meat to each officer and soldier remained ; and no bread or flour. But we had found at those to^^^ls, an abundant supply of good sound corn, together with nearly 30 bushels cured when green, or tossanwnona. Our sufl'erings with this supply could not have been great in going or returning from the Rapids. The man whose courage and patriotism expires when his rations are reduced, ought never to place himself between his country and its enemies. When you shall have examined and considered the whole causes of our failure, should doubts rest on your mind whether some part of it does not attach to my conduct, may I not hope, sir, that you may order a court of enquiry, that I may have an opportunity of meeting an investigation. I have the honor to be, &c. 
Edw. W. Tupper. Brig. Gen.  
Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Franklinton (Ohio) 
13th. Oct. 1812 
Har. Pa. 711-719 
Sir: 
"My last letters to you were from Piqua on the 27th and St. Marys on the 29th ultimo.[See above] I have been so constantly in motion since that I have been unable to write. Genl.[Edward] Tupper of this State I intended to have sent on the expedition mentioned in my letter of the 27th ult. On that day however (the 30th.)I received information by two Officers who were sent from Genl. Winchester that in his march from Fort Wayne to Defiance he had been greatly impeded by a considerable body of Indians who were frequertly engaged with his advanced guard and that upon his arrival near Defiance he had discovered that the Indians were attended by Brittish troops who had with them some pieces of Artillery. Within a few minutes after the arrival of these gentlemen I received by an Express sent by Gov. Meigs a letter from Genl. Kelso commanding a Detachment of Pennsylvania troops on Lake Erie informing me that on the 16th of Sept. 2000 Indians with a detachment of British regulars and Militia had set out from Maiden with 2 Pieces of Artillery for the purpose of attacking Fort Wayne.^ Having no doubt that this was the force which was in front of Genl. Winchester, I immediately ordered the two Regmts. of Infantry which were with me and the whole of the mounted men amounting to above 1000 to divest themselves of all their baggage and prepare to go in pursuit of the enemy. We marched six miles that Evening and on the following day I left the Infantry pushed on as rapidly as possible and reached Defiance on the evening of the 2nd day, where I found Genl.1. Following is the note: 
Pittsburgh 28 Sept. 1812 Sir: News have reached us that 200 English and a large body of Indians left Detroit very recently to attack Fort Wayne, and Fort Harrison on the Wabash — and that Maiden is almost destitute of troops. Amos Stoiidard Gen. WAnawonTii Maj. 
V ^Yest. Rc8. Hist. Soe. Tract OS p. 71 Winchester encamped and had the mortification to learn that the enemy had passed that place at least 3 or 4 days before. Genl. Winchester met with the Indians the day after his departure from Fort Wayne but he was not able to ascertain their number or their position. When he arrived within a few miles of Defiance he found the tracks of the enemies carriages on the south side of the Miami both going & returning and upon further examination it was discovered that they had not advanced more than 8 or 10 miles above Defiance. Genl. Winchester kept his troops so well prepared to, receive the enemy that they did not dare to attack him. In the course of the march he lost an Ensign and 6 men killed and one wounded. As my presence was absolutely necessary in the rear to make arrangements for sending on the supplies for the Army I left Defiance on the 4th inst. having previously directed Genl. Winchester to build a small fort at that place, and Genl. Tuppcr to proceed with the mounted men to the Rapids and if he should think proper (from the information he should there receive) as far as the River Resin. On my way to St. Marys I met an express from Fort Wayne informing me that the Indians were again collecting round that place and that it had been thought advisable that a troop of Dragoons (amied with INIuskets) which I had sent to bring off a six pounder left there by Genl. Winchester should not proceed with jt until they were reinforced. At St. IMarys I found about 500 mounted rifle men who had come on to join the expedition towards Detroit. These were dispatched under a Col. [Allen] Trimble to Fort Wayne and with directions to proceed on and endeavour to surprise the Potawatamie To"smi called White Pigeons Town about 65 miles from Fort Wayne. I sent also a Battalion of Ohio Infantry to Fort Wayne with a supply of provisions and for the purpose of collecting for the garrison a quantity of fuel which they are unable to get from the distance they have to haul it whenever there are parties of Indians round them. Before I left St. jMarys for Defiance some IMiamis had arrived (via Fort Wayne) with a flag and a Mcssage from their Cheifs begging for peace.[See Oct. 11, above] I had then not time to listen to their speech and upon my return I found the Owl, Charley (the Eel River Chief) the Turtles son and several others had joined them. They came prepared to palliate or deny the hostility of their  
tribe as the one or the other might best suit their purpose, but finding that I was in possession of facts which unequivocally proved it they threw themselves upon the mercy of the President and have agreed to abide by his decision be it what it may. I have named five Chiefs as hostages whom they are to send in to Piqua there to be kept in Custody until the decision of the President is made. The facts which we can prove upon them are the assistance given by Chappim one of their principal war Chiefs in the siege of Fort Wayne. One of these Warriors participating in the murders committed in Clark County, Indianna, [Pigeon Roost] and a scalp exhibited (taken by him) in the town of Mississinaway, a Declaration made to the Delawares of their having taken up the tomhawk against the U. States and I may add their refusal to attend the council at Piqua altho they were informed that their not attending it would be considered as evidence of their having withdrawn from the protection of the U. States. There is great reason to believe that the Weas assisted in the late attack upon fort Harrison and Mr. [John] Johnson thinks his brother was killed by a miami.- I have no doubt that some of the Chiefs have done everything in their power to prevent the young men from going to war with us, and as little that the great bulk of the tribe were decidedly hostile. The revolution in their afl'airs and in their dispostion towards us was very sudden. The Declaration of hostility to us which I have spoken of above that was made to the Delawares was followed in two days by a message entreating the mediation of the Delawares in their favor. In the intermediate time our Army had appeared at Fort Wayne their Villages and provision destroyed and their utter extirpation threatened. You are so well acquainted Sir with all the circumstances connected with the situation of this tribe, that it would be presumption in me to indicate my opinion of the course to be pursued toward them. I will merely observe they can do us considerable injury if they are driven olT and unite with the hostile bands which are collecting towards the southern extremity of Lake Michigan. From the Miamis I learn that the Prophet has abandoned his position upon the Wabash and had taken one near the 
2. Steven Johnson was a clerk in tlic a'.^cncy under Sticknoy. IIo was killed trying to get through the Indian lines to I'iiiua. John Johnson accused White Raccoon of the murder. Griswold. Fort Wayne, COZ head of the Tippaccano River and that the Wincbagoes had deserted him and returned home disgusted, I suppose, with their late want of success in the attack upon Fort Harrison. Having made every arrangement in my power for forwarding the supplies for the Army to Defiance and committed the command of that wing to Genl. Winchester who agreed to serve under me without the least hesitation I left St. Marys for the purpose of making similar arrangements for the Right Wing. The accumulation of provisions upon the Auglase Route is quite equal to my expectations. There are at St. Marys and advanced of that place about 250,000. Rations of flour whiskey and small parts purchased by the Commissaries and Mr. [William] Piatt'' is actively & successfully employed in increasing the quantity to 500,000. There are two Regmts stationed on the Auglase thirty six miles above Fort Defiance employed in building two block houses and ten batteau for the purpose of conveying supplies to the Rapids if there should be a rise of Water which often happens in the fall. Upon the Urbana Route little has been done towards the accumulation of provisions excepting Meat Kind which can be procured of Cat''^^ or Hogs to any extent. The Ohio Troops have marched from Urbana to Minarys Blockhouse [in Logan Co.] 20 miles in advance and will be employed in repairing the road to McArlhers block house [in Hardin Co. at the crossing of the Scioto] 40 miles from Urbana where I have directed 200,000 Rations to be deposited by the Contractor White and the same quantity by the Commissary. Further information upon the subject has howevei- convinced me that my first opinion as to the propriety of adopting the Sandusky route as that which ought principally to be relied on for the conveyance of our supplies was correct. But I was misinformed as to the eligibility of Woostcr as a place of deposit and the Rendezvous of the right wing. It should have been Mansfield ; indeed that place is not far enough West to serve as a deposit of the supplies procured on the Sciota nor for the junction of the two Corps from Pennsylvania & Virginia, the former with all the Artillery & supplies from Pittsburgh will still pursue the route by Canton & Wooster to Mansfield and I have sent an express to conduct the latter through Cliilicothe, this place and Worthington to Delaware from which last a road is now 
3. Willifim rialt w:is in the quartcnnastor department . nnd John Tuitt was a contractor. It is often impossiljle to determine to which Harrison refers. 
cutting by a detachment of the Ohio ^Militia to the Upper Sandusky where I have directed Block Houses to be built for a principal deposit. I have directed Major [Ebenezer] Denny to forward by the Canton and Wooster route 400,000 complete Rations but I do not think that any further quantity need be sent from that place of any article composing the Ration unless it is whiskey. All the information I receive corroborates the opinion I have given that every thing else can be procured here cheaper than it can be brought from Pittsburgh. My only fears on the score of provisions arrise from the difficulty of getting it transported from the frontiers of the settlement. My experience in the Campaigns of Genl.\Va:^me and the opinion of men conversant in such matters have determined me to procure Ox teams. They can live on the food which the forests will furnish for some time if well salted whilst our horse teams require a constant supply of grain. I have therefore directed Col. [James] Morrison to purchase One hundred Ox waggons and teams for the Sanduskj^ route being convinced that purchasing will in the end prove more economical than hiring. Col. [Thomas] Buford is also ordered on here for the purpose of procuring provisions. I am much relieved by the information given in Yr. letter of the 26th. Ultimo [see above] of the number of shoes & blankets destined for this army which have been sent on, great exertions are making in Kentucky to procure other articles of clothing, socks & mittens will be obtained in sufficient numbers and it is probable a considerable number of overals & Jackets will also be procured. Without these I shall never be able to get the army to Detroit. I am fully sensible of the responsibility vested in me by your letter of the 23d.[22] Ultimo.[See above] I accept it with full confidence of being able to effect the wishes of the president or to show unequivocallj" their impracticability. If the fall should be veiy dry I will retake Detroit before the winter sets in but if we should have much rain it will be necessaiy to wait at the Rapids until the Margin of the Lake becomes frozen sufficiently to bear the Army and its baggage. A simultaneous movement with the army below will be highly useful as the enemy will be able for some time to come to transfer their force from one end of the lake to the other by water. I have written to Gcnl. Vanranssalear and shall continue to keep him informed of my movements and prospects. I am indeed highly pleased with the appointment of Col. [James] IMorrison I know of no man who could discharge with so much propriety as himself the duties of Quarter IMaster Genl. to an Army. The Col. has applied to me to appoint a deputy to him under the Act establishing the Quarter Master Gen Is. Department. The Colo, cannot get a proper person to assist him for the compensation allowed for the assistant deputy Quarter IMaster by the law under which his own appointment is made. Will it be proper to appoint a Dt}p5'. Quarter IMaster under the 1st. Section of the act of the 28th. of ]March?. Genl. Winchester agreed to continue under my command without the least hesitation. That circumstance has given me great pleasure. But I am at a loss in what light to consider myself. If as a Brigar., Genl. Winchester's prior commission will entitle him to the command. IMy commission from Kentucky has not been abrogated, would it be improper to continue to act under it and at the time that I am a Brigdr. in the service of the U. States?however the government may decide, I shall be content. In a former letter 1 requested that a detachment of the Artillery Corps should be sent to me. In an army composed almost exclusively of Militia and operated in a country Vvhore rivers are to be crossed in the presence of highly disciplined troops and Foi'ts to be taken, it is all important that the Corps of Artillery should be respectable for its numbers and knowledge of its duty. I beg leave also to recommend that an other officer of Engineers should be sent on. A fit of sickness or an accident depriving us of the services of Capt.[Charles] Gratiot might put a stop to our operations. I have the honor to be very Respectfully Yr. Hbl. Servt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison The Honble Wm. Eustis Esq. Secy of War  
Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No 16,) 
Head Quarters Franklinton 15th Oct. 1812 
Har. Fa.720-72:^ 
Sir: 
I am sorry to inform 3-011 that the expedition which I directed of mounted men toward the Rapids of Miami did not succeed. The greater part of the men having as I understand refused to march under Genl.[Edward] Tupper after I left them. I have received no written account but what is contained in the enclosed note from Govr. Meigs.[see Oct. 11, above] I cannot conceive how Genl. Winchester can be to blame on this occasion and I am fully persuaded that it will be found to attach elsv\iicre. I have lately seen an article in the St. Louis paper complaining bitterly of the want of troops in that quarter. If they are wanted it is the fault of the Governors, so early as the 7th ultimo I wrote to the governor of Tennessee and requested him to furnish any number of men that Gov. Howard [Mo.]or Govr. Edwards [111.]should call for and to prevent delay I requested him to hold tvro Regts. in readiness to march as soon as he should receive a requisition. Both the Governors were informed of this arrangement. A Regt. from the lovv'er part of Kentucky was in the first instance ordered to Cahokia from Henderson but their march was very improperly diverted to Vincennes by Genl.[John] Gibson. I have now forwarded orders for it to proceed to its first destination without delay. States but I am not without fears that the hardsliips & difficulties of a winters campaign may shake their firmness & evaporate much of their zeal. It is therefore an object of much importance to collect a body of men who can be depended upon under any circumstances. I have accordingly ordered all the recruits in Kenty. Ohio and Tennessee to be organized and brought on. Lt. Col. [John B.]CampbelP will command those from this State & I have given to Col. [James M.]Anderson the option of commanding those from Tennessee or sending an other field, oflicer. For the mere purpose of guarding the fi'ontiersMililia will answer as well perhaps better than Regiilars. Conformably to the authority given in your letter of the 17th Ultimo I have appointed Capt. Nathl. G. T. Hart= of the 5th Uogt. If I have been mistaken however in my construction of the law it can still be corrected. Captn. Scott. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 7th inst.[see above] This letter is the 16th which I have written to you since my first arrival at Cincinnati in July. It so numbered — as each succeeding one will be with progressive numbers. I sometimes receive you letters in inverted Order I shall therefore be thankful to have the same course pursued with regard to them. It will at any rate, save trouble and enable me to Imow when a letter comes to hand whether all those which were previously written have been received. It was a plan used by the Secy, of War and Genl. Wayne and in one instance that I recollect was productive of particular advantage. I expect the Virginia Brigade will arrive in Chilicothe the day after tomorrow. Major [Ebenezer] Denny had directed 500 barrels of flour to be purchased in this Country in part of the 400,000 Rations ordered by me. I have directed him to forward 400,000 Rations of flour exclusively of these 500 barrels and to send whiskey and small parts to the amount of 800,000, Cattle & Hogs can certainly be procured here in abundance and of course none need be sent from Pittsburgh. With great Respect I have the honor to be Yr. Hbl. Sei^t. WiLLM. Henry Harrison I break open the cover which contains this to enclose a copy 
2. Capt. Nathaniel G. T. Hart was born in Hagerstown, Md., and came as a lioy with his father, Col. Thomas Hart, to Lexington. His sister married James Brown, lonK a minister to France, and Henry Clay. Capt. JIart read law with Clay but t'Hk'Hvred in business. He was wealthy when the war broke out. He was killed at the Raisin, Jan. 22, 1813, among the wounded prisoners. Collins, Kentucky, SJ,5  
of a letter this moment received from Mr. Stickney — [see Oct 11, above] The information it conveys is most wonderful. W. H. H. Honblo Secy, of War 
John H. Piatt to Harrison 
St Marys Oct. 17th 1812 
Har. Pa. 725, 726 
Sir 
The intelligence (contained in Mr. [George] Wallace's letter herewith enclosed from Fort Jennings) of the failure of the Contractor to furnish the necessarys at that post in consequence of which they are consuming the provisions & I have forwarded to fort Defiance is of such importance at the present crisis that I have thought it advisable to communicate the circumstances to Your Excy. by Express and should be glad to receive your possitive instructions on the subject. The roads are getting so extremely bad that with all my exertions I have only been able to forward the following articles directed to Defiance, Viz.334 head of beef cattle 528 barrels of flour 57 barrels whiskey 48 barrels of salt 22 boxes of soap 18 boxes of candles and 36 bags of bread which was carried by 78 Waggons and 161 packhorses. You will observe from Mr. Wallace's letter that the Commandent at fort Jennings has taken a considerable quantity of the above articles for the use of' that post. Under these circumstances I take the liberty of suggesting to your Excellency the propriety of ordering [Robert] Poague's Regt. now at that place to return to this post and to keep a part of them employed in repairing the Roads from Piqua to this place as I am informed there is not more tools at fort Jennings for building boats than will serve to keep [William] Jennings Regmt. employed and if Poague was here he might aid in the different works that are necessary for the safety of the provisions sent from here to forts Wayne and Defiance and they wculd be supplied here much easier than at fort Jennings. I certify this to be a true extracWadswortii to Harrison 
Huron Oct. 20th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 7. J J 
His Excellency Wm. Henry Harrisson. I was somewhat surprised at a passage in your letter (viz) "I left Govn. Meigs yesterday at Urbana & I think he told me that he had given order for some part of your command to open the road in the direction of the Miami Rapids by the Upper Sandusky". You will sec by this letter that my detachment is not completely organized, I have given order for the whole to march to this place without delay, which I expect will be complied with, all the Munitions of war I have ordered to this place and expect them on in a short time, you will readily see should my orders be countermanded my detachment will not be completed so as to answer the expectations of the Secretary at War. I believe he must have had some greater object in view for it then to open road by contract. I am in possession of the copy of a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to Govn. Meigs requesting him to open the above contemplated road by contract or otherwise and an appropriation had been made for that purpose of $5500. I feel confident that your Excellency will not approve of any such orders, yet will be sensible it will overturn all discipline in the army.[Extract] 
Elijah Wadsworth^ Truly Copied Geo. Trotter Jun. Harrison to Secretary of War 


(No 17) 


Head Quarters Franklinton October 22 1812 
' Har. Pa. 727-7J0 
Sir 
Every exertion has been made since I last wrote to you to procure and forward the supplies for the Army to the advanced posts. Very little however has been purchased for the Commissary's department in this quarters as Major [Ebenezer] Denny had engaged every manufacturing Mill from the Scioto to Pittsburgh having dispatched an agent for 
1. Elijah Wailswoith was burn at Iluitfoixl, Conn., Novonibor 4, 1717. Seivcd through the Revolution. Located at Canficld, O., in 1802. Died Dec. 30, 1817. LossInK, ^Var oj lfil2, S.',0  
that purpose as soon as he received your first order for tho One Million & ninety eight thousand rations. Under these circumstances, I thought it advisable to suffer him to go on to procure the whole quantity wliich you had ordered and have instructed him accordingly. I have not heard from the Virginia troops since they left the Ohio but have heard from pretty good authority that they were to march on Sunday last. I set out this morning for Mansfield where I expect to meet the Brigade from Pennsylvania and the greater part of the artillery. Governor I^. Ieigs informs me that there are no artilerists in Genl.[Elijah] Wadsworth division, who have any practical knowledge of their duty. One or two Companies have been formed but they never had a field piece until a few weeks ago. I regret exceedingly that a Detachment from one of the Regular Regiments cannot be spared for this Army. A report has prevailed in this country that a number of Indians and British Troops had been landed at Sandusky eight or ten days ago. I learn that it has been the cause of Genl. Wadsworths advancing from the Poi'tage to the Huron River with all his force. I am persuaded however that the report is entirely unfounded. I am not able to fix any period for the advance of the Troops to Detroit. It is pretty evident that it cannot be done upon proper principles until the frost shall become so severe as to enable us to use the River and the Margin of the Lake for the transportation of the bagage & provisions upon the ice. To get them forward through a Swampy Wilderness of nearly two hundred miles in Waggons or on Pack-horses which are to carry their own Provender is absolutely impossible. The enclosed Extract of a Letter [see Oct. 17 above] just received from the Commissary [John H.] Piatt will give you some idea of the state of the road and of the difficulty of getting provisions even to Defiance. But I have no doubt but that the object of reaching Detroit can be accomplished by using the Margin of the Lake as above mentioned, if thr Troops are provided with warm Clothing and the Winter such as they commonl}^ are in this climate. It is certain however that no species of supplies arc to be calculated upon being found in tlie Michigan Territory. The farms upon tlic river Raisin which might have afforded a quantity of forage are nearly all broken up & the grain destroyed. This article then as well as the provisions for the men is to be taken from this State — a circumstance which must at once put to rest every idea for a land conveyance at this season. Since it would require at least two Waggons with forage for each one that is loaded with provisions and other articles. I am informed that from Eight to ten thousand bushels of corn may be obtained at Cleveland and a few thousand from the Country between that place & Sandusky. My present plan is to occupy Sandusky & to accumulate as much provision & forage as possible at that place to be taken upon Sleds from thence to the river Raisin. At Defiance, Fort Jennings & St. Mary's boats & sleds are preparing to take advantage of a rise of water or a fall of Snov.^ General [Edward] Tupper with one thousand Ohio militia is advancing to McArthur's Block-house forty four miles from Urbana upon Hull's trace to cover the provisions which the Commissary is depositing there and which by the middle of November will amount to two hundred thousand rations. He has also directed to prepare sleds for taking it forward. It has been my object to keep as many of the troops within the 41st degree to save the provisions purchased by the Commissary which are intended for the use of the troops when they shall advance. But notwithstanding my urgent demand the Contractors have done little or nothing towards the Deposits which I have required to be made at McArtluu's & Jenning's Blockhouse (upon the Auglaise) and at the latter place the two Regiments there are subsisting upon the Commissaiy's Stores. Major White has let out his cojitract for the North Western part of the?State at so low a rate that the Sub-Contractors are unable to furnish the supplies and one at least of them is as groat a scoundrel as the World can produce, indeed, I am very far from being satisfied with Major White himself. He will it is said, make One hundred thousand Dollars by the contract for this state and I am very well persuaded that he had rather see the Army starve than that his profits should be lessened five Hundred Dollars. He merits no indulgence from the Government and he has certainly forfeited the penalty of his bond. The Troops at Fort Defiance might advance to the Miami Rapids in a few days. I do not believe however that any great advantage would arise from it until the other Columns are ready to support them and it would be productive of the  
certain disadvantag-e of consuming provisions forwarded with immense labor & expense without essentially contributing to the main design. I know of no arrangement which could be better calculated to protect the frontiers and support each other than that which the several Corps of the Army at present form. Depredations by small parties of Indians may and will bo made but it is impossible that any considerable body can advance against the settlements without being in gi'eat danger of being intercepted in their retreat. I am persuaded that the Indians have done less mischief upon the frontiers since the Declaration of War than they did for the same length of time preceding it. It was suggested to me a few days ago by a member of Congress that the possession of Detroit by the Enemy would probably be the most effectual bar to the Attainment of peace. If this is really the case I would undertake to recover it with a Detachment of the Army at any time. A few hundred Packhorses with a drove of beeves (without artillery & heavy baggage) would subsist the fifteen hundred or two thousand men which I would select for the purpose, until the balance of the Army could arrive. But having in view offensive operations from Detroit an advance of this sort would be premature & ultimately disadvantageous. I have the honor to enclose you Genl Tupper's report to me which himself or his friends have very improperly caused to be printed in a hand bill, [see Oct. 12, above] 
Since I began to write this letter I have received information that the Troops from Pittsburgh had not set out from thence on Sunday last and of course that they cannot be expected at Mansfield for our or five days yet. I shall therefore remain here which is much more convenient for Super-intending the supplies than any place further in advance until Monday or Tuesday next. I have reed, no certain information of the Virginia Brigade's crossing the Ohio. Capt.[Nathaniel F.] Adams is now at Cincinnati, as soon as he arrives a return of all the troops shall be forwarded. I have the honor to be with great respect Yr Hble Serv 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison Ilonble Wm. Eustis Esq. Secretary of War 
15— 22CG1 John Johnston to Harrison (Copy) 
PiQUA October 23.1S12 
Har. Pa. 7oi-ToO 
Sir: 
I have the honor to acknowledge the rect. of your Excellency's letter of the 21st inst. You may dei)cnd upon my furnishing the Shawanoese. They will I suppose meet you at upper Sandusky. Logan will bo here this night or in the morning and shall make him Chief of the party. Shall vrrite you by him the conditions &c. In consequence of the Delaware's not coming this waj^ for protection and knowing as I do that there is a number of unprincipled Lawless scoundrels among them. I directed John Conner to proceed to White River to watch their movements and keep them straight, to collect news and convey it here by every opportunity. I am sending out William Conner [brother of John] tomorrow morning to conduct some Delawares past Greenville & return here. I shall afterwards direct him to repair to you immediately. I believe he will answ^er your purposes better than his brother. I have always thought him the better man of the two, I am glad you have ordered [James] IManary's^ Rangers to Loramie's as they have heretofore done us no good. If they vv'ere divided into two squads one to be placed at Greenville and the other to remain at Loramie's and directed to range the intermediate country it would more effectually cover the frontiers, unless they are specially & pointedly ordered to do their duty we shall derive no benefit from their services. The Indians are hovering about and only want an oppoi'tunity to strike. Their signs continue to be seen in this neighbourhood. We cannot doubt the information respecting the IMiamis, it was derived from John Conner, the Shawanoese & the Delawares. I consider it fortunate that Mr. Conner did not proceed farther than Massassineway, thereby leaving Genl.[Samuel] Hopkins at liberty to proceed up the Wabash. The Potawatamies continue to pass Massassineway with droves of stolen horses. They told Richardville that they wanted the horses to enable them to move out of the reach of the long knives. I hope they will be as good as their word. I should be content to spare them a few horses myself on condition of getting rid of such 
1, James Manany or Manaiy was caj)tnin of the fust company of Ohio ran^'crs. 
nei. u"hbours. There are several indications that the Prophet will leave the Wabash and seek a home fartlier West. The Kickapoos who atten. ded the U. S. Commissioners here succeeded in drawing off and sending home the greater part of the Prophet's force. All accounts agree in representing the Indians of the Wabash and the Illinois in the utmost confusion and distress. One of the soldiers taken at Chicago has made his escape from the Potaw^atamies and came into Fort Wayne. He confn-ms the account of Capt.[Nathan] Ileald and his wife with about seventeen more having been taken alive and divided in the usual manner among the Indians. Heald and lady was allotted to one family and was taken to some place near Green Bay. Immediately after the surrender of our people the Indians set fire to the Fort. I am afraid we shall not again see poor Heald and wife or any of the party as the soldier wdio escaped states that he was to be burn't the day after he ran away — his escape w^as miraculous — it is too long a story to be put on paper.[See Oct. 12, above] 
With my best compliments to the Gentlemen of your family I have the honor to remain with very great respect Yr. Ob. Hb Servt" 
Jno. Johnston His Excellency W. H. Harrison 
Commander in Chief of the Army Franklinton, Ohio 
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department October 23d, 1812 
Har. Pa. 35, 3G 
Sir: 
Your letter of the 13th Instant is received, [see above] The disposition of the several Indian Tribes will bo known by you and you will treat them as their conduct and the public interest may require. In cases where you shall be satisfied of their good faith and that it is proper to extend to them the protection of the Government, it is the pleasure of the President, that they be sent for safety to such places and provided for as you may think proper. Br. General, Wm. H. Harrison Secretary of War to Harrison No 12 
War Department October 24th 1812 
Har. Pa. 37 
Sir: 
Your letters of the 13th and 15th Instant have been received, [see above] This is the twelfth letter to you from this Department since the 22d of August, All communications to you in the future will be numbered. Previous to receiving your last, orders had been given to Colonel [James M.] Anderson to proceed with the Recruits of his Regiment and [Joseph] Philips' Company of the 2nd regiment of artillery to the neighborhood of St. Louis. You cannot therefore calculate on any of those Recruits. Herewith inclosed you will receive Copies of Orders from this Department on the Governor of Tennessee. On entering the Territory of Upper Canada with the army under your command, I am instructed by the President to direct that you do not pledge the Government to the Inhabitants beyond a protection in their persons, property and rights. Br. General Wm. H. Harrison 
Harrison to Secretary of War (No 18) 
Head Quarters Franklinton 26th October 1812 
Har. Pa. 7 37-7 W 
Sir: 
Brigd Genls.[Simon] Perkins^ and [Reasin] Bcall- of the detachment under the Command of Genl.[Elijah] Wadsworth arrived here late last evening. I learn from them that the directions given by Gov. Meigs for opening the road from a point near Mansfield to lower Sandusky have not been executed, [see Oct. 20, above] 
1. Simon Perkins was born at Norwich, Conn., Sept. 17, 1771; removed to OsWCRO, N. y., 179. J ; went to Ohio 1798 and settled at Waiion. He was a land speculator and later a banker. He served with honor in the War of 1812 till Feb. 28, 1813, when he retired. He died at Warren, Nov. 19, 1814. Lossiny:, War of 1812, SCO Howe, Hist. Col. Ohio, III, SCO 
2. Reaxin P. call served under Ilarmar and was an ensign under Wayne till 1794 wlicn he resi^^ned. He was a brigadier of militia from Ohio for a 'short time in 1812. He was born in Monl'romery Co., MA., Dec. 3, 17G9. His homo was at Woostcr, where he was reKifiter of the land ofTnc ; in CoiiKrcss 1813-14. Died at Wooster Feb. 20, 1843. Howe, Hist. Col. Ohio, HI, csn  
Gcnl. Beall was in the execution of this order and was stopped by Genl. Wadsworth the order was reiterated by the Gov. and again countermanded by Genl. Wadsworth. His singular motives for doing this are explained in the enclosed extract of his letter to me received last evening. I have repeatedly been informed that the road which was laid out in July last from Sandusky to the Miami Rapids would prove a very good one when properly opened. I nov,' find from Gen. Beall who was one of the Commissioners that it will not be passable for waggons after the autumn rains unless it is causewayed for 13 miles. This intelligence is extremely embarrassing and leaves me only a choice of difficulties. There can however be no douljt that the swamp may easily be passed after it becomes frozen, but this cannot be calculated upon as Genl. Perkins informs me before the first of January. There is however he thinks a possibilitj^ of using the beach of the Lake from Sandusky to the Lliami bay. It is so important that I should correctly understand everything that relates to the Sandusky route that I have determined to proceed thither immediately. I have the honor to enclose you a letter from Major Genl.[Samuel] Hopkins [see Oct. 6, above] explaining his situation and prospects. I also enclose a letter from Mr. Johnston [see Oct. 23, above] containing a similar account of the conduct of the IMiami's with that formerly fonvarded by Mr. Stickney. I believe that the majority of the Chiefs are desirous of rcirirrining neutral and two or three of them arc no doubt our friends but the hostile disposition of the g-reater part of the tribes cannot be doubted. Their declining to send in hostages after having positively' engaged to do it has been occasioned by their being relieved from the fears of Genl Hopkin's Army, which they informed William Conner had returned from Fort Harrison. It remains for the President to say what shall be done with the Tvliamis. I should be pleased to save a few of the Chiefs, but the base ingratitude with which the greater part of the tribe have conducted themselves towards us merits in my opinion the severest chastisement. And in my opinion every motive of justice and policy demands its infliction. The Honble Mr. McKee-' (and I believe also Richd 11. Joson) were present at my agreement with the JMiami Chiefs upon the subject of the Hostages. Col. Johnson will also inform you that the proofs of their hostility were so decided that a council of War at Fort Wayne unanimously advised that they should be considered as enemies. The gentleman who recorded the proceedings of the Council has never put them in my hands and he is at present with the left wing of the Army. Nothing can be more easy than to surprise the Miami Town of Mississinaway with mounted men. I have engaged Genl.[Duncan] McArthur* to undertake it, if it is not considered as a violation of his parole. Indeed the force for the expedition would principally be composed of those who served in Genl. Hulls Army, if they are allowed to undertake it. It must be observed that the IMiamis have never joined the British and their hostility has been confined to our own Territory. I am sorry to inform you of the failure of an other Expedition of Ohio Mounted Men. Col. [Allen] Trimble who as I informed you [see Oct. 13, above] was sent to surprise the White Pigeons Town on the head waters of the St. Josephs of the lakes, was abandoned at Fort Wayne by nearly half of his command, and was prevented from accomplishing his object with the ballance by the treachery of one guide and the cowardice of an other. He destroyed however two small villages and would have killed or taken the inhabitants if they had not been intentionally alarmed by one of the guides. I have not yet received Col. Trimble's official report. The determination of the President with respect to the Miamis will I hope meet me at Upper Sandusky on my return from the Lake. The conduct of Manary's Company of Rangers lias been such as to destroy all confidence in it. I would have arrested him and his officers if I were not in hopes that the President would direct the whole company to be disbanded. There could certainly be Companies raised of that description that would be eminently useful but to be so the officers must be selected in a different manner from what they have been. Both the Companies raised in this State and that 
4. Duncan McArlhur \\;is a Scotchman I'orn in DutchcFS Co., N. Y., June IJ.1772 ; later moved to Pa. He served in Hannar's caiTii)aiKn ; surveyor under Gen. Nathaniel Masaie ; served in the legislature, Major Gen. of I^Iilitia ; ;:iniendcrcd with Hull at DL-troit; elected to Congress 1812; resigned and became a briKadier ^en. in army. Took Harrison's place when latter rosiKned ; 1822 elected to congress ; ISoO elected t'overnor. Died in (.^hiilicothc, Apr.28, 18;!9. Howe, Hist. Col. Ohio III.179  
in Kentucky are entirely worthless because the ofTiccrs are deficient in every Quality which is necessary for their stations.[William] Perry^ is a fool a coward and a drunkard.[James] JManary" a poor old imbecile creature, and Gov. Scott assured me that his Captain was as bad a one as could have been selected. The Companies have been unifonnly recruited amongst their friends and neighbors and it is the principal object of the officers to screen them from duty. Gcnl.[Elijah] Wadsworth's whole command amounts to about 1000 men. He is himself a Major General and he has two Brigadiers in service also. The old gentleman is I believe full of zeal, but his age and infirmities render him unequal to the fatigues of a winter's Campaign. I believe he thinks himself called into service by you, but I am persuaded that he has misunderstood your intentions 
I have the Honor to be with great Respect Tr yr Humb Sevt. WiLLM Henry Harrison The Honble Will'm Eustis Esq Secy of War 
Secretary of War to General Hull 
War DepartMent October 26th, 1812 
Har. Pa. 38 
Sir : 
Your letter dated Newton Mass. Oct. 19th, 1812 was received by the Mail of Yesterday, and I am instructed by the President to inform you that as soon as the state of the public Service will permit, a Court Martial will be convened to investigate your conduct in surrendering to the Enemy the Army and the post of Detroit under your command on August last. The time and place at which the Court will assemble and a co])y of the charges on which you will be tried will be seasably tranKmitied to you, together with the names of the Oliiccrs wlio may be oi'dered to compose the Court.'Br. General Wm. Hull 
Shelby to Harrison 
Frankfort, Ky., Nov. 1st, 1812 
From Governor haac Shclbj/'a "Letter Book A" page U 
DE.'Ui Sir: — I am favored by the opportunity of j\Iaj.[Robert] Logan, your Aid-de-camp, to drop you a few lines in haste. It gives me pain to be the messenger of bad news — such I consider the failure of Genl. Hopkins' expedition against Peoria and the Kickapoo To\\'ns on Illinois river. This news is just announced by Capt.[Anthony] Crockett,' immediately from Fort Harrison, who reports that about the 14th ulto. the General set out from that place with about 2,000 mounted men, provisioned for ten days, against the Kickapoo Tovrns and Peoria on Illinois; that they marched first northwest a day or two and then nearly north, in all between five and six days, at or near 30 miles per day, vrhen their provisions were nearly exhausted, and their guides entirely bewildered and lost, not knowing which way to steer, the army discouraged and disheartened by their situation, all turned back and with much difficulty and distress, retraced their forward march, and got back to Fort Harrison, the Indians having fired the praires in their rear, burnt all the grass, and their horses almost perished and themselves; at one time in the most imminent danger of being consumed by the flames. The guides were Capt. Touissant Dubois and a man of the naine of Joseph Baron. Capt. Crockett now believes that the army must have been well on to Lake Michigan — thus has ended an enterprise on which the flower of Kentucky enlisted themselves, and are now returning home deeply mortified by the disappointment. About the time General Hopkins marched. Col. [William] Russell,- of the U. S. Army, was to set out ^^ith about 800 men, 
1. A cojiy of tliis bt'Cins to liave been tent to all Kcr. erals in the service.1. AnUinny Ciockctt was born in Prince Edward Co., Va., 1756; represented Ky. in the \'ii. IcKislature 1706; served in the Ky. legislature. He was a IJcvolutionary veU-nm, srrvinir at White Plains, Monniuuth, Saratoga, Germantown, Princeton and Trenton ; was with Geo. R. Clark on his 111. ci'mjiaiKn. He was a nephew of Col. Joi-cph Crnclitt, C ft.•.', in. in height. He died in 1838 at his home in Franklin Co., Ky. 
Yountj, Battle of the Thames, Id 
2. WitliuMi Russell of Ky. was apjiointed a colonel. May 3, 1808, under the act of thai year for raisinK a special military force. He was assiirned to the 7th Inf. On this expiilition he was commanding rangers. 
rangers, regulars and militia, up the Illinois river, and to form a junction Avith Gen. Hopkins if necessary, about Peoria, [see Oct. ol, above] I hope by some means he will get information of the ]'('t]-oat of the right wing of the army, that he may govern himself accordingly. What service can three Regts. of Cols. Wilcox's, [Philip] Karbour's and [John] Miller's do on the Wabash this winter?Is there any thing up that river that they can make a stroke upon?Or could they reach you so as to be of any service under your immediate command?I think it of importance for you to determine upon the necessity of continuing them on duty unless there is something of consequence for them to do. It is reported that Gen. Hopkins had a project in view ui) the Wabash after he returned from the Illinois — you know best what there is to do there.^ 
(This is only substance, not signed.)Gen. Wm. H. Harrison 
H. Johnston to Harrison (Copy) 
Fort Fayette [Pittsburgh] Nov. Si-d 1812 
Har. Pa. 76S-77A 
Sir: 
In your letter of the "27 Sept. 1812" you directed all the supplies for the North Western Army from the Quarter Mastcr Dept. at this place to be sent by "George Town, New Lisbon and Canton to Wooster" in the State of Ohio. In your lettei- of the 19 October, you acknowledge the receipt of mine of the 10 October enclosing Invoice of M\\. Stores forwarded to your address at Wooster and in your letter of the 28 Octo. to . Major [Amos] Stoddard you say I am very much embarrassed in consequence of my having received no information of the progi-ess that has been made in forwarding the Sup))lies of Qr. LI. Stores and clothing and the direction those have taken which have been sent on. This would seem a self conti-adiction but perhaps you meant those that were sent on before the destination was altered to Wooster. On the 25 Sept<'ml)er I had the Honor to receive the Secretarys order to comply with your requisitions. I informed you of it in a It'ttei- of the same date, and concluded as follows: "I have 
.<. It is fvuU'iit fioni tlT^ iiaiiips of his jrnitlcs tli. il they were not to blame.194 

lately made several shipments of Mil. Stores to Newport, [Ky.] and shall make another today, all of which will be subject to your order or that of the Officer Commanding the North W. Army. Advices and invoices of which were duly forwarded to the Mil. Store Keeper at that place. This letter I am told was sent to you by Express from Newport to Piqua. I suppose you were at Cincinnati, from whence you had written the 28 August but the Secretary of War you say enclosed me a list of every large supply which left Washington & Philadelphia some time ago. For my pai't I have duly advised you and enclosed invoices of the Stores forwarded to Wooster & Mansfield the 10th, 12th, 18th, & 29 ults. and informed you in the last, that I had a quantity of Mil Stores to be forwarded to you. and shall continue to send out such as I apprehend will be first wanted as fast as I can hire and purchase Teams for the purpose what more could have been done to prevent the embarrassment of which you complain, nothing I can assure you by any one in my situation. I doubt not however that your Excellency is very much embarrassed, nor that you will be much more, and more seriously so in the course of the Campaign. The letters I have referred to prove the former but your Excellency may rest assured that I shall do every thing that depends upon me to prevent the latter. I have the Honor Sir 
(signed) [Hezekiah] Johnston D & Q Master His Excellency Genl HarPvISON Mansfield, Ohio 


U. S. Arsenal Schuilkell Oct 8th 1812. Invoice of Stores for delivery by George Ingels Mil. Store keeper to William Linnard Esq Deputy Q. Master for transportation to Lieut II. Johnson, Pittsburg 


Packages 

Marks 

Contents 

Hhd No.1 
2 
3 
Twine 4 
Box 1 

U. s. 
Lieut H. Johnson Pittsburg... u u 
u u 

53 Watch Coats 53 180 Doz large buttons 
22 Watch Coats 53 Felling Axes  Invoice Continued 


rack. nj^os 



M: 

rks 

Contents 





U. 

s. 



o 

Lieut H 

Johns 
u ti a u 

on Pittsburg ...52 Felling Axes 

3 

53 

t 

60 

5 

54 

Oct 7 

110 " 55 ea.8 to 12.. .. 



u 



270 " 51 ea.13 



« 



51 

U c\: 15 ... 



a 



lis " 59 ca.16 



a a u u 



52 

17 

53 

18 

55 

19 

19 

IIlul2l 

13 Saddles 









13 Bridles 









13 Halters 









13 Prs Holsters & Caps 









13 Sursingles 









13 Comn. Valises 

22 



« 



12 of each of the above 



(articles) 









12 Nose bags 









12 Currj^ Combs 









12 Horse Brushes 

23 it 26... 



u 



36 Saddles 
36 Bridles 12 of each 
36 Halters 
36 Prs. Holsters tt Caps 
36 Sursingles 
36 Comn Valises 
36 Curry Combs 
36 Horse Brushes 

Hiid. sXo20»'v:.3t; 



u 



151 XoRc bags 
15i Horse brushes 1-10 ea.151 Bridles 
154 Halters 
154 Prs. Holsters il- Caps 
154 Saddles in 
154 Sursingles ea.151 Comn, Valises Hhd. nh. l::'t 







54 Nose bags Invoice Continued 


Packages 


Murks 


Invoice Carried Tierce No.10 Bblll 


Boxes 42, 43, 41 IIhdl,2, 3.. 
4 
Bbl5 
Boxes 1 to 8.1 to 6.... 
Casks 132 140 141, 150, 159, 165, 170, 131, 151, lis, 157, 149, 1G8 One cask No. unknowai 48, 60, 52, 53, 
62,03, 01 
2 


Over. U. S. Lieut II. Johnson Pittsburg. U. S. Pittsburgh 


84, 85 
80 
209 
34 to 45 
95, 90, 97, 123, 
124, 120 
14, 18, 25, 28, 29,31,32...... 
21 
07 OS, 72, 80, 
81,83,87 
2 at 0, 9, 10. ...1, 2, 11, 12, 16, 20, 38, 40, 41, 


Six each 


U. S. Pittsburg 


Contents 


18 Ilorsc Ijru. shcs 202 Curry Combs 5 Saddles 5 Bridles 5 Halters 
5 Prs. Holsters & Cap 5 Sursingles 5 Comn. Valises 


200 Horse Cartouch boxes & bells 50 Horse Cartouch boxes 
& bells 3000 ]Musket Fhits 300 Cotton Blankets 20 
100 Sheets GO " 40 boxes medicine and 
Api)aratus 30 in Splints 


420 Calls Molasses (30 ca) 


SO Gals (20 ea.)600 Lbs. Siigav (200 ca.)180 " 
300 " nice 100 " Barley 250 " 
2 !0 Galls Vinegar (20 ca.)ISO " " (30 ea.)100 


Spii'if !20 " 



210 " 

(30 ea.)110 Gall. s Wini

(20 ca.)352 " 

(32 ca.)
Invoice Continued 


I'lU'kagOrf 

M.'i 

rks 





Contents 

u.'ir, 

U. S. 1' 

itts 

)U1 

K 



K(Ton 
Hoxc3, 211, 212, 









Spices 
1000 lbs Chocolate (100 ea.)2')G, 2".!), 201, 

u 









2ai, 2(1 1, 2(10, 

u 









20'.>, 270 
211, 212, 217, 
221.22.>> 
22'. l 

a u a u « 







325 lbs. Tea (05 each) 67 « " 

2S() 

Rasins 



26 Packing Ilclds 











2 long W B Tierces 











2 Barrels 











81 Casks for IIosi)ital Stores 











17 Boxes for 


Stores forwardcnl overland & now to be forwarded to the mouth of Scioto. A Copy 
Test 
Wfilliam] Prince 




U. S. ArsiMinl on Schuylkill Soj:)!. Sth 1S12, Invoice of Stores for (li-liv.'i-y by (u'0)';j;(' ln;iics r\Iil. Store Keeper to William Linnard ]:>\. n, i)i. Master to T. i.11. Johnson. A. D. ()r. blaster Pitt>bur<:h. r.'u-iv.'iixos 



Mark. s 

Content,?IT. S. 





'l"icrcrs N... 1-0 

\L S 

Lt. U. Jolinson 

ISO Com Tents (20 each) 





PhtslMii-Kh 





Illi-ls " 10. K 

192 C. 

B. c^- Belts 

" 11. K 

193 " 

a u a 

" 1-2. U 

195 " 

II l> u 

13. U 

190 



Tirrrcs 11. 



u 

82 



\:,. u 

Si 



10. 



u 

SI 



17. II 

Si 



IS.» 

84 



1<». a 

S2 



•JO. a 

8.8 



1,.\V. UTicrces 









21. 



u 

S6 



22 



a 

SI 









4 Packed Hhds 







18 Long W. B. Tierces 


N. 15. Part is.-iiKvl «. t Part on hand 

 


r. S. Ars(>nal on Schuylkill Sept. 8th 1812. Invoice of Stores f(ir delivery by C(>orge Ingles INIilitary Store KeejK'i' 1o AVilliam Liiiiiard }-]r<([.1).(^r. Ma^5t(T to Lt. II. Johnson A.1). i}. Master i'il(d)ur<;h. 


I'jickafics 

Marks 

Contents 

TicrcrsXo.1 -D 

U. S. LI. II. Joliiison Pittsburgli 

180 Com. Tents 20 cm eh 

]UhU " 10.<i 

192 C. B.& Bells 

" 10. 

n 

192 

I ( 



" 12. 

u 

195 



" 

i:'.. 

u 

199 



" 

'I'icrce 11. 

u 

82 

1 1 

( i( 

15. 

a 

81 



" 

IG. u 

84 



' " 

17. 

tt 

SI 



" 

18. 

u 

81 

I I 

" 

19. K 

82 

1 i 

" 

20. 

tt 

88 



" 

LWli'rier<>f21. u 

86 



I « 

22. 

u 

84 « ' 

" 





4 Packed Hhds 





IS Long W. B. Tierces 


X.15. juirt 


& part on hand 


200 

r. Stal.^s Anscnal Schuylkill Oct. 9 1S12. Invoice of Stoi\s for delivery l)y George Ingels ^Mil. Store K'(M'])cr to AVi!Ii:iin Linnnrd Esqr. Deputy Q.^Master for transport:ititiii to Liriil. II.. lohiison Pitt^lniigh. Tack ages 



Marks 

Contents 

Jiiu!Xn 1 

U..' 

■^. Lieut. Joliiison Pittsburgh 

500 Prs. Shoes 

'I'icrrcH 2-0 





1000 " " (200 ca) 

Uli. l.7-9.... 





1500 '• " (500 ea) 

•I'lriHi'S 10- !l... 





700 " " (200 ea) 

1-4... 





5600 Socks (1400 ea) 

" o 





1400 " 

f. 





100 « 

l'...\i's 7 ."1...1200 Muskets (25 each) 

Towiior niihi 







<Kt-loi 





100 Bl)ls Cannon powder 

Ticroc?Xo. ir>3& l')G... .2000 Prs Socks (1000 ca) 

157.... 





479 Bavonet Scabbards 

15S.... 





200 Belts 
100 " 
SOO Scabbards 

loO.... 





425 Belts 

IVj.... 





313 " 
4 Packed Hhds 49 long W Bd Tierces 

101.... 





3 short 







1200 Gun slings 







1200 brushes 6c 







1 Long W. Bd Tierce 


X. n. 


P.'irt is. siK-d A: part on hand  
Secretary of War to Harrison (No 13) 
War Department Nov. 5th 1812 
Har. Pa. 39, J,0 
Sir: 
Your Letters of October 22d and 26th [see above] have been received. I have had repeated conversations with the Hon.[Richard ]\L] Johnson who has communicated more fully j'our views and arrangements which are approved. You are authorized to discharge the whole or any part of the Rangers raised in Ohio and Kentucky, whenever their Services are unnecessarj' and as the Season is fast approaching when it will be difficult for them to subsist their horses and provide rations, it is desirable they should be disbanded as soon as the State of the service will permit. In all cases where White fails in his Contract, or where purchases are made to supply his deficiencies, notice should be given to this Department, that he may be charged. The Miamies as well as the other Indians, must be dealt with as their merits or demerits msiy in your judgment require. Br. General Wm. H. Harrison, Franklin Ohio. Go\nERNOR Shelby to Harrison 
Nov. 7th, 1812 
From Governor Isaac Shelby's "Letter Book A" page oS 
Dear Sir: I do myself the honor herewith to transmit to your Excellency the copy of General [Samuel] Hopkins' official report [see Oct. 6 above] to mo on the subject of the volunteer expedition under his command. This event has terminated most dishonourably to the volunteers. I have no doubt but their refractory conduct in turning l")ack contrary to the General's consent will be found to be owing to the secret plotting of some who may yet be but little suspected, but who, I hope, will be discovered and placed in their true colours. I am surprised among the great number of inlluential, eloquent and respectable characters who composed the ai-my, that scores of them did not turn out of the ranks and exert every power to prevent the disgraceful retreat which they were about to make. Various gentlemen with whom I have conversed and whose duty it was to be near Gen. Hopkins admit that liis conduct throughout the whole expedition vras that of an at
IG— 22GC1 tentive, vigilant, good officer, yet there are others who to screen themselves from the disgrace consequent to the failure of the enterprise, are spreading the most unfounded, malicious falsehoods against him. That your efforts may be crowned with great advantage to your country and redound to your own honour is the sincere wish of, my dear sir, your friend 
& Mo. Obt. Servt., 
Isaac Shelby To General Harrison : 
P. S. It is stated to me by Maj. [William] Trigg, one of General Hopkins' aids-de-camp, the General had in contemplation about this time to make a descent with the infantry against the Indian towns up the Wabash. I hope he will yet be able to do something to retrieve his own fame. Every necessary supply of provision for the enterprise had been ordered on to Fort Harrison before Major Trigg left Vincennes. Adieu, 
I. Shelby 
Samuel Tupper to Perkins 
Head Quarters Huron IUver Nov 9th 1812 
Har. Pa. 71,5, 7.'.6 
Sir 
It is my duty to state to you that it will be out of the power of the Contractor [B. G. Orr and Aaron Greely] to furnish the number of Rations required by Gen Harrison. As there had been considerable quantities of provisions deposited at Sandusky, Miami, River Resin, and Detroit, for th(3 supply of the army and as these provisions has fallen into the hands of the Enemy in consequence of the Capitulation by Gen Hull, and as the Contractor has not received any notice from the War department, for any further Supplies; he docs not consider himself bound by his contract to furnish them. He feels confident that a concurancc of circumstances which render it impossible (at this late season) to comply with the requisition will justify this construction of the Conti'act. The navigation of the lakes which have been heretofo]-e employed in transporting provisions to the Army, has for several months past been exclusively in possession of the Enemy except for  
small boats. Tlie ])osts )'cqiiired to be supplied Jj. ive been for scvc'i-al moiiths and still continues in possession of the Enemy, surrounded by a Wilderness on one hand and a desolate country on the other. My instructions from tlie Contractor seems to be dictated fi-om a full consideration of all these circumstances. It would be beyond my instructions to attempt to supply the ai'my at Sandusky or any place beyond. I will however in behalf of the Contractor continue to furnish such quantities of provisions as may be in my power, to be delivered in bulk after the army leaves this place, the public paying the expense of transportation of flour and Whisky after it passes Cleveland, and this I will continue to do until otherwise instructed. In order to give you the best Idea in my power, of the situation and quantity of flour and Whisky we have on hand. I will state that there are 
In Camp say of Flour 100 Barrels 
on board of boats Whisky & flour 390 at Erie by best estimation 460 
950 
The flour and Whisky in boats may be expected shortly at least the greater part of it. In this case it may be possible that they may make another trip to Erie this fall if the weather should continue warm — of meat we have enough. I am Sir Respectfully Your Obt Servt., For the Contractor 
Signed Saml. TurPER Rrigadier Gen Perkins 


Harrison to Secretary of War 


(No ]9) 


Head Quarters Delaware Nov. 9th 1812 
Har. Pa. 7U1, 71,2 
Si!:: 
I have the Honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letters of 23 and 24th Ultimo, [see Oct. 23, 21, above] I retui-ned li'om lake Erie to this place three or four days ago. I found a Detachment of eight hundred Militia under Generals [Elijah] Wadswoi'th and [Simon] Perkins encamped near the mouth ol' the River Huron and another detachment of five hundrcd under General [Ilezin] Bell [Bcall] twelve miles north of jMaiisficld. I have ordered the latter to join Gcnl. Wads\\'orth and the whole to proceed to lov^^er Sandusky. This r. ri^Mde will be commanded by Gen Perkins, The Pennsylvania Troops with the Artillery are about this time at Mansf)cl(l, 1 have directed them to move on to upper Sandusky there to form a junction with the Virginia Troops Mdio arrived at Ibis place on thursday the 61h Inst, but the rains vvliich have fallen and Vv'hich have inundated the whole Country will prevent their moving further in advance for four or five days at least. This circumstance is to be regretted on some accounts but is nevertheless upon the vvdiole highly benificial as it will put beyond contingency the success of the Campaign provided my ordei's to those to whom the duties of transporting provisions have been assigned are faithfully executed. Bj'' the next ]\rail I shall have the Honor to lay before you a full View of the Army in every respect. You will get from the Kentucky papers the failure of the Expedition under General [Samuel] Hopkins, altho this result was entirely unexpected by me and must be highly detrimental to our affairs generally, arrangements have been made to prevent as far as possible its injurious effects to the progress of the Army under my command. By a letter just received from Col. [William P.] Anderson of the 21th Ilegimcnt I learn with I'egi'et that the contrariety of the Oi'ders from the Adjutant Generals Office and myself liad prevented his executing the former and that he remains at Nashville w^aiting for further Instructions. This delay ho\vev(!i' allords me an opportunity most ix'spcctfully to request your attention to the reasons for producing an o]*der for altering his destination for this Army. The reasons are tluit almost the whole Army is composed of Militia and the teiTn of Service of the greater part will expire soon after they will reach their place of destination. The greater part of the Tj'oops fj-om this State and those from Pennsylvania and Virginia a)e undisciplined and altho the Kentucky Troops and a part from this State from a sense of duty which they perfectly understand and the personal Influence which I possess over them will march wherever they are ordei'cd yet I <'im afraid that the Troops from the other States arc strongly tinctured with that abominable principle, that the Militia under the Constitution are not bound to act out of the pr 3 
cincts of tlic United States. You will excuse the vrant of perspicuity in this letter, I write it under disadvantage of a severe tooth ache. I have the Honor to be with great Respect your 
obt. Sevt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honbe W. EUSTIS Esq. Secij of War 
Edward Tupper to Harrison 
Camp Near McArthurs [H. ardin Co.] Blockhouse 
Nov 10.5 Clock Morning 
Hay. Pa. 7\7, 74 S 
Sir 
Conceiving it would be a. great satisfaction to you and of much interest to the service to obtain information of the operations of the Enemy at the upper end of Lake Erie I ordered Capt Wood who Commands a company of Spies to proceed to the Rapids, & if possible bring off a prisoner.^ Capt Hinkton returned last evening with Capt Thomas A Clark a british Subject, who resides two miles above jNIalden, and was out with a party of 500 Indians & about 50 British gathering in the corn from the fields at the Rapids. Capt Hinkton was but two days in returning to this Camp. The enemy had not yet landed excepting a part of the advance, when Capt. Hinkton took the prisoner. They had brought two gun Boats, one Schooner, & six or seven Batteau to transport the corn to ]Malcien. I wrote Genl Winchester immediately apprising him of tliis force, but upon reflection found it vvould require upv.'ards of two days for the Spies to deliver the letter; that it would l^e three days or near it before Genl Winchester could connnence his march & in that time I could be there with a force equal if not superior to that of the Enemy. This, Sir, has determined me to order this detacliment to draw five days provisions & with their knapsacks and blankets, only, march this day for the Rapids. My only fear is that it may not meet 
1."Early in Novomber General TuiJjicr sent out his spy conii-any unckr Captain llinV. hton to icconnoitre at the Rapids. The Captain concealed his men on the southfast side of the river wlierc he had discovered a British and Indian encampment in the opposite bottom which was an open prairie. Presently a British ofiiccr with a few liiilians came over the river and when they had advanced some distance from their boat Capt. Hinliston fired on thcin and tool; the ofiicer prisoner."McAfee, The Late War, if. S your entire approbation. But considei'ing' it of the utmost foiisoQucnce if possible to save that forage — That a day was all in')])o]'tant, that our Troops were anxious to hazard the fatigues and danger of the expedition & that from the information of Capt Clark (upon the truth of which I assured him his life depended) we might in all probability sui-prise the (•nemy; These considerations have induced me to take upon myself the responsibility of the moment. I take with me one field piece, a light six pounder, drawn by six active horses.11" ^\•e find this force there I am in hopes those Gun Boats will not get an opportunii. v of returning to IMalden. I send Capt Clark to you in the Charge of Mr. Selby. I am very respectfully 
Signed 
Edw W. Tupper B. Gen Genl W H Harrison Com in Chief N W Army 
Edward Tupper to Harrison 
(B) (Extract) 
Camp at Army, Nov. 10th 1812 
Har. Pa. 7h'3-h 
Ilis Excellency Wm H. Harrison, Esq. Sir, 
Inclosed [see Nov. 9 above] is a Duplicate of a communication received from S[amuel] Tupper Esq. Agent for the contractor M. Porter, which I deem of importance to advise you of immediately. Mr. Tupper arrived in Camp on the sixth inst. and lamented that he could not have seen you since his return. I have conversed with him sundry times on the subject of furnishing the Troops at Sandusky with provision, and have at length obtained this statej-nent and have made no agreement to his i^roposals of paying for transportation from Cleaveland — not feeling myself authorized to vary an existing contract; However improper it may be in ordinary cases to pay a man a premium on his own contract, it may in this l.)ei'haps be advisable to make some allowance on condition of oxti-a exertion — but of this you will judge and please to advise.^Ii-. Tupper has not received any instructions from Islx. Porter since you was hei-e, and not knowiiig what Mr. Porter will advise he (W. Tupper) will continue to forward on provision  
iintill otherwise instructed. I have offered to afford to Mr. Tapper eveiy aid in my power by assisting him with men for his boats '■■' *. I feel mortified to inform you that 1 am still at Huron, and think it will be several days before any movement will be made toward Sandusky. The delay is by Genl.[Elijah] Wadsw^orth deemed necessary in order to hold a Court Martial on Genl.[Reazin] Beall, and a Court will not be convened before tomorrow, as Genl. W. is disposed to have all the field officers in the Detachment on the Court, and Col. Andrews will not be in camp sooner. No unnecessary delay shall be made after the command is committed to me, and to have that done as expeditiously as possible, I have not at any time, neglected to urge it; but Genl. Wadsworth's opinion as expressed is, that there is now no duty to be attended to so important as this trial. A Scout has been to Sandusky who report that, there is now there a considerable quantity of corn, one or two thousand Bushels of which I hope to secure. I have proposed to send out a Detachment of 100 or 150 men to take provision and secure the property which will I fancy be done in a few days, and if w^e meet with no unexpected delay in the Court Martial will make a general movement for Sandusky in six or eight days — a party are now out exploring and marking the road.^ 
Glegg to Baynes 
York 11th Nov. 1812 
Wood, Canudiun War of 1812, If 19 
My Dear Sir, 
At the request of Mr. Robert Dickson^ the bearer of this letter who intends proceeding immediately to Montreal on his private affairs, I take the liberty of giving him an introduction to you, in order that previous to his being presented to His Excellency, some interesting particulars may be made known through your obliging communication. Mr. Dickson is closely connected with the most respectablfamilies in iliis Province, who have invariably shewn themselves sincere and zealous friends to His Majesty's Government. The Gentleman in question, has resided for a number of years in the character of a mercantile Trader in the Western Territorj^ and owing to his influence and assistance with the powerful Tribes of Indians some impoit'tant services have been perfomied for the British cause. His influential Interest with the Western Indians has been repeatedly acknowledged by this Government, and his efforts in having decided that much injured race of Aborigines to abstain from hostilities with tlie United States have been well knowai here and duly acknowledged. During the month of Fe.1812, existing circumstances made it highly necessary to ascertain the sentiments and intentions of the Western Indians. Promises of their continued forbearance had been constantly made thro' the Agents of the Indian Department, but it was much apprehended by my vigilant and ever to be lamented friend (Brock), that the attack made by General Harrison's army upon the Shawnese Indians assembled under the Prophet on the Wabash on the 7th Nov. 1811 [Battle of Tippecanoe] might possible produce some spirit of retaliation — It now became an object of considerable importance to open a communication without loss of time, with the neighbouring Indians bordering on the Misisipi. No doubt could be then entertained of the premeditated destruction of the Indians by the Americans, and that merely because they had presumed to continue to establish themselves in the peaceful occupations of their native woods and villages. The most prompt measures were immediately adopted by the head of this Government, in conformity with the repeated Instructions of His Excellency and those of His Predecessor Sir James Ci'aig, to prevent, by every possible exertion, the threatening flame from reaching our Frontier. Mr. Dickson's influence with the Indians being well known, the advantage of immediately opening a communication with him became obvious, and the accompanying paper (number I) was depatched to him early in february last by two confidential Indians. Mr. Dickson was then at the Portage called Ouisconsin which is about one hundred and eighty miles from the IMississipi and the same distance from LaBaie, about 800 miles from Amherstburg. He was then employed in admi  
istering in his mercantile capacity, to the severe distresses of their women and children who were literally languishing for want of food & clothing, owing to our supplies having been discontinued and to the severity of the season. Mr. Dickson received the enclosed paper (No.1) early in May and immediately replied to it (No.2). Previous to this date Mr. Dickson had observed an unusual degree of activity in the American Agents who were then residing amongst the Indians, and having ascertained that presents were daily distributed by these people, which by the bye was a novel circumstance, he made immediate inquiry, and was informed by some of the Principal Chiefs, that the American Agents, had been directed by their Government, to invite some of their leading wariors from each nation, to pay an early visit to Washington. A combination of various circumstances left no doubt in the mind of Mr. Dickson, that all this was intended as a prelude to more important events. His first endeavour was to dissuade the Chiefs from listening to the invitation of the American Government, and to point out the imminent danger of the p)'oposed alliance. Mr. Dickson fully succeeded in every object, and he received the strongest assurance of friendship and suppor in the cause of their Father the British Monarch, whenever circumstances should render their assistance necessary. Soon after this communication passed, intelligence reached the Wabash Indians, that General Hull with an army of two thousand men v»^as on his march to Detroit. The Shawnese and other nations voluntarily offered to attack him on his route, but were still induced to desist from it, by the repeated entreaties of the friends and Agents of Die British Government. It is however a well known fact, that General Hull's movements were all closely watched by Tecumpthsey's confidential Scouts, who were considered and received by the American General as friends attached to their Interest. At the capure of Michilimackinac, T\Tr. Dickson took an active part, and his services on that occasion, have been honorably I'ccoi-ded by Captain Roberts. After the surrender of that Post, an Expedition \yc\^ immediately formed (at the solicitation of JMajor General Brock) by the Gentlemen of the "Northwest" and "Southwest" companies then assembled at Michilimackinac, to cooperate with the Force then contemplated to be employed against Detroit. So imperious however, was the necessity for despatch, in carrying this operation into execution, that the expedition under Major General Brock reached its destination and succeeded in its object, before the Indians intended for assistance, could form a junction with our little army. The intelligence of their approach had however reached the Enemy, and I have particular reason for knowing, that this circumstance produced very considerable influence in the final negotiation. In justice to the memory of our lamented friend Major General Brock, and in obedience to what I am confident, would have been his intentions I have taken the liberty of troubleing you with this confidential communication, which j^ou will be pleased to make use of, as your superior Judgment and discretion may point out. I am not aware of Mr. Dickson's immediate views in soliciting an interview with His Excellency, but I have a perfect knowledge that there is no Gentleman in this Province more capable than himself of giving accurate information respecting the Western Indians than himself, and I am authorized in saying, that had General Brock survived the late contest, he intended pointing out Mr. Dickson to the notice of His Majesty's Government, as a Gentleman \vho by his zealous and faithful service has proved himself deserving of their special protection. I remain My Dear Sir With much esteem very faithfully yours 
J. B. Clegg C«pf. J^9th Regt. Harrison to Secretary of War 


(No 20) 


Head Quarters Franklinton 15 Nov. 1812 
Har. Pa. 7A9-765 
Sir, 
I arrived here from Delaware three days ago for the purpose of meeting Col. [James] Morrison and to make some other arrangements which shall be explained in the course of this communication. Upon the day of my arrival, the enclosed letter [see Nov. 10, above] from Genl [Edward] Tupper was received. The movement wl^ich he has made is extremely hazardous. It was not possible to send him a reinforcemeent of mounted men from hence in time to render him any service. 
1 liope however that Genl. Winchester will have descended the Miami as soon as the intelh'gence from Genl Tupper reaches him. An Express was also immediately dispatched to Genl [Simon] Perkins apprising him of the landing of the British at the Rapids and directing his advance. Genl. They therefore, no doubt are determined fellows and I have much confidence in the Genl's Talents. I have received no information from Genl.[Samuel] Hopkins but there is no doubt of the complete failure of the mounted expedition [up the Wabash] under his command and that measures must be immediately taken to prevent the evils which will otherwise flow from it. As soon as the information reached me I determined to direct an Expedition against the Lliami Town of Mississineway. The situation of this town as it regards one of my lines of operation even if the hostility of the inhabitants was less equivocal would render a measure of this kind highly proper, but from the circumstance of Genl. Hopkins failure, it has become indispensible. Relieved from the fears excited by the late inva: 'on of their country, the Indians from the Upper part of the Illinois river to the South of Lake jNIichigan will direct all their efl'orts against Fort Wayne and the Convoys which are to follow the track of the left wing of the Army. Mississineway will be their rendezvous v\'hGre they will receive provisions & every assistance they may require for any hostile enterprise. From that place they can by their runners ascertain the period at which every Convoy may set out from St. ]\Tary's and with certainty intei'cept it previously to its arrival at the j\Iiami Rapids. But that place being broken up and the provisions destroyed there will be nothing to subsist any body of Indians nearer tlian the Potawatamie Towns upon the waters of the St. Joseph's of Lake Michigan. The Dragoons will amount to about six hundred — but the greater part of them are to be relied upon. The Expedition will be commanded by Lt. Col [John B.]Campbell of the 19 Regt. He has not military experience but is brave, sensible & judicious and will be ably seconded by the talents & expericncc of I\rajor [James V.] Ball. I am confidoiil that you will not hear of anj^ retrogade inovement upon the part of this detachment until the object upon which they are sent is accomplished.]My preparations for the principal object of the Campaign are progressing, not however with the rapidity consonant to my wishes and I think I may say, to my personal exertions. For the route of the Left Wing of the Army upwards of a million of rations of flour have been provided. When I had last a report 75,000 were at Defiance, 30,000 on packhorses going to that place and near to it, 120,000 at St. ?. Iary's, 200,000 at Piqua, 100,000 between the latter place & Dayton going on in waggons and the balance at Lebanon, Franklin & other places on the big Miami. There ought also to be at Fort Jenning's 30 or 40,000 Rations. The great defect is in the means of transportation. Almost all of the fine teams vrhich were brought from Kentucky have been worn dovrn and discharged and the greater part of the pack horses are in the same situation and the roads have become almost impassable for waggons. Foreseeing this I early turned my attention towards the providing of water Transport. Something considerable has been done in this way, but by no means equal to my expectations and the orders I had given. At St. Mary's a boat and some perogues were prepared and will have left that place on the 12 or 13 with nearly four hundred barrels a part of which will be left at Fort V>^ayne and the balance taken on to Defiance (Fort Winchester). At the latter place boats a. nd perogues capable of transporting 350 or 400 Barrels were prepared on the 5th of this month and others were progressing at Col Jennings' block-house also several batteau were in considerable state of forwardness. All these were I hope & expect ordered up the Auglaise upon the first rise of the water to take in loading at Tawa Town, which is only fourteen miles from St. IMary's. T^Ir. Piatt also informs me that a part of the Hour purchased on the Miami has been ordered up the river in boats to Loramies. If these means are pushed in the manner that they may be, I expect in two weeks to have at Fort Winchester 500,000 Rations of flour, whisky & small parts with Salt to lay down the Meat part of the Rations together with all the Quarter Mastei-'s stores & clotlrlng which hiive been prepared for that wing. On the route of the Centre 

 
Column by Urbana, there were on the 10 Inst, at McArtluir's Block house forty four miles in advance of Urbana, 200,000 Rations of flour whisla* and small parts deposited there by the Deputy Commissary [John H.] Piatt with salt sufncient to lay down the ^Meat part of the Ration to that amount. Of the supplies ordered to be furnished by ^^Nlajor [Ebenezer] Denny there are now at Delaware tAventy five miles above this place Six hundred Barrels of flour; at Norton twelve miles farther 100 Barrels & four or five Hundred are ready at the i\lills below this. Having been informed in the latter end of September by Governor Meigs that the Contractor Mr.[John P. B.]Porter had declared his inability to supply provisions for the Army as long as the Lake was controled by the Enemy, I thought it unnecessary to call upon him. Finding however that small boats were permitted to pass safely from Presquile to Huron, I addressed a letter to him upon my arrival at Genl. Perkins' Camp requiring him if possible to send on 500,000 Rations instead of the 200,000 which had been demanded of him by Genl.[Elijah] Wadsworth and which he had positively promised that oflicer to supply. The enclosed copy of a letter [see Nov. 9 & 10, above] from his agent (B) will shew that he has determined not to suppl}^ the Rations which he promised and vrhich he has on the margin of the Lake miless he is paid an advanced price for bringing it above Cleveland. I have directed Genl.[Simon] Perkins to get hold of the flour if possible and leave it to be settled for by the Governinent. There is no difficulty in procuring the ^Meat part of the Ration and I have taken care to have salt provided for laying it dov. m. It will be driven to the Rapids of Miami and then salted, For which Genl Winchester and Genl Perkins have been directed to provide materials for Barrels. I do not think that it will be safe to advance from the Miami Rapids until vre can have there one Million of Rations. Of these I calculate 500,000 to be taken by the route of the left wing. The 200,000 at McArthur's Blockliouse can be transported at three trips by six hundred pack horses and I calculate upon getting to the Lower Sandusky by the means now providing hero 300,000 Rations. The Deposits directed to be made by Major White at Mc Arthur's Block house at Fort Jenning's, & at Upper Sandusky and by Mr. Porter at Lower Sandusky are not to be relied upon. A part "\vill however be received, suflicient perhaps to supply what may fall short in my calculations from the Commissary's Department. You can scarcely form an idea, Sir, of the difhculty with which land transportation is eflectcd north of the fortieth degree of Latitude in this countiy. The Country beyond that is almost a continued swamp to the Lakes. When the streams run parallel to your course a small strip of bettor ground is generally found. But in crossing from one river to another the greater part of the Vv'^ay at this season is covered with water. Such is actually the situation of that space between the Sandusky & the Miami Rivers and from the best in. formation I could acquire whilst I was at Huron, the road over it must be causewayed at least half the way. This dihlculty great as it may seem is not however insuperable. The timber of the proper size grows so thick upon it that Genl Perkins & other persons accustomed to that kind of work assure me that a CausevN^ay sufficiently wide for the purpose can be made there with as much ease as a road of four Rods wide can be opened & cleared in heavy timbered Up-Land. Genl. Perkins has undertaken to effect it with his Brigade and Governor Meigs has agreed that the money which has been appropriated by Government for making the road in that direction shall be distributed amongst his men. If this plan should fail there is yet another way to go from the Lower Saiidusky to the Miami Rapids. The Isthmus which connects the Sandusky Peninsula to the Main is much narrower than is laid down on the map and is much nearer to the foi'mer factoi-y at Sandusky Rapids — in fact it is but a mile & one half from tlie Bay to the Mouth of Portage River on the lake & from thence to the Miami Bay 18 or 20 miles. Throughout this distance the Swamp borders on the beach of the Lake — but the boach itself is a beautiful sand and sufficiently firm it is supposed, neiir llie water to bear Waggons. From the mouth of the Miami Bay to the Rapids the ground is good. I have sent to Clevelard to purchase some boats that are there and have directed them to be loaded with anything that can be procured fo)- llie subsistence of tlie Army or the horses belonging to it. I had calculated ui)on drawiiig a considerable quantity of forage from the Connecticut Reserve but am informed the suj)ply to be obtained there is very limited. 
Tlic ^'irfiinia Brigade has been for some days at Delaware, rroviously to their arrival there, Deserters had been very common. Ten or twelve had gone off in one night. The dissatisfaction vras supposed by the Genl.& field officers to be produced by tlie want of clothing, particularly blankets. I have at the instance of their Commander agreed that they sh;ill remain there until blankets shall arrive which have been sent for and are novr coming on from Cincinnatti. The delay is productive of no injury to the Service as the Contractors are not ready for them at Upper Sandusky and I employ detachments f j'om them to improve the road in their front and rear. The Pennsylvanic'. Brigade will arrive at iMansfield today. Its march has been retarded by High waters which has also subjected them to some little embarassment on the scoj'e of provisions. They will proceed the more direct route to Upper Sandusky and be there joined by the Virginia Troops. The ]-oad which v^as ordered to be opened to Lower Sandusky by Governor ^vleigs has not been effected through the obstinacy of Genl.[Elijah] Wadsworth. Indeed the old Gentleman with the best intentions and animated by the most ardent patriotism has done much mischief. He has arrested Genl.[Reazin] Beall for obeying the Governor's orders with respect to opening the road to Sandusky and is delaying the march of the Detachmt under Genl.[Simon] Perkins for the purpose of trying him. To put a stop to his farther interferences I have ])rocured an order from Governor Meigs &, Genl. Perkins no longer to regard the directions of Genl. Wadsworth. Col. [James] Morrison arrived here yesterday. He is very uneasy upon the subject of funds for his Dc^partment. I fear Si]", that the Expenses of this Expedition will greatly exceed the calculations which have been made the grounds for the appropriations of funds for the Quarter Master's use. A single fact will at once shew the difliculty of the undertaking and the expense which vrill attend it. We are now purchasing corn here to be transported in Waggons to Upper Sandusky. Col. Mori'ison believes that it will require two v»'aggons with corn to support their ox teams & one other with flour to that place & back again and yet there must be a deposit there for the support of all the horses & oxen of the Ordinance, Quarter Masters & Commissary's Departments in the advance of the Army from thence & which must amount to at least two thousaiid. The object to be accomplislied is however considered of great national importance & expense must not be regarded. The Government may however be perfectly satisfied that every Dollar that is appropriated will be faithfully and as economically employed as possible. The longexperience of Col. Morrison in affairs of this kind is a pledge for the former as his high character and unblemished reputation is for the latter. It will be im])ossible to use the Dragoons in the advance to Detroit this Winter from the w^ant of forage. I shall establish their Quarters in tin?heart of the settled Country, where forage is very cheap and employ them in desultory expeditions. In this manner they may be eminently useful, in a short time it will be an elegant Corps. Capt [Samuel Goode] Hopkins has an Hundred men in his troops. Major [James V.] Ball informs me that Capt.[Alexander] Cummings^ is at Pittsburgh with Eight or ten. If he were to come on here, with those &, tlie surplus of Hopkins; a complete Ti-oop could be formed for him. Will you be pleased to order him to do so. I am persuaded that a body of Dragoons employed in the mamier that I propose will bo not only more useful but more economical than the Mounted rdflcmcn procunxl in this Country. Sii-, I liavc the honor to be With great respect & regard Yr Hble Servt 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison The I-Ionble Wm. EuyTLS Esq Secretai-y of War 
P. S. C(»l.[James] ?\Iorrison has just called & infoims mo that the corn which has been forw^arded from this jilace to Delaware has avei'aged one Dollar & fifty cents p. TJusliel. Edward TurrER to Harrison (C^opy) 
Camp near LIcArtiiur's Block House, Nov. 16, 1812 
liar. I'll.7?fi-7!<i) 
Sir; 
IMy letter of the lOtli instant informed you of my pj-eparation to march that day to the Rapids, in conscquciice of the information I obtained of the prisoner, Capv. Clarjc. I am sorry 
1. Alexander CummiiiKS was boiii in IichiTid: cnlislcd lir. hl iliajto'. ns frma ]'ii. May 3, IbUl ; made a capt. Nov. 1, ISU; fcwved till Dec. 1, ISJO; died Jan. \',\. IblJ. 
to inform you, that I have not succeeded to the extent of my expectations ; though I am convinced the movement will prove beneficial to the service. On the morning of the 1011 1, about eleven o'clock, we moved from this Camp, with a force consisting of 604 men, exclusive of officers, with one light six-pounder, the soldiers cariying in their knapsacks five days provisions. Owing to the state of the roads, I soon found the field-piece could not be carried forward without retarding our march. I left it at the blockhouse, 15 miles in advance. On the eveiiing of the loth, we reached Caiion [Cai'rying] river (about 18 miles from the Rapids). I ordered Capt. Hinkton to proceed that night to examine the situation of the enemy; Capt. Hinkton met me the next day about five miles from the Rapids, with the information that the enemy still occupied the Rapids, and that the boats and vessels lay a little below. I detained the troops till sunsetting, so as not to fall in with their daily scouts, and proceeded in the evening to the ford, about two and a, half miles above the Rapids ; I there again halted, while Capt. Hinkton and Wood of the spies proceeded down and examined the exact situation of the encampments of the enemy. At nine o'clock they returned and gave me the necessary information ; they were encamped in a body above the Bougron's house, wei'e engaged in dancing and (as they concluded) drinking. I immediately ordered the troops to prepare to cross the river to attack the enemy at the dawn of day. Colonel Safi'ord, who commanded the second regiment, I ordered to proceed, marching by the loft flank in single files; colonel [John] Miller, commanding the third regiment, followed in the same order; major Galloway, who commanded a battalion of the first regiment, I ordered to march thirty paces to the left, so as to act as a reserve as circumstances might require, the two regiments being suOicientto form a line to enclose the enemy with the river. Evei'y oflicer had been instructed in his duty, and every soldier ordered to leave the ranks, who felt an unwillingness to pass over, that our situation would admit of no retreat, and that when vt had gained the other shore, they had only to clioose between victory and death. The soldiers cheei'fully took up the line of inarch. Though I had ordei'od the fords examined, I liad still fears, whetlier the 
17— 226C'l 



iViOi'. could resist tlio current — ih. ey had iindierg-oric a fatiguing i-)iartli, iiad tlH:'"a lay od the ground vritliout fires nearly thj-ee hours, the wind blov, ing almost a gaU^ from the north-west. Tliougli the soldiers were shivering with cold, they did not hesitate to attempt the fo^^rd. I piocecded over with the first section, instructing them to lock arms to resist tlie current. A part of the first company passed over in safety; but scarcely liad tlicy reached the shore, when a cry of "help, I am drowriing," was heard fi'om the companies in the rear. The current Yv'as sweeping the men down the llapids in spite of the exertions OL those who were stronger aiid better able to resist it. The levv' horses vre had wx^re sent in to save the men, and fortunately suc<-c;eded; about ten gu}is vs^ere lost, and the greater ])art Oi the ammunition of the miishet men entirely destroyed. I n- xt attempted to bring the men over on horses, but owing to their being weak, many of the liorses were swept from their feet, and their riders th. rown into the current. I soon found that it ^vould not be possible to cross the v;hole force before day-light; and some, W'hen over, they would not be in a condition to contend with a force of tvro-tbirds their nurntjers. I was very reluctantly compelled to stop tlie passing over of tlio men, and send back such as had crossed. This occupied us till 3 o'clock in the morning. I immediately ordered the wet aru'is to be dried, and caused cai'tridges to be taken from the men v. dio had not been in the I'iver and distributed to those v. diose cartridges had been wet. In the r,"iorning, convinced we were unable to get at the enciuy, I ordon.'d the spies to endeavour to decoy thciu ovei-; they proceeded dovni and discovered themselves; about 1-3 came over, but they were so cautious as not to be (h'a. v.'n witliin our lines. The spies, however, wounded two of them. After finding they w^ere not coming over with any considerable force, I ma]'ched down and showed the heads of our columns opposite their encampment at Bou. gron's. They appeared in considerable disorder, as the advanced guard o])eiied from the Vvoods. The Britisli, who were in the vessels and boats, immediately cut loose and proceeded down the river. The women v.'crc seen running off, on tlie road leading to Deti'oit; tlie men commenced a fire towards us. The Indiaiis sliowi-d a force of between foin- and five hundi'cd; every one discharged his piece; Tliey had one piece of artillery which they discharge,.; 

threw them on again and carried them off the field ; from the information of a number of men on whom I can rely, as well as from what I was witness to, from 15 to 20 Indians were carried off, either killed or disabled. Split Log, mounted on an active white horse, led. on tlie several attacks at the commencement. His horse was well trained; he sometimes fired from him, and at other times leaped from him behind a tree. At some of the last attacks another rider was mounted on that horse, when the horse was wounded and taken from the field. Colonel Elliot was along our rear and right column, at about 300 yards distance; he was well known by several persons in our lines. The Indians' horses were very different from such as I have been accustomed to see them riding; they were high and active. They were also supplied with pistols and holsters. I have reason to believe the whole force of the enemy was very little, if any, inferior to our own; of this I was well convinced from the information of captains Hinkton and Wood, who examined the number of their files before we attempted to cross; but from the advantage we had gained by our approach, and the determined spirit of the soldiers, I felt not the least hesitation in attacking them; and well am I convinced that nothing but the situation of the river prevented our making a complete slaughter of their whole force, and securing the gunboats and batteaux loading with com. From the time that had elapsed after Gen. Winchester must have received my letter inforaiing him of the force at the Rapids I had every reason to expect he would have ordered down a sufficient number of troops to maintain that post or rout the enemy. On the morning of the 14th I sent an express to him stating the impossibility of my crossing; that my troops were out of provisions and that I could not attempt to continue longer than the next day at that place. Whether he has sent down a force I know not. The troops under my command had consumed their provisions some on the evening of the 13th and all on the 14th, and had then a distance of 40 miles to travel back before there was a possibility of supply. I was therefore compelled to abandon a position I felt rayself fully able to maintain. It is a duty, sir, I owe both to the officers and soldiers, to say that they have performed this march through roads, almost impassable, wet and deep; they have marched late and  
early; have endured wet, cold, and hunger, without a murmur or a complaint. They have at all times cheerfully sought the enemy, and when engaged and commanded to charge them have rushed upon them at full speed. The enemy had gathered very little of the corn from the fields on this side of the Rapid, and I have reason to believe they took but little off on their boats ; what quantity remains on the other shore, I am not able to determine. The troops encamp this evening 10 miles from this place. I left them this morning, at 10 o'clock; they will arrive in the course of the day [or] to-morrow, when they will have performed a march of one hundred and sixty miles in eight days, one of which was spent in manoeuvring and contending with the enemy. I am, very respectfully, etc.^ 
Edward W. Tupper Brig. Gen. Harrison 
Harrison to Secretary of War (No 21) 
Head Quarters Franklinton 17 Nov 1812 
Har. Pa. 766-767 
Sib 
I have heard nothing since my last from General [Edward] Tupper. I have the honor to enclose you a letter [see Nov. 3 above] lately received from Lieut.[H.] Johnson the Assistant Qr. Master Pittsburg. It is in answer to a complaint which I had equally made of Major [Amos] Stoddard Lieut [James W.] Bryson and himself upon my want of information as to the State of the supplies under their care, and directing them to send me weekly statements of every thing received, forwarded and on hand. From both the other officers, I received polite and satisfactory answers. Mr. Johnson alone has thought proper not only to be very insolent upon the occasion, but instead of the documents required to send me these of which copies are herewith inclosed. One principal object with me in giving the direction was to know when & where I might expect the articles which I wanted.1. This is published in the Historical Rcyislcr II, 11,0, with the omission of the reference to Gen. Winchester. This criticism applies to a great many of the official papers published in all contemporary publications. Thoy were pretty closely censored. Winchester arrived at Tapper's camp soon after the latter left. McAfee, The late War.171-2, The infoi-mation could not as you may suppose be obtained by such remarks as lie has made Viz : "Forwarded over land in part the to the mouth of Scioto" and "a part is
sued and a part on hand". The fact is that at the time of receiving- his communication I was unable to tell where I was to send for certain articles which were much wanted. Gun slings for instance were required for the mounted expedition. I knew that they had been at Pittsburg, but was at a loss to know whether I was to send to Mansfield or to the mouth of Scioto for them. I know not what can be Mr, Johnson's motive for this conduct. But it is certain if persisted in it cannot fail to do great injury to the service if not entirely defeat the Campaign. He caimot plead ignorance because he received (as the Major informs) written instructions from Major [Amos] Stoddard. I have been informed that Mr. Johnson without ever having seen me and before I had any communication with him had been pleased to express the most unfriendly disposition towards me. I am how^ever disposed to pass over his improper conduct upon receiving assurances that it will not be repeated. This declaration I suppose he will make upon being informed by you that his continuance in a station so important to the army I command will depend upon my view of the propriety with wiiich he discharges its duties. I have the honor to be With Great Respect Sir Your Humble Servant 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honorable William Eustis Secretary of War City Washin^on 
McJuNKiN Ferriage 
November 1812 
Mss. in Indiana State Library 
I do Certefy that Mr. CcJunkins ferry man on White River Did on the eighteenth of November eighteen hundred and twelve Did ferry over white River eighteen men and horses in the Service of the united States 
Joseph IMontgomery Capt 2B U Regt In Millitki 
November the 20 1812 
This is to Certifi that John McYunkin has ferried five of my  
Company of Mounted INIolitia Cald in to sel•^ds by General John Gibson acton govner on There way to vincin. The 18 of this Instant givin onder niy hand 
Thos Spencer C'p't 3 B J^ Rcgi I M 
November the 18—1812 
this is to sertify that John IMcJunkin has ferried forty too of my Company of IMounted Militia Called in to servis by John Gibssons Acting as govorner on there way to vincins Given under My hand 
Gs Wiggins Cajit 
November the 19th 1812 
A Detachment of Captain John Milburns Company Consisting of 19 Mounted Men Ordered in to the Service of the United States by John Gibson Secretary and acting Governer Crossed white River this day at John McJunkin's Ferry — 
The Deputy quarter Master of the Indiana and Elinois Territorys will pay John McJunkin Nineteen Ferrage agreeably yo the above Returne 
John Milburn Capt 
Harrison General Orders 
N, W. Army Head-Quarters, Franklinton, 
November 19, 1812 
Niles Register III, 21But for this disorderly conduct, general Tupper would have brought back in safety his whole command. The commanding general feels, however, so much more to praise than blame, in the conduct of general . Tupper's detachment, that he derives no small satisfaction in exhibiting it as a worth}'' example of militiary spirit and enterprize to the rest of his army 
Nathl. F. Adams Deput. Adj.-Gen. 


Shelby to Harrison 
November 20th, 1812 From Governor Isaac Shelbi/'s "Letter Book A" 38 
Dear Sir: — I enclose to your Excellency a copy of a letter received from General [Samuel] Hopkins wherein he proposes the discharge of three regiments of six months men under his command, to-^^it: the 6th, 3rd and 8th Regts. of the Detached IMilitia of this State, commanded by Cols. Barbour, Wilcox and Miller. I do not consider myself as invested with power to direct the General in this case, nor have I such a knowledge of the situation of the enemy that menace that quarter as to justify even an advice to the General ; but believing that he is acting solely under authority derived from yourself, and that you are the most competent judge of the propriety of continuing those men in power — will you be pleased to give Gen. Hopkins instructions as to the discharge of those men, or if you wish that I should do it, be so good as to write me immediately, and I will take the earliest opportunity to apprise him of your instructions. I am, &c., &c., 
Isaac Shelby IMajor-General Wm. H. Harrison, Commanding, &c., 


Harrison to Secretary of War Head Quarters Frankltnton Nov. 20.1812 
Har. Pa. 786, 787 
Sir 
I have the honor to enclose you a list of the Staff Appointments 
which I have made pursuant to the power given me in your  
letter of the 17th. September, which yet requires the confirmation of the President & Senate. I have the honor to remain With great respect Yr Hble Sevt. William Henry Harrison The Honble Wm. Eustis Esq. Secretary of War Washington 


226 

a 


J5 


o 


a 
o U 


w 


>!-D 





to 

rt 

+-> 

a 

rt 

CO 

Oj 


c -rJ 


. S P 

o 

fl> 

D. 

XI 









ta 

o 

Cl 

■4J> 

H-^ 

n 

r/) 

OJ 



"O 

o 

ro 

_^ 

0) 







Ph 


u 


« 


<^, 


CI 

'M 

ri 

^1 

oi 

CI 

»— ( 

T— ( 



T~H 



f— ( 

CO 

C/0 

ry 

r/1 

C/D 

t/l 

i-H 



r-H 



T-H 

rH 

^ 























CO 

lO 



I-

iC 
o 

Ol 







I-l "' 



t-i) 

_^ 



_ij 

> 

•> 

12 

o 

CJ 

o 

o 

o 

-< O O O J^ 

>^ 


^ « o 








a ^ 
o z; 


q; o ^ ^ a; B ^ P Q <J Ph Q O W 


^ M H^ 
.-t^ -(^ 
-1^ -tJ bO bC 
fc£i bC CJ CD 
^^^^ 
^ -fl t3 t; 
^ -fj M< o 
ni lO (M --I 





-a • 


^ B '^ '^ 


tt,';Q 


k-H 6 


>- _s I- c: 


^ ,a o •-■ o (-. O c5 
^;^p:;ptfOP4^  
Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No.22.)Head Quarters Franklinton 20 Nov. 1812 
Har. Pa. 775-778 
Sir: 
I have the honor to enclose you GenL [Edward] Tupper's report of his proceedings in his Expedition to the Rapids, [see Nov. 16 above] Although the object which he had in view has not been completely accomplished, it is probable that the Enemy have been so much alarmed that they will abandon their object of taking av^ay the corn, if they do not I have directed Genl.[James] \yinchester & Genl [Simon] Perkins to ascertain the fact & dislodge them. From the copies of your letters to the Presidents of the Cincinnatti & Kentucky Banks received under cover from your office this day I presume that funds have been lodged in those institutions to meet the Drafts authorized to be drawn upon them. This has relieved Col. [James] Morrison from much embarrassment and will enable him to provide the means of transportation for the Army. I am sorry to tell you that all my calculations as to the water Transportation upon the St. IMary's & Auglaize River have failed. The water was too low before the Boats & perogues were ready. Our reliance must now be entirely upon Pack-horses, of which it will require three thousand. Arrangements are made for purchasing them immediately. Genl. Winchester has exhibited charges against Genl.[Edward] Tupper and has requested me to appoint a Court of Enquiry for himself. It is to be regretted that he should think either necessary. I had however ordered Genl, Tupper in arrest before I knew of his departure for the Rapids and he did not receive it until his return. It will not be possible to have either the Court of Enquiry or Court Martial until the Army unites at the Rapids. Believing that my presence will be much more useful in the rear than with the f}*ont of the Army for some time I shall remain here pi-obably until the Troops of this wing are ready to leave Upper Sandusky. I am very much gratified at the promotion of Cap. Zachariah Taylor for his conduct at Fo)-t Harrison. Perhaps however Dr. Clarke whose gallant conduct on that occasion deserves the highest commendation \\i\\ not escape the attention of the President. I have kno^^^l him for a long time and am well convinced that he would do honor to the Service. He has been anxious to obtain an appointment in the line of the Anny & I hope such merit will not be overlooked. I should have recommended him long since but from my fear that he would be opposed by Mr. [Jonathan] Jennings, Cap. William Prince of the Indiana Militia who served with me during the Campaign on the Wabash & v^^as recommended by me for a Captaincy in the Army, I have thought proper to appoint Brigade Major. As the appointment may not be strictly proper according to law, I must request for him the best Commission in the Army which you can give him.[He received none] 
I have the honor to remain With great respect & regard. Yr Hble Servt 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison The Honble William Eustis, Esq. Secretary of War, Washington 
Harrison to Campbell Head Quarters Franklinton Nov. 25th 1812 
Har. Pa. 815-S19 
Sir: 
The object of the command which has been assigned to you is the attack and destruction of the IMiami villages at Mississineway. You will continue your march todaj'' through Springfield, Xenia and Dayton to Eaton at which latter place supplies of Forage and Rations have been ordered for you. Should the supplies of either not be sufiicient or should anything be wanting towards the equipment of your detachment you are authorized to call upon the contractor or Qr. Master to furnish you. You have with you William Conner as a guide who has been frequently to IMississineway and is well acquainted with the country thro which you have to pass. It will be safer however to employ several other guides. John Connor is on White Water in the Indiana Territory and may easily be sent for and it is probable also that there are many persons to be found about Greenville or Eaton who have frequently been across the country to IMississineway; you cannot be too well supplied with Guides. It is left to yourself to  
determine upon your route to Mississine\vay after your arrival at Eaton and your decision will be governed by the best information you receive from Conner and others whom you may consult. The route by Greenville is to be preferred on account of its being more distant from the Delaware Toatos which I wish you by all means to avoid. The Delawares have been directed to leave their Towns and retire to the Shawanee establishment on the Auglaize River, [on] their route to the latter place there is a probability of your falling in with them. This would be unfortunate as the faith of the Government has been pledged for their safety. It will be necessary that care should be taken to avoid coming in contact with them or to avoid any ill consequences should it happen to be the case. Inform yourself as minutely as possible from Conner and others who have been to IMississineway of the localities of the place and the situation of the Indians. The Three small Tribes which compose what they call the IMiami nation were very lately assembled there viz: the Miamies proper whose residence it is, the Eel River tribe and the Wea tribe, the latter had participated in the attack upon Fort Harrison and the former in that upon Fort Wa^Tie and their warriors have been concerned in several of the murders committed upon our citizens. There are however some of the chiefs who have undeviatingly exerted themselves to keep their warriors quiet, to preserve their friendly relations with us. This has been the case with respect to Richardville (a half French man the 2nd Chief of the INIiamies) Silver Heels the White Loon certainly and perhaps of Pecon the Principal Chief of the Miamies and Charly the principal Chief of the Eel River tribe. It is not my wish that you should run any risk in saving those people but if it can be done without risk it would be extremely gratifying to me and no doubt to the President, the same remark will also apply to the sons and brothers of the Little Turtle who continued to his last moment the warm friend of the U. States and who in the course of his life rendered them many important services. Your o^^^l character as a soldier and that of the troops you command is a sure guarantee of the safety of the women and children. They will be taken however and conducted to the settlement. Your order of march will be such as to form with facility an order of Battle to meet an attack in front flank or rear. A principal object of your attention is tlie service of the guards a duty that is generally worse attended to than any other in our army. The utmost vigilance however of your guard will not afford you. perfect security. Your men must at all times be kept ready for action by day as well as by night. When you advance into the enemy's country all your men must he made to lie upon their arms and with their accoutrements on. The post of each corps must also be particularly ascertained each night under every contingency that may happen. The rapid movement which will be necessary to ensure the surprise of the enemy will prevent your making an entire fortification round your camp but in dangerous situations it should be done and each night the guards should be placed in small square redoubts built of logs which can be constructed in a few moments. Your marches should be so arranged as to get near the To\vn "and ascertain the situation of the enemy at night and the greater the distance you encamp the night before you reach the town the less will be the probability of your being discovered, in other words the last days march must be a forced one. The Mississineway [a line gone] should your approach be undiscovered it will be necessary to divide your force so as to make a simultaneous attack upon all the principal ones at least. This will however be dangerous if the enemy should be collected or have time to collect after you are discovered. The Hostilities which have been actually committed upon us by the Miamies justify our considering them as enemies. They would not however have been attacked at this time but for the facility which their Towns affords to the other tribes to attack our settlements and the convoys of the left wing of the army. The whole of the provisions must therefore be desti'oyed and the towns burned. Should the Indians discover you and leave the Towns and should you not be able to come up with them but should by the capture of a woman or old man have an opportunity of sending a message to them you will please to do so informing them that if they will send in six of their principal chiefs as hostages to perform such terms as the Goveernt. may impose upon them we will cease to annoy them. There are probably some white men at Mississineway but I am uncertain whether they arc citizens of the IT. States or not. The safe way will be not to kill them if it can be  
prevented. An old Canadian by tlie name of Godfrey has lived there several years and has a squaw for his wife and he is and ahvays has been a friend of the U. States. There will be no difficulty in saving him as his house is apart from the rest. Having accomplished the object of your command in regard to the Mississineway Towns it is left to your discretion to proceed against any other Town or body of Indians which you may tliink yourself able to strike with effect and without incurring too much risk. A Banditti of scoundrels principally of tlie Potawatima tribe have for some time assembled at the White Pigeon's Village upon the headwaters of the St. Joseph of Lake ^Michigan and which cannot be more than fifty or sixty miles from Mississineway. An attempt to cut them off will be made, or not, from your view of its practicability from the information you may receive and the stale of your command after the principal object shall be accomplished. L^pon your return the cavalry will be ordered into winter quarters at Xenia the Infantry will be brought on to this place. Some pack horses arc coming from Cincinnati with Blankets. You will meet them and distribute them to your men. The commanding ofiicers of Corps will receipt for the number tliey get and the receipts you will be pleased to forward to the Depty. Q.?.!. Genl. and direct that each man who receives one is charged with it, and his name returned to the paj'mastcr. Your whole command vrill be mustered and paid at Xenia with the best wishes for your success 
I am with great respect Yr. Hbl. Servt. Wm. Henry Harrison 
Hopkins to Gov. Shelby 
On Wabash, near the mouth of Pine Creek, 
Nov. 27, 1812 
Niks' Register III, ^6.'^. My Dear Sir— 
By Col. Richard Taylor,' quartermaster general, who goes on as quick as possible to Frankfort, I have it in my power 
1. Richard Taylor was one of the earliest settlers of JcfTor. son Co., Ky. He served throuKh the Rev. heins a colonel at its close. Came to Ky. in ITS. j when the preRident was nine months old. He sat in the Ky. Con. Conventions 1792, and 17i>9 and oit«n represented his co. in the legislature.. He was the father of Pi osidtnt Taylor. Collins, Kentucky, 36C, 363 to give you general information of the movements of the army since my last. On the 11th [Nov.] the army marched from Fort Harrison on the road formerly made by governor Harrison's army, and the boats set out at the same time. The length of time the enemy had expected us made it necessary to guard ourselves in an especial manner. The rise of the waters from the heavy fall of rain preceding our march, and some large creeks, left us no doubt of considerable difficulty and embarassment ; insomuch that not until the 14th did we pass Sugar creek, three miles above the road. From every information, I had no hesitation in moving on the east side of the Wabash. The Vermillions, Pine creek, and other impediments on the west side, superadded to the presumption that we were expected, and might more easily be annoyed and ambuscaded on that rout, determined me in this measure. The boats too, with our provisions of rations, forage and militarj^ store, could be more easily covered and protected, as the line of march could be invariably nearer the river. Lieutenant colonel [Philip] Barbour, with one battalion of his regiment, had command of the 7 boats, and encamped with us on the bank of the river almost every night. This so protracted our march that we did not reach the Prophet's town until he 19th. On the morning of this day I detached 300 men to surprise the Winebago town lying on Ponce Passu creek, one mile from the Wabash and four below the Prophet's Town. His party, commanded by general Butler, surrounded the place about the break of day but found it evacuated. There were in the main town about forty houses, many of them for 30 to 50 feet in length, besides many temporary huts in the surrounding prairie, in which they had cultivated a good deal of corn. On the 20th, 21st and 22d we were embarked in the complete destruction of the Prophet's to\\ai which had 40 cabins and huts, and the large Kickapoo village adjoining below it on the west side of the river, consisting of about 160 cabins and huts; finding and destroying their corn, reconnoitring the circumjacent country and constructing works for the defence of our boats and army. Seven miles cast of us on the Ponce Passu creek, a party of Indians were discovered. They had fired on a small party of ours on the 21st and killed a man by the name of Dunn, a gallant soldier  
in captain Duval's company. On the 22d upwards of 60 horsemen, under the command of lieutenant-colonels Miller and Wilcox, anxious to bury their comrade as well as gain a more complete knowledge of the ground, went on to a point near the Indian encampment, fell into an ambuscade, and 18 of our party killed, wounded and missing. Among these are three hopeful young ofTicers and one private from the 8th [Wilcox's] regiment, viz. Mars, Edwards, Murray, and the private Webb, presumed to be killed ; the other 14 were of the rangers. On the return of this party, and the information of a large assemblage of the enemy, who encouraged by the strength of their camp, appeared to be waiting for us, every preparation was made to march early and engage the enemy at every risque ; when, from the most violent storm and fall of snow, attended with the coldest weather I every saw or felt at this season of the year, and which did not subside until the evening of the 23d, we were delayed until the 24th. Upon arriving on the ground, we found the enemy had deserted their camp before the fall of the snow, and passed the Ponce Passu. I have no doubt but their ground was the strongest I have ever seen. The deep rapid creek spoken of was in their rear, running in a semicircle, and fronted by a bluff 100 feet high, almost perpendicular and only to be penetrated by three steep ravines. If the enemy would not defend themselves here, it was evident they did not intend fighting at all. After reconnoitring sufficiently, we retui'ned to camp, and found the ice so accumulated as to alarm us for the return of the boats. I had fully intended to have spent one more week in endeavoring to find the Indian camps ; but the shoeless, shirtless state of the troops, now clad in the remnants of their summer dress; a I'iver full of ice; the hills covered with snow; a rigid climate, and no operations; under the influence of the advice of every staff and field officer, orders were given and measures pursued for our return on the 25th. We are now progressing to Fort Harrison through ice and snow where we expect to arrive on the last day of this month. From Vincennes I shall have the honor of addressing your excellency again ; but before I close this, I cannot forbear expi-essing the merits of the officers and soldiers of this command. After leaving at Fort Hari'ison all unfit for duty we had in privates of every corps about one thousand — in the 
18— 226G1 total twelve hundi-cd and fifty or thereabout. At the Prophet's town, upwards of one hundred of these were on the sick report. Yet sir, liave we progressed in such order as to menace our enemy, free from any annoyance; seven large keel-boats have been conveyed and protected to a point heretofore unkno^^^l in Indian expeditions; three large Indian establishments have been burnt and destroyed, with near three miles of fences (and all the corn, &c. we could find) besides many smaller ones; the enemy have been sought in their strong holds, and every opportunity alTorded them to attack or alarm us ; a march on the east side of the Wabash, without road or cognizance of the country, fully one hundred miles perfected ; and this has been done with a naked army of infantry, aided by only about fifty rangei-s and spies. All this was done in twenty days — no sigh, no murmur, no complaint. I certainly feel particular obligations to my friend general Butler and colonel [Richard] Taylor, for their effectual and ready aid in their line ; as also . to captain Z. Taylor, of the seventh United States regiment; Messrs. Gist and Richeson, my aids-dc-camp, and major J. C. Breckenridge, my secretary, for a prompt and efi!ectual support in every instance. The firjn and almost unparallellcd defence of Fort Harrison, by captain Z. Taylor, has raised for him a fabric of character not to be effaced by my eulogy. To cononel [Philip] Barbour, for liis officer-like management, in conducting and command\uy: the boats, my thanks arc due, as also to colonels IMiller and Wilcox, and to major Hughes and Shacklet, and to the captain and subalterns of the army generally. From lieutenants Richeson, Hawkins and Sullivan of the United States troops, I have to acknowledge my obligations for their steady and unifoi-m conduct, as well as captain [Parmenius] Beckes, of the rangers, captain Washburn, of the spies and the staff generally. Let me refer your excellency to colonel Taylor for more nnnute information; and believe me with high regard and consideration, to be, your most obedient servant. Samuel Hopkins  
Statement of Robert Dickson 
Montreal Dec 3, 1812 
Mich. Hist.& Pioneer Soc. XV, 193 
]\;\.\\\\\K obtained a supply of merchandize at St. Josephs iv<m\ lh(> Monti-eal merchants, 1 left that place in the latter end of Aujrust 1811 and notwithstanding the impediments throwTi in my way by the American Government, I w^as fortunate rii<ivi}. rh to reach the country where I successfully carried on my tr. ido. During tlie winter I found the Agents of the American Govri-jiiiirjit using every means in their power to influence the Ijuh.'ins in tlieir l)ehalf, by making them unusual presents of i^mkhIs and inviting them in the most pressing manner to visit tlu- I'n-sident of the United States at Washington, where it \v. i^( !i(l(l out to tliem, they would hear something of the uttno>t importance. Vvoiw tlu\s(!circumstances 1 was inclined to believe that s.5'!ii, iliing h(tstile was meditated against our Govt, and being 5)!»' only individual in that country possessed of the means of frustrating their intentions I took such steps as I trust will be approved of by His Excellency the Commander in Chief. Tl)c Culamitous state of the Indian Tribes at that time was jM-x-uharly distr(\ssing, the crops of those who cultivate the i/r<nnul having failed from the great drought of the preceding fiurnnur; and owing to the same cause those who subsisted rn!irrly by the chace were deprived of provisions, the large ivnin?al i li. iving gone noilhwards in quest of food.1 S'-fl tlii' River Mississippi on my return to St. Josephs with A r!urnb.'r of Indians after having supplied their families with finsruunition and i)rovisions at a great expence I w^as met at Oh' Tortag*' of the Ouisconsing by two Courriers from Amh<'raUjiir-j' with a conmumication from general Crock, in cont^-ti'. i. n.,.,,f \vlii,. h J sent a party of Indians from Labaye to Arn);t'rsll))iig wIktc they remained during the Summer and '^^ r»- in .'Very engagement with the Enemy1812 July 20 
To amount of Robert Dickson & Go's account of sundries furnished to Scioux, FoUesavoinc and Winibago Indians p. 
account herewitli No.1 20973 
To i)aid Francis Boutcllicr for sundries at Prairie du Chicns for 
do. p. acct. No.2 S995 5970 
To paid Pierre Grignon for funds for do. p. acct. No.3 624 
To cash pr Louis Grignon for one ox for do 300 
To cash pr. Dr. Mitchell for provisions for do 876 
To cash pr Paul Ducharme for an ox for do 300 
To ainoimt of Jacob Franks accoimt of sundries for said Indians 
pr aect. No.4 12130 18 
To cash pr Lewis Crawford for provisions for said Indians at 
St. Josephs 7 voucher $5 350 
To Robert Dickson & Co. disbursements for said Indians at 
Michillimackinac p. account No.6 3483 
Livres 45006 18 
Hx Curry -1875 5 
R. Dickson 
/XT «ov Harrison to Secretary of War (No.23) 
Head Quarters N. W. Army Delaware, 
11th December 1812 
Sir; Har. Pa. 788-790 
I liave appointed Mr. John C. Bartlett to do the duties of field-Commissary to receive and account for all the provisions which have l^cen purchased for the United States. Such an odicer was indispensible. Mr. [Henry] Clay will inform you of the high standing- of Mr. Bartlett. The Contractors having failed to make the Deposit of provisions at Upper Sandusky or even to provide for the daily issues here & at that place. I have been obliged to direct Mr. Bartlett to supply the deficiencies by other contracts, which he has effected. The sums necessary will be raised by Drafts on your Department, to be charged to Major White. Mr. Bartlett has entered into bond with security which will be forwarded in a disjiatch which I shall forward tomorrow. I have promised Mr. Bartlett the pay & emoluments of a Deputy Quarter Master. I ha\'e the honor to remain With great respect Yr Ilble Sevt.■ WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
The Honblc W. EusTiS Esq Secretary of War  
Return of Cannon, Gun Carriages & Destined for the N. W. Army under the care of Captain Charles Gratiott of the Engineers 


S3 2 miles 
west of 
N. Lisbon 
(Ohio) 
Dec. 2, 1812 

«3 O 
c 

Of 
o C 
eg 
t-(0 



, t-T, 
u 
CO rt 

II 2 

3 S 

1 CO 
> o 
s « 

-T- bf.> o 

c 
o 
:^§ 
C bJt 
3 tr.£ « 

I-l o 
O o — 1 rt 



o 
o 

CO 
o 
CO 
Sh 
O 
w 

Fit for use 

2 

4 

1 

5 

10 



2 

1 

5 

29 

1 

304 

Unfit for use 









8 



3 



































Total 

2 

4 

1 

5 

10 

10 

3 

2 

1 

5 

29 

1 

304 






Signed 
C. Gratiott Capt. Engineers 
NoteThomas Bodley to Harrison 
(Copy) 
Fort Barbee St. Marys Dec. 11, 1812 
Har. Pa. S03-S0G 
Dear General 
A few days ago our prospects here was truly flattering, every one appeared in high spirits and much gratified at the appearance of sending on provisions & by water but the scene is sadly changed. Our most sanguine hopes are blasted and the chance of forwarding supplies to the advanced parts of the army is gloomy indeed. On the 4th Inst we started from this place a large boat and 16 perogues loaded with flour &c. The water was in fine order and we took advantage of the first chance of sailing. No time was lost. On the 7 two large boats sailed with a fine flood, the whole freighted 398 Bbl. Flour, 32 Bbl. Whiskey, 72 Bbl. Salt, 20 kegs powder, 10 kegs lead, 1 box Cannister shot, 2 boxes clothing, 150 cannon ball, 10 bushel oats and a quantity of hospital stores (of which Dr. Taylor has the invoice) 5 bars Iron, 5 Bars steel and 3 coils rope. In addition to these stores about 700 hogs have been sent to Fort Winchester last vreek and this, on foot, and a quantity of flour, whisky, salt and clothing has been sent down the Auglize from Forts Amanda and Jennings in perogues and on rafts. Col. [Robert] Pogue took advantage of the rise of water and as he had not time to prepare perogues he fitted out two rafts and loaded them with whiskey and salt in tiglit barrels. I have not heard how they got on but am in hopes they will get down safe. In this situation we were all highly gratified with the result of our united exertions in getting off such quantities of supplies. Nothing that could be done was omitted, all concerned united their efforts in the common cause and no doubt was entertained of success until yesterday about noon when unfortunately a messenger arrived with information that the last boats were stopped by the ice below this about 40 miles by water and about 12 by land, that they had used every exertion but could proceed no further and in the evening an express arrived from the first boats that they had got to Shane's Crossing^ about 60 miles by water 
1. Slianc's Cmssiiur was at what is now llotkford, Mcitcr Co., O. It was named from Anthony Shane, a I'lcnrh trader (Shcsnc in French) who lived there on a section of land presented him by tlic U. S. in reeotniilion of his services to (leiieral Wayne. Griswold, Fort Wannr, 2Z0  
and 18 by land from this place where they were frozen up and no possibility of their getting on. You may judge of our surprise and mortification. The first boats were commanded by Capt. Jordan of Col. [Joshua] Barbee's Regt. and Mr. LlcClosky Asst. Q. M. at this place went with them to take charge of the cargo &c. The Last were commanded by Mr. Allen both fleets had the best crews we could select. They were all volunteers and no set of men ever exerted themselves more than these have done on this occasion. Mr. McClosky is an experienced water-man, him and many of the crew were often in the water and sometimes risqued their lives. He got in here last night very much fatigued and almost exhausted. There was no alternative left but to make arrangements to secure the craft and property, which Col. Barbee has this morning taken every necessary step to effect. Capt. Jordan's Company remain with the first boats & Capt. McNair is sent to the last, with directions to build storehouses &. The roads are so extremely bad and the water have been so high as to render it impossible for waggons or horses to travel, not a waggon has arrived at this place for two weeks and but few pack horses & those returning from the advanced posts. The St. Mary's is so extremelj^ crooked and so blocked up Avith Driftwood in many places where it is out of the bank and overflowed for miles. In short turns the slush-ice has collected and frozen solid so as to dam it up for miles. Consequently nothing but a general thaw or hard rains can give us the benefit of the navigation of this stream. Of course some other means of transportation must be resorted to. Permit me ag'ain to suggest the propriety of an establishment at Wapaghkennetta or of having the supplies sent to Fort Amanda [on the Auglaize]. The Auglaise is much straighter has more water and will not freeze up so soon as the St. jMary's. Sleds and pack horses are now the only means of transportation. A number of active strong draft horses for sleds and some pack horses could be very usefully employed from Piqua to Fort Amanda. I have engaged flats to be built at both crossings of Lorimie's and at this place. It is now freezing very hard and I hope the roads may soon be travelled. I will write to Col. [James] Morrison fully on these subjects. Col. Pogue and this Regt. have erected the best fort on these waters, at Amanda, and in very little time. They deserve much praise. Your appi-obation and notice of their conduct would be extremely pleasing to them. I have wrote Genl. Winchester by express this moniing and hasten to give you this without delay. Present me to my friends at Head Quarters and particularly those in your own family. I should be glad to hear from you. I have the honor to be yr. friend and Hble. Servt. Thos. Bodley Acting Q. Master N. W. Army 
P. S. Some of the Paymasters will not receive the Indian goods and others wish to return what they have reed, will you be so good as to direct what is to be done \\'ith those not used. T. B. 
Harrison to Secret.^jry of War (No.24) 
Head Quarters N. W. Army Delaware 12th Deer.1812 
Har. Pa. 791-798 SIR. Since I had the Honor to write to you on the 17th Ultimo [see above] every exertion has been made and every Engine put into operation to procure and forward Supplies for the Army to the advance posts. The difficulties which have and which are still to be encountered in this business are almost insuperable but they are opposed with unabated lirmness and zeal. The greatest obstacle to our Success is the want of forage which for this line we are now obliged to bring from the Neighbourhood of Chillicothe at an expense which can scarcely be conceived. Genl.[Simon] Perkins informs me that two men have lately arrived at his Camp from Detroit and from them he learned that the British had taken from the Inhabitants of the r\Iichigan Territory everything which they deemed surplus provisions leaving the Inhabitants scarcely enough to live on. I fear too that they have taken all the Corn from the Rapids, as neither Genl Winchester nor Gen. Perkins made any effectual attempt to interrupt them. General Perkins has been able to save between two and three thousand Bushels of Corn at lower Sandusky — and there are persons actively employed at and about Cleveland procuring evej-ything that will answer for the sustenance of Man or beast to be sent on in Boats as long as the lake remains open and when it Freezes, upon sleds which are preparing. I received  
letters from St. IMary's under date of the ist of this month, at that time the Watei's were all in a navigable State, boats and Perognes were loading at St. Mary's and a number of others coming up the Auglaize to load at Tawa Town. Had the open Weather continued but four or five [days] longer Gen Winchester would have received from one thousand to fifteen hundred Barrels of flour by this time, but I fear that the hard Frosts which we have had for some days past will prevent the Boats from returning and possibly the General from descending to the Rapids to which he was directed immediately to proceed. Gen. Perkins is at lower Sandusky with all his Brigade. A Battallion of the Pennsylvania Troops reached upper Sandusky yesterday with the 21 pieces of Artillery brought on by Lieutenant [Levi] Hukill. The sending them from Mansfield with so small a force was extremely injudicious upon the part of Gen. Crooks, I directed another Regiment to follow them but as they may not arrive for several days I shall send on to day some Companies of the Virginia Brigade and shall follow myself the day after. The Virginia Brigade has been here since the 5th Ultimo they were detained for the want of Blankets which reached them only last Evening. But from the failure of the Contractor in providing the means, or subsisting them at Sandusky they could not have marched unless the provisions purchased by the United States Commissary had been issued to them. Major [Ebenezer] Denny and his agents have not acquitted themselves as they might have done, in upwards of two months they have procured and forwarded not more than 1,000 Barrels of Flour. The last accounts from the lakes were not very flattering, seven or eight hundred Barrels were scattered in small parcels below Cleveland, a part of it has probably reached Sandusky but the severe weather which v^'e have had for some days has no doubt interrupted the Navigation. I beg leave to call your attention to the enclosed Extract of a letter from Col. [James] Morrison [seeDec.11 above] I fear that the Expenses of this Army will greatly exceed the calculations of the Government. The prodigious destruction of Horses can only be conceived by those who have been accustomed to IMilitary Operations in a Wilderness in the Winter Season. The fine teams which arrived on the 10th Inst, at Sandusky with the artillery are entirely worn down and two trips from MeArthur's block House (our nearest deposit to the Rapids) will completely destroy a Brigade of Pack Horses. Should I be able to get one Million or even 800,000 Rations of Flour at the Rapids and the Weather is severe enough to freeze the Straight the object of the Campaign can still be accomplished. A few Horses would be sufficient to take on the Supplies and Baggage upon the ice and if the Straight freezes I should be enabled to sit down before Maiden (without going to Detroit) in six days from my. leaving the Rapids. If on the contrary the Straight does not freeze (which is frequently the case) the difficulty of crossing will be very considerable and it vdll require much time to build Boats to effect the passage. All that could be done then Vv'ould be the recovery of Detroit until later in February or perhaps the middle of March. The Government will determine whether that object is of sufficient importance to induce them to bear the Expense which will attend the prosecution of the Campaign at this Season. If there were not some important political reasons urging the recovery of the ^Michigan Territory and the Capture of Malden as soon as those objects can possibly be effected and that to accomplish them a few weeks sooner expense was to be disrcgai'ded, I should not hesitate to say that if a small proportion of the sums which will be expended in the Quarter Master's Department in the active prosecution of the Campaign' during the Winter was devoted to the obtaining the command of lake Erie the wishes of the Government in their utmost extent could be accomplished without difficulty in the months of April and May. Maiden, Detroit and Mackinac would fall in rapid succession. On the contrary all that I can certainly promise to be accomplished during the Winter, unless the Straight should afford us a passage upon the ice is to recover Detroit. I must further oI)serve that no military man would think of retaining Detroit (Maiden being in possession of the Enemy) unless his army was at least twice as strong as the disposable force of the Enemy. An Army advancing to Detroit along a line of Operation passing so near the principal force of the Enemy as to allo\\' them access to it whenever they think proper must bo covered by another Aimy more considerable than the disposable force of the Enemy. I mention this circumstance to show that the attack ought not to be directed against Detroit but against Maiden and that it 





9 (O 


depends upon the ice alTording- a safe passage across the Straight whether I shall be able to proceed that way or not. Detroit is not tenable. Were I to take it without having it in my power to occupy the opposite shoi-e I should be reduced to the necessity of liiding the army in the adjacent swamps to preserve it from the effect of the Shot and Shells which the I-^enemy would throw with impunity from the opposite shore. This result is so obvious to every man who has the least ]Military information, that it appears to me as extraordinary as any other part of Gen. Hull's conduct that he should choose to defend Detroit rathei' than attack Maiden. There is another circumstance Sir, which will claim attention. Admitting that Maiden and Detroit are taken Macinac and St. Joseph will remain in the hands of the Enemy until we can create a force capable of contending with the Vessels \\'hich the British have in lake Michigan and which they will be enabled to maintain there as long as the Canoe route by Grand River and lake Nipissing shall remain open and for six months after. I have conceived it proper, Sir, to lay these statements before you. If it should be asked whj^ they were not made sooner, I answer that altho' I was always sensible that there wei'e gi'eat difficulties to be encountered in the accomplishment of the wishes of the President in relation to the recovery of Detroit and the conquest of the adjacent part of upper Canada in the manner proposed I did not make sufficient allowance for the imbecility and incompetence of the public agents and the Villainy of the Contractors. I am still however very far from believing that the original Object is impracticable. I believe on the contrary it can be effected and as I kno^\ that my personal fame is materially interested in its success in the manner first proposed my feelings are all engaged in opposition to any delay. But I should illy deserve the confidence of the people or the President if I were capable of being infiucnced by a piivate consideration to witlihold from the Government any statement which might thi'ow light upon the operations of an army the success of which is so important to the Character as well as the interest of the Country. If it would be the determination to disi'cgard expense and to push on the operation of the Army in tlio manner they have been commenced the President may rely upon the Exertions of the Troops which I shall employ in the final Effort. I shall be much disappointed if I cannot select three or four thousand men from the army who will do as much as the same number of men in a similar state of discipline ever did do. If the plan of acquiring the naval superiority on the Lakes before the attempt is made on Maiden or Detroit should be adopted, I would place 1500 men at the Miami Rapids (Defiance would be better if the Troops had not advanced from thence) retain about 1000 men to be distributed in different garrisons, accumulate provisions at St. Mary's, Tawa To^\^l, Upper Sandusky, Cleveland and Presquille and employ the Dragoons and mounted Infantry in desultory Expeditions against the Indians. The Villages south of lake Michigan might be struck with effect by making a deposit of Corn and provisions at Fort Wayne. Col. [John B.]Campbell marched from Franklinton with the Detachment destined to destroy the Miami Villages on the Ultimo. His troops were mustered and paid at Xenia and left Dayton on the 9th Instant. I have the Honor to enclose you an Extract of a letter from him of the 6th Inst, describing his situation and prospects. There never was a finer body of men. I also enclose the orders given to him which I hope will meet with your approbation, [see Nov. 25 above] 
I am much disappointed in the Artillery which has been sent on. There are in all twenty eight pieces of which 10 are six and 10 twelve pounders, the former are nearly useless. I had five before and if I had 100 I should only take three or four with me. You will perceive by the return of Capt.[Charles] Gratiott which is enclosed that all the Carriages for the Howitzers and 8 out of 10 of those for the twelve pounders are unfit for use. Since I began this I have received a letter from Cleveland. The assistant Quarter Master there has been very successful in procuring forage. Better news I could scarcely have received 
I have the Honor to be With great Respect Your Humble Sevt 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honble William Eustis, Secy of ivar  
Harrison to Secretary of War 
(No.25) 
Head Quarters Delaware Dec loth 1812 
Har. Pa. 799, 800 
Sir 
I have the honor to enclose you a Hst of the appointments which I have made of Staff oflicers for the North Western Anny. The hst of Quarter Masters was given to Col. [James] Morrison who informed me that he could not get through with the duties of his office without them until the Supplies for the army are all procured and the army itself more consentrated when he will have it in his power to dismiss half of them. I am clearly of opinion that those appointments will not only promote the public service but will prove to have been proper on the score of economy. In my letter of the 11th [see above] I mentioned the Appointment of Mr. [John C] Bartlett as field Commissary. I knew that there was no Law authorizing expressly such an appointjncnt but as the Provisions purchased by the Commissaries of purchases there must be some one to receive and issue them, if subordinate agents had been appointed at each post without a head to whom they should account the Public would have been defrauded and the accounts have exhibited a chaos which could never have been understood or arranged. This officer will receive the provisions from all the purchasing Agents. He will so arrange them as to have a regular supply of all the articles that compose the Ration at every place where they are issued. He will receive my orders for Deposits and will at all times be ready to lay before me a complete view of the State of the Supplies. Mr. Bartlett is a man of talents wealth and respectable connections. Govr. Shelby having applied to me to determine whether the 3d Regiment of Ky. Hopkins should be dismissed I have directed it to be done except one Batallion which are to be retained and placed under the command of Col. Wm. Russell. I have more militia than I want. The Pennsyl. Brigade manifests so much insubordination that If I were not affraid of wounding the reputation of the State, I would dismiss them en masse, but I shall certainly be obliged to dismiss a part of the Troops and those that are least useful, must be first sent off. I have the honor to be with great respect Yr. Hb. Servt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison Hon. Wm. Eustis. Sccfy of War 
A list of Staff appointments made by Genl. Wm. Harrison, Com. N. W. Army 
Division J. Adv. Dpy. Comiss. of Ordn. Conduct, of Artillery Field Comissy. Genl. Depy. Qr. Masters 


1812— Octo 27 

John J. Wills 

1 SI 2— Nov 

18 

Robert D. Richardson 



18 

Charles Madiss 



24 

John C. Bartlett 



27 

James T. Eubank A. D. Orr Hubbard Taylor Thomas II. Pendall Jacob Fowler James JMcCluspy John C. Paine Benjamin Gardner James R. Curry Daniel Mayo 

Dec. 3rd 



L. Hukill U. S. arniy ap. tt ii 



Ensign Charlev L. Todd 


> as. Dy. Qr. Mr 


Dy. Ajd. Genl 
J. Advocate to tlie left wing N. W. arm)' wdth the pay & emoluments of J. Advocate 


(No 26) 


Sir: 


Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Quarters Delaware 14th Dec. 1812 
Har. Pa. 801 -SO J 


I neglected in iny last to mention a cii'cumstance which reflects much Honor on the bravery of the Sha^vanoe Chief Logan who has fallen a victim to his zeal for our cause. I had sent him with a reconnoitriiig party to the Rapids of Miami. They were pursued so closely by the hostile Indians that they were obliged to sepai'ate. Logan with Uvo of his men reached General Winchester's Camp from which he again proceeded  
towards the Rapids. They soon fell in with a reconnoitring party of tlio Enemy consisting- of a British Oflicer, the celebi-ated Potawatimie C/hief Wincmack and another Chief and tlii-eo men of the same tribe. Logan had the address to persuade them they were Friends until he got an opportunity to attaclv them to advantage when he succeeded in kilHng the ofhcer, Winimac the other [Ottawa] Chief and one of the Warriors. Logan himself was shot through the body and one of his men [Bright Horn] through the thigh. They succeeded however in seizing the Horses of their enemies with which in four Hours they rode 20 miles to General Winchester's Canip where Logan expired on the following day with as much heroism according to the General's account as ever was exhibited. He has left a wife and several children under the guardianship of Major Hardin of the Kentucky Troops who has sent them to that State. I have promised the Chiefs of the Tribe to recommend them to the protection of the government.^ 
I have received information that four or five hundred Indians have been placed by the British with considerable supplies in an old stockade work which was erected by a Detachment of our Troops some years ago on Swan Creek below the Miami Rapids. I think it no diflicult matter to cut off their retreat with a part of General Winchestei's command unless the latter has advanced to the Rapids and they have abandoned their positioii. I have not heard from the general for eighteen or twenty days, I shall go forward and send an express through the woods directing him if he has not reached the rapids to make a detachment to his left towards the head of Swan creek whilst his main body shall advance to the Rapids. The position occupied by the Indians is a complete cul de sac unless Swan Creek (which is fifteen feet deep for many miles) is frozen over. I calculate upon Col. [John B.]Campbells arrival at Mississiniway about this day. Never was there a finer time for such an enterpi'ize, dry weather, snow on the ground (which will make it impossible for the enemy to secret themselves) and the moon in such a state as to permit night marches.1. For a more dttnilcd account oT this exploit KCe McAfee, The Late \','ar 172. Captain Jonny )\iid rjiiKHthorn woi-c with I-oKan. The liritish oflicer was tlic eldest Bon of Colonel Elliott of the IJritish army. Captain John s. calped the dead Indians and came leisurely into camp. The Ilaidin heic mentioned was the son of Col. John Hardin who had captured Logan in ITbO. Lo;,'an's family was not taken to Ky, New contracts have been made for filling all the deficiencies of White [contractor] and some otlicrs made for delivering flour at the Rapids. I have so majiy engines in operation for forwarding provisions that I can scarcely believe in a possibility of our not having a sufficiency. I am very Respectfully D. Sir Your Huml. Ser^i;, 
WiLL^i. Henry Harrison The Honble. William Eustis Esqr. Secy of War 
Campbell to Harrison 
Camp on the IMississinaway two miles above Silver 
Heels Town Dec. 18, 1812 
Hcu: Pa. 809-810 
Dear Genl. After a fatiguing march of three days and one night from Greenville I arrived with the Detachment under my command at a To^^^l on the IMississinaway (thought by the spies to be Silver Heels Town, but proved to be a Town settled by a mixture of Delaware and j\Iiami Indians) about eight oclock on the morning of the 17th undiscovered. A charge was made on the To^^Tls when many fled over the River, others surrendered, those who fled, made resistance after crossing, by firing across the River. Thirty-seven prisoners are taken, M'hom I shall bring in with me, including men women and children, seven warriors Idlled. After disposing of the prisoners I marched a part of the detachment down the river, and burned three villages without resistance. I then returned, and encamped on the ground where stood the first village attacked. This moniing about daylight, or a little before, my Camp was attacked by a party of Indians (the number unknown but supposed to be between two and three hundred) on my right line occupied by ^Jajor [James V.] Balls squadron, who gallantly resisted them for about three quarters of an hour when the Indians retreated; after being most gallantly charged by Captn.[George] Trotter, at the head of his troop of cavaliy, we have lost in the first action one killed and one wounded (by accident the last) in the action of this morning we have eight killed and about twenty five or thirty wounded (not having yet gotten a report I am unable to state the number exactly.)The Indians have lost about forty killed, from the discoveries now made. The spies are out at prescent ascertai  
iiig' tlie number. I have sent to Greenville for a I'einforcenient, and send you this hasty sketch a detailed report shall be liei'eafter made to you, noticing- particularly those companies and individuals, who have distinguished themselves signally. I anticipate another attack before I reach Gi'eenville, but rest assured my Dear General they shall be warml. y received. I have a detachment composed of the bravest fellows, boath officers and soldiers, in the world, our return will bo commenced this morning among our killed I have to deplore the loss of the brave Capt.[Bennoni] Pierce, Lieut.[Daniel] Waltz of Captain [Abraham] Markle's troops of cavalry, is also mortally wounded, their gallant conduct shall be noticed hereafter. Yours with the greatest respt. and esteem. John B. Campbell Lt. Col. 19th U. S. Reg. Gcnl. William II. Harrison Couimdg. N. W. Army 
Proclamation Convening the General Assembly 
December 18, 1812 
Western Sun, December 26, 1812 
Whereas, circumstances require that the Legislature of the Territory should be convened: I have therefore thought proper to appoint, and do by these presents appoint, Monday the first day of February next for the meeting of the same; and the members of the Legislative Council and of the House of Representatives, and each and every of them, are required to give their attendance on that day accordingly, at the town of Vincennes. Given under my hand and the seal of the Territory, at Vincennes, this 18th day of December, in the year of our Lord 1812, and of the Independence of the United States the thirty
John Gibson, [Acting Governor'} 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
(^^- 27) Head Quarters N. W. Army 
Upper Sandusky Dec. 21st 1812 
Q,.„. Har. Pa. S07-S08 
I have the Honor to enclose you a copy of a letter received last evening from Major [Thomas] Bodley [see Dec. 11 above] the acting Quarter ]\Taster to the left wing of the army 
19—22664 by which you will perceive that all our hopes of getting on a large supplj'' of provision and stores by the means of the Auglaize and St. Marys have been disappointed by a sudden and uncommon freesing of those rivers when in the finest state for navigation. By a letter received from Gen. Winchester of the 10th I leani also that his last barrel of Hour has been issued to his Troops. They cannot however suffer much as the large supplies sent dowm the Auglaize from Fort Amanda (Tawa Town) if they have not reached him could not be at any veiy great distance from Defiance. The unfortunate freesing has however obliged me to abandon all Idea of Getting any assistance in accomplishing the final object of the campaig^^ from the Troops of that Wing or the very large supplies which have been collected at Piqua and St. Marys. I shall determine in the course of the day upon the propriety of dismissing the greater part of the Kentucky Troops and, by redoubling my exertions in this direction, prepare for occupying the Miami Rapids and advancing to Maiden with a force less than half of what was at first intended. They will hov\'ever be choice spirits and the Government may rely that whatever success may attend us the honor of the American Arms will at least be supported. Capt.[Charles] Gratiott has not yet got on nor have I heard any thing from him since ho left Canton. Blankets and Shoes ai'e beginning to arrive and the clothing for the regular troops is coming up the Scioto, it will however be a considerable time before it can reach them. I have not heard, of the woollen overalls and jackets (so long ago ordered by you in Philadelphia) having reached Pittsburg. The militia too are many of them naked and some corps from that cause remarkably sickly. General [Edward] Tuppcr reports 260 out of 700 to be unfit for duty out of his Brigade. I had neglected to inform you on the 18th of November I accepted the resignation of Ensign Daniel D. Armstrong and on the 4th of this Inst, that of Ensign John E. Morgan both of the 19th Regiment. The former was charged with crimes for which he would have been cashiered. His youth and inexperience and the intercession of Gov. Meigs induced me to suIFei* him to resigii. I have the Honor to be with g]-eat respect sir your obt. sevt 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison The Ilonblc W. EusTis Esqr. Secy of War  
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department Dec. 21, 1812 
Har. Pa. hi 
General Wm. H. Harrison. Sir: 
The difficulties attending the transportation of Specie to the Western Country render it expedient to require of the agents authorized by you to draw bills on this Department to dispose of them as far as practicable, to individuals, who wish to make remittances to the Atlantic States, and you will please to give directions accordingly. Robert Dickson to Gen. Geo. Prevost 
Dec. 23, 1812 
Mich. Hi-if.& Pioneer Soc. Pub. XV, 20One silk Standard &, one large medal to be got for each Tribe. An Express to be sent to Michilliniackinac, to order necessaries for the Indians to be fo]'warded to the portage of the Ouisconsin and Chicago, as early in the Spring as possible. Should it meet His Excellency the Commander in Chief's approbation the subscriber intends without delay, setting out for the Mississippi by the route of Montreal, Kingston, York, Niagara, Amherstburg, Detroit, St. Josephs on Lake Michigan, Chicago, Rock River. On his waj^ he will dispatch courriers when required, he hopes to reach the Mississippi about the end of February, which \\'ill enable him to collect the Indians on the west of that River. Amable Chevallier, an Ottawa Indian, will be wanted for the voyage, he is an intelligent & useful man. If the sei'vices of Capt. Moi'ton at Niagara can be dispensed with it is necessary he should accompany the subscriber as far as Amherstburg. The Indians will hold out to the Americans that they must retire within the boundary Line, as settled by Wayne's Treaty, else everything within the line will be desti'oyed. The above is submitted, for the consideration of His Excellency the Commander in Chief — by — his most devoted most obedient and 
ve]\v humble Servant. Robert Dickson 
Harrison to Secretary of War Headquarters Upper Sandusky December 21th 1812 
Har. Pa. Sll, S'1.2 
Sir: 
I have great satisfaction in communicating the enclosed copy of a letter from Lieut. Col. [John ]].]Campbell to you who commanded the Detachment which was sent to destroy the Mississinaway Towns. Capt.[Lewis] Ilite who brought it informed me that Col. Campbell had learnt from one of the Prisonei's, that Tecumseh was on the Wabash not more than eighteen miles below our Ti-oops with six hundred Warrioi's. If this should be the case I entertain some apprehension foi' the safety of oui' detachment on its return cncumbei-ed as it is with wounded and prisoners. Eighty or ninety of the Ohio 



IMilitia liowcver marched from Greenville on the 20th Inst, to reinforce Col. Campbell, and his original command merits the approbation he bestows upon it. The Captain [Bennoni] Pearce who was killed commanded a Troop of Dragoons from this State. Lieut.[Daniel] Waltz belonged to the Troop of twelve months Dragoons from Pennsylvania and Capt.[George] Trotter of the Kentucky Dragoons Vvdio distinguished himself is my aid de camp, whom I permitted at his desire to head his troop upon this command. I have further the satisfaction to inform you Sir, that I have ascertained that the British and Indians were not able to take off the com from the Rapids of Miami and I assure you that they shall not have another opportunitj^ of removing it. I have the Honor to be with great Respect Your Obt. Servt. WiLLiAi^i Henry Harrison The Honble Willia:^!Eustis Esqr. Secy, of War 
Campbell to Harrison 
Fort Greenville 25th December 1812 
Har. Pa. 820-835 
I left this place on my march out on the 14th with six hundred rank and file which number was reduced on my march by the return of some who became sick. My first order of march v.'as in five columns Col. [James] Simralls regiment in two on the left, the Infantry in one in the center and j\Iajor [James V.] Ball's squadron in two on the right. There were also strong front, rear and flank guards, who marched at a distance from the columns of from two to four hundred yards as the ground would permit. From the flank guards I ordered small parties occasionally to examine the country to the right and left and report to me Vviiether they had made any discoveries. My encampments were in a sciuare form covering ground sufllcient to embrace the horses within the first line of fires, without being crowded.1 had a second line of fires made around the Camp at the distance of sixty yards, outside of which and opposite to each angle of the Camp a redoubt was constructed in which the guards were placed, the want of axes prevented me from making tlie outer fires and constructing the redoubts as well as I wished. I had one third of the men on guard every night and formed a chain of ceiitinels around the camp so close that the enemy could not possibly penetrate without being discovered. At day light each morning I sent out parties to patrole at a considerable distance from Camp. I found it necessary in a day or two to vary my order of march and directed the infantry and riflemen to march in two columns one on each side of the road. The pack horses and baggage, as also the detachment staff in the road between them. Major Balls squadron in four columns on the right and Colo. Simralls Regiment in four on the left. The flank columns served as guards, in this way I found I marched with more ease. I then dispensed with the taps of the drum and sound of the trumpet which in my first order of march was necessary. I further ordered that if an attack was made on the march and in front the troops would immediately form in order of Battle by filing up on the left and dressing by the front of columns, if on either flank the flank columns would face outwards and make resistance untill reinforced. If in the rear the rear guard would face to the right about and make resistance, whilst the other columns would file up and wheeling to the right about form in succession on the left in line, the ofllcers leading columns taking especial care to march at sufficient distances from each other to form in line in open order dressing by the center. If the attacking was made in camp the Troops would immediately form in the I'car of their fires, which would be extinguished as soon as possible by throwing it out in front. I ordered the Guards if attacked to stand their ground as long as possible and then retreat through the angle of the camp nearest them, there form, defend the angle if attacked if not to wait for orders. These form my disposable force. The weather tho' cold and the snow deep, was however well calculated to favour our enterp]'ize and I determined to make forced marches to avoid if possible a discovery. On the march I occasionally formed in order of Battle to accustom the troops to it. They formed with the utmost celerity and in good order, the first two days I marched forty miles, the third day I pushed the troops as much as they could bear, marched the whole night altho' excessively cold stopping twice to refresh and warm. This day and night we marched forty miles, early in morning of the 17th I reached undiscovered an Indian town on the Mississinaway inhabited by a mixture of Delawares and Miamies. The troops rushed into the town killed eight warriors and took  
forty two prisoners eight of whom are warriors the residue women and children. I ordered the towii to be immediately burnt a house or two excepted in which I confmed the prisoners and I ordered the cattle and other stock to be shot. I then left the infantry to guard the prisoners and with Simrail's and Balls Dragoons advanced to some Miami villages a few miles lower down the Mississinaway, but found them evacuated by all but a sick squaw whom we left in her house. I bui'nt on this excursion three considerable villages, took several horses and killed a great many cattle, and returned to the towm I first burnt where I had left the prisoners and encamped. My camp v.^as in the usual form but covered more ground than common. The Infantry and Riflemen were on the front line, Capt.[Wilson] Elliott's company on the right, [Capt. James R.] Buttler's' in the centre and Alexander's on 
1. For account.3 of this family of soldiers see Pcnn. Mag. of Histwy VII, 1-10. Gen. Richard Butler served during the Revolution under Morgan and was killed at St. Clair's Defeat ; James R. was his son, Col. Robt. Butler, Jackson's chief of staff at New Orleans and Gen. W. O. Butler who fought in the Mexican war were of the family. See also The Historical Register, Jan. ISSS. Harrison's appreciation is expressed in the following letter. North Benii, Ohio, Nov. 2Gth, 1820 Dear Sir: 
I have been informed that Capt, James R. Butler of Pittsburgh is a candidate for an office in your gift. As this gentleman served in the army commanded by me in the late war & under my immediate view I have deemed it incumbent on me to state to you my opinion of his conduct & merits. A soldier yourself you will not hesitate to acknowledge the claims which disinterested, laborious and successful services in the field give to a candidate on an occasion of this kind — that those by whose exertion & dangers our country has been brought to repose in peace & prosperity, should share the bounties which the administrators of that counti-y's government are authorized to bestow. Admitting this as I am certain you will, I can assure you that Capt. Butler's pretentions to your favor will be exceeded by none that will contend for it. It is no disparagement to other corps of this description to say that none that ever came under my notice could at all compare with them in point of discijiline, nor was their conduct in any respect, in camp or in the field, in battle or in those still more trying and difficult situations to which they were exposed, inferior to that of any other corps. Regular or Irregular. It is unnecessary to say to you how much of this merit ought to be attached to the commanding officer. The Pittsburgh Blues (Butler's Company was so called) greatly di>;tinguishcd themselves at the Battle of Messissiniway & in a sortie from Fort Meigs. My sense of their merit and that of their worthy Captain is strongly expressed in my Gen. Orders of that period.& in my letters to the Secretary of War. It would be impertinent in a citizen of another State to interfere with your appointments further than the statement of facts with which it is possible you might be unacquainted. I . shall therefore leave it to Ca))t. Bulters other friends to urge his claims to the office in question from his (lualifications to dischar;re the duties, & the fairness of his private chai-acter. And conclude with assuring youi- Excellency of the great Respect with which I am 
Your Hum. Servt. WiM,. IT. H.\ni;isoN Gov. HiESTEit \_rrna.']Pcnn. Mau. of Ilislory and Biography the left. INIajor Ball's squadron occupied the right and one half of the ]-ear line Col. Simrall's Regiment the left and other half of the rear line Between Ball's right and Simerall's left there was an interval which had not been filled up, owing to tlie unusual extent of gj'ound the camp ejnbraced, it having been laid off in my absence to the lower towns. I now began to deliberate upon our future movements whether to go on further encumbered with prisoners, the men much fatigued and a great many severely frost bitten. Horses suffering from the want of forage which was very partially relieved by the scanty supplies of corn obtainod in the towns or retui'ii. I determined to convene the Field officei's and captains of the detachment to consult and then to take such a course as my own judgment might approve. At four in the morning of the 18th I ordered the reveille to be beaten, and the officers convened at my fire a short time afterwards, whilst we were in council and about half an hour before day my camp was most furiously attacked by a lai'ge party of Indians preceded by and accompanied with a most hideous yell, this innnediately broke up the council and every man ran to his post. The attack commenced upon that angle of the camp formed by the left of Capt.[S. G.] Hopkins Troops and the right of Captn.[William] Garrard but in a few seconds became general from the extreme of the right to the left of Balls squadron. The enemy boldly advanced to within a few yards of the Lines and seemed determined to rush in. The guards posted at the different redoubts retreated into camp and dispersed among theii- different companies thus leaving me without a disposable force. Captn. Smith of the Kentucky light Dragoons who commanded at one of the Redoubts in a handsome and military manner kept his position untill ordered in to fill up the interval in the rear line, between the Regiment and Squadron. The Redoubt at which Captain [Bennoni] Pierce commanded was first attacked, the Captn. maintained his position until it was too late to get within the line. He received two balls thro his body and was tomahawked, he died bravely and much lamented. The enemy then took possession of Ca])i. Pierce's redoubt and poured in a tremendous fii'e upon the angle to the right and left of which were posted Hoj^kins' and Garrard's troops but the fire was as warmly returned, not im inch of ground was yielded, every man, officer and soldiei', stood firm  
and animated and encouraged each oilier, the enemy's fire became warm on the left of the squadron at which Capt.[Abraham] ]\Ta]'cle's'^ troop was posted and the right of [Wilson] Elliott's company which with ]\'Iarcles formed an angle of the camp was severely annoyed by the enemy's fire. I had assisted in forming the Infantry composed of Elliotts company of the 19th U. S. Regt.[Capt.^ James R.] Buttler's Pittsburgh Blues,'-' and Alexander's Penns. ylvania Riflemen and ordered them to advance to the brink of a declivity from which they could more effectively defend themselves and harrass the enemy, if they should attempt an attack on that line, this however they thought proper to omit. Whilst I was thus engaged Major Ball rode up to me and observed he was hard pressed and must be relieved. I galloped immediately to the left wing with an in'ention of ordering Capt.[George] Trotter's Troops to reinforce the squadron, but there was informed that the enemy were seen approaching in that direction and believing it improper on second thought to detach so large a troop from the line which also covered an angle of the camp I determined to give the Relief from the Infantry. I wheeled my horse and met Major McDowell who observed that the spies and guides under the command of Capt, Paterson Bain consisting of ten men were unemployed. We rode there together and ordered Captain Bain to the support of the squadron, seven of them, to wit: James Audrain, William Conner, Silas McCullough, James Thompson, James Naggs, John Ruland and Joseph G McCleland followed their brave leader, and I rendered most effectual assistance. I then ordered Capt. Buttlcr with the Pittsburgh Blues to repair immediately to reinforce the squadron and directed Capt.[Wilson] Elliott and Alexander to extend to the right and left and fill the interval occasioned by the withdrawal of the Blues. Capt. Buttler in a most gallant maimer and highly worthy of the name he bears formed his men immediately in excellent order and marched them to the point to which he was ordered. The alacrity with Vvdiich they formed and moved was never excelled by any troops on earth. Hopkins made room for them by extending his Troop to thright. The Bhies were scarcely at the post assigned them before 1 discovered the efFect they produced. A well directed lire from them and Hopkins Dragoons nearly silenced the enemy in that quarter, they then moved in force to the left of the squadron and right of the infantry at which Capt. Llarcle's and Elliott's companies were posted. Here again the3^ were warmly received. Lieut.[David] Gvv\vnne and Ensign Batteal Harrison who were 011 the right of the company boldly stood their ground, and tired obliquely on the enemy. Those two young officers in a particular manner signalized themselves and shed a lustre on the 19th. Capt.[Wilson] Elliott and Lieut.[James] Campbell were on the left of the Company and were not engaged. Serjeant [William] Levitt Q. M. Sergeant to the 19th U. S. Regt. deserves particular notice for his bravery. At this time daylight began to da^^Tl. I then ordered Captain Trotter whose Troop had been ordered by Col. Simrall to mount for the purpose to make a charge. The Capt. cried out to his men to follow him and they tilted off at full gallop. Capt. Trotter's first Lieut, with eighteen of the men were on guard. Lieut. Trotter, Cornet Dishman and the residue of the troop together with Lieut. Hobson and four men of Elmores troop Doct. LToore and a few other Gentleman including Mr. Thomas Moore my private secretary advanced gallantly and charged a numerous body of the enemy. Major McDowell with a small party rushed into the midst of the enemy and exposed himself very much. I cannot say too much for this gallant veteran. Capt. Markle with about fifteen of his troop and Lieut. Warren's also made a daring charge upon the enemy. Captn. Markle avenged the Death of his relative Lieut.[Daniel] Waltz upon an Indian with his own sword. Capt. Trotter and his troop Capt. Llarkle and his little band performed a most dangerous duty in the bravest manner. Captn. Trotter mentions to me as worthy of pailicular notice Robert Mitchell a waggoner, who had volunteered for the expedition, Christian Willman, trumpetc)- to Col. Simi'alls regiment who blew two charges, and hewed down an Indian with his sword, William Montgomery, Sei'gi- Major to the Regt. of Kentucky Light Dragoons, was in the charge and distinguished himself as well as in the ski]-mish tlie day before. In this charge Capt. Trotter was wounded slightly, Corporal [Henry] Riddle shot through the body David Steele  
wounded in tho tliigh slightly and the brave [Salem] Piatt received his mortal wound being shot through the body and hand. Fearing that Ca])t. Trottei- might be too hard pressed, I ordered Captn.[John] Johnson of the Kentucky light Di'agoons to advance with his Troop to suppoi-t him. I found Johnson ready and Col. Simrall reports to me that all his other ca]"»tains to A\it Elmore, Young and Smith were anxious to join in the charge, but I called for only One Troop. The Colo, had the whole in excellent order. Ca])t. Johnsoii did not join Trotter untill the enemy was out of reach, he however picked u]) a straggler or two that Trottei- had passed over. The Cavalry returned and infoi-med me the enemy had fled precipitately. I have on this occation to lament the loss of several brave men and a great many Avounded, amongst the former are Capt. From the enclosed list you ^^'\U see the names and numbers of the killed and wounded, Eight being killed and forty-eight wounded two of whom are since dead. The enemy paid dearly for their temerity from the trails thro the snow and those found dead, we could not have killed less than thirty which with those killed the day before amounts to thirty-eight. The enemy did not take a scalp. The Indian who killed Capt. Pierce attempted to scalp him but was killed. Major Ball informs me that he can say with confidence that there never were ofhcers and soldiei's who displayed more cool, firm and soldierly conduct, than those of his squadron. The zeal activity and courage displayed by Capt. Hopkins and his officers (Capt. McCleland and Cornet Herod of the Pennsylvania volunteers having been atached to him) did not fail to arrest his attention and met his fullest approbation. Lieut.[James] Hedges received a slight wound on the nose. Cai)t. Garrards Troops sustained the action at that point whei'e it raged with greater violence for some time after it commencement that a. t any other (except upon the left) with the fii'inness of veterans, while the oflicers were unceasingly employed in stimulating and encouraging their men. Lieut.[Edwajd] Basey and [Harris H.] Hickman were both wounded early, but performed their duty in tho line to the close of the action. Cornet McClanjihan Q. M. to the Detachment was ca(iually active in the line with the other oflicers of tlio Troop. Q. M. Scrjt. Strotbcr I. Hawkins wlio had no other fire arni. s loaded and fired l\is pistol several times at the enemy and many othei's similarly situated used their pistols as fast as they could load them. Young Mr. Baylor placed himself a little in front of the line and fought bravely during the action. Lieut. Warren's and Cornet Lee's detachment behaved with great firmness and used their pistols and carbines to the best advantage Cornet Grear (of Warren's) was wounded in the arm but remained sometime afterw^ards in the lino, Capt. Markles Troop as I have before stated was situated upon the left of the squadron and most sorely galled. Lieut. Waltz fell most gallantly, there never were men who sustained so heavy an action with more firmness, but one sentiment pervaded the wdiole and victory or death was most obstinately determined upon. Col. Simrall's Regiment altho not engaged with the exception of Trotter's Troop w^ere all ready and panting to engage. The Colonel deserves the highest applause fo]* his excellent disposition during the action, and for his cool firm and deliberate conduct. To Major Ball the greatest praise is due for his activity and bravery during the action. No man could have done more, he informs me he was greatly aided throughout the ])rogress of the action by the exertions of Lieut, and Adjt. Fullerton and Serjeant Major Edwards. I must now mention in the highest terms of a. ppreciation Lieut, [. lohn] Payne of the Kentucky Light Di'agoons who acted as my adjutant on the expedition for his great activity attention to duty and gallantry during the action he rendei-ed the most essential service. My extra adjutant Capt.[Lewis] Hite was verry active and as brave as a Lion I ahvays found him ready foi- any ser\'ice I had for him to perform. Capt. Luce of the Ohio volunteers marcked with me from this place as a private in the ranks and in the action killed an Indian, he deserves my particular notice. Captain Alexander with his rifieman were on the left of the front line and not engaged but wei-e all ready if an 0]ii)ortunity had offered. Bevei'ly Bro\\m and Thomas Bedford of Capt. Gerrard's Troop and Francis Lousong of the Blues were killed fighting bravely in exposed situations. I have now my dear Sir detailed to you the particulars of an engagement bravely fought and victory gloriously won after contending most warmly fo]- at least an hour. Fi'om the length of our line simultaneously attacked by them 1 am 

 
persuaded there could not have born less tlian three liundred of the enemy. The}' fought most bravely.]\ly strength on the morjiing of the action vas about five liundred and ninety rank and file a considerable proportion of whom, amounting to at least foily or fifty were almost rendci-ed unfit for duty by the severity of the weather. Some vrere so badly frost bitten as to be scaix-ely able to walk. There never was severer sei'vice perfoi-med by any trooi)S and yet there is not a murmur. Reports made to me yesterday morning informs of three hundred and three Avho are so severely frostbitten as to be entirely unfit for duty. On my march back I was compelled to move slowly on account of the wounded, seventeen of whom we had to carry on litters. I kept the troops always ready to meet an attack ^ hich I daily and nightly expected untill I reached this place. I fortified my camp every night by a breast work, which kept us busily engaged. The scarcity of axes was now most sensibly felt. I have informed you how I advanced into the enemy's country. jNIy return vras much in the same mode. I determined to be always ready to avoid surprizes and falling into ambuscades. I assure you the responsibility attached to this command I most seriously felt being young in service an inexperienced I felt great diffidence in accepting this command. I however hope my conduct will meet your approbation. I shall hasten on to join you but it will take the troops some time to recruit and heal. Some will lose toes, others feet are so swollen as not to be able to put on their shoes. The night march was most severe upon them. I met J\Iajor [John] Adair with ninety-five men on my return about forty miles from the place vrith a supply of provisions. This came most seasonably some companies were entirely without. Hopkins's had eat nothing for three days. That night I should have ordered a horse to be killed. The greatest praise is due Major [Nathaniel F.] Adams for his promptitude in relieving us. My express arrived here on Saturday evening and he started on Sunday morning. The next day I met Col. Holt from Dayton with additional supplies. Thi'ough the whok^ of this expedition we ceilainly were favored by divine Providence. Th. e weather though severe was favorable to the entcrpi'ize the snow enabled us to ascei'lain whetliej- we Averc discovered. The moon gave light all llio night and on our return the water courses were l^lockcd up by ice. there was not a drop of rain, such a concatenation of favorable circumstancGS rarely happens. The Indian prisoners I will send off tomorrow to Piqua to the care of Mv.[John] Johnson escorted by an ofilcer and twenty troops from this place. The few lines I ^vrote you from the Battle Ground I fnid in some particulars to be incorrect, not having* at that time full reports of the wounded, My prisoners are also more than I then represented. I think Sir that you may assure the Government that the Battle of Mississinniway Vv'as not badly fought and that the enemy suffered severely, that the Troops deserve well of thei]- country and their losses ought to be comjien sated. The number of horses killed vrcre considerable and I have no doubt they saved the lives of a great many men.1 hope to overtake you before Maiden falls. I have learned since my return that Gcnl.[Samuel] Hopkins had returned to Vincenncs after burning some Indian villages and driving them, supposed to be three hundred in numbei-, up the Wabash. This still made my situation more perilous and I shall not be surprised to leai-n that Tecumseh commanded in the action against me. let him be wlio he may he was a gallant fellow and maneuvered wqW.[William] Conner thinks it was Little Thunder (nephew to the Little Turtle) from his loud voice which he knew. He heard him ordering his men in the Miami language to rush on that they would soon retreat. I think Sir the Kentucky cavalry will surely be in a situation to render you much more service. Their losses in horses are considerable and one hundred and thirty-eight frost bitten severely. They are fme fellows with a few exceptions and as brave as any men in the world. Captn. Prince is here verry sick he was unable to get on with us, this was to me a great loss. I am Sir verry respectfully your most obdt.& Hb. Servt. John B. Campbell, Lt. Col. 19th U. S. Regt. His Excellency Genl. William Henry Harrison Coiiimander in Chief N. IF. Army. Return of the Ba'i'tle of Missineway 
Harrison Pa. .18-21 
The following is a true statement of the killed and w^ounded 





26: 


in tlie Rattle of the ]\'Iississinway on the morning- of the 18th Instant and in the skirmish on the 17th viz: 
On the 17th In Captain IIoi)kins troops U. S. L. D. Sergeant James Wjight, Killed. L. D. Sergeant Thos. Sinilli grounded, since dead. On the IStli In Captn. Hopkins troops U. S. L. D. Lst Lieut. Jarnes Pledges slightly. Thomas Robinson Ijadly John Holeroft *' 
John May slightly \- Rrivates 
John Tarn badly Tlios. Salsbury badly In Captn. Marcles troop 12 mo Rcnn. V. L. D. 2nd Lieut. Danl. Waltz, killed Private Jas. Giffin killed Corpls. Henry Breneman, badly Corp. Robert Skilly slightly Saddler, James Smith, slightly Thompson Carnahan mortally, 
since dead Robt. Campbell dangerously Fuidlay Carnahan badly Wm. Logue slightly 
Jos. Chambei-s badly }■ Privates 
Jas. Selby slightly Thomas Porter badly John McCarmon, badly Robt. Cooper slightly David Braden sliglitly Jno. Bennet slightly In Captn Garrards Troop 12 mos. K. \'. L. D, Privates Thomas Bedford killed 
Bev(>i'ly Brown killed 1st Lieut. Edwd. Ba3'sey, slightly 2nd Lieut. David Hickman slightly Qr. M. Sergeant Strotlu>r J. HaAvkins slightly Sergeant G. Edwards slightly Farrier J. Mc( 'onnell slightly Henry "\\' illson Moses Riehaidson RETI'llN OF TJIE BATTLl-] OF MISSIXEWAY— Coiitiiiucd. Thomas East on baelly Wm. Scott moi'tally Thomas Webster In Capt. Pierces troop G mos. Ohio V. L. D. Captn. Bennoni Pierce kihed Privates Daniel Cunningham Killed Willm.]Monroe wounded. In Lieut. Warrens troo]) Penna. A- L- D. 
Cornet Greer, wounded In Cornet Lee's Troop 12 mo.^Michigan "\'. L. D. Privates David Hull wounded 
Michael McDermot wounded CjTUS Hunter wounded. In Capt. Trotters Tioop 6 mo. Ky. V. L. D. Captn. Geo. Trotter Jr. slightly 1st. Sergt. Byrd Smith badly 1st Corpl. Henry Riddle dangerou-^ly Salem Peyatt,, [Piatt] mortally since dead David Steele, slightly In Captain Elliotts Comp;iny U. S. Infty. Privates ^^^altel• ^McAllister wounded Henry Watters woumled Thomas Wittington wounded In Captain J3utlers (Pitts.)Blues 12 }vIos.\'. Infiy Private Francis Lansing killed Corps. E. Elliott wounded Corp. Reid wounded Private Isaac Cliess wountled Jos. Dodd wounded 
Killed Captains 1 Wounded Caj'jtain^ 1 
2nd Lieut 1 1 Lts 2 
Sergts 1 2 Lts 1 
Privates 5 Cornets 1 
— Q. M. Sergts 1 
Total killed hi action S Sei'gts 3 
Died of the wounded sinc(^ Corps 5 
th<' action 2 Saddkns 1 
■ Fari'iers 1 
Total 10 Privates 32 
Total >\ound(d in action 48 



KETUP. X OF THE BATTLE OF :MI. SSIXE\VAY-Coiitiniud. A report of the number rendered unfit for duty by being fro->t bitten as ai:)pears from the re})ort> of tlie morning of tlie 24th Inst. Viz. In 2Major Balls squadron 107 
Cob Simralls Regt.„ 138 
Infantry and Riflemen 58 
Total 303 
John Payne 1st Li. Ky. V. L. D. and adjt. to Detachments. Secretary op War to Harrison 
War Department Dec. 26, 1812 
Har. Pa. ^2-Jt7 General \\l\. H. HARRISON Sir: 
The President having confided to me [James Monroe] the temporary charge of this Department, I have to communicate to you his sentiments on some important objects relating to the operations of the Troops under your command. The object of your Expedition was to retake Detroit, to take j\Ialden, with the adjacent Country, and to hold them. For this purpose, a considerable force was placed under your command, with all the other means which the Government could afford. It was anticipated that you would have to encounter many difliculties in the execution of your orders, particularly in the transportation of pro\isions and other supplies; bu it was presumed that they might be surmounted. The delay however which has already taken place, and which it is not doubted has been unavoidable, and the expense which has been incurred inseparable from the gi'eat force assembled under you give the President much concern. The President still considers the occupancy of Detroit and jMalden objects of the highest importance. If these Posts could be taken and held, the advantage attending it would be most extensively felt. It would put an end to the British ascendancy over the Indian Tribes, and connected with and 
20—22061 aided by other measures, which that event would suggest, and whicli it would be easy to execute, it w^ould demolisli the British power in that quarter. It is therefore with great reason, that the President lias attached such high importance to the complete success of youi- expedition. Important however as it is, you will nevertheless bo sensible of the ill consequences attending a perseverance in efforts w^hich while thej'" expose our Troops to all the hardships of the present season, and exhaust our provisions and the public Treasury afford no reasonable pvospect of success. At this distance and with an imperfect knowledge of the actual state of things it is impossible for the president to decide satisfactorily to himself, or with advantage to the public, w^hether it is practicable for you to accomplish the objects of the expedition in their full extent, during the present Winter. No person can be so competent to that decision as yourself ; and the Pj-esident has great confidence in the solidity of the opinion which you may form. He wishes you maturely to weigh this important subject, and to take that part which your judgment may dictate. It is expected that you will forthwith form a clear and distinct plan as to the objects which you may deem attainable, the time within wdiich they may be attained, and the force necessary for the purpose, and that you communicate the same with precision to the Department. As soon as you have formed this plan you will proceed to execute it, without waiting for an answer, and as soon as the Government is made acquainted with it, measures will be adopted to give to your operations all the aid in its power. The Troops- now under your conunand were oixlered to the field immediately after the surrender of Detroit wiien it was apprehended that the British force and Indians flushed with their late success, would make incursions and carry their savage war to our frontiei". The Government confident of the ample means of the Country and disdaining to relinquish any part of the plan at first conceived, in consequence of that disgraceful event resolved to pursue every object with new vigor, with a force which should be adequate, affording at the same time complete protection to the frontiers. But the Indians, driven by the season have, it is presumed, now left the field and the British Commander under the Pressure made below drawn much of his foi'ce to the Sti'ait of Niagai'a and els  
whei-e in that Quarter, so that there is little to apprehend for the piTsent from either party. Yon ^\ill decide Vvdiether tlie vrhole force now under your command is still necessary, and will be cfFectual for the accomplishment of tlie oj'iginal objects of the Expedition. Your situiition and the intelligence you have acquired, will enable you to judge what opposition you may expect from the Savages on the Route to Detroit, and you are doubtless correctly informed of the strength of the British force there, and at iMalden, as of the condition of tliosc Fortresses in respect to provisions, cannon, and other munitions of Vv'ar. If you strike at those posts it will be well to keep together a force which shall be abundaritly adequate to their reduction and retention, but all extra force, serving only by its magnitude to impede and retard your march by the difliculty of procuring and transporting pj'ovisions, and to exhaust our Resources, and the spirits of the people ought to be dismissed. Shou. ld you be of opinion that your force and other means arc incompetent at this season to the reduction of Detroit and IMaldon and their retention, or of Detroit only, in consequence of their strength in men and cannon and the difficulty of transporting cannon to bear on them, and of supplies for support of the Troops during the present season, then the Campaign must be reduced within that limit. It vrill be confined to such objects as are within your reach, particularly to the protection of your advanced supplies on the ]Miamis, and of the Frontier, and to such annoyances of the Enemy as may be practicable. For these objects, especially the security of your supplies and protection of the frontier, in case nothing is to be apprehended from the Indians, a small force will be adequate. For the latter, the force must be apportioned to the nature and extent of the annoyance contemplated. The destruction of the Queen Charlotte, and of the ^hole of the naval force of the enemy frozen up as it is pi'esumed to be in the ice, would be an important attainment. It is one vrhich is recommended to your particular attention. Success in it would pave the way to an easy command of the upper Lakes early in the next campaign, and a commiind of them would coritributo most essentially to the reduction of all upper Canada. For this expedition, in aid of the Regular Troops, or such part as it may be ■proper to employ in it, after placing judiciously an adequate force for the protection of your advanced supplies and of the frontiers, and making an arrang-ement for sustaining and keeping open the commuiiication with the force cinployed in the Expedition, it is presumable that some of the gallant spirits now in the field from Ohio, Kentucky, Pennsylvania and Virgiiiia would i-eadily volunteer their services. It is not doubted that you might easily drav*' from those Corps, an adequate force for this sei'vice, should the object be deemed practicable. The cause should not be stinted. According to the object the force should be abundant. All beyond it should be discharged. Those brave men Avho turned out to serve their country at so interesting a crisis and have boriic so many hardships, have a just claim to be relieved as soon as it appears that there is no further occasion for them. They will come fonvard again when their country requires their aid. From every view that is taken of the subject, there seems to be no motive for keeping in service either the Troops under the command of General [Elijah] Wadsworth or General [Samuel] Hopkins. If you see no sufficient reason to the contrary' you will of course disband them. The Indian tribes present another object of annoyance. It is presumed that at this season their Villages are in a great measure defenceless. If their provisions were destroyed, they wou. ld be in want of the means to cai'rj' on the next campaign. Their Warriors are supposed to be engaged in small parties in hunting. If they were met with they would be easily vanquished, in whicli case we should have less to apprehend from them hereafter. You may perhaps be able to engage and form from amoiig the Troops under you, whose terms are about to expii'e, some Corps for this Service. On that pj-esumption I send you Commissions, wdiich you are authorized to confei' on such deserving characters as may merit them, and maybe able to raise the men. The pretensions of Colonel [Duncan] McArthur, [James] Findlay and [Lewis] Case are much respected here. It is expected that they will soon be relieved from all restraint on account of their late captivity, and it is much desired to b3ing them again into active service. Of Colonel James Dunlap a very favoi-able opinion is also entei'tained. On this subject I shall write, you more fully soon. 
It is proper to inform you that llie President has it in con1 em Illation to set on foot an expedition from Kentucky of about 1000 mounted men to pass by Fort \\"ay]ie, the lowor end of Lake JMichif>-an and round by the IlHnois, back to the Ohio near Tjouisville, for the purpose of scouring?that Country, destroying tlie provisions cohccied in t)ie Indian vihages, scourging the Indians tliemselves and disabhng them from interfering with 3'our operations. It is expected that tiiis expedition v.'i]] commence in the Month of Februar}^ and that it vill terminate in a few weeks, I give you the information that you may take it into consideration in the estimate of those ari-angements you may find it necessary to maJve for cari-ying into effect the objects of the Government. I send you a copy of the proposed plan on vrhich I v\'ish to hear from you without delay. You will particularly state whether you can eflfect those objects in the manner which is suggested, by adequate portions of the force now in the field and in that case wdiether it would be better to suspend the movement of this force till the Spring. You "will be able at an early day to state distinctly, the force which will be required in the Spring, to secure success to futui'e op(>]'ations in that Quarter. You know the amount of the British force at this time at Detroit, and in Upper Canada, of the Indian force which may be combined with it, and you can form a tolerable estimate of the impression which you may make during the Winter; and taking a combined view of the whole subject, you may give a just idea of what will be requisite for the next Camapigii, and at what time it ought to take the Field. The President desires that you will hasten to communicate your sentiments on this subject, that they niay be taken into consideration, and that su. ch provision may be made for a vigorous prosecution of the next campaign in every direction, as may secure complete success to it. J. M. [James IMonroe] 
MiSSLSSINEWAY EXPEDITION 
Dayton, 0. December 31, 1S12 
Pitlsbiu-o-h Gicuft. c, Jan. 22, 1813 
On the 25th of Noveniljo' a detaclnnent under the command oC Lt. Col. [John] Campbell left Franklinton on a tour which was then a secret. This detachment consisted of a regiment of Light Horse (6 mos. of Kentucky, Col. [James] Simeral, U. S. Regulars, and II. Alexander's Riflemen, amounting in tlie whole to up\\'ards of 600 men. We proceeded to this place. We here left all our tents and all our baggage. From this we marched to Greenville, the extreme frontier settlement. Previous to our arrival here the object of our expedition was made known to us. We were informed in general orders that it was against the Miami Indians whose town and settlements lay (jn the Tslississineway River. The whole of the 'foot' being mounted on pack horses at Dayton, in order to expedite our march, we proceeded with considerable rapidity. Our march, after we left Greenville lay through a dreary wilderness, and never saw a house nor the trace of a human being, except savages, for the distance of 85 miles, the whole of our march from Franklinton being about 200 miles. Every man carried his own provisions on his horse, which consisted of nothing but biscuit and pork. As we had no cajup equipage of ?ny kind, our only means of cooking was by broiling our meat on the coals, or roasting it on a stick before the fire. On the morning of the third day's march from the settlement, \vc v.'ere within 40 miles of the Indians towns. We proceeded that day, and the whole of the next night, and halted at about 4 O'clock in the morning a few miles from the iovm. After refreshing ourselves for about an hour, v.'e took up our line of march, which was in ten columns of single file, the order observed during the whole expedition, and moved with the gi'eatest silence, our object being to take them by surprise. When we were vrithin half a mile of the to"\^Ti our guides gave direction to move up as briskly as possible. Here a scene of tumult and confusion ensued. Every man put spurs to his horse, the yell was raised by the whole a]-my, the ranks were broken, and we entered the town in the utmost confusion and disorder. The infantry and riflemen, who were mounted on pack horses, and were left in the rear when the race began, dismounted and entered the town regularly formed. There were not moi'e than 12 or 15 warriors in the town. These,, on the appro;icli of ou)' men, fled aci'oss the river without making  
any ]-esi stance. Wc fired on tlicm and killed 6 or 7. Between ;;0 and 10 ))risoncrs we]'e taken, men, women, and children, and the town burnt. Had we entered the to\Mi in regular oi'der every Indian might have been taken without firing a gun. The prisoners were left in the care of the infantry and riflemen, and the light horse proceeded to destroy another town, a few miles lower down the river, which they accom]3lished, there being only two or tliree old men ar. d a squaw in it. The light horse returned in the afternoon. Our loss in the attack consisted of two men — one killed by accident by our own men in the general confusion ; the other had strolled some distance from the town and ^vas shot by an Indian who was lurking about. We were informed by the Indian prisoners that there were 500 warriors at a to^vn 15 miles below, at the junction of the Mississineway and Wabash.[Peru] From this information we had every reason to apprehend an attack next morning. The result justified our suspicions. The object of the expedition being accomplished, which was to take prisoners and destroy the Indian towns, we had received orders to prepare for our return next morning. We encamped that night in our usual order, which was a hollow square. After reviclle in the morning and about half an hour before daylight just as the moon had set, and while we were cooking our bi'cakfast and preparing for our march, we were assailed Ijy the yells of the savages. The attack commenced on the right I'car angle of the camp with greatest fui'y, and was sustained by part of Major Ball's Sciuadron of horse who were on that quarter. The guards were immediately driven in — every man was nndci- arms in a minute."Our company, together with the rest of the infantry and riflemen, formed the front side of tlie square, instantly formed on our gi'ound where we waited for orders. In a short time, and while the battle raged with gi'eat fury on the quarter- where it coinmenced, Col. Campbell rode to Captain Butler and oi'dered him to reinforce that quarter or we should be cut oil". Tlic company immcKliately marched to the ,s])ot directed and poured in so furious and well directed a fii-e that in a short time the fii'e of the enemy was almost totally silenced. Soon after this daylight began to appeal", and our party provills' too powerful the savng-es began to retreat. They were pursued some distance by a troop of horse and routed with considerable slaughter. The action conliinied about an houi'. Our loss was eight killed and about -lo wounded. Of the wounded, two died on our return and one at this place. These, together wiih the two killed the day of the attack on the town, makes our loss in killed, 12. The greatest part of the battle being fought in the dark, rendei's it impossible to form a correct idea of the number of the enemj'. It is the general opinion, however, that their force was about 300. Neither are we able to ascertain correctly their loss, but from the number we found dead on tlie field, from the trails in the snow of those who had been dragged off, and from the reports of the Indians wlio have since come in, we calculate their loss to be about 100 killed and wounded. In the action our Pittsburgh boys behaved with the greatest courage. It is impossible to say too much in their praise. Oil the first alarm they were formed ^^•ith the utmost alacrity and marched to the ground in the best order, where they fought with the coolness and intrepidity of veterans, and although two of the men vrei'e wounded iri the commencement of the action they refused to leave the ranks but fought until the action was over. In short, our company contributed more tlian any other to decide the fate of the day. They were in the hottest of the action for a considerable time, yet there was not the smallest indication of fear discernible in a single man. Wq liad one killed, one dangerously wounded, but he is nov,ivco\-ej'ing, one severely and two slightly wounded. No less can be said in p}-aise of Captain Markle's troops. His loss in killed and wounded \',"as considerable. Among the killed was his second lieutenant, Waltz. He was wounded in the a)'m at the commencement of tlie action, but fought until near its close, when he received a ball through his forehead, which terminat(;d his life in about five liours. Of the whole detachment, not more than four companies can properly be said to have beeii engaged. These were Tvlarkle's. Garrard's and Hopkins' t)-oops of horse and Butler's company of infaiitiy — The Pittsburgh Plues. The attack was made on the lliree first mentioned troops, who sustained the shock until thev were reinforced bv our 



(•(>)n])niiy. Oilier parts of tlic army had some slig'ht sldrmishiiift' but were not drawn into the reg-ular line of battle. All tlie cavalry were arrned with rifles and muskets and fought on foot until daylight. Durying the dead and making prepai'ation for Iran.^porting oui- \\'ounded procrastinated our departure till late in the aCternoon. The dead were buried in one of the houses which was torn down and burned over the graves to prevent any trace of their deposit being discovered by the Indians. All the wounded, who were not able to ride, were carried on litters by horses. This necessarily retarded ouj- movements greatly, and we were every night under the continual apprehension of an attack from the savages. we every night fortified ourselves by throwing up a strong breastwork around our encampment. The men slept on their arms. One-third of the detachment was detailed every night for guard. Fortunately, however, the reception we gave them at Mississinevv'ay detei'red them from again attacking us. After a tedious march of seven days we arrived at Greenville. From that place we sent the prisoners under a militia guard to Piqua. Fortune favored us with respect to weather, which was extremely cold. Had it been otherwise, the difficulties from the number of creeks and the great swamps we had to cross would have rendered it almost impossible. The detachment is very much broken down from the severity of the weather. Nearly one half have their feet frost bitten, which renders them incapable of doing duty. To add to our misfoi'tune, when within two days mcireh of Greenville our provisions were exhausted. This, to troops so much i-educed by fatigue and hardships, as we were, was sufficient to damp the spirits of any men. The second nig'ht before our arrival at the settlement we encamped on the same ground we had occupied on our march out. Here our men were glad to gather the gi'ains of corn from the ground where the horses had fed, and parch and boil it for their sustenance. The next day we met a reinforcement of militia fi'om Greenville. They brought six pack-horse loads of provisions, which afforded about half a ration a man. This kept us from starving till we arrived at the settlement, where wc got everything necessary for our relief. I can scai'cely believe any men suffered more than we did from fatig'ue and hiin;?,-cr. Indeed, the result proves it, as there is not more than one-fourth of our detaclmient fit for duty. Notwillistanding all this, I scarcely ever heard a man complain. From Wefltcrn Pcnn. Hist. h, 115-119 
John Ketciiam Ranger Service 
Rcininiscenccs of Col. Jolni KetcJiom 
I propose to give a short history of our Indian troubles of 1812-1818, in that part of the Indiana Territory, commonly called the "Forks", situated between IMuscackituck and the Driftvv'-ood fork of White River, called by the Indians Ilangonahakqua sepoo. In April, 1811, Ave settled on Section 14, Township 5 N., Range 4 East. Said section was made fractional by the Indian Boundary line cutting off the N. W. corner. The Indians were numerous and friendly in that part of the Territor^^ until after the Tippecanoe battle, which took place on the 7th of November 1811. The Delaware tribe expressed disapprobation of the battle and many Indians left our part of the Territory then, but not all. We enjoyed peace, but not without fear, until April 7th, 1812 ; about two and a half miles above our location there lived three families together, Hinton, Cox and Roddick. Their horses grazed in what was called the Cherry Bottom, five or six miles above. Hinton started in the morning to get a horse for some purpose, but not returning that day, his friends went in search of him, and ascertained that their horses were all stolen, and that Hinton was murde}'ed or taken prisoner. The circumstance being made known to our neighborhood, we all v^^^nt in search of the missing man. When we arrived at the Cherry Bottom, two men were sent to examine the I'iver shore, the balance were so divided as to sweep the bottom at one througii. He was found shot through the head, stri])ped and thrown into the river. We laid him on a blanket, tied the corners over a pole and started for home. Night overtaking us we cut forlis and raised the corpse out of the reach of wolves. A proposition was then made to John Ketcham and Noah Wright, that if Ketcham would write a letter, and Wright take it to the Covernor, then at Charlestown, they . should be exempt from helping to bring in and bury the dead, agreed to. Next morning (Sunday) about ten o'clock myself a. nd fam~  
ily were shut up in the lioufje.1 wms lying on a pallet before tiie fire, when suddenly, without speaking, thrc^j Indians, each having a gun, pushed open the door and came in. I requested them to take seats; they placed their guns in the corner of the house and took seats. I took occasion to examine their guns, found them primed and loaded. It was not common when the Indians called on the Whites to have any guns with them. Sometimes they had one, but that not loaded. They could speak pretty good English. I asked them, "what news?"They answered "none". I told them of the murder of Hiiiton and horses stoleii. They then observed that three days past, seven Winnebago Indians passed their camp, going towards Cherry Bottom. I then let them kno^v^ that we had sent a man to tell the Governor what was done, and in a littl'- time he would send men to hunt up the bad Indians, &;c. I asked them if they would go with me to the burying, they consented. My wife objected to my going with them and wept. The oldest sympathized with her and shed tears too. We started, I leading the way. We had proceeded near a mile, they stopped, said "we no go, make white man heap mad", so we returned but found nobody at the house. My wife and children had secreted themselves in the bushes, supposing they should kill me, and return and kill them, and plunder the house. The conduct of the three Indians was very suspicious. They had brought skins to trade with me, but left them hid some distance from the house, saying nothing about them until after our return. Just as we returned, McColough, who had a squaw to wife, and another white man, happened to come there. Mc. told them if they didn't leave immediately, "every devil of them should be killed". They returned to their camp, and left in great haste, leaving some of their valuables. They were the last cainp of Indians that left our frontier that season. In about ten days after, the Indian Agent, residing at the Delaware town, sent two Indians, Salt Peter and Peter Vanvacter, with a letter aiid a white fla;-, stating that it was not the Delawares who had done the mischief, but the Kickapoos, who had passed through their tovv'n with the stolen horses. The two messengers remained with the Whites many weeks. Peter Vanvacter liired to work and never returned, was murdered in Kentucky l^y some unprincipled white man because he vras an Lulian. A man was killed near wiciow Solida's, a few miles Ciom T\ruscackatuck — his name not now recollected. Another man was killed on White River at McGowen's Ferry. At the commencement of our Indian troubles, there were u])\vai-ds of seventy families living in the Forks, but in a few weeks after Hinton's murder, upwards of fifty families left the countiy, and some for safety crossed the Ohio river. The balance, fifteen or eighteen families, determined not to leave and built block-houses and forts. John Sage and others built a fort at his place, but the principal fort Vv'as at Valonia, Huff's fort, higher up, and Kctcham's fort, still above and outside. We all lived in forts, went in companies to work our lit; le improvements, some stood sentinel, while others worked, and thus we got along lor a while. The good people of Hai-rison and Clark counties, considering the small number left in the Forks, and they sliut up in forts, could not hold out long. The most good they seemed to do was to be a kind of Indian bait, for the safety of the interior counties, who probably taking that view of the subject, reinforced us, by sending company after company to help us maintain our stand. The Indians began to understand by our preparations, that we vrould soone)- fight a little than quit our location, although very few that remained during the war were owners of land, many having settled over the boundary line, where the land did not come into market for several years after. About the time that Fort Harrison and Fort Wayne were besieged by the Indians, namely, the 4th of September, 1812, a marauding i)arty of Indians, v^ho passed north of our forts, fell on the unguarded and unsuspecting neighbourhood of Pigeon Roost, killing twenty three men women and children, mostly vromen and children. After robljing the liouses they set fire to them, and stole horses to carry off their boot}'. About tlie same time, T\Iajor Duvall, of Salem, with a small comijany of men, made a scout up White River, and it so hapIxMied that \vhile they were passing over some fallen timber on Sand Creek, that they came in contact with the Indians on theii- return from the Pigeon Roost, Those of them who had horses thi'ew off thei]' Inrge ])acks and made good their reti'eat. Two others who had no hoi'ses fled in another direction, pui'sucd by the men. John Zink, one of the party, l)eiiig young and athletic, outran his comrades, and when the  
Iiulians discovered that they were separated, they devised a plan to shoot Zink. In ci'ossing a ravine, one Indian secreted hiinseli", while the other showed himself in plain view, within sliootinc: distance. Zink stopped to shoot, but the secreted liidian lived first, giving- him a mortal wound. Zink lay in !iis gore ^hat j-ainy night; and was found b. y his companions next morning: still alive, and brought to Ketcham's foil-, where lie was v; ashed and comfortably clothed, and Dr. Lamb, of Salem, sent for. The Doctor arrived, drew a silk handkercliief through the wound, and started home. Zink died before iliey reached Valonia. The three large packs were opened, and found to consist of men, women and children's clothing. Wv knew then that some settlement has been destroyed, but at llie time knew not what one. About the last of September, 1812, Absalom Buskirk and brother-in-law took a two liorse team to his field to get some corn and ]nmipkins. The Indians killed Buskirk and stole his \\\o fine hoi-ses. The corpse was brought into Ketcham's foi't, the same evening, and on the next morning, John John; ton, Robert Sturgeon and others came and hauled the corpse to Huff's fort for interment; after which Sturgeon started home, and was killed at the Half-mile branch, near Valonia. Although there were at Valonia a number of militia men, stationed, they were unwilling to risk their own scalps, and refused to go for the dead. After night the citizens, namely, f'raigs, liogers, Beems, &c, went with their dogs, and brought tin: coi'pse to the fort. After the murder of Buskij-k and Sturgeon, no other per:. ons were killed during the Fall and Winter following, but many alarms were given and horses stolen. I will insei't a few cases. One night Daniel Stout, who now lives near Bloomington, and others, were at Ketcham's fort. After their sentinels v.-ei-e placed out in diffei-ent directions round the fo]'t, two heard and a third saw two Indians and fired at them, and then fied to the fort, expecting next morning to find a dead Indian, or a trail of blood; but a hard rain fell that night, and we found no Indian or blood. At another time, about corn gathering, Capt. Hiram Boone, with twelve or fifteen men, were at Ketchain's fort. They tied theii- horses to stakes driven into the gi'ound in the yai'd, 



]\.<i fir fVi'VA tlie i'orL A largo poplar slump stood rather }.. ?v. c.!i two ol" the lioLLse^;, not more than five steps from ' :t;:.!•.)u th;it stutr;]) liolos wqyc^ bored and liooks driven in, ;-':"i f^\'r or tiN'o hor. ses fastened to them. The night v.-as .;■.:;■. i-ul tip' moon did not rise until after night. While it ^ ,: \. t d. nk the ir. dians opened the yard fence into the corn ?:■ ;^i, .•■jid itl down one bar on another square of the yard f.!;. r. Th«' i. Ki rs were within twelve or fifteen steps of the big ■t-unp. An Indian slipped through the bar--, and got to the ';■!••■. undi;;'.'vorcd, but while loosing his choice hoi'se — a fine J.''■•!;:•!'.<n\c of the guard fired at hira, but he clung to the i;-'!■•. Aivjther guard fnx'd on him, but he led the horse ofi ^-'•fMvii'h tiie g;ip, into the cornfield. By this time, Captain :*.!••■!;.'and fiv.'ni' six of his men pursued the Indian having H,.- linr-;..'. WliiJo the chase was going on, Ketcham vras stand;;,;.: i:\ III,' yard giving some directions when an Indian secreted ri-. iv {)u- !;ars, not more than twenty steps distant, fired at h^;., i;no!ie halted and asked vrho had shot?I replied, an India!!.()!ie of his men said, "Captain let us tree". He reV'h^. ii."Wr* don't know on which side of the tree to get, we wili return to tiic fort". The party v\'as composed of about sixt^ !i Indiaiis. We counted their trail next morning through A ru'wiy cut buckwheat patcli, and at that time discovered what 'h>)r pulicy had been. On each side of the gap opening into ^^..' .•*.:. rnrioid there was placed a strong guard, also on each •••■■■ '*f the bars; if an Indian had been closely pursued in '^!-Kv r dinrtion the guard would have shot down his pursuers. AIUi^hikH it v.-as believed that the Indians were continually *-"-. uin«r ab. iut some of our forts, the people got so hardened ''> ihif'. K' r that they seemed not to dread thcr enemy. One '-*.'^. t Mr. Ilutcherson and family, together with some of the ?'-.^;a;..----!i. concluded to stay at his house, a short distance •••■••■ i h'.!i!'. s fort. They felt safe and happy, and having a ' -4-.-'. 'o!;. lud. d to )\avG a dance, and enjoy themselves first »-^-; S'U!)n l}w> morning when they awoke they found that ':" '■ ■'■'•■ '-^ \' ^re all gone. While they were dancing, the Inih^:,^ w.-rr matching Iht-ir horses. Pursuit was made, and :*'^ ■* '"y-'^Jng liuir t]-ail a few miles they met David « t^.^rj,': ,,f;'8 okl. Ugly horse coming back with a leather tug tied ^^> t>^;htiy around his throat that lie could scarcely draw his "f'-'Mth. Tliey did this, probably, to show their contempt for 

 
the vrliite man's old ugly horse. They recovered no more horses. Long after that time the Indians stole two horses from Flinn's settle^ ^nt. They v,-ere pursued by Genei-al Tipton, David and James Rog-ers, and others, vho followed them for several days, wlien they foimd they were close on them, the water being muddy in their tracks. Tipton's plan was to follow them slowly and cautiously until night, then have fine sport tomahawking them. But his spies, Major Sparks and 
Mr. disobej'ed orders. The Indiaiis had halted over 
the turn of a hill, dressing the horses' manes and tails. The 
IMajo] and got within thirty or forty steps of thAfter tlie war was over, Benjamin HufFman went North, perhaps to Detroit, in scai'ch of his lost son. He heard that his son had been sold to a Frenchman livin. g' in Canada. HufTman was poor; his means exhausted, he returned home discouraged, despairing of ever seeing his child again. Our kind and benevolent Representative in Congress, Jonathan Jennings, got an appropriation made to enable Huffman to seek further after his son. He hired a man to go with him. The}'went down the St. Lawrence into Canada and found his son. The child was so young when stolen, and had been gone so long, that he liad forgotten his fathei-'s rxame. He i-ecollected that he was called Ben, but had forgotten the balance of the name. In the spring of 1813, the Pottawotamies made a descent on Flinn's settlement — now Leesville, killed Mr. Guthrie and took Martin Flinn prisoner. He remained a prisoner ^^nth them until the Fall of 1814. At that time a young warrior crossed the Tippecanoe river in a splendid canoe, on a courting expedition, and while enjoying himself with his beloved one, Flinn gathered his ax, which they had stolen when they captured him, and a few ears of corn, and quietly stepped into the lover's canoe, not asking any questions "for conscience sake", and with his beautiful paddle, rowed himself down stream all night. He secreted himself in daytime, and in this way spent se\'eral days and nights before he landed at Fort Harrison. When he landed, he was unable to get out of the canoe. He Vv'as helped out and cai'ed for, and in a few days considered himself able to travel home. The rangers then at the Fort, and others, made up a pony purse, and bought him a horse to ride home on. In a few days he was able to ride, and cariicd his lost ax home. Oh!then, the happy meeting of friends and relations. About the middle of March, 1813, Jolm Ketcham and Geo. Doom, a Militia man from Har]-ison County, then on duty, went on an errand to Joshua Lindsey's, — Lindsey having during the winter of 1812 removed from Ketcham's fort to his farm some n^iles above. On their return home th<\v W(.}re waylaid and fired on by the Indians. Doom was killed, and Ketcham badly wounded with two balls. When he reached the fort a messenger was sent to Valonia foi' a reinforcement. About twenty men, under command of Lieutenant ,  
]yroccc(Ic(i to where Doom's corpse lay; after carrying it to Lindsey's, William Reddick, John Samuel and Frederic!^ Funk W(;re detailed to bury the dead, and remained at Lindsey's till next inorniiip;. The scout proceeded up the country for miles without making any disco\ery of Indian sigiis, and returned home. The fatigue party having completed the burial, the sun yet an hour high, concluded that the Indians, were all gone and they w^ould retui-n to the fort, they had proceeded about three hundred yards when the Indiaiis lying in ambush near their path, fu'ed on them, and wounded Reddick and Samuel, then retreated. Shortly after this. General Tipton, PJchard Beem, William Dyer and a number of Militia men from Harrison county, went on a scout up \Vhiie River, some distance above Ketcham's fort, struck a fresh Indian trail. They eagerly and coutiously pursued the same, until they ascertained that the Indians had ci'ossed over on drift timber into an island. Tipton stood ready with his gun presented, while Beem and others were crossing on the drifted logs. An Indian, who was secreted, raised his gun to shoot Beem, but Tipton touched triggc^r first. The Indian threw down his gun — it cocked, and retreated badly wounded. He was supposed to be their leader. Tipton and his men all crossed over into the island, except Dyer, who had charge of Tipton's horse. Several shots were exchanged between the parties. The Whites got one scalp, and tracked several of the enemy b>' the blood to the vs^ater, where they attempted to swim. Dyer being below the island had a fair view of the river. He saw a number bulge into the water Willi their blankets on. All suiik before they reached the opposite shore. It was believed that the whole paily perished. This good licking caused the Redskins to treat us with more politeness. In the spring of 1813, the General Government authorized the raising of four companies of mounted Rangers, to protect the Territorial frontier. Captain Shoultz, of Lawrenceburg, (I believe), raised a company; Captain Williamson Dunn of Madison, a com])any; Captain James Bigger, of Charlestown, a company, and Captain Andrew, of Vincennes, a company. Captain Rigger's company was principally made up of citizens (»f Clark county, ten or twelve of whom had been shut up in block houses and forts in the Forks for more than a year, mak
J51— 226C4 



)},</, nothinjT, toriCiudcd to join Ins company, and make a busin(.•.■^. s of luinting- Iiulians and guarding their own frontier, as in so dniM.(;- llicy ^vol!]d get some ])ay for their services, othci'wise \h> y would not. The pay of a 1- anger was a dollar a day, each n):;n "finding liimself'' ; that is each man furnishing his ov. n liorse. ai-ms, annnuPxition and provision, — every rnan his ovn coriunissary. Tiie soldiers became much attached to each other during Wwiv service, and the kindest feeling tovv-ards each other seems ever to have existed betvreen. them all, except David Barnes a)id Samuel Ridge, who often fought each other. They vrere too full of spii-its, — very spirited men sometimes. Others again tlid wroiig because they had not spirit enough. Ensign Owen and Richard Levris marred the good feelings of their com. radcs by desertion, on the Peoria campaign. It was .^;iid by Daniel Williams and others, as an apology for them, tlial tliey had caught the Kickapoo fever. Lul few of Captain Digger's company are now living. For the gratification of the few survivors, I publish the "^^luster Roll" at v.'hose call they so often answered. After General Tipton had liandled our Red Brethren so roup. hly on Tipton's Island, (so called,) they were more cautious and sly tov\-ard us. No more of our neigh. bors were killed by them, but occasionally they vrould }'ide off a horse lh;\t was not their own. Aft^r the four companies of Rangers were organized, it was thouglit best to carry the ^^•ar into Eg>-pt. Arrangements were made for a campaign against the Indians, comlK>s'. xl of Rangers and a few volunteer T^Iilitia. Captains Dunn and Bigger, VN'ith part of their companies, and some of Captain Pay ton's men, (of Kentucky,) togeth. er with General Bartholomew and volunteer Militia, VvTrc assigned to that duly. Tliey rendezvoused at Valonia about tlie middle of •lune, then in-oceede. l under the command of General Baitholomew to the upper towms on the West Fork of White River. The towns had mostly been destroyed before we got tlure, probably by a company from White Water settlement. Wr then went dowm the river to towns not aterruptod, and come to Strawtown late in the evening, and discovered fresli Indian signs. Early next morning, General Bartholomew, Caj-. tain Dunn, and Captain Shields, and about twenty Ran

 
KCiTv, went in piirsuit of the Indians. Wlien VvT- had proceeded about tliree-fourtlis of a jiiile ^ve discovered three liorses; vre surrounded and secured them, — two v.-erc hobbled, l-'ollov.-ino; their back track, we came to their camp. Geiieral i]artholomew directed tliree mounted Rangers, namely, Severe 
Lewis, David Hays and ■ .(that is Jolin Ketcham.)to 
l:ec]) in the rear, but at the fire of the first gun to dash forv. ard. Captain Dunn v\'ent on the right under cover of the river banl:, Captain Shields on the left, and General Bartholomew brought up the center division. The directions v\'ere to surround their camp and take them prisoners. The Lidians liad a large brass kettle hanging over the fire v. itli three deer heads boiling, and wore sitting near to tlie fire. Captain Shields slipped carefully through the bushes, and when opposite the camp, at least one hundred yards distant, the Indians discovered us, jumped to their guns and fled. Shields fired his gwn to notify the hoi'semen. One of Bigger's men, (to-v,it, John Ketcham,) immediately started in pursuit, ran two or three hundred yards, when he got into the path the Indians had run on; he was within thirty steps of his game, and shot dov;n the Indian. The other horsemen soon made up, but the other Indian was just out of sight. They vrere directed by (Ketcliam) to v.'here he Aras last seen. Hays got separated from the other two horsemen and unfortunately met with the secreted Indian, who gave him a mortal wound. The horses and brass kettle were sold to the highest bidder, on a credit, and the notes were given to Hays. His wounds were dressed by David jMaxwell. He was carried on a horse litter to the mouth of Flat llock, now Columbus, v.'here we made two canoes and sent him and a guard by water to Valonia, where his wife and family were. He died in two or three days after they reached the fort. This is the end of Mr. Ketchanrs narrative of the Indian diificulties. He closes his account of his own public life in the follovv'ing quaint and characteristic style : 
In Juno I enlisted in the United States service, a mounted Ranger. In my fii'st month's service I killed and scalped an Indian — was very pi'oud of it — got leave to go to Kentucky to sh. oVi" it to my Daddy and jMamma — I guess they thought I had done about i-i.<rht. I continued in tlie service two vshole years — saw some hard times — was eighlv eight davs from rnv family on one campaign, and lived seventeen days on seven days' rations. The war now being ended, Governor Harrison, hearing that I was a fellow of pluck and had killed an Indian, sent me a commission as Associate Judge. I never had much to do on the bench, but was "Judge Ketcham". In April, 1818, I moved to Monroe county, and built a mill. While rnill-building w^e grouiid our meal on a hand-mill, there being no other but hand mills in the county. After Blooraington was located, I was solicited to build the Court House, which I did, thirty or forty years ago. It still stands firm. Because I had built a good Court House, and had a sw^ord and sevei-al pistols, the people thought I ought to be Colonel, I was so elected and served until I ^\^as forty-five years old. But my honors did not stop here. The people knew I had killed an Indian, and had decided three lavrsuits in about forty minutes, — they said I must go to the Legislature. I agreed to it. My popularity not high enough yet, — my old friend, Lr. Foster, (God bless him,) who had done some service in defence of his country, knew I had been wounded by the Indians, and had killed and scalped an Indian, went to the Democratic Convention at Indianapolis, and told them what Ketcham had done, and said he must be appointed one of General Jackson's Electors. It w^as agreed to, and here I am yet, one of General Jackson's Electors. MUSTER ROLL 
Of a Company of U. S. Mounted Rangers, Commanded by Captain James Bigger 
Commissioned Officers 
Captain, James Bigger 3d Lieutenant, Wm, Meredith 
1st Lieutenant, John Carr Ensign, Jack Owens 
2d Lieutenant, James Curry 
Non Commissioned Officers 
1st Serg-t. John Ketcham 1st Corp, Basil Bowel 
2d Sergt. Josiah Williams 2d Corp. William Patrick 
3d Sergt. Wm. E. L. Collins 3d Corp. Samuel Herrod 4th Sergt. Jonathan Watkins 4th Corp. Robert Wai'dle 5th Sergt. John Herrod 5th Corp. Andrew B. Holland 
6th Corp. Jonathan Gibbons  


j\IosGS Allen James Allison I\rart. in Adams George Armstrong Luther Beadle Thomas Bernet Davis Kell}^ William Lindsey Richard Lewis John May Jolm McNaiight Jolin McNight John Baldwin John Blair John Bartholomew David Barnes George Bratton I\lichat'l Beam John Cosner John Cowen James Co\ven Isaih Cooper James Collins John Cloak John Clark Isaac Clarlv Jolm R. Clark John Craig Stephen Dunlap Moses Dunlap John Dunlap Robei-t Evans John Evans William N. Griffith William Gainer 


Phillip Hart Isaac D. Huffman Hames Herrod Benjamin Noble 


P)'ivates 
John Gibson John. Gibson Janios Hay John D. Hay Willi^un Hiler Aaron Iloleman Harvey Owen George W. Owen Jeremiah Pierceall Adam Peck Henry Pearcy Robert Pearcy Andrew Perry Charles F. Ross George Ross James Ross Hugh Ross John Reed Thomas Ryan James Rogers Isaac Rogers Lewis Rogei's Samuel Ridge Thomas Rose Stephen Shipman \Villiani Stewart Robert Sv^^any John Sage George IJlmer Reece Williams Daniel Williams Thomas Weathers Martin Wilson James Wilson 
New Recruits 
Lewis Cutting John Flint Samuel Haslett Jenkins 


28(5 

i\'c\v Ivcciuits


T,e\vis IlaiiK'ins Ksram Hiitchins liobort Jo]ics JoP. iUlian Johnston Lr-wis Kolcliarn Abraluiiii Kelly WillJiim Kelly Thomas F. Kelly James S. Kelly 


-ConliiHk'd. Levi Nugent James i\]ooney John Milton Josepli Rawlins David Studabake John Storm John Sands James Sands Elam Whitley 


MUSTER ROLL 
or Captain Williamson Dunn's Compaiiy of U. S. Rangers 
Commissioned Ofllcers 


Cai^tiiin Williamson Dunn IJc'Utenant Henry Brinton Lieutejiant Henry Ristine 


Lieutenant David Hillis Ensio-n Green B. Field 


Non Commissioned Ofllcers 
Sergeant John Thorn Sergeant John Danolds Sergeant Joshua Wilkinson Sergeant Ebenezer Hillis Sei'geant Jolni Griflm 


Corporal Joshua Deputy Corporal Josepli Strickland Corporal Peter Ryker Corporal Andrew J. Storm Coi'poral Matthew Cowley Corporal Willis Ild. w 


A ] ex an der An d erson John Adkison Robert Anderson James Anderson Jolm Barns Williiim Blankenship Maurice Baker Isaiah Blankenship David Bigger Henry Banta Jolin Bandy Isaac Bergin Nathan Chalfant G(>orge Ci'aig 


Privates 
Wiatt Coleman John Colbert Benjamin Combs Isaac Crawford Elijah Collier Nathaniel Dimn John Dunn Andrew Davidson William Dickey John Davis Hannibal Dougherty Thomas Davis Charles Easton William Farley 




S;iinuel T. Graj^ Henry Giles George Giinn Jo] 111 Gutliiie William Gi 11m ore William Hamblen Absalom Hankins William Johnston Williamson Irwin Tliomas Jones James Jolmston Jr. Samuel Long Severe Lewis James Lewis Jacob Lewis John Lee Peter Metz David H. Maxv.^ell James "Monroe James TvIcCartney James McCollough John Maxwell James McKay William McKay Geo]-gc McKay Robert McKay, ;kl Robert IsIcKay, 4th Thomas McConnell John H. Newland Brackett Ovvxai Moses Overton 


Privates — Conliiiued 
David Patton John Peters John Purcell John Ristine William Russell John Ramsey Peter IL Roberts William Renis Gerard us Ryker John G. Ryker John Ryker Jacob Smock William Sage John Smith James Stevens Samuel Snodgrass David Stucker John Shank Richie Smith Isaac Short Henry Salyers Peter Storm William D. Stuart Jacob Trumbo James Ventioneer Abraham Varvel William Wright Thomas Wise Daniel Whi taker Thomas Wendsaw 


Campuell to Harrison 
Dayton 1st Janmy 1813 
Her. Ft'.8J(l-8o7 
My dear Sir 
In my re-port to you of the 25th ulto.[see above] from Fort Greenville I omitted to notice some circumstances and individuals inadverteiitly which and who are as highly worthj' of notice as most of those 1 have already' d(;tailed. I must there



fore in the most especial manner, mention Mr. James Bradshaw, Capt. Lewis Hite and Mr. Silas IMcCullough, "who tendoi'ed their services to me on the battle sTound to carry intelig-ence to Greenville of our situation and request a reinforcement of men and a supply of provisions. This dangerous and fatig"uing service they performed in the most prompt and expeditious manner. In twenty-two houi's they travelled upwards of eig-hty miles without resting except a few minutes twice to feed their horses and reached Greenville worn do^\ai with fatigue and v\'ant of sleep. Mr. Bradshaw's activity at Greenville in assisting to forward supplies, merits the highest praise. I must also mention by name Lieut.[Matthew F.] Magco and Ensign Irwin of the Pittsburgh Blues whose cool, deliberate braveiy was particularly observed, amidst the hottest fire of the enemy and I regret extremely that these young gentlemen who highly merited distinction, should have been pretermitted in my first report. I made a mistake in stating that Capt. Smith was abandoned by half his guard, only one or two went in for some part of their arms, staid with their companies, and upon inquiry vrere found to have behaved well. Ca])t. Smith was aided in his excellent disposition at the redoubt he commanded by Lieut. Adams and Fishel, whose names and bravery are synoniraous term^. Adjutant Guy and Quartermaster Hite, of the Kentucky Light Dragoons are two fine young men, and wei-e actively employed on the morning of the Battle. I am Sir with great respect your most obt. Servt. John B. Campbell Lt. Col. I9th U. S. Regt. His Excellency Genl Harrison 
General Orders 
Franklinton, January 2, 1813 
Nik a' Register III, 331 
The commanding general has received from lieut. col. [John B.]Campbell the official report of his late expedition against the Massassineway villages. The conduct of tlie col. and his gallant detachment has been in every respect such as the general had anticipated. They luive deserved well of their country, and liave shed a lustre on the Northwestei'n army. In no part of their duty have they failed. The ofiicers vied 

 
with cc-. di other in setting a proper example to tlieir men, and tlie conduct of the men was marked thronghoiit by cheerfulness alacrity and obedience, upon the march and invincible bi'avery in the presence of the enemy. The detaclnnent aj> peai's to have been wortby of their commander, and their commander worthy of them. Notliing- can evince more clearly the merits of Lt. Col. Campbell, than the confidence and attachment manifested for him ))y his command, an attachment, not produced by any impi'oper indulgence or weak compliances, but established upon the solid basis of a zealous and punctual discharge of his own duty, and a mild, humane but determined exaction of obedience from his subordinates. Troops thus disposed, and thus commanded will be ahvays invincible. Lieut, col. Campbell's oflicial account will be ti'ansmitted to the secretary of war; it will be published to the world, and the simple narrative of their actions will form the best eulogium upon the conduct of the troops. The general requests lieut. col. Campbell, lieut. col. Simerrll, major Ball, and all the other officers, non-commissioned officers and pj'ivates to accept his warmest thanks for their good conduct. The officers, noncommissioned officers and privates, who were fortunate enough to have an opportunity of distinguishing themselves by their valor or good conduct are as follows 
Kentucky Dragoons.— Lieut col. Simrall; major M'Dowell ; capts. Trotter, (slightly wounded) Smith, Johnson; 1st. lieuts. Hobson, Payne 2d. lieut. Trotter; comd. Disliman ; serj. maj. Montgomery, corporal Riddle; trumpeter Willman. Major Ball's squadron, consisting of 2d }'egt.11. S. liglit dragoons, 12 months, U. S. V. dragoons — Major Ball ; capts. Hopkins, Garrard, Markle M'Clelland (acting as 2d lieut. to capt. Hopkins) ; 1st lieuts. Hedges (slightly wounded) Basey ; adjt's. Fullerlon and Warrens; 2d lieut. Hickman; cornet and quaj'ter-masters M'Clanaha, Lee, Grear (woundcd) Herod; serg. maj. Edwards; quarter-mastei-'s serj. Hawkins. Pittsburg Blues, (12 months' U. S. infantry) capt. Butler. Ninteenth regt. U. S. infantry.— 1st lieut. Gwynne, ensign Harrison; quarter-master's serj. Levitt 
Spies and Guides — Capt. Patterson Bain, James Audi-ain, William Conner, Silas M'CuJloch, James ''J'liom])son, James Naggs, Joseph G. M'Clelland, John Ruland. Capt. Hito, extra edj't. capt. Luce (voluntee]-) doc('.)r Moore; Thoinas MoorG, P. Secretary; Mr. Baylor; Robert I\[itclicJl, wag-g-oncr. The character of this galla. nt detachment exhibitiiig*, as it did ]X!rseverancc, patience, fortitude and bravery, would howevei-, Ii;ivc been incomplete, if, in. the midst of victory, they had rorgott(m the feelings of humanity. It is with the sincerest pleasure, that the general has heard, that the most punctual obedience was paid to his ordoi's; not only in saving the women and children, but in sparing all the warriors who cea. sed to resist; and that even, when vigoi'ously attacked by tlu' enemy, the claiins of meix-y prevailed over every sense of their ovm dange"-; and this heroic band respected the lives of their prisoners. The general believes that humanity and true b]-av(!ry ai'e inseparable, The rigid rules of war may sometimes, indeed, make a sevei'e retaliation necessary; but the advantages which attend a frequent recurrence to it, are very micertain, and are not to be compared vith the blessings which providence cannot fail to shed upon the efforts of the soldier, v.'ho is "in battle a lion, but, the battle once ended, in mercay a lamb."Let an account of the murdc}'od innocence be opened in the I'ccords of Heaven against our enemies alone ; the American soldier will follow the example of his government, and neither the swoi'd of the one will be raised against the helpless or the fallen, nor the gold of the other paid for the scalp of a massacred eneiny. The general cannot pass by the opportunity that is afforded liim, by bestowing deserved commendation upon a detachment of liis ai-my, without recurring to the merits of the other corps. They have not had, as yet, their wishes gratified in meeting the eneni3' ; but tliey have, nevertheless, performed hard so'vice undei' great deprivations. The Ohio brigades are exerting themselves with vigor and effect in perfecting their discipline and i)(>rl'()i'ming some works requiring great labo]'. Those from Yii-ginia and Pennsylvania are vieing with each other in the i)ath of duty and discipline, to a degree rarely equalled and nevcM- excelled. Since their arrival at Sandusky, a proper sense of su. bordination everywhere pi'cvails, and the infamous principle, that the claims of patriotism would be satisfied by inarch ill g to the lines and looking a. t the enemy, is so completely ex])loded. Unit the general believes his authority woidd be scarcely suCiicient to pj'olecl from the vengeance of the 

 
yoldicr llio wretcli who . sliould ho. xc the tcmeriiy to insult ihe. m l)y suft'gesting it. The general is hiippy in believing that liis ov;n Kentuckians ai'O not behind the oilier corps of the army in i:he race of patriotism and dnty. He lias heard Vvith ;i satisJ'action that he caimot find wo'ds to express, that the brig-ado with, which he first took the field, and whose discii^linc lias been confirmed and extended under the immediate direction of his -worthy second, gcnerrd Vvincliestci', have borne with fortitrde and cheerfulness an unexampled privation of a pi'iin'iple article of tlie ration. The genci'al records the circumstances for the edification and example of the rest of the army. Calculating upon tlie arrival of flour by the Auglaize and St. ]\lary's rivers, upon, which a large quantity had been embarked under appearances indicating a most favorable termination of the voyage no means were used to forward any by land ; but by a very sudden and imexpectcd freezing of the rivers, the boats were arrested in progress and the troops of I'^ort Winchester, consisting of a detachment of regulars under col. Wells; Scott's, Lewis's and Allen's I'cgiments of Kentucky infantry, subsisted for ten days upon indificrent salt beef, without an ounce of floui'. In this time not a murmur was heard, and the sentiment which eveiy where prevailed Vvas that of contim. iing to serve as long as their services were wanted. What may not be expected f j-oni such troops, when the only difliculties of the campaign are once overcome, and they are broug-ht in the presence of the eneiny?L. liUKiLL, Asst. Dcp. Adj./n/nGen. 
A report of the number rendered unfit for duty by being frostbitten, as iippears irom the reports on the ir. orning of the 21th Inst, viz: 
In Tvlajor 'Bair. s squadroii 107 
Colonel Semrali's regiment 138 
Infaritiy and I'iflemen 58 
Total 30a 
John Payne, lir:d lUndenant, 
Kentucky V. L. D. and adj't to d. ciaclimcnt IlAiiRisox TO Secretary of War 
(No.29) 
Head Quarters Franklinton 3d January 1813 
Har. Pa. SlS-Sli 
I hiive tlic lionor to enclose you herewith, the official report of Lt. Col. [Jolm B.]Campbell of his expedition against the :. Iis. sissinewa\ to^alS of the 25th ulto. and 1st Inst, [see under these dates above] I am entirely satisfied vrith the Colonel's conduct and beg leave to recommend him, IMajor [James V.] Ball and the rest of the officers and soldiers of the regiment \vho wei'e fortunate enough to have an opportunity of distinguishing themselves, to the notice of the President. I v,-ill venture to predict that Colo. Campbell's future career will support the character he has obtained in the commencement of his military service. Major Ball, my friend and associate in Genl. Wayne's army, would do honor to any service. Lt. Colo. [James] Simrall deserves great credit for the excellent discipline of his Regiment which perhaps equals that of any other Regiment of Lt. Dragoons on the Continent. The chai'acter of Major [Joseph] McDowelh has long been established in Kentucky for Intrepidity at an age when most men retire to the enjoyment of ease, this hardy veteran solicits every post of difiiculty, fatigue and dange- , with the ardour of a youthful warrior. The conduct of the other officers is so particularly descri' cd by Col. Campbell that it is unnecessary for me to repeat them. Knowing each individual I heartily accord in the sentiments he has expressed of their merits. There is hov.-ever a circumstance which Col. Campbell has neglected to mention, that too so honorable to a young hero, now no more, as well as to the army, that I cannot pass it over.:\Iajor [Joseph] jMcDowell, Capt.[Wm] Trotter and Capt.[Levris] Ilite have all informed me that Lieut.[Daniel] Waltz of Capt. In this situation he vras mounting his horse to make a charge when a ball passed through his head. In short Sir, the whole 
1.. loycph McDov. il!v. as adjutant frmicrnl of tlio KcntiK'!;y troop.-; Lorn in Va. . Sept. l:!, ITCS, rnovc<I to Ky. 17S1; FRrvcd under Stott.)T01, and \V:iyne, 1704, r. nd thronk'liout the var of 1R12. Hi- i)l;iiitatitiV was lu'.'tr l. i'xint;(oii, v. herc he lived ti!l his diath Jan. 27, tSi.'>6 - S7 yrs. of age. YcuiiK, Halite of Thame?, 1^3  
Detachment have redeemed a solemn pledge given to me at the moment of their departure that they vrould obey their otlicei's and support the cliaracter of American Soldiers. I ha\'e the lioiior to be wilh tlie greatest respect Sir Yr Humb Svt. WiLLM. Henry Harr^-on Honorable JaT'IES :Monroe Esqr. Acting Secy, of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War No.30 
Head Qrs. N. W. Arn^v Fr. nnklinton 4th Jan}-.1813 
Har. Pa. S3S-S;9 
Sir: 
Upon my return from Chilicothe to Upper Sandusky your favor of the 26th ulto (no.1) overtook me at this place, [see Nov. 26, above] 
;My letters and papers being all at Sandusky I have it not in my power to recur to them but from my recollection of its contents I regret that a letter which I addressed to the Secretary of War from Delavrare about the 12th ult.[see Dec. 12, 13, above] had not been received before yours of the 26th was written. In that letter I stated the causes vrhich had retarded our pj'ogress towards Detroit, my then prospects and wliich might under various circumstances be expected f.'^om this Army. When I was directed to take the command in th. e latter end of September I thought it possible by great exertions to effect the objects of the Campaign before the setting in of winter. I distinctly stated however to the Secretary of \\'ar that there was always a period of rainy weather in this country in the months of November and December in which the roads within the settlements were almost impassable and the svramps which extend Northwardly from about the fortieth Degree of Lattitudo entirely so and that this circumstance would render it impossible to advance vvith the army before that period without exposing it to inevitable destruction unless a sufricicncy of provisions could be taken on to subsist it untill the sevei'e frost should remover the impediments to transportation. Tlie experience of a few days was sufficient to convince me tiiat the supplies of provisions could not be procured for an autunnial advance and even if this cUniculty were removed another of eaqual magnitude existed fro]n tlic want of artiliory, there remained then no alternative ))ut to prepare for a winters campaign. But in order to take advanta^'c of every circumstance in our favor Boats and Forog-ues were prepared in considerable numbers upon tlic Auglaize and St. I^-Iarys PJvers in the hope that V7hen the land transportation could not be used we might by the means of these rivers take on very largo supplies to the Bapids of the jMiami. An effort was made also to procure flour from Presquille by coasting the lake with small boats. These measures were calculated on as collateral aids only. The more safe one of providing a large number of pack horses and oxteams was resorted to and the Depty. Q. M. General Colo. [James] Morrison was instructed accordingly. Considcj-ing the T^Iiami Ripids as the first point of destination provisions were ordered to be accumulated along a concave base extending from St. Marys (Called in the map Girtys To^^m) on the left to the mouth of the Huron (and afterwards Lower Sandusky) on the right. From this base the rapids could be approached by three routes or lines of operation, two of M'hich were pretty effectually secured by the jiosts which were establislied and the positions taken upon the third. St. Marys, McArthurs Block house (foarty four miles in advance of Urbanna) and upper Sandusky were selected as principal deposits. The Troops excepting those with General Winchester were kept within the bounds of the local contractors that they might not consume the ]irovisions procured by the U. S. Commissaries and which weve intended to form the grand deposit at the Miami Rapids. It was not untill late in October that much effect could be given to these arrangements and for the six following weeks little or nothing could be done from the uncommon unfavorable state of the v;cather affoi'ding just rain enough to I'cnder the roads almost impassable for waggons and yet not a sulilcicncy to raise the waters to a naviga))le state. Great exei'tions were however made to prepare for the change vdiich might reasonably be expected and the last twenty days of December wei'e entirely favorable to our vievvS and so well employed by Colo. Morrison as to afford the most flattering prospects of being able to ta. kc on to the rapids early in this ]!ionih a sufficiency of provisions and stores to authorize an advance upon Mald('n from the 251. h Inst, to the 1 0th  
of I'cby. Our hopes Yvcve again a little checked bj' a gene}"al thaw succeeded, by a very deep snovv' whilst the ground ^^'as in that soft state. Jt is however now cold again and V\'e calculate upon being able to use with elTect the sleds a considertible number of whic-h I had caused to be prepared. The instructions which 1 received from the Secr-tary Mr. Eustis with regard to the conduct of the war in this Department amounted to a complete Carte Blcoic/ic. The principal objects of the campaign Vvcre pointed out and I was left at liberty to proceed to their full execution during the ])resent winter or to make arrangcmerits for their accomplishment in tlie Spring by occupying sucli posts as might facilitate the ii" tended opei-ations. The wishes of the Government to recover the ground that had been lost and to conquer upper Canada were however expressed in such strong terms and the funds which were placed at my disposal were declared to be so ample (if not unlimited) that I did not consider myself authorized to adopt the alternative of delay from any other motive but that of the safety of the army. Isly lettei^s have contained frequent alusions to the monstrous expense which would attend the opperations of an army at this seasoii of the year penetrating to the enemy through an immense forest of one hundred and fifty miles. The silence of the Secty. on this sul^ject left me no room to doubt the correctness of the opinion which I had at fu'st formed, i. e. that the object in view was considered so important that expense was to Ijc disregarded. I thought it best however to come to a full understanding on the subject and with this view my letter of the 12th ulto.(as I think) from Delaware was w^ritten. My plan of operations has been and now is, to occupy the Miami rapids and to deposit there as much provisions as possible. To move from thence Vvith a cliosen detachment of the army and with as much provision, artillery and ammunition as tlie means of transportation wUl allow, make a demonstration towards Detroit and by a suddev: passage of the Straight upon the Ice an actual investuro of Malden. In the letter fi'om Delaware above aludcd to I explained my objections to the occupancy of Detroit untill Maiden should fall. The latter in the hands of the enemy with a disposable force of half the size of that vfitli which we should advance to the former would place us completel:/ in a cul dc sac. With regard to the amount of force which such ;'. n expedition would I'equire — I ha\'e made my calculations noL upon that which the enemy might have at IMalden at the time that the enterprize should commence but upon what they would be able to assemble there in time enough to resist us. I know the facility with which troops may be brought at this Season by what is called the back route along the . iver Tham -s from the vicinity of Niagara to Detroit and Maiden. Had. General [Alexander] Smyth's^ attempt been successful my plans could have been executed with a irrac. h smaller force than I should deem it jjrudont lO employ under present circumstances. I have indeed no doubt that we shall encounter at Maiden the verry troops which contended with Genl. Van Ran sol are on the hights of Queenstown. It is the same thing with regard to the Indians. The British have wisely dismissed the greater part of them to save their provisions but a whistle vvili be almost sufficient to collect them again. There is another consideration v,diich must have considerable influep-ce in determining the number of men necessary to make an atempt upon Llalden — it is this, that the number of Indians and Canadians which will be opposed to us will be in an in\'erse ratio to the force v. hich we employ. To destroy a small army the timid the wavering and the cautious will all turn out, but if our foi-ce is such as to create a belief that its operations will bo successful boath those description of people will stand aloof ready to take the side that ma^' pj'ove victorious. But the quantom of force necessary foi' the enterprize against Maiden may be greatly lessened by our having the means of transportation at the Rapids to take on at once the Atillery. Stores and a sufficiency of provisions to last untill tlie object is eflx'cted but if the sup})lies are to be taken o]i at several ti-ips large escorts (amounting themselves to small armies) will be necessary, more tirie will be required and consequently a much larger quantity oi' provisions wanted. Such is thc^ natui'c of Indian warfa. re that it is impossible to tell whei-e the storm will fall. It is a rule therefo]-e with mo 
1. Alexander Sniylh was insiJCctoi- j;cn. of the army and sr-tond in coiiini.'uid undrr Van Kenssolaor on the Nia. f..'ua fronlior. Ho Kuccce()ed to the command. For an account of his fiasco see Lossinjr, Field Book M'ur of 1H12, JiS7 acq. 
when oporatiiig against thoni jicvei' to make a detacliment neithc]- to the front or rear which is not able to contend with tlieir wliole force. From this statement you will perceive Sir how dilficult it would be for me at present to ascertain with any degree of correctness the nuniljcr of men with which I should advance froin the Rapids. It was my intention to have assembled thei'e from four thousand five hundi'ed to five thousand men ajid to be govei'iicd by circumstances in forming the Detachment w'ith which I should advance. This is still my plan and it was always my intention to dismiss at that period a-1 that I deemed superflons. The nature of our fortification."(upon the frontiers) requires a much lai^ger force for their protection than w^ould be requisite if they wex-e capable of resisting artillery; a few hundred Indians assisted by half a dozen British matrosses and a six pounder would take any of them. Notwithstanding the large nominal amount of the army under my command their sufferin.'. s for the want of clothing and the rigor of the season renders the effective number of less than two thirds of the agregate. You will read with as much pain as I write it that a fine body of regular troops belonging to the 17th and 19th Regts. under Col. [Samuel] Wells- has nearly been destroyed for the want of clothing. The whole of the effective men upon this frontier does not exceed six thousand three hundred infantiy. Upon the wiiole sir my reaching T\Ialden during the winter depends upon a circumstance which I cannot controlo viz: the freezing of the straight in such a manner as to enaljle jne to pass over the Troops and Artillery. I have explained to you my objections to making any attempts upon Detroit untill Malden should be taken — should however my view of the subject be incorrect I will cheerfully undertake whateve]- you may direct — and must request you to determine whether it w^ould b;' proper to advance to Detroit if the openness of the Winter and other causes should in my opinion i-oider an attemijf upon IMalden impropei-?Genl. Winchester is I hope now or will in a day or two be at the rapids. Provisions in large quantities are pi-ogressing 'liither. I calculate upon being there myself by the 20th Inst, v^nth the ti'oops which ai-e intended for the ; larch upon Maiden. In the event of the occurrence of cii'cumstanres wliich may induce a suspension of operations beyond Ihe Rapids, Meas
22— 22GC1 lU'cs will be talam to make and to secure at tb. nt ]3]ace a dcpoyii of provisions equal to the support of the Troops in any etiterprize that may ha undertaken in the spring. Should our olTensive operations be suspended untill that tinu^ it is my decided opiiiion that the most clfoctual and cheapest plan will bo to obtain tlie command of tlie lake. This bein^^^ once :ffected c\'ery difficulty will be removed. An army ol" four thousand men landed on the north side of the Lake below IMalden will soon reduce that place and rctakx Detroit — and with the aid of tlie Fleet proceed down the lalce to cooperade with the army frojn Niagara. The cnterprize against the Queen Charlotte has been meditated and shall not escape my attention. My anxiety to get off this Letter in time enough to rccich Chilicothe for the mail tomori'ow has obliged me to wi'itc it witli a precipitancy which n. iay have prevented me giving all the explanations required. I will however reperuse it tomorrow and will have the honor of writing to you again previously to my setting out for Sandusky. Tlie object of my visit to Cliilicothe vv'as to consult with Gov Meiggs upon the means of raising a mounted force for another expedition to Mississineway. This subject shall also bo noticed. I am sorry not to be able to agree witli my friend Col. [llichard M.]Johnson upon the pi'opriety of the contemplated mount(,'d expedition. An expedition of this Ivind directed agaiiist a particular Town would pi'obably succeed. The Indian Towns cannot be surpi'ised in succession ns they give the alarm fj'om one to the other Vv'ith much more rapidity than our ti-oops can move. In the niontlis Feby. Majch and A]n-il the towns are all abandoned the men are hunting and the women and children (particularly to the north of the Wabash) are scattered about making sugar. The corn is at that season miiversally hid in small parcells in the earth ainl could not Ije found. Tltere is no considerable lndi;in Vill; ges in that dii-ection, and those that are there composed of bai'k h. utts wliich the Indians do not care for and whicli during the winter ai'c entirely empty. Thie Detachnu-nt might pass thro the v>'hole extiiit nf com^tiy to be scoured without seeing an Indian, but at the first Town they struck and it is moi-e tlum probable that they would (ind if empfy. But the expedition is imi)racticabN' to 


Ih' (■::'. erii proposed. The Horses if not the men would perish T!:i- Ho)-?o:s which arc now to be procured are not hke those of llu^ early settlers, and such as the Indiaiis and traders now iia\e. They )iave been accustomed to corn and must have it. Col. [James B.]Campbell went about seventy miles from the noniio's and the greater part of his horses could scarcely be l)i-(>u^vlit in. Such an expedition in the summer and fall would 1)0 hiijhly advantageous because the Indians are at their TovrtiS and their corn, can then be destroyed. An attempt upon a particular tov;]i in the ^vinter wlien the Inhabitants ;in!in it (as we knovr tiicy are at Mississineway) and which is so near as to enable the Detachmeiit to reacli it i nd return without killing their Horses is not only practicable but if there is snow on the ground is perhaps the most favorable time and small i)art!es mioiit be employed to great adxantage searching for a;id attacking their huntijig camps. I have the honor to be with greatest respect Sir Yr. Hb. Sevt. William Henry Harrison 
JAMIIS ]MONROE Esqr. Harrison to Sec. of war No.31 
Head Qrs. N. W. Army Franklinton, 6th Jany.1813. Har. Pa. 850-867 
Sir: 
Since 1 had the honor to write to you yesterday [see Jan. 1, above] I have had a conversation with the Deputy. Qu.^. raster General Colo. [James] ]Morrison, he is decidedly of opinion that the means of transportation now in his possession will enable him to supplj^ the army with provisions and to take on the artillery and stores necessary for the operations against I^Ialden unless the Winter should be uncommonly open. At this moment the api)earances in relation to the weather are extremely unfavorable. Our preparaticvns are how^ever so well advanced that w'c shall be able to take advantage of a change v.'hich the season authorises us to expect and with three weeks of severe frost to make a deposit of provisions at the Rapids of Miami suihcient to authorize the advance of the army from that point. If our expectations on this subject are disappointed, longer perseverance in attempting to reach the principal object of our wishes (the reduction of . Alalden) during tho winter VviJl as you observe consume our provisions and resources in vaiji efforts and however relucta]\t I may be to abandon hopes v;] = ich have bee]i forr:icd as ^s^ell upon the confidence I IniN'e . in the troops I comniand as tlie Sta. te of our actual preparations I Vvdll subinit to the hard necessity and direct my thoughts towards an economical disposition of the ti'oops for the wiriter and a. n aj-rangement of supplies calculated for early and vigorous operations in the spring. A suspension of the operations of this i-my for the vrinter without having accomplished the principal object for wIiich it was embodied is an event which has been loolvcd for by most of tlie well informed men who knov,' the character of the counti'y and recollect that the army of Genl."Wayne after a whole summers preparation was unable to advance more than seventy miles from the Ohio and that the prudent caution of Genl. Washington had directed it to be placed in winter quartei's at the very season that our arrangements were commenced. You do me justice in believing that my exertions have bee?!unremitted, and I am as yet sensible of the commission of one er]'or only, that has injuriously affected our interests and that is the retaining of too large a force at Defiance. The disadvantages attending it were however scon at the ]>oriod of my committing the management of that wing to Genl. Winchester' possessing a supei'ior rank in the line of the army to that Vv'hich was tendered to me I considered him rather in the light of an assoc"ate in command than an Inferior. I therefore recommc^ndcd to him, instead oi" ordering it, to send back tvvo Pwegiments within the ])ounds of White's contract. Had this measui'e been pursued there vv'oukl have been at Fort Winchester (Defiance) one hundred thousand Rations more than there is at present. Tho Genl. who possesses the most esteemed fiualities of tlie liead and heart was deceived as I was witli regard to tlie ix^riod when the army could advance but he did not think that the reduction of issues would be so important as it is now ascertained they \\'ould have been. As th. e greater i^art of the expenses of the cam])aign have been already incurred, I beg leave to assure you Sir t!"!at trifling diflicultics will not oppose the progress of the army to Malden, but at the same time 1 also promise; you that no measure shall be ado])ted ^vh(n•e tlie pros])ec,ts of success -Are not as clear as they can be in any military ojierations. I know 



not whn' measures can be adopted to make a diversion in our favor or to prevent the enciny from sending reinfoi'cements to Malden from Ej'io and Fort Georg'c. After Vvhat has happened at Niagara it having been published to the world that the militia in that quarter vrould not cross the line the British will certainly view as a fei^it and not regard any movements of tlio regular Troops there of whose numbers they must be well informed. With such a force as I can select f]*om this army however, provided I can find the means of transporting their pi'ovisions and the Artillery, I should not fear to encounter the force which they no\.'have in the upper district when reinforced by that which they dare spare from below^ That I may be better understood and that you may be enabled to correct the errors of my opinions and reasoning I will nov>^ state . briefly as possible what appears to me to be the a.'vantages id disadvantages which will attend an attack upon Maiden in the three modes by which only it can be approached. The fii'st is that which is now in contemplation — of advancing in the midst of winter and crossing the Straight U])on the ice. The objections are that in an enterprize of this kind in a climate so rigorous the troops would suffer greatly; that unused to subordination it might be impossible to make them bear such hardships; that in some winters the ice is not sudiciently strong to bear an army and artillery; and that some times whcn it is so a few warm days will suddenly open up a cliannel in the Straight and thereby prevent our passage after we shall have arrived under appearances which promise a safe one or that having passed the communication with the real" may be cut off and thus making it necessaiy to talvc over with tlio ar]ny everj'thing which it may require in a siege, at the same time a circumstance Vvdiich it may not bo in our power to effect. That the operations of a seige in Winter are very difficult and that in case of any disaster the retreat of the army miglr. be impracticable from the uncei'tainty of the contiriuance of the ice as above stated. The advantages of this plan of attack are That the roads beijig frozen are passable for a}"tillej'y andbaggagenotwithstanding theswampy nature of the country. That with light sleds tlie men might draw their own baggag'e upon the ice, that the principal object of the campaigTi could be accomplished sooner and consequently with less expense than by waiting until!spring and that ■whati'ver might be the case ^vith the regular aiicl mihtia force Oi llie Qncnry wo should certainly have fewcj* Indians to conlnul with. Tiio 2nd phui is that of marching to Detroit at any tii'e wh.'ii tlie prcnarations can be made, Imilding a sufiiciency oi Ijoats artd pa;: ^ing tl"ie army over in that manner. Tliere are no peculiar advantages attending this mode of proceeding TiTid the di:-nd\'antage3 are numerous. It v;ould require a much loriger time to cfrect it and consequently much more provisions and as much ■..-eater immber of men as e^^ch co]^\-oy nru5-t have an esco'l" capable of contenxlir. g at least vrithi th(^ whole of liie Indian force of the enemy. Tlie third plan is iliat of creating a naval force capable of conrmanding the Lalv.'arid v\-ith it to transport as soon as the navigation opens the; army artillery and Baggage to some point on the north sliore belovr ^lalden and from th. ence to coPiimence operations against ^^lalden and Detroit. I have no means of estimating correctly the cost of a naval armament ca]\able of elfecting this object but from ]ny knc'V.-ledge of the cost of transporting supplies thru a svv'ampy V;ilderness I do believe that expense which will be incurred in six weeks in thjo spring in an attempt to trar. sport the provisions for the army along the road leading from the rapids to Detroit Vv-ould build and equip the vessels for the purpose. In point of time there could not be throe vreeks dinerence in the accomplishment of the objects in regard to ]^dalden and Detroit betvreen this plan and that of the land I'oute in th. e spring )-ound t];e head of the Lake and if the taking of :Malden and Detroit wx-re alone the object the former would I pi'esmne be i)referable in eveiy point of viovn-. There is however another consideration which \cili make it necessary to obtairi the naval superiority upon the up])er lakes i. e. the retakiiig of Macinac and the driving the British from their other establishments in Lake r\Iichigan and the entrance of Lake Supei-ior. It is from those sources that the means of anno:rarice to our frontiers will bo furnished to the Indians and that expeditions the mo>t to be dreaded of any others, thra they can. undertake will be set on foot. Tire southvvai'dly directii-'n of Lake IMichigan running deep in. to our country a])proaches Foi'( Wayne, the settle nents upon tiie Wabash, and those, of the Illinois Pvivei'. Unless we can hud the means oi' drMng tlie Posse;;, :c(l as you will be of •aW the reasons Y\'liich will govern my coiicliict in the clioice of nicasiirr-. s which I have contemplated you vrill be enabled to correct any error tlicy may contain. Operations against the' hostile Indians duririg tlie winter is a subject which has neve}- ceased to occupy my attention and the expedition under Lieut. Col. [John B.]Campbell v;as iritended to distroy tbo only hostile^ esliiblishments which I conceived to be within the reach of an efiectual stroke at this srason. His being unable to distroj^ the priiicipal town from a greater accumulation of Indiaii foi'ce in the nei. iibourhood of it than we had reason to expect determined me ijnmediately to organize another detachment for the purpose. It was witli the intention of obtaining the assistance of Gov. Meiggs in procuring some volunteer corps of moujited men that I visited Chilicothe. With the promptitude which has every distinguished him in complying with my requests he agreed to organize as secretly as possible five hundred men to be joined to the Dragoons which served under Lt. Col. Campbell and to commence their march in four or five weeks by which time I expected that the Dragoons ould be sufficiently recruited. But upon receivi]ig a statement of their situation. I was convinced that the Kentucky dragoons would not be able to render any effectual sei'vice untill their term of service would expij-e. I have therefore directed the five Troops composing [James] Simralls Regt. to be discharged. Major [James V.] Ball Vv-it!i his squadron consisting of Capt.[Samuel G.] lloijkin's Troo]) of U. S. Light Dragoons Capt. The expedition contemplated from Kentucky may however su]jorcede Vm^ necessity of that which I was preparing. But I am still of tlie opinion given yesterday that no attempt upon th(^ enemy beyond Mississineway would be attended with any advantage if it did not end in the destruction of the Detachment employed to 


HAkRISON: JMESSAGES and letters ■ 805 
oxociite it. I again repeat that the Indians are not at this season to ].)e found in their towns. That tliey invariably take (licir FamiHes vrith them upon their hunting excursions and tliai lh(>ii' pi'ovi. sione'. are alway.'^ buried in small parcels each family hiding its own. Col. Campbell destroyed these villages and did not get a feed of corn a piece for his horses. I have always calculated upon being able to Iveep Three Regiments of the Kentuclvy troops in service as long as they shall be wanted. These troops I am convirced would not leave me as long as tliere was any prospect of active service but if the operations of army are suspended for the winter they will insist upon being discharged at the termination of the period for which thry were engaged. The term of the Ohio Troops will also (^x)jire in Fcby. Those from Virginia and Pennsylvania in M;irch. It is probable that some twelve months volunteers ma. y be procured fj'om tliem. I have offered to give such as may engage a twelve months volunteers credit for the time they have served in the militia. In making an estimate of the nuinber of men which may be requisite for the insuing spring my calculations could be governed in a great degree by the determination of the Government upon the subject of obtaining' the command of the upper Lakes. That object effected It would in my opinion not requi}'e more than iivc thousand men for the Garison of the posts upon this frontier and for the reduction of Maiden and Deti-oit, a few troops for defencive purposes only would answer at Vincennes and in the Illinois territory. In the event however of our being unable to destroy the British power on Lake Michigan early in the Spring It will be necessary to cover those places as well as Fort Wayne each, with an army of some thousands. Pi'ovisions have been purchased and are now in progress toward the Ilapids ;ind S:mdusky for Ten Tliousancl men for one year. If the advance of the Troops should be stojud for the winter these supplies v\'ill be placed upon the St. Tdarys, Aaiglaize, Blanchard's fork and Sandusky River, and )x)ats provided to take them down upon the first raise of the waters in the Spring, an arrangement that Vvill save a grea. t expense of transportation. I am not informed of the position in which tke Queen Char


loUu ;iT)d othor arjiicd vessels are laid u]) — if \]iQ attempt upon . MaUi'. n should be aliaiidoncd for the winter I vrill spare uo ]iai!is !o ascertain thuir situation and endcjivdr to effect their (Ir'striiftion.1 ha\'e requested Govr. Slielby to direct tlie dischaviro ui all the Ti'oops that served under Gonl.[Sannioi] II()l)'c!ris one Eattalic^n excepted to be placed under the conimarui of Colo. [William] Russell. Capt.[Charles] Qjatiott of the Engineers who lias cliarge of a fevr pieces of artillery and the carriages for all tho?e which have been previously forward' d — as well as a quantity of stores and amnnn^iition has met with great diiluuvlty from t]i(> badness of tiie roads. Ke will I hope reach Sandusky in a fe-. e days. By a Letter rcceiv- d from him some time since I Icc'. rn that the carriages of all V\e Twelve pounders are entij'oly unfit for service being so rotten that they were etern. ]ly breaking dovrn. In my letter of yesterday I )nentioned the nakedi^ess of tl'e Regular Troops under Colo. [Samuel] Wells a part of tlie clothing lias arrived here the baha'nco of it is I fear arested by the ice on the Oliio. There has certainly been great negligence upon the part of some person in relation to this clotliing. The Troops marched from Ken. tucky in August to relieve C. enl. Hull and the Clothing for them^ left Philadelphia latr- in Xoveiribv^r. I beg leave also to mention to you that by the u]iparvIonable negligence of the ofiiccr vdio examined and receis'ed tliem fj'om the manufactury the axes which have beer. sent 0)1 to tills army are so worthless that not abo\e one in a dozen vdll stand tlie cutting of a sticli six inches in diameter witliout breaking. The recruiting rendezvous in this State are entirely without clothing. Upon the authority which I had received from the Sec:v. of War I ordei ed the recruits raised in Tennessee for Col. Andersons Regiment to march to this arnr\-. The Colo. Was upon tlie point of obeying the order when another ari-angement fj'otn the war ofiicc supercceded it. I liave been since informed that he v\'as ordered to Newpori. As the engagemerit of volunteers for 12 months to the extent that will be necessary to supply the place of the ^Militia that will bo discharged is veiy uncf?riain. I would beg leave to recommend that Colo. [Whlliam P.] Anderson if he has not already received an order 


'■■■ ■]'.■:[ r;iV'c-l, 1)0 (liiOitccl to NewpoT't lii'H'e to receive my or
.;. i.-. f !)0j)(> that clothi];. Q' will be ,>ent on for tlierii. Nothing 
;!; li,' iiioi'o ('ii. sti'L':-si)-!;j: than to see soldiers naked at this 
• M -rii i\v.{\ nci^liiiij:' C';-n cci-hiinly l)-^- more hui'tfii] to the i.'iib
i'r :-fi'\i('t>. l!will -rive >-n!. i some id-a of ihe diilcihtics of transpOL'tirg '■; • s'. ipiMifS h)V tlie ariri\' in tliis connlry v. dicn you are in.. r!;:i:i iJi;.{ the ().?•!. is ohlip-ed to uiscJiargG corn bci0^v < '; i;i'''ittH' to niahe a dei)o^it of forage at U. S::^ndusky a dis!.!•' i> :.)]ojU' Inandi'od and tv\"enty miles.1 .-. hoidd be gratifK^d if the Pi'osident should think ])voper b< •■.,•)!fic a, C}-evet of O)lonel on Lt. Col. Campbell and of Lt. ( -'. i-n .\b;j ;r Bali. They ai'e both highly desei'ving oihcers. Tin- piwincli'M!of ihe lattc-r v,'ould be highly beneficial to the -t\ii!'. ts ins )-ank at ]jvesent does not authorize my giving ; •■'!!;,!■ (MiMinand of a detachm-'nt for \vhich thoj'e are fevr iii '■ ::!::!>■ as wcl!(jiiahih (h Besides tlie U. S. Dragoons, he 1 .■ :'•■■ : oaimaad of the 32 mo. volunteers, ^vhose affection and ■ ■■ ;;d. )!<■*■ la' iias ac(juired to a degree rarely eciuallod, by his ''!,v ••!•>■. hrimii'ss Iiumanity and indefatigable attention to jiis duh'. i .'. liall do myself liie honor of M-r.',ting to you again \\]^'^\\ v.-y arj'ival at Sandusky.1 iiavc the honor to be vith great respect Sir Yr. Obt. Svt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison ih'!ii :-. Jami:s Monroe. Ei:q)\ Acfiug Sccti;. of War 
Day to Harrison 
Otter Creek, Jan, 12, 1813 
IIii:: Pa. SCO 
Sir: 
I lia\-e taken the liberty to send per express to inform you that the enimy ai-e apprised of your being at the Rapids and havr removed . a. ll the fi'iends of oui' govcriinievit to T\Ialden Trfsou a. iul at present we are beset with spies.1 expect the riuard to ;;earcri for me evei-y moment. I have agreeably to ^'■ry nrdvr from \V. Shields your acting contractor engaged fifty ba. iTols of iiour and tv. o hundred bushel !s of v^'hcat. K you Sir see proper to send a detachment of cavahy and ritieUK'M with arms and ammunition for thiii-ty inen fo]- this jilace v. e can secure, it is supposed, three thousand Barrells of Flour and a giv-it quantity of coin and vrhcat. Thei'c is bat 40. or 


50 soldiers garrisoned at the River Raison and not one hundred savages; there is not 'one thousand English French and savages at Maiden. If you do not come toniorrov\' or the next da ■ you v. ill not find a man at this place. The English are collecting all the savages to rally at the Ri\'er Raisin for the purpose of giving battle, they are engaging sleighs to transport tb. e flour and grain to their pandora's box, Maiden. Five hundred true and brave Americans can secure the District of Erie — A timely approach of our armies will secure us from being forced to prison and the whole j^Vace from being burned by savage fury. Your Humble S -rvt. Raac Day
To Ilis Excellency GovR Harrison 
Hali' past !wo o'clock 
P. S. Please to excuse th" : scrol as I write in the v>'oods without a fire. I certify that the abo\'e is a correct copy 
Nath. F. AdaMs, Depif. Ajt. Gen. 
Gibson to- Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES, Jan 13th, 1S13 
Har. Fa.251 
Sir: 
In my la,"t, I had the honor of informing you, that I had (lisiiatchcd an express to General [Samuel] Hopkins upon the subject of the Battalion of Kentucky detached Mililia's remaining here. Since when I have received the General's answer, vy'ho adhering to his first determination upon this subject, the Battalion were the other day discharged and have generally returned home. The Gen. proposed to me to hire the Battalion to stay (provided the men and oflicers would consent to remain) by advancing to them tv\'o months pay. This I declined, seeing the great confusion that would arise in tl;e Adjustment of the accounts. We are now left without any effective force except a few Regular Troops and a few Rangers which has induced me to determine to keep the whole of the ?>Iililia of th-v 'i.'erri oiy upon the alert; and at the first intimation of actual dan.;or to order into se]'vice three companies 
1. I. uao I.'fiy wiis a ici-iiji.:. t of Dctioit as ciuly fis ISOti.
of the Territorial Militia for the protection of the Frontiers. I am still in hopes that Gen. Harrison has been or will be successful in his expedition against IMaklen, and if so, that I shall not be drove to the disagreeable necessity of calling out the Militia. Inclosed herewith I have the honor of transmitting you Two Bonds which were lodged in my hands by order of Governor Harrison i. e. that of Tho. S. Wingate as Quarter Master and George Harrison as Pay Master to the 8th Reg, of Kentucky detached Militia. I should be extremely sorry to be considered troublesome but as I have latterly frequently heard of certain persons expressing an opinion that the Governor of this Territoiy possessed no command other than as respects his own Militia; I will thank you to give me your opinion, whether or not all the forces in the Territory are not subject to his orders. Intending to proceed in the Removal of Fort Knox to Vincennes so soon as the weather will permit I have taken the liberty of ordering Captain [John T.] Chunn^ and Lieut.[Robert] Buntin [Jr] to remain here until your further orders, in as much as officers are necessary to command the Garrison and others for the necessary fatigue parties. And there are none others now hei'e except EnsigTi [Thomas] Hawkins. Should this step not meet your approbation you will please to inform me, when Messrs Chunn and Buntin, should you so direct, can repair to and join their respective companies. I have the honor to be with considerations of Respect etc. Sir, Your Obedient and Humble Servant 
John Gibson The Honble. The Secretary of War 


No.33 


Harrison to Secretary of War Head Quarters U. Sandusky 15 Jany.1813 
o Har. Pa. SGS, 869 
Sir: 
The weather and roads have been so favorable for some 
1. Capt. John F. Chunn of O. belonged to the 19th U. S. Inf. lie served throuRh the war of 1812 and was discharKcd June 1, 1821. He was born in Maryland in 1780 and died on his farni on Brouillette's creek near Clinton, Ind., in 1847. Gookins, Hist. Viao Countu, iS (iSSO) days past and the provisions and stores accumulating so fast at this ])lace and Lower Sandusky that I have the most flattering piospocts of being able to advance from the Rapids against the enemy in the iirst week of February. Thirty or forty thousand dollars in Gold or Silver will be wanted to purchase such supplies as the settlements about Detroit and iNlalden will afford. Should you think proper to forward this sum to the army the route by Pittsburgh and Cleaveland to Lower Sandusky will be the proper one from which latter place it will be sent in charge of one of those large escorts which nmst necessarily follow the army. Having understood that it was probable the Regular Army will be increased at this session of Congress I must take the liberty of recommending to you for the appointment of Major of Infantry Lieut. Levi Hukill of the first Regiment U. S. Light Dragoons Asst. Dy. Ajt. Genl. to this army. Mr. Hukill has been in my family for some weeks and I have derived great advantage from his assiduity and knowledge of his profession. His attention has not been confined to the duties of his own corps but extended in some degree to every other in the army and those which are peculiar to the Infantry. His attainments are perhaps eaqual to those of any Field officer in the service. Mr. Hukill was for some time Brig. Q. Mr. to Gen. [Wade] Hampton and I have seen a letter from that officer and another from his Colonel [Leonard] (Covington) in which he is spoken of in the highest terms. I have the honor to be with great respect 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison Ilonble. James Monroe Actg. Secty. of War 
Endorsement of Harrison 
Columbia Township, Hamilton County, 0. Jan. 16, 1813 
Dawson, Harrison, Ap. Note 7 
Gen. Wm. H. Harrison 
Dear Sir : The anxiety of your fellow citizens has been excited, (and we hope you will pardon our intruding a few lines on you, which were drawn up in haste at a large meeting of the citizens of Hamilton and Clermont counties, for the particulars of which we refer you to the Liberty Hall,) to find 


IIAinilSON: MESSAGES AND LETTEKS :ni 
■.. ^;;,i i!i(r)!tl lo rolij'c ivom the command of ouv army a. t llic .■vi. ii-;iti,!n of tlie in'osent campaicn.\\ I'll (Icoji regret do we contemplate the discontent that will j,r,\ail in tlie army, by j'our withdrawing from a station •-,■. t:i. li ytniv ))re8ence seems indispensably nGCCRsary for a conhnii. uiic- of that discipline and harmony, and implicit confi
• i'Mrv'. wliich we feel confident no other coimnander which j'r.-i'iiiiii.'iit may please to appoint will ensure. We have lh!TiM'(»it' been constrained to address you in this way, as a Ti!a!iirc.-;';ition of our ai'dent wishes for you to continue the < oiiiMiamt until we shall by petition obtain a commission for y«\\ which sha. ll place you at the head of the north-western . niiiy (liirin^^- the present war. W'luii wo. reflect on your past life, the honouralile stations yo'j iKive filled with unremitted zeal and fidelity, the general siUisfadion which has prevailed wherever your authority has (Xtrndcd. your knovrn attachment to liberty and the honour ruu!y:ooi\ weal of your country, we anticipated a favourable ; iisv. oi- from you, that you will devote a few more days or ". rars in the service of your country. You, Sir, are aware of tiii' ueci'ssity of a beloved connnander in an ai'my, the great adva. ntage of soldiei's obeying for love aJ3ove that of fear; the incsfMice of a beloved general animating his men ))y good example, adds f]"esh vigour to the war-worn sokliei-, warms theijh-aris. ainl jirms them with undaunted courage, and they will P'. j-KU-m to admii-ation — such scenes you, Sir, have experi
♦ •n. ci'd. and they will ever be held in grateful remen. ibrance by :.'"Ur fi'iends and your country. By order of the meeting, 
John Armstrong, Chainnan I'AViD :\rCAUGilEY, Secretanj 
Harrison to Winchester 
llKADQUARTERS U. SANDUSKY, IG Jany.1813, OCk.]). m. 
1 Itave wailed with great ar. xiety to hear from you for some days past; that 1 might put in motion the supplies destined for llic Ka])id. s, which have arrived liere in large (piantities, and ior which a new road now passable by pack-horses is <'l"'ning into Hull's trace. A copy of your letter to Genl.[Nimon] Perkins of the 15th this moment received, gave me the first information of your arrival at the Rapids. I have sent Capt. Forsytli to you to bring- me to lovrer Sandusky, for which phice I shall set out in the morning, information as to your situation and designs. I am very respectfully Yr. 0]3t. Servt. Wm. Henky Harrison Brig. Gen. Winchester,, Comd. Left Wing. N. W. Army True Cop3^ HUKILL, Aid de Ccmj?Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department January 17th, 1813. Har. Pa..',S-50 
Br. General Wm. H. Harrison Sir: 
I have just had the honor to receive your letter of January 4th [see above] dated Franklinton, in answer to mine of the 2GtIi ultimo, [see above] 
Your letter of the [?]ultimo would have been noticed immediately after its receipt had not the principal subject treated in it been anticipated in that which I had already written to you. You state that Detroit is an insecure position while the Enemy are in possession of ^lalden and the Country between Detroit and the frontiers of the State of Ohio a wilderness because there would be danger of their passing the Strait, and cutting off your supplies, if not your Retreat; that Detroit ought to be assailed through Maiden, and that Malden cannot be approached and taken unless the Strait be frozen, so as to afford j^ou a passage to it on the ice. You intimate also that the ground on the Canada side of the Strait commands Detroit, in consequence of which the latter merely as a post could not be maintained against an Enemy with a suitable train of Artillery on the opposite Bank, which it is known the Enemy possesses.'i'he great dilTiculty is in the transportation of Ordnance and other supplies sufficient for the Enterprise; for I am persuaded that if you could take with you the force you mention, with the necessary sup])lies in Ordnance and provisions, so as not to be embarrassed on that account you jnight carry  
ovt^'vihing: before you. Secure as to supplies it might not be \(M;y matijdal which post you attacked first, and whether you passed the Strait at Detroit or Malden. Superior in the field, and lit liberty to take your o^vn positions, the comparative heifcht of different stations would be of little importance. You liiink however that you cannot get foi'ward at this . season of the year vrith your supplies to Detroit and pass the Strait there in the hope of taking those Fortresses in that mode, leaving ]MakIen in the first instance in your Rear. Your opinion on this point must be conclusive. The President wislies you to attempt nothing in vain or at least without the fairest prospect of success. The delay of a few months is an evil not to be compared with the failure of another expedition or Vv'ith any serious discomfiture. It is obvious that the Command of Lake Erie would dissipate manj'- difiiculties which now weigh lieavy on us. By the facility which it w^ould afford to trrinsportation and to all our operations, it would soon give us Maiden, Detroit and all Upper Canada, and terminate the Indian War there. The importance of the command of Lake Eric is seen in its true light. The most active and vigorous exertions will be made to attain it. The Command of Ontario was acquired before tlie Lake was frozen. It is expected that the Measurcs which have been adopted will secure to us likev,-ise that of Erie early in the Spring. The President wishes it distinctly to be understood that he has no object in view to be accomplished by a measure v\diich is to produce a transitory effect only. Whatever gTound is gained must be held, and he is content to gain it slowly, provided it be made secure, rather than to put the important interests of the Country to hazard by a rash enterprise.1 liave received your letter communicating the result of Lieut. Colonel [James B.]Campbell's Expedition, and am instructed to convey to you the approbation of the Presideiit of tlie gallant conduct of the Commander, and of the Officers under him and the Troops employed in it.1 shall be hai)py to receive your opinion on the several subjects suggested for consideration in my last not touched in the letter just received, particularly the force necessary to P. ive effect to the operations of the next campaign, and whether any and what portion of that force may be raised from the several Corps now in the field under your Command.23—22664 I will transmit to you in mj'- next a copy of two Acts, now depending in Congress, should thej?- pass, with such comments on them, in their relation to the States immediately connected with our military operatior:s against upper Canada, as they may invite. J. M. 
Winchester to IlARRisr -i 
17 Jany, 1813 
Har. Pa. 900, COl 
Inclose,!I send you a note delivered to me on the night of the loth Inst, b; two persons escaped from the River Raisin.[see Jan. 1: above] On the 1 1th one other person from that settlement arrived in Camp, and on last night two more. They all agi'ee, in stating that the enemy is searching for, and taking all suspected persons whom they can lay hold of and confining them in Maiden Trison. Isaac Day, the writer of the enclosed note, [see Jan. 12, above] has been taken and sent to prison. I am also informed that the enemy is engaging all the sleighs he can procure, for the purpose carrying off the flour and grain. In this latter purpose, I have determined to disappoint him, or oblige him to pay a dear price for it; for which puiiDose, I have this morning detached Colonel [William] Lewis and [John] Allen with a command suitable to effect the object intended. I am informed that they will have to contend with two companies of Canadians and about two hundred Indians. If we get possession, it is mj^ intention to retain it; therefore a coopej-ating force from the right wing may be acceptable. Nothing will reconcile an extention of the period of service of the volunteers, but progressive operations; indeed some have calculated on being discharged within their own state on, or before the expiration of their term of service.[Extract] 
Signed, J. Winchester B. Gad. Com. L. W. N W. army Genl. Wm. H. Harrison, Covid. N. W. Army True Copy L. Hukill, Aide dc camp  
Harrison to Mvags 
Lower Sandusky Jan. 19 1813 
From tlie Chillicolhe Supporter 
On ThiirsdajT- last a7i express arrived in town bearing?a letter from Gen. Harrison to gov. Meigs, dated Lower Sandusky, Jan 19, 1813. The general has required of the governor two additional regiments of militia to march immediately to the Rapids for the pui-pose of fillijig the ranks of those Ohio ti'oops whose terin of service expire during the next month. Wo are informed than gen. Winchester arrived at tl^ie Rapids on the 10th inst. and soon after sent a detachment of about 300 men under the command of Cols.[William] Lewis and [John] Allen for the river Raisin, at which place the British intended to destroy all th" property and had taken away a number of persons who were supposed to be friendly to the U. States and sent them to the prison in I. Talden, It was ascertained that the British and Indians intended to attack gen. Winchester's main body at the Rapids, and considerable anxiety was felt for the detachment under cols. Lewis and Allen, as they had not been heard from and were expected to have fell in with an enemy. The troops are all I'apidly concentrating at the Rapids — one regiment left Sandusky on Monday last, and were to reach the Rapids the next morning by marching all night, another regiment left there eai'ly on Tuesday morning at which time gen. Harrison left there, determined to reach the Rapids on the same day. From these movements some important events may be shortly expected to take place./n/nVinc. ennos Sun 
W^INCHESTER TO HARRISON 
Camp Miami Rapids, 19t]i Jany.18J3 
H(Li: Pa. 9. J5, !>.:(; 
Sir: 
In my last, [Jan. 17 above] 1 inforiucd you I ha. d sent out a Detachment under the command of Lt. Col. William Lewis. I have the honor now to communicate the result. Tlie Village at River Raisin is ours with all the public stores. The action connnenced yesterday at 3 o'clock i)i the evening near the village and continued until dark. The enemy was driN'on at the point of tho bayonet from liis strongholds and pursued two milos, notwithstanding he was covered by his artillery. Twelve warriors were left on the field of battle. One Potawatimie made prisoner, who is now at this Camp.?»ry express left the scene of action as soon as it closed, therefore has not a list of the killed and wounded, nor was the number known when he came away. The latter I fear is conside)-al)le, tho not a commissioiied officer killed and only one wounded (Capt.[Pascal] Hickman) slightly in the ankle. The troops, to a man behaved in this action in a manner that would do credit to the oldest veterans. A particular list of the killed and WTiunded shall be transmitted as soon as obtained and proper notice taken of those who distinguished themselves in this gallant action.1 have the honor to be with every consideration, of respect and esteem Your Mo. Obt. Humb. Servt. J. Winchester Brg. Gen Com. L. W. N. W. Army Cenl. W. II. Harrison, Comd. N. W. Army 
Harrison to Secretary of War No 35 
Head Quarters N. W. Army Miami Eapids, 
20th Day January 1813 
Har. Pa. 937-038 
Sir: 
(lenl. Winchester arrived here on the 10th Inst, with a part of tho army amounting to about thirteen hundred men, having received information from the River Raisen that a body of Pritish troops and Indians were at that place and that they W(M-e upon the point of destroying the provisioiis of the citizens he dispatched on the 17th a Detachment under the command of Colo. [William] Lewis to attack them. Upon my way to this place last evening I received the letter from the General of which the inclosed is a copy [see Jan. 19 above] informing me of the complete success of the enterprize in tho defeat of the enemy and taking the stores they had collected. Ihc detachment under Colo. Lewis remain at the River Raisen and Genl. Winchester very properly marched yesterday with two hundred and fifty men to reinforce him and take the command, tlie fo]-ce at present there amounts to about one thousand eirective men and I am at this moment dispatching a hne  
r]nttalion of Ohio Iirfantry (from tho Connecticut res(3rve) with a small company of artillejy and a fjcld invcc. It is ab•solutely necessary to maintain the position at the River Raisin and I am assembling the Troops as fast as possible for the }iurpose, I am happy in having it in my powcr to inform you that oui- affairs in every respect wear a flourishing aspect I fear nothing but that the enemy may ovei'pov^^er Genl. Winchester before I can send him a sufficient reinforcement, I liav- however the highest confidence in the General and the Troops. Depend upon it that they will not easily ]3e driven fi'om theii' position. I directed a part of the heavy artillery to set out from U. r'andusky yesterday on sleds. The express who came in from Colo. Lewis reports that about ten of our men were killed and two captains and about t^^'enty non-commissioned officers and privates wounded. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir yr. ob. Svt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison llonble James Monroe, Esq. Asst Secy, of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War (No.36) 
Head Qr. N. W. Army Miami Rapids, 20 Jany.1813 
Har. Pa. 870, 871 
Sir: 
The appointment of Col. [James] J\Iorrison and Capt.[John il.]Piatt as Depty. Qr. M. Genl. to this army vvith equal authority, is calculated to produce tho most unfortunate results to the public interest as well from the confusion which it must produce in the accounts of that Department as from the eternal clashing with regard to their duties in the field.1 wish you to be so obliging as to decide between them. Tliere are some peculiar circumstances which render it impossible for me to have anything to do in the decision. Genl. Courts IMartial have been constantly ordered and acted upon by Genl. Winchester; upon what authority I know not. I liave never heard that a Genl. Court Mailial could be ordered by any but the commanding Genl. of an army iior do I believe it to be lawful. The President may authori^'. e a Colo, in a separate department to oixler Court IMartial but in the same ai-my or Department that authority can be vested in one person only without proving destructive to subordination. I must request you to decide upon this subject also. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Yr. Ob. Svt 
WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honb. James Monroe, Esq., Act. Secty./n/nof War 
Payne TO Shelby 
Miami Rapids, Jan. 20, 1813 
Vincennes Sun 
NORTH WESTERN ARMY IMPORTANT!!Dear Sir : 
Since my last, a detachment of about 650 men under the command of Lieutenant Col. Wm. Lewis, 5th regt. Kentucky volunteers, on the 18th inst obtained a glorious victory over a combination of British and savages of certainly 460 (probably much greater) at the river Raison — The enemy were driven two & a half miles, although they had the advantage of a three pounder and picketting. Our loss as far as. is yet ascertained, is about ten killed, and 25 wounded. That of the enemy as usual in Indian fighting unknown — but 18 found dead on the field and one prisoner. 
"'"^ [John Payne] 
Harrison to — 

• , ; Head Quarters N. W. Army, January 20, 1813 
Scioto Gazette, Extra, January 23, 1813 
My dear Sir : 
I have the pleasure to inform you that the detachment under Col. [William] Lewis, was completely successful in the attack upon the post of the enemy at the river Raisin — their force there consisted of some hundreds of Indians, and a company of militia, which were placed behind pickets, were attacked by our troops about 3 o'clock on the 18th instant. The action continued until night. The Indians suffered considerable — their allies ran off with a piece of artillery in the commencement of the action. Our loss in about ten killed and 20 wounded — general Winchester marched yesterday with 250 men to take the command at the river Raisin. He will have about 1000 effectives and I am at this moment dispatc  
ing- five companies more of Gen. [Simon] Perkin's brigade. My hands are so cold that I can hardly hold the pen, which 
must be my excuse for this scroll. r, • T , ^r- o Wm. H. Harrison 
Copied by Vmconnes Sun 
Lewis to Winchester 
Camp at French Town, On the River Raisin 
Jany.20th 1813 
Brigadier General Winchester ^'"■- ^''- ^^^'^^^ 
Sir : In obedience to your order I proceeded on the March with the detachment under my command to Presquisle on the 17th Inst, where the reinforcement under the command of Lt. Col. [John] Allen arrived at 7 o'Clock p. m. On the 18th as I informed you it was my determination, to set out for the Camp of the enemy at this village. From an early start, together with the advantage of a passage on the ice of the Lake, and the rapid march we made we were enabled to meet them by three o'clock in the evening. When we were within three miles of the eneni}^ correct information was obtained that they were prepared to receive us. Having arranged the troops in the following order they were directed to prepare for action. The right wing composed of the companies, commanded by Captain [W.] McCracken, Subaltern Lieutenant Williamson and Ensign McClary. Captain [Richard] Bledsoe, Subalterns Ensign Morrison (acting as Lieutenant) and Ensign [Thomas] Chinn Captain Matson, subalterns, Ensign [William] Nash (acting as Lieutenant,) and Ensign Caldwell. The left wing composed of the companies commanded by Captain [John] Hamilton, Subalterns Lieutenant Moore and Ensign [James] Heron; Captain [Samuel L.] Williams, Subalterns Lieut.[John] Higgins, and Ensign [Joseph] Harrow, Captain [Joseph] Kelly, Subalterns Lieutenant [William] IMcGuire, and Ensign [John W.] Nash. The center composed of the companies commanded by Captains [Richard] Hightower (17 U. S. Regt) Subalterns Lt. Holder and Ensign [Wm.0.]Butler, Captain [Coalman] Collier, Subaltern Lt. Story and Ensign [William] Fleet, Captain [Uriah] Sebree Subalterns Lieut.[Byran] Rule and Ensign Bowles, Lieut. Col. Allen commanding the right wing. Major [Benjamin] Graves the left and Major [George] Madison the Center, Captain [Bland W.] Ballard acting as Major was placed in the advance of the whole with two companies, one commanded by Captain [Pascal] Hickman, Subalterns Lieut.[John T.] Chinn, the other by Captain [Michael] Glaves, Subalterns Lt. Comstock, and also Captain [Henry] James with his spies. In this order we proceeded within a quarter of a mile of the enemy \\-hen they commenced a fire on us with a Howitzer from which no injury was received. The line of Battle vs-as instantly formed, and the vrhole detachment ordered to move on in the direction of the enemy without delay. The river at this time being between us and the enemy's lines we succeeded well in crossing it tho the ice in many places was extremely slippery. Having crossed at this instant the long roll was beat ; the signal for a general charge, when I ordered IMajor [Benjamin] Graves and Major [George] Madison to possess themselves of the houses and picketing about which the enemy had chiefly collected and where they had placed their cannon. This order was executed in a few minutes; and both their battalions advanced amidst an incessant shovrer of bullets, neither the picketing, nor the fencing over which they had to pass retarded their progress to success — the enemy were dislodged in that quarter. Meantime Col. Allen had fallen in with them at considerable distance to the right when after pursuing them to the woods (a distance of more than half a mile) they then made a stand with their Howitzer and small arms covered by a chain of inclosed lots and a group of houses. Having in their rear a thick bushy wood full of fallen timber, I directed Brigadier [brigade major James] Garrard (one of my aids) to instruct Major Graves and I^. Iadison to possess themselves of the wood, on the left, and to move up towards the main body of the enemy as fast as practicable, to divert their attention from Col. Allen. At the moment the fire commenced with these Battalions the right wing advanced. The enemy were soon driven from the fences and houses and our troops began to enter the woods after them. The fight now became close, and extremely hot on the right wing, the enemy concentrating the chief of their force of both kinds to form the line. They were still however kept moving in retreat, altho slowly our men being much exhausted, lly orders to IMajor Graves and Madison were executed with dispatch and success which joined with the exertions of Col. Allen's line completely routed  
the enemy. The distance they retreated before us was not less than two miles and every foot of tlie way under a continual charge. The battle lasted from three o'clock until dark. The detachment was then drawn off in good order and encamped at the place which the enemy had first occupied, being the best for a camp then near us. The gallant conduct of Lieut. Col. Allen during every charge of this vrarmly contested action, has raised for him no ordinary military merit.]\Lqjors Graves, and Madison deserve higli praise, for their undeviating attention to orders and the energy and dispatch with which they executed them. Captain Ballard led the men witli great skill and bravery. I take this opportunity of tendering mj' most hearty thanks to Brigade Major [James] Garrard, Capt. Smith and Adjutant [John] ]McCalla vrho acted as my aid de camp for the great support they gave me during the whole of the action. The company ofiicers acted with great bravery. It would be an almost endless task to particularize all who have distinguished themselves, for as all had an opportunity so to do there were none but what accepted it. There was not a solitary instance of a retreat on our part. Both officers and soldiers supported the double character of Americans and Kentuckyans. I have not been enabled to ascertain the exact force of the enemy, but from the best information, there was between 80 and 100 British troops and about 400 Indians. Major Reynolds [British] was present and it is understood commanded the whole. The number of their killed and wounded is unknown, we having left the woods after dark, so that not only during the battle, but after night they had an 0]Dportunity of carrying off all, except those who vrere left on the field where the action first commenced, say about 15. But from the blood, the trails of bodies dragged off and the reports from the people who live near this place the slaughter must have been great. One Indian and two of the Canadian Militia were taken prisoners. So steady and composed were our men in this assault that while the Enemy were killed or dro\e from the houses not a woman or child was hurt. Our loss is killed 12 and 55 wounded. One has since died. Enclosed is a list of their names, [see above] also a list of public stores taken from the enemy. I have the honor to be your most obedient servant. Will. Lewis Com nuuidant of the detachment True Copy L. HUKILL aid de camp 


322 

Report of the Killed, wounded and missing in the action at Frenchtown on the River Raiscn, on the 18th January 1813. Right column commanded by Lieut. Col. John [Allen]. Capt. W. McCracken's Company 1st Rifle regt. Names Killed What company's detail 
Joshua Moore 1 
Wounded John Nolan 1 


Hickman's 1st Rifle Regt. Capt. Matson's Company 
Killed 


Sergt. Benson Jesse Humble Robert Harrison 
Capt. Matson 
George Keith Edward McConnell Will Armstrong Harrison Boothes John Bridges Will Adams 


Wounded 


Langhams 


Langhams 


Matsons 


Capt. Bledsoe's company Lst Rifle Regt. Killed 


Joseph Simpson 
Williamson Price Clement Estes Abraham Estes Dudley Hudson John Lock Jesse Fisher William Elhuton 


1 
Wounded 


Simpson's Company 
Bledsoe's 1st Rifle Regt.(< (( it It 
(I <( (( (( 
(t K tt a 
Simpson's 


Centre Column Commanded by Major George Madison Capt. Hightower's Company 17th U. S. Regt. Wounded Jeremiah Walker 1 Edwards " 





Capt. Collin's company 1st Regt. K. V. M 
Killed Cyrus Short 1 
Wounded Ensign Fleet Armstead "Ward John AVard John Roach 4 


West's Company K. V. M. 
Collins company Wests company 


Capt. Sabree's company 


Roll Terrell John Tour Thos. S. Crow Joseph Day 


Wounded 


4 
Killed 
1 


John Vinsant 
Left Column, commanded by ^Lajor Capt. Hamilton's company 5th Regt 
Killed 
James Risly 
Luke Fielas 2 


Wounded 


Charles Scarles Charles Bradford James Viel John Bcckley Robert E. Kelly William Daviess CI. Barker Alfred Cheiner Nathan Cheiner Willis Colbert 
Capt. William's William Frame John W. Daniel Sgt. Darnel 
Ficklin 
William Simpson John Davenport Robert Rings 


Sabree company 


Morrison's Co. 


Benjamin Graves . K. V. M. 
Harts company Hamiltons 
Harts company 


Hamilton's 


10 Wounded 


Williams company 


324 

Cnpt. Kelly's company 
Obodiah AVoodson Gcorgo Barr Edmund Undoinvood Thos. Wood James Peoples Sergt. Lyanor B. Morris 


Wounded 


Price's company 
Kelly's Company Martin's Company 


Advance Guard commanded by Capt, Ballard Capt.[Michael] G laves 1st Regt. K. V. M. 
Wounded Albert Annnerson 1 Glave's company 
Thos. Graves 2 Wirts " 
Capt. Hickman's company 1st Rifle Regt. Killed 


Moses Morgan 
Capt. Hickman Lieut. Cbeiner John A. Holton Irvcnne Brown John Cox Saml Smith 
Recapitulation Killed 1 Sergt.11 Privates 
Wounded 3 Captains 1 Lieutenant 1 Ensign 3 Sergts.1 Co)])oral 46 Privates 
55 


Wounded 


Bledsoe's company 


Watson's company 


Signed 


John W. McCalla 5ih Regt. Kij. V. N, & Acting adjutant to the detacJmient 


Total G7  
Winchester to Harrison French Town River Raison 21 Jany 1813 
Har. Pa. S92, 893 
Sir: 
Your commiuiication of yesterday by Cap. Hart I have just had the honor of receiving. I am not yet able to give you any certain information as to the quantity of provisions which can be collected from the citizens of this place. I have taken measures to ascertain the quantity which can be had and as soon as information can be reed, it shall be communicated to you. My present opinion is that it will not be considerable perhaps three or four hundred barrels of flour and some beef. I would rather that my force was increased to 1000 or 1200 efl"ective men, suflicient to repel any force that could be brought against me. The ground I am compelled to occupy is not very favorable for defence and wood not convenient but it is my only alternative unless I abandon the protection of the village. No pains or reasonable expense shall be spared to acquire the necessary information concerning the enemy. A quarter master stationed at this place might render ser\^ice by purchasing forage as well as procuring the means of transportation of supplies from the Rapids which could be done by sleds, put in requisition here, on good terms. Axes are much wanted as well as fixed ammunition, the one for defensive, the other for offensive operations. I am with sentiments of high respect Your Obt. Servt. J. Winchester B. Gen. Com. L. W. N. W. Army True Copy L. HUKILL Aid de camp Genl. W. H. Harrison Comd. N. W. Army 


Winchester to Harrison French Town River Raisin 21 Jany.1818 
Har. Pa. S9S 
Dear Gen. In my last communication 1 had the jileasure of announcing to you, tlie honorable result of an action wliich took place in this village on the 18th Inst, between a detachment of our troops under the comniand of Col. [William] Lewis of the 5th Rcgt. of Ky. volunteers and combined force of British and Indians. I have now the honor to transmit to you an official account of that action, tog'ether with a report of the killed and wounded I have to lament that their number is more considerable than I at first was informed of. There was taken in the public stores of the enemy thirty barrels of flour, two thousand pounds of beef, and twelve blankets; but no arms or ammunition. All accounts from Brownstown and IMalden agree in stating that the enemy is preparing to retake this place, if he effects his pui-pose he will pay dear for it. A few pieces of artillery however would add to our strength and give confidence to our friends in this quarter. I have the honor to be with considerations of respect Your obt. servt. J. Winchester B. Genl. Com. L. W. N. IF. Army Genl. W. H. Harrison, CojucI. N. W. Army True Copy L. Hukill Aid de Camp 
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department January 21st, 1813 
General Wm. H. Harrison ^''''' ^"" ^^ 
Sir: 
My last of the 17th Instant acknowledging yours of the 3d and 4th, [see these letters above] contained such observations as grew out of your statement of the progress and prospects of your military operations. The Strait at Maiden being now frozen and the Roads much improved by the frost, as is presumed from the state of the winter here, may have afforded the favorable opportunity which you have sought for an attack on that place. It is hoped that the posture of affairs under your command, is such as to admit of it, and of successful operations also against Detroit. By this however you will not infer it to be the wish of the President that you should undertake any rash enterprize. He reposes entire confidence in your judgTiient and information with respect to the course most proper to be pursued, and which it is so much more difficult to decide on at this distance. The destruction of the British force on the Lake should be kept constantly in view. 
I transmit to you a copy of a Law/ which passed yesterday, relative to which the Adjutant General will give you Insti'uctions. J. M. 
Isaac Baker to Harrison 
Ret. of Prisoners Killed at Raisin January 22, 1813 
Niles' Re girder V, 125 
1. Pascal Hickman, captain; 2. James E. Blythe, private; 3. Charles Gerles, do.4. Thomas S. Crow. do.5. Daniel Darnell, do.6. Thomas Ward, do.7. William Butler, do.8. Henry Downy, do.9. John P. Sidney, do. In addition to the above number I saw two others tomahawked at Sandy creek myself, and find that the prisoners now in the hospital in Sandwich saw, say fifteen or eighteen others, treated in the same manner. Two men tell me they saw one who had the appearance of having been burned to death. Those men who saw Henry Downy and William Butler killed, tell me that the Indians left them without scalping.[See Feb 25 below] 
Isaac L. Baker, Ensign 2d. U. S. infantry 
Winchester to Secretary of War 
Malden, Jan. 23, 1813 
Niles' Register IV, 10 
Sir — A detachment from the left wing of the North-Western army, under my command, at Frenchtown on the river Raisin, was attacked on the 22d inst. by a force greatly superior in number; aided by several pieces of artillery. The action commenced at the dawn of day ; the piquet guards were driven in ; and a heavy fire opened on the whole line, by which a part thereof was thrown into disorder; and being ordered to retire a small distance, in order to form on more advantageous ground, I found the enemy doubling our left flank with force and rapidity. A destructive fire was sustained for some time; at length borne down by numbers, the few of us that remained with thparty that retired from the Hnes submitted. The remainder of oui* force, in num1)er about four hundred continued to defend themselves with great gallantry, in an unequal contest against small arms and artillery, until I was l^rought in as a prisoner to that part of the field occuped by the enemy. At this latter place, I understood that our troops were defending themselves in a state of desperation, and was informed by the commanding officer of the enemy, that he would afford them an opportunity of surrendering themselves pi'isoners of war; to which I acceded. I was the more ready to make the surrender from being assured, that unless done quickly, the buildings adjacent would be immediately set on fire, and that no responsibility would be taken for the conduct of the savages, who were then assembled in great numbers. In this critical situation, being desirous to preserve the lives of a number of our brave fellows who still held out, I sent a flag to them and agreed with the commanding officer of the enemy, that they should be surrendered prisoners of war, on condition of being protected from the savages, allowed to retain their private property, and having their side arms returned to them. It is impossible for me to ascertain with certainty the loss we have sustained in this action from the impracticability of knowing the number who have made their escape. Thirty-five offiicers and about 487 non-commissioned officers and privates are prisoners of war. A list of the names of the officers is herewith enclosed to you. Our loss in killed is considerable. However unfortunate may seem the affair of yesterday, I am flattered by a belief, that no material error is chargeable upon myself, and that still less censure is deserved by the troops I had the honor of commanding. With the exception of that portion of our force which was thro^Mi into disorder, no troops have ever beha\ed v ith moi'e determined intrepidity. I have the honor to be, with high respect, your obedient servant. A list of officers taken at French-town, Jan. 22, 1813 
James Winchester, brigadier-general; William Lewis, Lieutenant colonel; James Overton, jun. aid-de-camp; George Madison, major; James Garrard, Jun. brigade-inspector; John  
M'Calla, adjutant; Pollard Keen, quarter-master; John Todd, surgeon. Captains: Richard Hightower; John Hamilton; Bland W. Ballard; Samuel L. Williams; Coalman Cholier; Uriah Sabrie; Henry James; Richard Bledsoe; Joseph Kelly. Lieutenants: Caleb Holder; Ashton Garrard; Byran Rule; William ]\Toore; William M'Guire; John Higgins. Ensigns: Lynden Comstock; James Mundj^; W. 0. Butler: James Herron; Thomas Chin; William Nash; Jos. Harrow; Jos. Mooring; John W. Nash; William Fleet; John Botts; Geo. Cardwell. Total 35 prisoners at Maiden. The Indians have still a few prisoners in their possession, which I have reason to hope will be given up to colonel Proctor at Sandwich. James Winchester, Brig. Gen. U. S. Army Hon. Sec. of war 
Harrison to Meigs Headquarters Carrying River Jan 24, 1813 
Niles' Register III, 381 
Dear Sir: 
The event of which I expressed so much apprehension in my letter to you, from Lower Sandusky, has happened. The detachment under col. [William] Lewis was reinforced by general Winchester with two hundred and fifty men. He attended it, and took the command at the river Raisin on the 20th, and on the 22d he was attacked at reveille, by a considerable British and Indian force with six pieces of artillery; the troops being surprised, and the ground unfavorable, had but little opportunity of forming to advantage. They were surrounded and broke in twenty or twenty-five minutes. A major and captain and about twenty five privates were all that effected their escape. I had but three hundred and sixty men with me about three miles above the Rapids where the news first reached me. I immediately ordered them to prepare to march; and set out with my staff to overtake a detachmciit of three hundred men that had set out that morning for the river Raisin. I overtook them at the distance of six miles, but before the other ti'oops (colonel Andrew's Ohio regiment) came up, it was as
24— 226C4 ccrtained that the defeat was complete, and it was the unanimous opinion of generals [John] Payne, [Simon] Perkins, and the field officers, that we should return. A detachment to the amount of one hundred and seventy of the most active men, was sent forward with directions to proceed as far as possible to assist those who were fortunate enough to escape ; there were however but fevr, the snow was so deep that the fugitives were entirely exhausted in running a few miles; those that did get off effected it by turning dowTi to the lake and secreting themselves. I believe there were not more than forty or fifty that got a mile from the scene of action, and the greater part of them were overtaken. Never were the aft'airs of anj^ army in a more prosperous situation than ours before the unfortunate step of marching the detachment to the river Pvaisin; it was made not only without any authority from me, but in opposition to my views. Everything, in my power was done to prevent any disaster, and reinforcements were pushed on with as much rapidity as possible; major [W. W.] Cotgrave's battalion, the first in the army, was within fourteen miles of the scene of action, when he heard of the defeat, and three hundred regular troops were also on their way. I remained at the Rapids with one regiment only. In justice to general Winchester, I must observe, that I have understood that the measure (marching the detachment to the Raisin river) was forced upon him by his officers ; but, whatever may have been the cause, and however great the calamity, both as it regards the nation and individuals, it is certainly not irreparable. By the unanimous advice of the general and field officers, I took this position yesterday, for the purpose of forcing a junction with the troops in the rear, and to cover the very valuable convoy of artillery and stores that are coming from Upper Sandusky. Unless the weather is very unfavorable, I shall be at the Rapids again in four or five days, and shall certainly give the enemy an opportunity of measuring their strength with us in another contest. For myself, I feel no doubt as to the result, and if I can judge of the disposition of the troops, from the maimer in which they received an address from me yesterday, a desire of avenging their lost companions and retrieving their country's disgrace is the predominant passion that occupies their minds. 
I know not what proportion the prisoners of general Winchester's late troops bear to the killed; some of the French who have come in, report the latter at five hundred and others at eight hmidred. The detachment amounted to near one thousand. I am, with much regard, dear sir, your humble servant, 
Wm. H. Harrison His excellency governor i\lElGS 
Harrison to Secretary of \Var (No.37) 
Head Qr. Portage River 15 :\Iile5 from ^Iiami Rapids 
24th Jany.1813 
Har. Pa. S72-S77 
Sir: 
It is with the deepest regret that I have to inform you Sir that the Detachment under General Winchester has been entirely destroyed by an Indian and British force on the morning of the 22nd. Inst, at the River Raisin. About 12 o'clock on that day I was informed at the Rapids by a messenger from an officer who was marching a Detachment to reinforce Genl. Winchester that the General had been attacked that morning and that the Frenchman who brought this intelligence supposed that our troops were retreating. I had then with me a Regiment of Ohio IMilitia about three hundred and fifty strong two detachments were on the way to join Genl. Winchester but had taken different roads. One of two hundred Ohio troops were marching on the edge of the Lake and the other three hundred strong were pursuing Hulls road. Leaving directions for the Regiment in camp to follow me I proceeded on and overtook the Detaclmient of Kentucky troops in about five miles. Additional information was now received that French Citizens were flying in considerable numbers in carioles upon the ice and about 3 o'clock some of the fugitives began to arrive. All agreed that the defeat was total and complete that the Troops were nearly all surrounded and cut off or taken by 7 o'clock that Genl. Winchester was seen retiring a few miles from the River Raisin along Hulls trace with a few men and two or three officers all of whom were entirely exhausted that they ^^'erc pursued by Indians on horse back who were constantly thinning their numbers by filing upon them and that our men were unable to resist as almost all of them had thrown avv'ay their arms. I could not hesitate as to the propriety of hurryinf^ to their assistance, as long as there was a possibility of being able to afford any but I was much embarrassed in the choice of the road which it v\'as proper to take. That u.]>on the ice would affoi'd the most easy and expeditioiis march and that route Major Cotgrove with the Battalion before mentioned had taken ; on the contrary all the accounts agreed that Genl. Winchester had taken the land road. But in a short time from the fugitives who began to drop in I learnt that Genl. Winchester and the forty or fifty men who were with him were all cut off a few excepted who had broken off to the margin of the Lake and from those who were last from the scene of action I learnt that all resistance upon the part of the Troops that had remained there had ceased before 8 o'clock. The question then to be determined was whether it would be proper to advance to the scene of action or not. The force with me when joined by Col. [w. W.] Cotgroves Battalion w^ould amount to nearly Nine Hundred men. This Battalion had made a forced march of twelve miles the morning of the action and had arrived within about 15 miles of the River Raisin when the Major received such certain information of the total defeat of the troops that he had thought proper to return and was then within a few miles of us. Genl. Payne, Genl. Perkins and all the Field Oihcers were consulted, and it was unanimously determined that as there could be no doubt of the total defeat of Genl. Winchester there was no motive that could authorize an immediate advance but that of attacking the enemy who ^^'cre rejDorted to be greatly supei-io]- in numbers and were certainly well provided with artillery; that after a forced march of Thirty-two miles (the distance from our then position) from the River Raisen the troops would be too much exhausted to encounter the enemy that Cotgroves Battalion from having already marched twenty-five miles that day would be unable to accompany us. It was therefore determined to return to camp with the troops. But large detachments of the more active and vigorous men were sent along the different routes to assist and bring in the fugitives. I had dispatched Col. \A'ills early in the evening in a cariole to jn-ocure intelligence. He progressed within t^\'elve miles of the scene of action and re

 
luiTiod about o'clock. A council of war was then called consist inp: of the General and field olTicers and two questions submit tod to them viz. whether it was probable that the enemy would attack us in our then situation and if they did could we resist them with effect. He was of opinion that there v;ere from sixteen hundred to t^vo thousand British and Indians opposed to our Troops and that they had six pieces of artillery principally Howitzers. It was the unanimous opinion of the council that under all circumstances it would be proper to return a short distance on this road upon which the artillery and reinforcements were approaching for should we be able to maintain our camp by getting in our rear the enemy would defeat our Troops in detail and in spite of all the efforts we could make would take the all important convoy of artillery and stores coming from Upper Sanduskj'. The march to this place was accordingl}^ made yesterday, wher(^ I shall wait for the artillery and a detachment under Genl. Leftwich. I hope in a few days again to be at the Rapids. With respect to the disaster that lias happened and the cause which has produced it it is proper that I should say that the movement which led to it was not only without my knowledge 01- consent but entirely at variance with the instructions that I had g-i\'en to Genl. Winchester. As soon as I was informed that it had been made every effort in my power was used to increase their strength. Three hundred men more than the General had asked for were on their march to join him. As his situation enabled him to obtain the most correct information of the strength and position of the enemy I could not doubt of his having obtained it. In justice to Genl. Winchester however it is my duty to observe that I have understood that the detachment under Colo. Lewis was made at the earnest solicitations of his ollicers and perhaps contrary to his judgment. Hov.'ever deeply to be lamented Sir the destruction of the detachment under Genl. Winchester may be .''-s a national calamity and as it regards the families of the ^•aluable individuals who have fallen it has by no means destroyed my hopes of success with regard to the accomplishinont of the principal object of the campaign — unless the weather should be uncommonly unfavorable. I shall return to the Rapids in a few days with a force considerably superior to any that the enemy can collect in the upper district of Canada. I can discover no dispondance amongst the Troops that are with me, and I trust that something may yet be done to compensate for the hardships and difficulties which we every moment sustain. The account given by Llajor LlcClanahan and Capt. Glaves of the action of the 22nd is that the enemy commenced just after Reveille to throw shells amongst our troops before the officers and men had risen from their beds. They were however formed but very inconveniently posted and being entirely surrounded they were broken in twenty minuits. The General endeavoured to rally them after they had passed the river but without effect. Forty or fifty with the General broke through in that direction but from the depth of the snow those on foot were soon exhausted and were in a short distance overtaken by the Indians. The General frequently attempted to form them to oppose the Indians but his efforts were ineffectual. I am unable to say what is the proportion of the killed and prisoners, some of the Frenchmen whom I have seen assert that five hundred were killed others eight. I am still however in hopes that the greater part are prisoners. I have seen one man who asserts that he saw Genl. Winchester killed scalped and his bowels taken out; such are the allies of a power which boasts its attainments in every art and science and such the war associates of British officers who claim distinction for their nice feelings and delicate sense of honor. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect Sir Yr. 
Hbl. Servt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honble. James Monroe Esq. Acting Secy, of War 
But 2 officers and 25 or 30 privates reached my camp from the Battle of the River Raisin. Harrison to Secretary of War 
Head Qrs. Portage River 21th Jany.1813 
Sir: Har. Pa. sjs 
In a conversation I had with Gov. Meiggs some time siiico  
he mentioned his desire to enter into the Army as a Brigadier and I promised to communicate his Vvdshes to you. His merits are I presume well Ivnown to the Genei-al Government. There never was a more ardent patriot. His talents are very respectable and he has devoted a considerable share of his attention to military pursuits. I have the honor to be with gi'eat respect Sir Yr. Hb. Servt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honble. James Monroe Esq. Acting Secy, of War 
Harrison to Secretary of War (38) 
Head Quarters N. W. Army Portage River 15 Miles from the Miami Rapids 
26 Jany.1813 
Har. Pa. 879-885 
Sir: 
I have the honor to enclose herewith a duplicate of my letter of the 25th Inst, together with the official report of Col. Lewis to Genl. Winchester of the action of the 18th Inst.(No.1) [see Jan. 20 above] 
That you may be enabled to judge of the propriety of the steps which were taken by me previously to the unfortunate event at the River Raisin I proceed to give you an account of the situation of the troops and the arrangements I had made for their advance. The left wing of the army under the immediate orders of Genl. Winchester consisting of the 6th Regts. Kentucky troops a Battalion of Ohio Infantry and a Detachment of Regulars under Col. [Samuel] Wells. The importance of keeping a considerable force on this line After the advance of the Army from its vicinity to the Indian tribes of the Wabash and Lake Michigan induced me to direct Genl. Winchester to take with him 3 Ky. Regts. and the Regular Troops only with these, amounting to about thirteen hundred men, he marched from his camp 5 miles below the mouth of the AuGlaize River on the 31st ulto. on the evening before he dispatched an expi'ess informing me of his intention to march the next morning. This express was sent thro the woods to Genl.[Edward] Tuppers Camp dl miles advanced of Urbanna upon Hull's road. A violent snow storm prevented it from reaching' Genl. Tupper untill 9th Inst, and it was not untill the 11th that it came to me at L^^per Sandusky. I immediately gave orders for several droves of Hogs whicli had been stopped on their Route to proceed towards the Rapids and I directed the Artillery to be prepared to progress as soon as the General's arrival at the Rapids should be announced, which I directed him to do by an express to be sent immediately to U. Sandusky. Not hearing from the Gen, for soma days I began to conclude that his progress had been stopped by a considerable thaw which took place about the 1st of the month. On the evening of the 16th inst. I received a letter from Genl.[Simon] Perkins enclosing one from Genl, Winchester to him of the loth informing of his arrival at the Rapids on the 10th; that it was his intention to advance against the enemy and dii'ecting him (Genl. Perkins) to send a reinforcement to the Rapids of one Battalion, Allarmed at this information I dispatclied an express with the enclosed Letter (No, 2) [see Jan, 16 above] by the direct route to the Rapids and set out myself to Lower Sandusky and reached it on the evening of the 17th. On the morning of the ISth the Battalion wdiich Genl, Winchester applied for marched from Lower Sandusky. About 2'oclock on the morning of the 19th a Letter from Genl, Winchester was received of which the enclosed is an extract.(No, 3).[see Jan 17 above] I gave immediate orders for the 2nd Regt. of Perkins Brigade (which consists of two Regts. only) to marcli immediately for t::e Rapids and hastened thitlier myself. On my way I received the Genl's. letter of the 19th [see Jan. 21 above] informing me of the success of Col. Lewis a copy of which I had the honor to enclose you from the Rapids, L'''pon my arrival at the latter place on the morning of the 20th I found that Genl. Winchester had marched the preceding day having left Ger. l. Payne with about throe hundred of the Kentucky troops. It was not untill late on the 21 inst. that :\Iaj, [w w,] Cotgreve was enabled to extricate his Baggage and the pieces of artilleiy he had in charge irom the Horrid Svramp Avhich separates the Miami and Sandusky Rivers. He encamped that evening near the Miami Bay and by marching early on the following morning he had arrived within fifteen miles of the River Raisin when he was informed of the total defeat of our Troops there. 
The 2nd Regt. of Perkins Brigade arrived on the 21st and I innnodiatcly ordered the remaining part of the Kentucky troops under Genl. Payne to proceed witli all possible expedition to the River Raisin. I was uneasy for the Troops there, but supposing that Genl. Winchester had obtained the best infer nation of the strenglh of the disposable force of the enemy and as I had sent him three hundred men more than he deemed sufficient for maintaining his ground (See his letter of the 21st. No.4). and as there were a thousand reasons which made it necessary to maintain it if practicable I did not think it proper to order him to retreat altho the advance in the first instance was contrary to my wishes and opposed to a principle by whicli I have been ever governed in Indian warfare i. e. never to make a detachment but under the most urgent circumstances. Amongst the many reasons why the Post at the River Raisen should be maintained, the Protection of the French Inhabitants was not the least. The greater part of these people had received our Troops with open arms many of them had sallied out of their houses upon the arrival of Colo. Lewis with their arms in their hands and had even in the opinion of some of our officers won the palm of valor from our troops, they attacked and killed the strugling Indians wherever they met them. Their Houses were all open to our men, they offered to give up the whole of the provisions which yet remained to them upon condition that they should not again be abandoned to the fury of the savages, or subjected for what they had done to be immured in the Prisons of Maiden. I had also been informed, that the supplies to be procured there were considerable.(See Days's letter enclosed in No.3).[Jan. 12, above] and the assistance to be derived, from the carioles of the inhabitants was an object of the greatest importance. The former of these motives had made so strong an impression upon the minds of the Genl. and his Troops, th;,1 I am persuaded, that notliing but a reiterated order to re..'at would have produced obedience upon the part of the latter. These reasons togethei- with the respect which it was necessary to show to the opinion of an officer of higli rank and experience where opportunity of procuring the most correct information was much better than ininc, produced the determination to sup])ort ratlier than withdraw the detachment from the River Raisin. Indeed it appears that tliere Avas not time for either, after my arrival at the Rapids. When I left Upper Sandusky the artillery was ordered to be sent on immediately to the Rapids escorted by three hundred men. Detachments were also ordered for the Pack Horses, Waggons and Sleds, which were constantly progressing thither. Another Battalion could also have been drawn from Lower Sandusky so that the troops at the Rapids would have been almost daily increased. On this day they would have amounted to twenty-five hundred with two pieces of artillery and in four or five days more the Virginia Brigade and Pennsylvania Regt. would have increased them to Thirty eight hundred, with a further supply of artillery. By the 5th of Feby. the whole force of four thousand five hundred, which I contemplated assembling at the Rapids would have been there; and provisions and munitions of war in abundance. I should have been enabled to advance to the Rapids again this day or tomorrow but for a most unfortunate rain which has broken up the roads so as to render them impassable for the artillery altho it is fixed on sleds. The whole train is stopped twenty five miles from this. I have reasons to believe that the Miami ilver has broken up. I have the honor to enclose you a report [immediately following] made to me by Major McClanahan, the senior of the two oflicers, wlio escaped from the action of the River Raisin. It requires no comment from me. I have the honor to be with great Respect Sir Yr. Obt. Svt. WiLLM. Henry Harrison Honble. jAMES Monroe Esqe. Acting Sccfy of War 
McClanahan to Harrison Camp on Carrying River Jan. 26th 1813 
Har. Pa. 8S6-8S9 
Genl. Wm. H. Harrison Sir: 
As the senior oflicer who escaped from the disaster which befell our troops under Genl. Winchester on the 22d Instant it becomes my duty to report to you so much of that allair as comes within my knowledge. On the morning of tlie 19th Inst. I marched fi'om the camp at the rapids of the Miami with the detachment under Col.  
[Samuel] Wells consisting* of about 800 men inclufling olUcers, to reinforce Col. Lewis at the River Raisin. Shortly after we left Cam]) Genl. Winchester passed us in a carry all and as I understood reached the advanced troops that night. Our detachment arrived there about 3 o'clock P. M. on the 20th exce])t Capt. Morris's company. It had been left as a roar guard with the baggage, and did not join us at all. We found the detachrnent under Lt. Col. Lewis encamped in the gardens on the north side of the river Raisin at Frenchtown not in any regular order and apparently as they had settled down in the night after the battle of the 18th. The field officers were generally in houses. Genl. Winchester had taken up his quarters in the house of a Mr. Navarre about three quarters of a mile from the t)'oops and on the opposite side of the river. The land was cleared and entirely open except fencing and some buildings for near a mile on every side [Illeg.]The detachment under Col. Wells encamped below and on the right of the other troops about one hundred yards from them, in ground entirely open; three companies in a line leading fi'om the liver the fourth at right angles to those three and leading down the river. These troops had about ten rounds of ammunition. They paraded and called their rolls as usual ; the others did not. On the morning of the 21st there was a talk of moving and encamping on better ground, and in regular order, the general and some of the field officers went out to view ground foithat purpose but nothing was done. Our spies were not sent out to my knowledge after I reached camp. I saw them on the 21st and understood that on that morning the general gave orders for their going out on the 22d. The fixed ammunition which was sent from the rapids on the 21st was tal:en to Genl. Winchester's quarters at Mr. Navarre's on that morning. It remained there and was not distributed. On the evening of the 21st Col. Wells returned on some business to the cam]!at the Ra])ids and left the detachment under us to my comniand. He advised that the ollicej-s and men should remain at thcii- posts as there was a probability of an attack.340 INDIANA lIISTOri;C/J. CX:)LLECTIONS 
That evening- a rumour reached us that tlie enemy were coming against us with 3 or 4000 men ; and would be with us before day. I expected that the field officers would have been called together and a consultation held aud instructions given to meet the event should it happen. It was not done. I directed the officers under my command to form in case of an attack so as to close the vacancy between us and the other troops. At daybreak on the next morning and during the beating of Reveille two of our centinels fired alarm guns and immediately the enejny commenced a heavy cannonade from six or eight pieces, with bomb shells and canister shot, followed up by small arms. The troops under my command and apparently throughout the line were soon formed, and returned the fire very briskly. The enemy consisted of British forces in the center as extensive and apparently in closer order than we were; and Indians on both flanks extending Cjuite to our rear. The action was warmly contested for near half on hour, at which time the Indians had under cover of some fencing and a barn, approached so near as to galled us severely in the flanks, whilst the British kept up an incessant fire in front. Our troops then began to give way. They retreated to the river. I then for the first time during the action saw Genl. Winchester. He directed in a voice not loud to form under the north bank of the river. Lt. Col. Lewis and Allen were present and assisted in rallying and forming the men. A considerable number took their position and some of them renewed the fire but it was not long kept as the Indians were still on our flanks and fast gaining our rear, 
A second attempt was made to form the troops about sixty yards on this side of the river along some fences but not many of them formed, A third effort was made in some woods after crossing a branch about a mile and a half from the place of action. Col. Lewis was the only other field officer 1 saw there. We used our endeavours to rally the men, but they could not then be stoped. The pursuit was then very hot. After continuing with the men about half a mile further raid finding nothing more could be done I took Capt, G laves, who was wounded behind me and my son by the hand and left the road and reached camp with them. Sa&tJiSi^&JiiUiiSxaiiia 



Gcnl. Winchester and Lt. Col. Lewis were riding slowly at the head of the retreat when I saw them last; they could to all api^earance easily have left the footmen and made their escape Kad they intended leaving the men. I have been informed from sources I cannot doubt that frequent enquiries were made for ammunition during the action. The men appeared ardent and obedient to orders Vvdiilst it lasted. Glaves to Harpjson Camp on Carrying River Jany.26th.1813 
Ha')\ Pa. 891 
Genl. Wm. H. Harrison Sir: 
I have had an opportunity of seeing the report of Maj. McClanahan of the affair of the 22d inst. at the river Raisin. I concur with him in all the material parts of his statement. I have the honoi* to be your most obt. Michael Glaves, Cavt.1 Rcgt. Inf. K. \ . M. 
Harrison to Shelby 
About Jany.1813 Dawson, Harrison, 375 
My sentiments upon the subject of the force necessary for the prosecution of the war, are precisely similar to yours. It will increase your surprise and regret, when I inform you that last night's mail brought me a letter from the secretary of war, in which I am restricted to the employment of the I'egular troops raised in this state to reinforce the post at the rapids. There are scattered through this state, about 110 recruits of the 19th regiment, and with these I am to supply the place of the two brigades from Pennsylvania and Virginia, whose term of service will now be daily expiring. By a letter from governor Meigs, 1 am informed, that the secretary of war disapproved the call for militia, whicli I had made on this state and Kentuck'y, and was on the point of countcrmandiiig the oi-ders. I will just inention one fact, which v.^ill show the <■■ on . sequences of such a countermand. TJiere are u])on the Auglaize and St. Marys rivers, eight forts wliicli contain ^'•in. m lh(;ir walls property to the amount of half a millioii of dollars from actual cost, and worth novr to tlie United States four times that suiii. The v.-hole force which vs-ould have had charge of all these forts and property, vrould have amounted to less than 20 invalid soldiers, [see letters immediately below] 
to the imllitia of kentucky ix the n. w. army 
Fellow-Citiz-^ns and Soldiers in Arms 
Jan. 29, 1S13 
Kilts' Kigi-ier III, oS9 
When the first sound of war w?s heard, at the call of yor. r country, you crowded voluntarily to the standard, and asked to be enrolled in defence of her rights — gain was not your object — you gloried in the precior. s inheritance so nobly vs'cn by the revolution — your bosoms glowed v\ith the ardor of freemen — you were not goaded on by a tyrant hand to fight the battles of ambition or dominion; but the spirit of your fathers aroused you from the slumber of indolence, to undertake the turmoils, and surmount the labor and hardships of camps, to shew our ancient enemy that you knew how to value and mair. tain the independence we held as the gift of heaven only, to wipe off the foul stain which had been cast upon the American name, by the base surrender of one of our armies — to avenge the shades of our slaughtered brethren, of helpless women and infants — to drive back that audacious enemy and her savage allies, who had profaned our soil with her hostile and triumphant steps — to make them feel the evils of the vrar at their o\Mi doors, in a word, to plant the standard which bears your country's eagle, on the walls of Malden. These were your objects when you grasped your arms, and demanded battle. Your progress has been retarded by obstacles not under your control, or that of your general. You have with heroic fortitude, borne cold, hunger and fatigue. Youi- state has sympathised with you, and your brave associates in suffering. Your fellow-citizens and fair countrywomen have endeavored as far as in their power by voluntary contributions to assist in shielding you from the inclerneiicy of an inhospitable climate, knowiiig that whenever the enemy has been tangible, you have made him not only respect, but feel you. You have shewn that you are Kentuckians, firjn and invincible — success has dav.-iied upon you — the object you sought in taking the field is just in 

 
sij-jht; your anxiety to return to the embrace of your friends and families are felt and appreciated. But would not the joy of your return be damped, when the reflection should arise, that you had surmounted the greatest difficulties in your way — your general was just about accomplishing the important object of the campaign — IMalden was in view — victory beckoned you to follow on, and you retired ; when two months had been wasted, and your fellow soldiers were left surrounded by dangers ?Your state or your country cannot demand of you to remain a few months longer, as an act she has any legal right to claim of you ; but your state asks it, as what would redound to the honor of you, her sons, and her own character. Every reasonable means will be resorted to in order to supply your places at the earliest possible period. In the mean time, your state, from her sense of the merits of such of you as will remain at your posts, after the expiration of your tenn of service, have authorised seven dollars per month to be given out of her treasury, to each non-commissioned ofiicer, musician and private, to the number of fifteen hundred, in addition to their regular pay from the general government during such additional time of service. Fellow-Citizens and Soldiers 
Such another opportunity may never again occur to crown yourselves ^^ith honor. The eyes of your state, your country, are on you. Act worthy yourselves and all will be well. Resolved., That the governor of this state, be requested to cause so many copies of the foregoing address, to be printed and transmitted to general Harrison, and such other officers commanding the militia of this state, as he may deem right, in order to be connnunicated to said troops. Whereas, from information officially communicated to the lci?i.=^lature, it is deemed important to the success of the present cam])aig-n of the north western armj'-, under tlie command of general William H. Harrison, that part of the militia of this state now in that army, should continue in service for a longer time than that for which they are at present engaged. Therefore, 
Sec.1. Be it enacted by the general assembly of the commonwealth of Kcntuchy, That each non-commissioned ofilce, musician and private, belonging to the said detachment not exceeding fifteen hundred men, to be received or selected and organized and enrolled by the commander in chief, who shall remain in the said army, under the command of their respective ofiicers, or such ofiicer who may take the command thereof, with the approbation of the commander in chief, after the expiration of the time of service for which they were ordei-ed out under the authority of the president of the United States, or shall have been killed, or died in the same, shall be entitled to receive, upon the application of such person, if living, or his legal representatives in case of death, a warrant for a sum equal to seven dollars ])cr month, not exceeding three months, that such non-commissioned officer, musician or private shall have remained in such service, and have been legally discharged therefrom, after the expiration of the term for which they wei-e so called out, in addition to the pay now allowed by the laws of the United States. Sec.2 And he it further enacted, That the auditor of public accounts shall, upon the producing to him the pay rolls from the officers commanding companies in the detachment, certified in the manner prescribed by the acts of congress, issue his war]-ant upon the treasury for the amount of the sum thereupon appearing due, to each of the non-commissioned ofiicers, musicians and privates or his or their representatives, agreeably to the provisions of this act. J. H. Hawkins Speaker of the house of rejoresentatives R. Hickman, Approved Jan. 29, 1913 Speaker of the Senate 
Isaac Shelby, Gov. of Ken. 
Shelby to Hariuson 
Jany.30th, 1813 
From Governor Isaac SJiclby's "Letter Book A" 39 
Dear Sir: 
I have to acknowledge the receipt of j^our Excellency's letter of the 19th in;:;t., and to inform you that the same \vas submitted to the Legislature of tliis State (who were then and still are in session) for their consideration, and who have in consequence thereof passed an Act allowing additional compensation to such of the Kentucky militia not exceeding fifteen hundred who may consent to continue in service not more than three months after theii- pi-esent Term of Service expires.[see Jan. 26 above] The General Assembly have also passed a resolution addressed to the militia of Kentucky now under your command appealing to their patriotism and love of country, on this very interesting occasion, both, of which I am instructed to fonvard to you without delay, that you may avail youi'self of such means as they may afford to aid you in instructing that number of militia from this state to remain in service for a greater length of time after their present engagements expire, [see Jan 26 above] 
The General Assembly have' been induced to adopt this course under the impression that it would be morally impossible at this inclement season to collect and marcli from this state the force which you require in time to relieve those now on duty. It may be important if possible to advise me by return of the Express, what success these two measures have had in inducing the militia of this State to agree to remain with you after the expiration of their Term of Service. And what aid you will still need from this state, in order that my earliest exertions may be directed toward raising the men and sending them on in case you should need such aid, an address from you to our militia stating as far as proper your situation and the urgency of the occasion inclosc^d to me to be published, might have a considerable effect. Col. Anth. Crockett, who is the bearer of tins dispatch is also charged witli sundry copies of the la^v and resolution above stated for the purpose of your distributing them generally amongst the Kentucky militia, to afford them a clear understanding of t)ie views and wishes othe Genc)-al Assembly. Col. Crockett is directed to wait until such tiiue as you may find it convenient to dispatch him back. I am, &c., 
Isaac Shelby To Gen. Wm. H. Harrison 
Harrison to McKeehan 
Head Quarters 31st Jany, 1813 
Mich. Hist, and Pion. Pa. XV, 2J5 
Sir: 
You will proceed with the two men who are to attend you, to the River Raisin, bearing a flag of Truce. The object of your Trip, is to ascertain the situation of the wounded which were left as it is said at that place. If a British officer should be there, you will deliver him the letter with which you are charged, and proceed to give such assistance to the sick, as they may need and you be able to procure. You are furnished with one hundred Dollars in Gold, for the purpose. Should there be no British Officer on fhe River Raisin, you will proceed towards Maiden, until you meet with one, unless there should be great danger from the Indians. Indeed it is my wish that you should go onto IMalden, if you are permitted to do so, to bring Dispatches from General Winchester, or the Senior officer remaining with our prisoners. If your ])rofessional services are wanted with the Vv'ou]Kled you will i-rmain with them, and send back the two men to bring me an account of your proceedings. I am Respectfully 
Your Obedt. Servant To Dr. Samuel McKeehan ^^^- ^^^^^ Harrison 
Gibson to Indiana Assembly 
February 2, 1813 
Mss. in Secrelaryof State's Office Western Sun, February 6, ISl. J Dillon, History of Indiana, 517 
Gentlemen of the Legislative Coimeil, and Gentlemen of the 
House of Re^nesentatives 
THE governor of the territory having been for some time fibscnt from us, the gubernatorial functions consequently d 7 
volviiig upon, have been exercised by me. In my discharge of this important trust, I have been actuated by none other than a wish to preserve pubhc rights and protect pi'ivate property. If I have at any time failed in my oHlcial duties, or erred in my plans, you must attribute it to the head and not the Iieart. My address to you, gentlemen, shall be laconic, for I am not an orator nor accustomed to set speeches; and did I possess the abilities of Cicero or Demosthenes, I could not porti-ay in more glowing colours our foreign and domestic political situation than it is already experienced within our own breasts. The United States have been latterly compelled by frequent acts of injustice, to declare war against England; I say compelled ; for I am convinced from the pacific and agricultural disposition of her citizens, that it must be a case of the last necessity that would induce such a measure. For the deUailcd causes of the war, I beg leave to refer you, gentlemen to the message of his excellency the president, to congress, at the commencement of its present session ; it is highly worthy the serious perusal of the sage and the patriot. It does honor to the head and the heart of mr. Madison. Although I am not an admirer of wars in the general, yet, as we are novr engaged in a necessary and justifiable one, I can exultingly say that I am happy to see in my advanced days our little but inimitable Navy, riding triumphant on the seas, but chagrined to find that our armies by land are so little successful. The spirit of '76 appears to have fled from our continent, or if not fled, it is at least asleep, for it appears not to pervade our armies generally. On the contrary lassitude, and too often schisms have crept in, and usurped the place of patriotic ardour. At your last assemblage, gentlemen, our political horizon seemed clear; our infant territory bid fair for rapid and rising grandeur ; our population was highly flattering; our citizens were becoming prosperous and happy, and security dwelt everywhere, even on our frontiers. But alas!the scene has changed and whether this change as it respects our territory, has been owing to an over anxiety in us to extend our dominions, or to a wish for retaliation by our foes or to a foreign influence, I shall not pretend to decide. But that there is a change, and that too, a distressing one, is evident. For the aborigines, our former neiglibors and friends, have become our most, inveterate foes. They have drawn the scalping knife and raised the tomhawk, and shouts of savage fury are heard at our thresholds. Our former frontiers are now wilds, and our inner settlements have become frontiers. Some of our best citizens, and old men worn dov\-n with age, and helpless women and innocent babes, have fallen victims to savage cruelty. Our citizens, even in our tov. ms, have frequent alarms, and constant apprehensions as to their preservation. I have not been inattentive to my duty, gentlemen, but have liillierto, and shall continue to exert every nerve to afford to our citizens all possible protection. And it is to be hoped that the allwise and powerful creator and governor of the universe, will not forget his people, but cover us from our savage and sanguinary foe by his benign interposition. For the state of our fiscal affairs, I refer you, gentlemen, to the reports which are required by law and which no doubt will be made to you early in the session, by the auditor and treasurer. What amount has been drawn from the contingent fund by governor Harrison previous to his departure from the territory, I know not, gentlemen, but that fund remains untouched by me. Our present militia law is complained of as being still very defective. Our present Adjutant General, who is pretty much the disciplinarian, and I believe tolerable acquainted with military tactics, will no doubt, if called upon, detail to you some of its most prominent defects, and suggest the proper remedies. To me it seems that the principal defect is owing to the execution, not the law. It is an old, and I believe a correct adage, that ('good officers make good soldiers.')This evil having taken root, I do not know how it can be eradicated; but it may be remedied. In place of men searching after and accepting of commissions before they are even tolerably qualified, thereby subjecting themselves to ridicule, and tlu'ir country to ruin, barely for the name of the thing, I think it may be remedied by a previous examination. This, however, amongst other important territorial concerns, rests with the legislature. Gcntktucn of the House of Representatives: 
As the immediate guardians of the public purse, I would recommend a reconsideration of the revenue laws. Enquire whether the authority given to the several oflicers concerned 


HAKKISOX: MESSAGES AND LETTEllS ;V1<) 
i'l lii- !r\'yir.;r and collectinp: the tax is ample and complete as ,\ .. liMiild !)c to meet the exigencies, and give energy and re,;., vt to our govcnnnent ; for our public credit is yet at a low . j-|.. I also i-ecoinmend an enquiry into the salaries of our '. rr it oi-jal oilict rs-- whether are the salaries an adequate comj.. t. sation for the duties performed?for the good old maxim !.'(ic-. ii work good pay,' and liberal salaries are the only sure n;.-. inn of securing good officers; consequently a faithful dis« hai}. r<' of duties. Ct }:fl'i>irti of the Lffiislative Council 
Wit)!\<)u rests the imi)ortant task of guarding in a more >]y'. K ial manner the rights and liberties of your fellow citizens, iiful I have no doul)t that in the discharge of your iniportant (I'. ititH \()U will 1)0 governed by moderation, and a due regard to th'- trust reposed in you.(/% iJIrnii n of thi' Legislative Council and House of Reqn'csent
In yiiur deliberations I recommend a conciliatory disposition tow. Hrds each other, and as to myself suffer me to assure you, \)u\i you shall have my cordial co-operation, in any measure fliai may tend to the public good. SIjouUI anything of moment and public concern transpire, $'• ntit mrn, you shall be duly informed thereof, from time to tini'-. John Gibson. Gibson to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES, Feb. 3, 1813 
Har. Pa. 252-25^ 
Sin : 
T!ie exposed situation of our country has induced me to authorise the Adjutant General of the Territory to raise by \ oiunteer Oiler three complete companies of IMountcd Men !'<>r two months, who I intend shall range and patrole through tii',- frontiers. But in case he may not be enabled to effect the '■■»i- ing of the three companies of mounted men, I shall then ii.'. ve organizf'd that number of Infantry. I have pledged my' li tiiat they shall be paid as Infantry at the expiration of '!:!• two months or sooner if sooner discharged. Should the ♦'onipanies be organized of Mounted Men, they will furnish their own horses and foi-age themselves, in which case, I rec


-t-j^mmnt faHl ommend their receiving an adequate allowance or compensation. And should the plan of Rangers for the protection of our Frontiers be still adhered to bj^ Government, suffer me to suggest to you the propi'ictj^ of having officers over them who are well acquainted with our local Geography. It appears that the officers who served in Governor Harrison's campaign of 1811 up the Wabash, owing to their not having forwarded their subsistence and forage accounts are likely not to draw any thing for those items, Inasmuch as Cap, [Ambrose] Whitlock the Dep. Pay Master says He's not authorized by the Pay Master General to pay them. By request of Gen, W. Johnston Esq, of this place (now my aid) I herewith transmit you his accot, as Quarter IMaster in Major [Jo] Daviess' squadron of Horse and earnestly request of you, that you will be so obliging as to have the proper steps taken in order that he may receive the amount, Mr, Johnston is not the only officer in this situation, I have been spoken to by Col, [Luke] Decker and others, to forward on their's but the present is the only one that has yet been handed to me. By the request of Luke Decker late Colonel of the 1st Reg, of Inda, Militia and a residenter in this country since the year 1785 I have the honor of herewith transmitting you a Memorial to his Excellency the President of the United States, in favor of Gen, W, Johnston for the appointment of Major, JNIr. Johnston has lived upwards of fifteen years in the country — is about thirty- five years of age, and is active and enterprising and possessed of a good general knowledge. It would please me to see that such men were encouraged by our country and permit me Sir, to recommend to yourself and through you to His Excellency, the President, Maj. Davis Floyd of this Territory, as a Patriot and soldier. He has since his unfortunate connection witli A, Bui'r proven to his country upon several occasions his attachment and fidelity to her and I've no doubt was an opportunity afforded him, he would by his patriotic ardour wipe off every stain from his character. He is well qualified for a Military Command, I thei-efore take the liberty of soliciting that he may be appointed a Major or at the least a Captain in the Regular Service. I have the honor to be Dear Sir with High Consideration Your Obedient and very Humble Servt 
rru TT >ui rr.1 o 4 r ixr JOIIN GiBSON 
The Hon'ble, The Secretary of War  
Territorial Council to Gibson 
Februaiy 5, 1813 
Har. Pa. £65, 2GG 
John Gibson, Acting Governor of the Indiana Territory Sir: 
In ansvv'er to your communication to both Houses of the Legislature, the legislative council sympathises vdth you on the unhappy state of war which the United States have beeii forced into, in defence of our national and individual rights, and particularly the savage warfare, which the Territory has been forced into from irratable causes for some years past. The ruin and misery which individual families suffer on our frontier, indeed even in the interior of our infant settlement, and some times, that too, by those persons whom oui- Government have called into service for the protection of our frontier. The ruin inflicted by our means of protection, we are convinced arises from the want of individual morality and particularly from the want of a salutary discipline among the Troops. To avoid the same evils taking place on the part of the Militia of the territory, to render them as efficient as possible, at the same time to have a due regard to the rights of the militia man, we agreeable to your advice, shall attempt to make such salutary amendments of our Militia Law, as to produce the desired effect, for we are fully convinced, that in a state of War the energies of the Government ought to be applyed with a strong and a steady hand. The other subjects to which you have recommended our consideration, shall be duly attended to. Please to accept the good wishes of the Legislative Council for your individual Welfare, hoping that by your continued and increased exertions for the protection of our Country, the unwary setler on our frontier may in some measure pass the light of day and the gloom of niglit, without the continued terrors of savage cruelty. Jas. Beggs, President of the Leg. Council House of Representatives to Gibson 
February 5, 1S13 
Hor. Pa. ^69 
To His Excellency John Gibson, Governor of flic Indmna 
Territory Sir: 
We have heard with pleasure the communication you have been pleased to make to the Legislative Council and House of Representatives at the opening of the present session. And remark that your patriotism has long drawn down the attention of the only Nation upon the Earth enjoying the liberal Excercise of rational liberty. We are happy in congratulating you, that nothwithstanding the many years that the critical eye of envy has had an opportunity of observing you in the discharge of your duties of a National concern and important trusts confided in you by your Nation, that yet, for the most cogent reasons, National patronage is extended to you in the Evening of your life. Your communication Sir, whilst it evinces strong intelecutal endowments, convinces us that you have marked the defects of our Legislative provisions. We regret sir, w^ith you that our country has been forced to appeal to arms in vindication of our National rights. The consequences of which, probably are equally fatal to this section of the Union as any other, and which without energetic measures will soon be in a state of confusion. But we rejoice Sir. that there are reasons for believing that ample provision will be made for our defence and that our Citizens are willing to submit to all those privations and difficulties attending a country under the pressure of an Indian Warfare, and that our Government will not stop short of the establishment of those principles of right of which we have too long suffered the violation. We have. Sir, witnessed the defect of our Militia system and to co-operate with you in rendering the ]Militia more efficient, will be one of the first objects of our attention. We also regret the defects that exist in our Revenue Laws, and as far as is expedient will endeavor to remedy those defects. We believe Sir, that your communication on those points is the result of judicious deliberation, and it is our intention to treat with ])ropcr regard evciy suggestion that your Excellency through your ardent desire to promote the public weal, lias  
been prompted to make, And Sir, when throu(>-h you, vre express the liighest approbation of tlic Constituted authorities of our country we choose a medium meritting the respect that the Representatives of an Independent people intend to confer. Please to accept Sir, our warmest wishes for your welfare. House of Representatives Jai^ies Scott, Si)C{iker of the House of Represenkitives 
Shelby to Harrison 
Feby.9, 1813 
From Governor hiuic Shelbij's "Letter Book A", Jtl 
MY Dear GeneRx\l: 
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your favour of the 22nd ult., informing of the action fought at French Town the 18th ult., and also that of the 25th by Col. Wells who arrived at this place on the evening of the 2nd inst., with the distressing intelligence of the defeat of Genl. Winchester's detachment at the same place. This melancholy event has filled the state with mourning, and every feeling heart bleeds with anguish. The Legislature of this st-ate was on the point of rising at the moment when Col. Wells arrived but continued their session during the whole of the 3rd inst., in consequence of the intelligence contained in your dispatches by him and passed an act, authorizing the organization of three thousand militia for any term not exceeding six months and for any service of the United States, (which exigencies) of the present war, may in the opinion of the Executive require. I inclose you a copy of the act for your information. Altho I am not able to judge at this moment, what portion of this number may be deemed necessary to call into service I shall proceed to organize and detach the whole for any emergency that may require them. The General Assembly by their joint resolution has authorized and requested me to command this force, which I have consented to do should the whole be ordered at once into service. With &c., &c., 
Isaac Shelby To Gen. Wm. H. Harrison, Gibson to Indiana Assembly 
ViNCENNES February 9, 1813 
Ms!^. in Secretary of State's Office Wcsteni Sun, March 6, ISIJ 
Gentlemen- of the Legislature 
However painful and much to be lamented transaction, I conceive it a duty I owe you to communicate thus promptly, a letter I have just received from Maj. Wm. Prince, informing me of the loss of a detachment of our northwestern army. To secure peace, gentlemen, we should at all times be prepared for war. And altho' our territory is but thinly populated, yet what men we have able to bear arms, are at my command : and entertaining no doubt, that upon your recommendation, as their immediate representatives, they v\'ill turn out with alacrity to serve their country, wherefore, I request that you advise me immediately, what number of our militia should be ordered into service, and where they should be placed, the better to protect our extensive and exposed frontier. Jn. Gibson. Wilson to Gibson 
February 9, 1813 
Har. Pa. 259 
To His Excellency General John Gibson 
Acting Governor and Conimander-in-Chief of the Indiana Territory The Legislature have taken into consideration the written communication made to them this morning, on the alarming and defenceless situation of our Frontiers, together with enclosures from Major [William] Prince and think with you, that to secure peace we ought to be prepared for War. They therefore beg leave to suggest the adoption of the following plan i]nmediately, as in their opinion best calculated to render security to our defenceless Frontiers, taking into view the paucity of our numbers, to wit fi'om the County of Wayne two Companies, from the County of Franklin two Companies, from the County of Dearborn two Companies, from the County of Jefferson two Companies, from the County of Clai'k two Companies, from the County of Hai-rison two Companies and fiom the County of Knox four Companies. All of which Companies to be full and complete and to be drafted and organized agre  
able to the provisions of our INIilitia Law. With this force a chain of small Forts or Garrisons could be erected, having a constant communication with each other, throughout the territoiT, and in our opinion secure the inhabitants from all small parties of Marauders, who may be likely to infest the fi'ontier. We would also beg leave to suggest that untill the i'\n-ts are completed, the force of each County should be under the controle of its immediate commanding officer and that when those are completed as the command will justify the organization of proper Field Officers, such should be selected, unde)- the command of whom if active and intelligent, such arrangements can be made as are above suggested, with regard to ranging or patroling. The Orders given to those Field Onicers ought to be particularly rigid and strict, obliging him or them to visit frequently the whole chain of Forts, and pay particular attention that the subordinate officers and men were puncutal in performance of their duty. Those ari-angements will necessarily suggest the propriety of instructing the Contractor to be prepared to furnish the pi'0])er Provisions at the different Posts and also that provision be made for some mode of supplying the necessary equipment, arms and Amunition. It may not be improper here to observe that should the plan above suggested be carried into execution, it will be well to instj-uct the Commandants of the diffei'ent Counties, that in the erection of their Forts, they should have due regard not only to the safety of their own Counties, but the facility of communication which is to be kept up with the adjoining Counties. All which is respectfully Submitted. Walter Wilson, Chairman Committee 
Secretary of War to Harrison 
War Department February 11th, 1813 
Har. Pa. 52 
General Wm. H. Harrison. SirHarrison to Secretary of War 
(No.39) 
Headquarters Fort of the IMiami Rapids 
11th Fcby.1813 
Har. Pa. 015-025 
Sir: 
Having becai joined by Genl. Lcftwitch with his Brig-ade and a Regiment of the Pennsjdvania quota at Portage River on the 30th Inst. I marched from thence on the 1st Inst and reached this place on the morning of the 2nd with an effective foi'ce of about seventeen hundred men. I have been since joined by a Kentucky Regiment and Genl.[Edward] TupI)e)''s Ohio Brigade which has increased our numbers to two thousand non-commissioned officers and privates. Your letter of the 17tli ulto.[see above] was received before I left the Camp at Portage River and altho the injunctions contained in it were such as to produce many doubts of the propriety of ])ushing on the arrangements calculated for the accoml)lishmcnt of the principal objects of the campaign during the present winter, yet there were other considerations which produced a preponderance in my inind in favor of prosecuting llu'm with vigor as long as a hope remained of their being successful. I accordingly ordered the whole of the Troops of the l<-ft wing excepting one company for each of the six Forts in that Quarter, the Balance of the Pensylvania Brigade and tlie Ohio Brigade under Genl. Tupper and a detachment of Regulars Troops and twelve month volunteers under the Command of Lt. Col. [John B.]Campbell to march to this place as soon as possible believing that I should be able to advance from hence by this day or tomorrow and if it were not in my pow( r to take on heavy artillery for the siege of Maiden, I should be enabled to scour the whole country disperse the Indians, destroy all the shipping of the enemy and the greater part of theij- provisions and secure a position at or near Browns Town untill a further supply of Cannon and stores could be brought up. Such was my plan when I marched from Portage River on the 1st Inst, and my situation was such as to authorize the strongest hopes of success, altho the agrcgatc amount of all the effectual men in all the coi'ps above mentiojied was only about 3,300 a number that will greatly surprise you to be furnished by so many nominal Brigades and  
the period of service of the Kentucky and Ohio Troops was fast ai)proachin^, that for some of them expiring about the ini(]dle of the month and of all before the last of it. I had established with them the principle that I had the right to jn;irch them to any point before the day which would complete their six months tour and I kne\v them too well to bcli(>ve that they would abandon me in the country of the enemy. Pi-ovisions and ammunition were also on the road from the two San dusky s and LIcArthurs Block House in considerable (luantities and measures taken to supply the means of transl)ortation for the advance from this place. These fair prospects have been entirely destroyed by circumstances which no human being could controle. The present is precisely the season in common years when the most intense frosts prevail in tiiis countiy giving the most perfect security and facility in passing the lakes and swamps with which it abounds. For the last twelve or fifteen days however it has been so warm that the roads have become entirely broken up and for a considerable distance in our rear are alDsolutely impassable for waggons or sleds and can with great difficulty be traversed with single Horses. A number of waggons and sleds loaded with ammunition and other munitions of war have been eighteen days coming from Upper Sandusky and are Twenty five miles off — for eight days they were stopped by an uncommon fresh in the Tymocta and have been ten more getting twentyfive miles. The weather has even effected the ice of the Lake. Oji the evening before last 1 went with a detachment in pursuit of a body of Indians who were driving off the cattle from a small French settlement about fourteen miles from this place. We pursued them for twenty six miles upon the ice which was so weak in many places that a six pounder which was taken with us broke through and was nearly lost, as did sevei'al of the officers who were mounted. I have waited with an anxiety which I cannot describe for a change in the weather and until this day I nevei- abandoned the hope of being able to execute the plan which I had formed. It is now however the 11th of the month, the period for which the Kentucky troops (which first took the field) were to serve expires in four days as does that of four fifths of Tupper's Brigade. These poor fellows have suffered so much that they have resisted the strong appeal to their patriotism backed bv a most liberal ofTer of pay which has been made by their respective states. They will not engage for two or even one month but if 1 ^vere ready to advance I am satisfied they would not hesitate to follow me. To pursue longer under the expectation of accomplishing the objects, of the campaign during the winter is in my opinion no longer proper considering the enormous expense which a continuance of these efforts at this season daily produces and which could only be justified by a reasonable hope of success — under present appearances I can no longer indulge such hopes. Indeed I fear that I shall be censured for having cherished them too long and that I have sacrificed the public interest in a vain pursuit. I have no hesitation however in asserting that I have it in my power to satisfy the Government that their wishes would have been accomplished but for the unfortunate event at the River Raisin and others over which I could have no controle and that untill a few days since my calculations of succeeding were supported by the opinion of every General and Field officer in the Army. It remains for me Sir to inform you of the disposition I shall ]nake of the Troops for the remaining part of the Winter. A Battalion of the Militia lately called out from this State with the Company of Regular Troops now at Fort Winchester will garrison the posts upon the waters of the Auglaize and St. ]\Tarys, the small blocldiouses upon Hulls trace will have a subaltern command in each, a company will be placed at Uppei' Sandusky and another at Lower Sandusky. All the rest of the Troops will be brought to this place amounting to from fifteen to eighteen hundred men. I am erecting here a pretty strong fort capable of resisting field artillery at least. The troops will be placed in a fortified camp covered on one flank by the Fort. This position is the best that can be taken to cover the frontiers and the small posts in the rear of it and those above it on the Miami and its waters. The force placed hei'e ought however to be stong enough to encounter any that the enemy may detach against the Forts above. Twenty five hundred would not be too many. But anxious to reduce the exj^enses during the winter within as narrow bounds as possibl(^ 1 ha\e desired the Govr. of Kentucky not to call out but to hold in readiness to march the fifteen hundred men lately required of him. All the teams which have been hiied for the public service will be immediately discharged, and those b  
longing to the public which are principally oxen disposed of in the settlements, where forage is cheaper and every other arrangement made which can lesson the expenses during the winter. Attention will still however be paid to the deposit of supplies for the ensuing campaign. Little remains to complete these. Immense supplies of provisions have been accumulated upon the Auglaize River and boats and perogues prepared to bring it down as soon as the River opens. I shall have the honor to give you a more particular account of these in a few days. I regret that I had the misfortune to be misunderstood by Colo. Monroe in his Letter of the 17th ulto. in supposing that I had asserted in mine of the 4th that IMalden could not be taken by first marching to Detroit and crossing the strait there with an army sufficiently strong and taking with it everything which it would Vv'ant either for its subsistence or for annoying the enemy, it would certainly not be material at what point it would cross the strait. The whole tenor of my argument whenever the subject has been mentioned in my letters is that by going round by Detroit more time would be required to eflfect the object more provisions of course wanted and that if supplies of these were to be drawn from the rear each convoy must be strong enough to resist the whole of the enemy disposable force because the line of operation upon which these convoys would move passing almost in sight of Maiden and the enemy having the means of crossing the Strait thej'" could attack them when and where they pleased. I never doubted that our army would be able to go anywhere if sufiiciently strong, and having with it such a quantity of provisions and other necessaries as to require no supplies from the Deposits in the rear. I have the honor to enclose you the deposition of a certain Medard Labbadi who was at the River raisen on the 22 ulto. and remained there until the 6th Inst. His account of the loss of the enemy in the action is corroborated by several others nor is there the least reason to doubt his statement as it regards the horrible fate of our wounded men. There is another circumstance which plainly shows that the British have no intention to conduct the war (at least in this quarter) upon those principles which have been held sacred by all civilized nations. On the 30th ultimo I dispatched Doctor [Samuel] McKeehan a surgeons mate in the militia with a flag to ascertain the situation of our wounded. He was attended by one of our Mihtia men and a French man. On the night after their departure they halted near this place for the purpose of taking a few hours sleep in a vacant cabin upon the Bank of the River. The Cariole in vsiiich tliey travelled was left at the door, with the flag set up in it. They v\-ere discovered by a party of Indians (accompanied it is said by a British offlcer) and attacked in the manner described in the Deposition. Lemont the jMilitia man was killed and scalped the Doctor and the Frenchman taken, Doct. McKeehan was furnished with a letter addressed to any British Ofiker vrhom he might meet with describing the character in which he wen-t and the object for which he was — (retained at some of the oflices in consequence of its being too heavy for the ordinary conveyance. The envelope which covered the appointments of Captain Chunn and his subalterns had the Washington postmark of the 16th ultimo but it did not reach this place until yesterday.)I have the honor to be with great respect sir your Humble 
■ William Henry Harrison. P. S. The information given by the party of Potawatamies mentioned in my last to Captain Taylor at Fort Harrison was that the Prophet was in the neighbourhood of his former residence with about 300 Winebagoes and about 200 of other Tribes and that he was daily gaining strength. The Honble William Eustis Secy, of War.^ 
P. S. I have the honor to inclose you herewith an abstract of the reports shewing the state of the effective force at different dates at this place.[Not found] .,^j tt tj 
\\ . xl. xl. Medard Labbadi to Harrison 
Head Quarters foot of the :\Iiami Rapids 
Feby.11th, 1813 
Har. Pa. 92S-930 
The affidavit of Medard Labbadi late resident near the River Raisin in the Michigan Territory. He being svrorn saith he was in his house when he heard the guns at the commence
1. The part enclosed in parenthesis is evidently a misplaced pSKC. It is given here as in the archives. The last \\ S. belongs to the letter. 
ment of the action at the River Raisen on the 22d Jany 1813 between the American forces under GenL Winchester and the Bj-itish Canadians and Indian forces said to be commanded by Col. St. Georg-e. After some little time he learned that the Indians were killing the inhabitants as well as the Americans, upon which he went toward the scene of action in order to save his family. As he went on the way with one other inhabitant [he was] taken prisoner by two Wyandot Indians, and carried to the Indian lines from which he saw great part of the action. The right wing of the Americans had given way before he got a sight of the action. It terminated after the sun was some hours high not far fi-om 11 o'clock. A. M. by the surrender of the American forces that then remained on the ground. He saw the flag hoisted by the British sent to the American forces and saw it pass three times to the Americans before the sui-render. He could not understand English, but understood that Genl. Winchester was taken prisoner before he got to the lines of his own men. That he was compelled to carry the flag to his own forces after he was taken. That he understood the reasons of the flag passing so often was that the Americans refused to surrender upon any other terms than that the wounded should bo taken care of. The dead buried and the inhabitants protected in their property. That the British first refused to agi-ee to these terms but finally did agree to them. He also understood that the loss of the British and Indian forces in that action was about 400 killed. He also understood that the loss of the Americans in the action was about one hundred and eighty killed. He knows that on the day of the action all the prisoners who were able to march were marched oft^ towards Maiden, the wounded about 60 or 80 in number left in two houses without any of their friends or a physician to take care of them and without any British ofiicer or men, about 10 Indians remained behind upon the ground. The balance of the Indians went off with the British, and he was told by some of the Canadian I^Iilitia that the British had promised the Indians a frolick Ihat night at Stoney Creek, about six miles from the River liaisin. He was liberated after the line of march was formed for Maiden. The next morning he was in the houses where the 
2&— 22004 wounded were. That morning- about fifty Indians relumed. They brought whislvy with them. They drank some and gave some to tlie other Indians lliere between nine and ten o'clock A.]\r. commenced kilhng the wounded and then set fire to the liouscs the wounded we)-e in and consumed them. He was at his fathers on tliis side of the Detroit river about seven days after the action and saw across the river the prisoners marched off for Niagara, from Malden. He saith that he saw t<^ken by his house by Capt. Elhott and nine Wyandotos Indians, two men that he understood had been sent by Genl. Harrison with a flag to the British. One of the men ]Mr. Tessier he knew. The other lie did not knovr, but understood it was a doctor. He had not an oppoi'tunity of conversing v.-ith them but understood from an inhabitant to whom Mr. Tessier communicated that they stopped for the night and left the flag hoisted on the cariole. That the flag was taken away unknown to them and then the Indians fired on them. That he, Tessier, told them they were Frenchmen and surrendered, upon which the Indians ceased firing and toolv them. They then mentioned that they were sent with a flag. The Indians said they were lyars and took them olf. Mr. Tessier was set at liberty at the River Raisin and remained two days expecting the Doct. to return. At the end of which time Tessier was sent for by the British and taken to Malden. He understood that the Doct. was to be sent off innncdiately to Niagara. The Doct. was wounded in the ancle. He understood the British charged the Doct. and Tessier with being spies and farther he saith not. his Signed Midard X Labbardi marque Witness : C. Gratiot, Cap. of Art. and Inf. Sworn to before me this 11th day Feby.1813 Camp Foot of the i\riami Rapids. Signed C. L. Todd, A true copy Rd. Graham, aid de Camp 
Gibson to Secretary of War 
ViNCENNES, Feb 17th, 1813 
Har. Pa. 25'J 
Sir: 
Upon the reception here of the defeat of Gen. Winchester 3 
and his detachment by Maj. [William] Prince, I immediately ;tn(i ollicially communicated it to tlie Legislature of the Territory (who are now in session) and requested their advice to which they returned me, the enclosed answer.[P^'eb.9 above] In consequence whereof and considering myself authorized by the General Instructions given to Governor Harrison previous to his departure from the Territory I have ordered into immediate service sixteen complete companies of the JMilitia of the '■J'eri-itory, which I shall have stationed in a line of (Block) Houses fi'om the one extreme of our Territory to the other. Suffer me Sir, to remark that unless our Frontiers are protected by this or some other means, the whole of our Territory must Ijreak. For what are now our inner Settlements will bt'comc frontiers and adfinitum until the Ohio River will be the line of safety. Perjnit me, Sir, to call your particula)- attention to my letter to the Hon. the Secretary of War, of the 13th, Ulto [see above] and indulge me here to reiterate the recommendation of those Gentlemen named in that letter as ofliccrs. I have the honor to be Sir, with considerations of Respect and Esteem, Your Obed. and Humble Servant, 
John Gibson The Hon. Secretary of War 
P. vS. Should Gov. Harrison be successful, so soon as that ciiTunistance is known here, the Company will be immediately disch. arged. Gibson to the President 
ViNCKNNES I. T. February 17th, 1813 
Har. Pa. 2G3, 2GJ/. Sir: 
I take the liberty of transmitting to your Excellency my addi'ess to the Genei'al Assembly of this territory at their meeting the first week in the present month, and the answer, of the two Houses, [see Feb 2, 3, 5 above] I should not liave ti-oubled your Excellency with a perusal of those papers, liad it not have been that I have been informed that the tongue of slander has been let loose upon me and in order to wipe oil any impression that may have been imjn;opcrly made upon your mind, or that of my Honble. Friend Mr. Jefferson, 1 


have thus trespassed upon your leisure. Having served and acted a pretty conspicuous part in our Revolutionary struggle and served as secretary of the Indiana Territoi-y for upwards of twelve years, I should regret extremely that in the evening of my life any part of my conduct should be viewed in such a light as that I should forfeit the esteem of my country. I have the Honor to be With considerations of Respect Your Excellency's Most Obed and Very Humble Servt./n/nJohn Gibson His Excellency, James Madison, President of the United States 
IlARrxisoN TO Secretary of War No 40 
Headquarters lliAMi Rapids IStli Feby.1813 
Har. Pa. 932-03U 
Sir: 
I can not make any great calculations upon getting 12 months volunteers from the Militia now in the field. There ai'c many of them who express a great willingness to serve but having been so long from Home they must return first to see their families. I have explained my opinion so fully upon the subject of the proposed operations in the spriiig that it remains only for the Gove]'mnent to determine whether the attack upon Maiden and Detroit shall be made as early as possible round the Head of the Lake or whether we shall wait the construction of a na\-al force capable of opposing that of the enemy with success and assisting the operations of our Troops in the same direction or transport them to the Northern shore. If the former plan is adopted a much larger force would be required, but the object would be sooner attained. From what I learn of the state of the feelings of the people both in this state and Kentucky there will be a vast body of volunteers ready to take the field early in the spring. They will however be principally mounted. I am informed today by Genei-al Meade from Meadsville Pennsylvania that a number of volunteer corps could be jn-ocured in that part of the State to join this army and that these corps that behaved so illy last year at Bulfjdoe are particularly anxious to serve in this direction to wipe ofi" the disgrace of their former ill conduct. I daily v'Cfivc applicatious fi'om persoTT^ who wish to join the army iri tlio i^priiig" with jrioiijiteci covps.])ut lh(»]-e scoins to be a i;jcat (lisiucliuai;- an to sej'\e on fool.1 have not yet received the late L:nv for raising an adclili uial Lliiitary force, as soon as it r-.^ches n;.'and I receive > luir instrnctions as to the number and description of Troops tn;it arc to be employed I will put in motion every engine in uiy po^s'ci to procure them. Tv,'o men from the River Uriisin who arrived here on the sixteenth confirm the accounts Isfrctofore communicated of the unhappy fate of our wounded, .;!)!!{lie imi iisonment of the bearer of the Flag of trace I s< jit in. Jt is also certain that IMalden has received an acccs. siori of force from below. The accounts as to its strength vjiries fiom one hundred and twenty to six hundred Regulai's ;n;;i one account adds a considc}'able body of Indians. I have the Honor to be very ro; pectfully Sir yr. 
Obt. Scrvt. William Henry Harrison H-. iible John Ail:^TSTRONG, Es;;./n/nSecretary of }Var 
HARinsoN TO Secrej'ary of War !\o. U.)Headquarters ]Miami Rapids 20th Fcby.1818 
Har. Pa. 931 
Last iiiglit Inice respectable F]"e!:( l^nen cam;' into camp Horn the River Raisin and rcturnei; ; ain before day. The ;^'''0i;'U5J given by them with regard ^- the events of the late • •■ ••')•■> . laii ui' mui'dcr of our prii^on^i: • onfirm tlU'Se given in My last, [see Feb. 11 above] The British have been reinforced at iMalden, but they could not ascertain the number./M>ou:: 3 weeks ago the keel of a vessel of war much larger tluui liie Queen Charlotte was laid at Maiden.30 men work u|)oa her and 300 Si'ilors and workmen are expected from Quebeck dmXy. One of the Frenchurjn above mentioned wa^ toVI by a British orficer tluit the vessel would be completed b\' tiio last of June. i luivo tJiC honor to b. e with gi'cal respr-ct Sir your humble Svt. wM. Henry Harrison The Honble The Secv. of War Ohio Militia Officers to Harrison Head Quarters camp, Miami Rapids Feb. 20, 1813 
Dawson, Harrison, 376 
Sir: 
The service of the troops under our respective commands, in manj^ cases having expired, and in all being about to close, it becomes necessary that we should shortly retire from the field. Permit us. Sir, (the general and field oflicers of the two brigades from the state of Ohio,) to address you at a moment in which the eyes of the whole people of the United States are directed towards your movements; at a time the inhabitants of the state of Ohio have everything to hope from your success, and every thing to dread from unfortunate events, should such attend your opperations. The misfortunes attending the capitulation at Detroit, were not confined to the disgrace of that surrender, the loss of service of so considerable a force, the property give up or territory abandoned ; it effects wounded us still deeper — it rendered the soldiery suspicious of the skill and integrity of their commanders, excited jealousy and distrust, which the enemies of our government were spreading through the country, with views most wanton and disgraceful. At such a moment. Sir, and under those unpleasant circumstances, you were appointed to the comniand of the northwestern army, to regain the territory so shamefully yielded up, to wipe off the stain from our arms, and to teach our enemy that he who could descend so far below civilized warfare, as to associate with savages, and mark his track with the blood of innocent victims, (sheathing his scalping knife in the hearts of defenceless women and children) should not find a resting place within the reach of our ai'ms. Great was the undertaking, and numei'ous the obstacles which oppos(!d your progi'ess; a wilderness of nearly one hundred and fifty miles was to be traversed, which with its swamps and morasses presented difllcultics far greater than the Alps, Great as were these obstacles, relying on the willingness of your troops to endure any hardships, to reach the enemy, you rightly judged that they might be sui'mounted. A few weeks past, every circumstance united to promise you an immediate accomplishment of your designs.'Large supplies of provisions, and numerous munitions of war were so far advanced as to be within your control; your troops, with an unbounded  
reliance on your judgment and skill, were eager to be led up to the enemy, and waited but your order to march; your exertions had been great, and everything promised the suffering soldier a speedy reward for his toils. At this important moment the unfortunate movement of general Winchester to the river Raisin, with its unhappy consequences, (a movement we believe without your orders or concurrence) broke the successful chain of operations, and presented new and unlooked for difficulties before you..; On retiring from service. Sir, we are happy in assuring you of our fullest confidence, and that of our respective commands, in the measures you have taken ; they have been cautious, skilful, and guarded such as would at this time have carried our anns to the walls of Maiden, had not the unhappy occurrences at the river Raisin checked your progress, and for a short time thwarted your plans of operation. That you may soon teach the enemy the distinction between an honorable and savage warfare, by planting our standard in the heart of their country, and regain the honor and territory we have lost, and as a just tribute to valour, toils, and suffering, receive the grateful thanks of a generous and frw people, is among the first, the warmest wishes of our hearts.,r^vy\^V^:--iV-r Edward W. Tupper, Brigadier General 
Simon Perkins, Brigadier General 
CUARLES Miller, Colonel :,: /^ 
John Andrews, Lieutenant Colonel 
William Rayen, Colonel =^; ,; . Robert Safford, Lt. Co. 2d regt Ohio quota - N. Beasley, Major -^>-'-^--'A<^^0yy'< ■■ 
James Galloway, Major " "'' % i!-^!^'^,. Solomon Bentley, Mayor 5 J J 
George Darrow, Major 
W. W. COTGREAVE, Major 
Jacob Frederick, Major His Excellency William Henry Harrison, Commander in Chief of the North Western Army 


Harrison to Secretary of War 
No 42 
Head Quarters (Camp Meigs) Miami Rapids, ■•■S -^ ^.-^ 24th Feby.1813 
.,:■...,.:•<.'■■ ' Har. Pa. 939-942 
Sir: V'"' ^^>' ' ■■^''^-- ' " I had not the honor to receive the letter of Colo. Monroe of the 21st ult.[see above] until this evening. I am still occupied in Fortifying the Camp at this place. A few days will place it in a situation with twelve or fifteen liundrcd men to bid defiance to all the force in Upper Canada. Tlie destruction of the enemy's naval force in Lake Erie has never ceased to occupy my attention and after having examined in my mind every prospect which occured to myself or those whom I consulted there appears to me to be no other practicable but that of crossing over Lake Erie from the mouth of the Sandusky Bay along the chain of Islands which extend at small intervals from that bay to within eighteen miles of Maiden. The intention is to put from one hundred and fifty to two hundred men in sleds to pass to the northermost island in one night and on the succeeding one to reach the vessels some hour before day. The Detachment is selected and combustible matter preparing. The command will set out from hence the day after to morrow for Lower Sandusky. Last year sleds frequently passed over the Lake in this direction. I have procured a pilot who is or who says he is well acquainted with the Islands. A respectable man whom I some times since selected for the purpose and who resided many years on one of the islands unfortunately died ten days ago and it is only within a few days that I have been able to find another. I have no Field ofiicer who possesses all the qualities I could wish for such an enterprise. A very young man Capt.[Angus Lewis] Langham of the 17th Rcgt. will have the command of it. The season is a little too far adranced — but I have strong hopes that it may succeed. lii my last I informed you that the British had commenced building another vessel of War of larger size than the Queen Charlotte. Expedition in the building and equipment of our vessels may prevent this vessel from being useful to them. The whole of the Troops are now actively engaged in fortifying the Camp here in such a manner as bid defiance to any 


i 
cfTort of the enemy. A few days will complete it. As soon as it is done I shall leave the command here to Genl. Leftwitch of the Virginia Brigade and proceed to Franklinton and Chillicothe for the pui^ose of receiving your instructions and facilitating the organization and equipment of the force destined for the operations in the spring. I cannot at present tell what may be done in the western country under the late law of the U. States for raising 12 months men, nor of course, what auxiliary force, will be wanted from the Militia. From the letters I have received from Kentucky I believe the ardor for the service has not abated and I am persuaded that volunteers for the campaign can be procured to any amount if they are allowed to sei^ve on horseback. The body of the army must however be Infantry and if a sufficient force cannot be procured in Kentucky and Ohio I would recommend detachments from the Virga. and Pennsylvania Militia. The Kentucky Troops that were with this army have all been discharged excepting a few companies that are in garrisons. The last of those from Ohio will be dismissed to day. Those from Virginia, Pennsylvania and a few regulars are all that will remain, they however will be sufficient to protect the posts. But I fear that the Kentucky Troops may not be here in time enough to relieve them by the first of April when the term of sen'ice of the Pennsylvanians and Virginians will expire. I have not received the return of the quantity of provisions on hand at the several posts, the supplies however are immense and quite sufficient for the operations of the coming summer. I am Sir with great respect and esteem your obt. Servt. William Henry Harrison llonble John Armstrong, Esq. Secretary of War 
S. G. Hopkins Jr. to Harrison 
Upper Sandusky, Feb. 24, 1813 
Dawson, Harrison, HO 
Dear General: I had hoped to have had the pleasure of waiting on you in person before I again return to the interior. It seems the malice of some mischievous and unprincipled person has represented to you that I had so far acted the hypocrite and poltroon, as to have spoken disrespectfully of and attempted to injure you, after your departure from Kentucky. To colonel Campbell, whose friendship for me induced him to communicate this intelligence, I promptly and unequivocally declared its utter destitution of truth, and solicited him on his return from the expedition to Mississinaway, to make known this denial to you. At the period you received the appointment of major-general of the Kentucky quota of militia from general Scott, (an appointment to which my father had been regularly commissioned some time before) I confess my feelings were severely stung. I thought the measure calculated not only to inflict a tacit censure, but an egregious outrage upon the reputation and sensibility of him whom it was my duty most to venerate. It is probable, and I hope it is the fact, that being ignorant of the train of circumstances that led to this event, I may have looked upon it improperly : but it is certain I still think it sufficient to dissolve all the ties of friendship hitherto existing between general Scott, the gentleman who advised it, and my father. Delicacy enjoined that I should be silent as related to every person concerned, and I aver most solemnly I was strictly so: common prudence, General, required that I should particularly seal my lips as it regarded you, for it is known to all, who know me, how ardently and sincerely I had been your advocate in every situation of life in which I have been placed. I was so from principle, and consequently claim no obligation from you for anything of this kind. Apart too '-^ from this consideration I here assure you that I had discov, '\ ered nothing in your conduct to merit either my censure or resentment, and, so help me God, you never had either. It is due to truth and my feelings that I should request you to acquaint me with the name of the person who has so unjustly and insidiously assailed me. If consistent with your situation towards him, I trust I shall be gratified in this particular.- A court of enquiry on the conduct of my father will, I am informed, be held in Frankfort on the fourth of March next. With your permission I will request major [James V.] Ball for a furlough to attend there at that time. The major will judge of the propriety or impropriety of granting the application at the period at which it will be solicited. It is the first indulgence of the kind I have ever sought, and you will at once appreciate the feelings which dictate it in this instance. A line from you (directed to Lebanon) as soon as  
your convenience may permit, will be most thankfully received. Pardon the trouble I am giving you : and the confusion with which I am surrounded must plead my apology for the imperfect manner in which I have addressed you. I have the honour to be, most respectfully, your friend and servant.
S. G. Hopkins 
Baker to Winchester 
British Niagara, Feb. 25, 1813 
Niles' Register IV, 54 
Bi-igadier-General Winchester 
Sir: In compliance with j'our order of the 29th, January directed to Dr. Bowen and myself, I took charge of the American prisoners at Sandwich on the 30th of the same month. On the 15th inst. I was ordered on to this place by col. Proctor; having arrived I deemed it my duty to report to you whatever transpired with the prisoners under my charge, and the information I was able to collect concerning the other prisoners taken by the Indians. The enclosed report marked (A) gives you a view of all the prisoners who were under my charge during my stay at Sand\vich, their respective companies, regiments and physical condition, along with the names of the British officers, by whom they were sent to Sandwich. From this report you will discover that of the fifty-two prisoners thirteen were at Sandwich. On my arrival from Detroit, 7 men were sent from Maiden by col. Elliott, one was obtained by Col. Baubee, and 33 including those who came over with Dr. Bowen and myself, were sent from Detroit by Major Muir, British commander of the American fort there. For the greatest number of our unfortunate fellow soldiers being sent from Detroit, we are indebted to the exertions of our prisoners, fellow-citizens there, who with an unexampled generosity, when they saw their countrymen driven through the streets like sheep to a market, lavished their wealth for their ransom; nor was the procuration of our liberty all — we had been almost entirely stipped by the Indians ; cloathes such as the exigence of the occasion permitted to be prepared, were furnished us. Enclosed I send you a roll of 33 prisoners who were sent from Sandwich on the 8th inst. as well as eleven who came on to this place with Dr. Bowen and myself, and of 5 others who remained at Sandwich under the care of Dr. Samuel IM'Keehan, surgeon's mate 2d regiment 2d brigade, Ohio volunteers. The prisoners at Sandwich with the exception of Josse Green will all recover, and much is to be hoped for him. One man died on the 1st instant, Martin Netherford, a private in capt. Bland W. Ballard's company, 1st regiment Kentucky volunteer riflemen. On the 8th inst. col. Proctor ordered me to make out a return of all the prisoners who were killed by the Indians subsequent to the battle, agreeable to the best information I could collect. The enclosed return marked (B) [see Jan 22 above] was produced by this order; I might have added the gallant capt. Nathaniel Gray S. Hart, deputy inspector-general; captain Virgin M'Cracken, of col. Allen's regiment; captain John H. Woodfolk, your secretary ; ensign Levi Wells of the 7th U. S. infantry, and a number of privates, who I find by subsequent information have been massacred. The memory of past services rendered me by captain Hart's family, made me particularly anxious to ascertain his fate, I flattered myself he was alive, and every information I could get for some time flattered my hopes; but one of the last prisoners who was brought in told me that the captain was certainly massacred ; he was so badly wounded as to prevent him from walking; the Indians took him some distance on a horse, but at length took him oft and tomahawked him. About the 10th instant, and Indian brought captain M'Cracken's commission to Sandwich ; the paper was bloody. The fellow said be took the captain in trust, but some time after when stripped and examining him, he found an Indian scalp in his bosom, which induced him to kill him. This you cannot but be assured is an humbug of the fellow's own marking to screen himself from the odium of barbarity. The captain's character and the danger that attended his carrying such furniture in a disastrous battle, gives it the lie. Captain Woolfolk after having been wounded in two places, by some means had got refuge in one of the French houses on the Raisin — he was discovered next day and dragged from his asylum — he was taken to the house of a Mr. Lassclle, where he said he would give one thousand dollars to any one who would purchase him. Mr. Lasselle said it was not in his power,  
but he had no doubt his brother would do it who lived at hand -he directed his owners to the house of his brother, but as Ihcy were on their way an Indian from a waste house shot him through the head. Iji. sijxn Wells was taken from my side unhurt. I considiTt. d him alive until on my arrival at this place, captain Naggs told me he was killed by a puttawatamie Indian, not long after h" v.-as taken. Many fresh scalps have been brought us since the battle, and dead bodies seen through the country, which proves that other. s have been killed, whose names I have not been able to (jnd out; independent of those reported to colonel Proctor. This sir, is all the information I have been able to collect concerning those who were massacred. The fifteen or eighteen mentioned in the remarks to the return made to colonel rrwtor, wliose names do not appear, were not known by those who saw them killed. lOnclosed (C) gives you the names of those who from good information are still in the bush. At a rough guess founded on the few facts I have been able to glean. I may say, with .«ome certainty that there are still thirty or forty alive with the Indians. The prospect of a speedy return of those poor fellows I think but gloomy, as colonel Proctor has issued an order, enjoining individuals to purchase no more; and the Indians have been paid a greater price for those already delivered, than the Kovernment will give. Colonels Wells, Lewis and Allen's servants are acting as valets to Indian chiefs. Captain Hart's .'••ervant is alive, but where he is is uncertain. The dead men of our anny are still denied the rites of bcpulture; at the time I left Sandwich I was told that the hogs were eating them ; a gentleman told me he had seen them running about with sculls, arms, legs and other parts of the human system in their mouths. The French people on the river Raisin buried captains Hart, Woodfolk, and some others, but it was more than their lives were worth to have been caught paying this last tribute of humanity to the dead. I several times agitated the subject of burying the dead while in company with British officei's, but they always answered, that the Indians would not suffer it. Before I close this communication, I must in justice to my own feelings, mention those of our fellow citizens of Detroit, who were most serviceable to us. Colonel Elijah Brush, Mr. Richard Jones, Henry L. Hunt, esquire. Judge May, major Mack, and Mouse Godfrey, were most active; Oliver Williamson, esquiie, Mi". Chittenden, Mr. Ten Eyke, Mr. Smart, Doctor Brown, Mr. Miller, Mr. M'Daniel, Monsieur Odrain, [Audrain] lieutenant Reed, Mr. M'Comb and many others purchased provision and aleviated our wants; others befriended, whose names through ignorance or want of retention are not inserted. But in paying a just tribute to our patriotic fellovr citizens, who for their services to us, are driven from their homes, our fair countrywomen should not be forgotten. Young ladies were frequently seen soliciting their fathers for horses, and when they had gained their point, exchanged their presents for Kentuckians. Mademoiselle Lasselle and Labadie, Miss Scott, M. Hays and others deserve to be mentioned. The exertions of these worthy people were directed and point given to them by our ever-to-be venerated countryman, Augustus B. Woodward, who with unwearied zeal exerted himself in our behalf at Detroit; he was the life and soul of the remaining Americans, t-o man to whom they all looked up for succor in the hour of difficuty; for advice in every occasion. This added to the influence he at first had with some of the British officers, enabled him to do wonders for us. This gentleman, whose exalted understanding entitles him to the first consideration for talents, appears to have no wish separate from the interests of his country; though eminenty qualified to enjoy society ; he gives up all its sweets to shield the unfortunate of his country from savage cruelty and British oppression. In the admiration of our countrymen, the deeds of our generous enemies should be remembered. Colonel Baubee took an active part in providing for our welfare, and showed that he possessed a generous nature, the noblest attribute of a soldier. Colonel Eliott was serviceable in rescuing some prisoners from the Indians. 
Major Muir is truly a gentleman and showed every disposition to serve us. The reverend Mr. Pollard of Sandwich visited the hospital fi-equently, and read the service over Wetherford when he was ill!erred. Captains Aikins, Curtish and Barrow, who commanded the guard of our prisoners, all deserve my thanks. Dr. Cowen was unwearied in his attendance upon our wounded, and during our stay studied only to aleviate their pain. He was ordered on to this place with me. Dr. M'Keehan, is the gentleman who was sent through by general Harrison with a flag of truce, to attend the wounded. His wound had prevented him from doing much while we remained. He is a M^orthy man, and I have no doubt but the l)risouers will do well under his care. Wishing you health, and all the happiness your situation peiinits, I remain sir, with great respect, your obedient servant.% Isaac L. Baker Ensign 2d. reg. U. S. Inf'y 
Secretary of War to R. M. Johnson 
Feb. 26, 1813 
McAfee, History, 2S6 
Sir: 
You are hereby authorized to organize and hold in readiness a regiment of mounted volunteers — the organization as to the number of officers and men, to be conformable to the military establishment of the United States. The governor of the state of Kentucky will be required to commission the oflicers when selected, to serve four months after being called into actual service; and six months if required by the United States — the pay of officers and men to commence from the actual service and march of the corps, under the direction of tlio war department. After marching oi'ders, the contractors and commissaries' agents in the difl'erent districts through which it passes, will supply the regiment with forage for the horses and provisions for the men, if required so to do. The keepers of military stores, will also furnish said corps with anununition on regular returns of the effective force of the regiment. If any difficulty arises as to rank, the commanding general will settle the same, after the corps shall have reached it place of destination. Armstrong Jennings to Constituents 
Washington City 27th Febj-.1813 
Har. Pa. 450-452 
Fellow Citizens of Indiana 
Tlie General Government has authorized me to inform you that four additional Companies of Rangers may be raised in our Territory for the protection of its frontiers. Each company to consist of one Captain three lieutenants an ensign, five sergeants and six corporals and ninety privates. After any company shall have been thus formed, and shall have selected their officers, it will be necessary for them to signify the same to the Governor or Secretary of the Territory in an authenticated manner and tender at the same time their services as a company of Rangers through the Governor or Secretary to the President of the U. S. The pay of the officers will be the same as others in the army of the U. S. and the privates if mounted will receive one dollar per day, if not, seventy five cents.^ 
It is much to be desired, that every exertion will be made to have those companies organized as soon as possible and that tlioy may be raised in such a manner, as will give to every portion of the Territory, that safety and that satisfaction so advantageous and desirable to its citizens. Upon the subject of the protection of our frontiers, I have received numerous communications from you, but until now, it has been impossible for me to return any satisfactory or certain answer. The house of representatives has passed a Bill giving further time to the purchasers of public lands to complete their payments. In its provisions it is similar to the acts passed the last session of Congi'css for that purpose and I have no doubt of its finally becomeing a law. When we shall realise the return of peace I am unable to 
1. This act provided for ten companies of ranKCis and bears date Feb. 25, 1813. Annnig 12 Cong. Ill, i. tSi. The first company was orpanizcd Apr.12.1818. WilliamBon iJunn, capt., Henry Urenton, Henry Ristine, David Hillis, and Grcon B. Fields subalterns. The Beciind comr>aiiy, same date, Pierre Andre, capt., Hyacinthe Lasselle, llnmcr Jolinson, John lladden, and David Gre;-rK, subalterns. Third company,' Apr.30, Jnmes Hipjcer. rapt., John Carr, James Currey, Wm. P. Meredith and John Owens Bubaltcrns. May IIO Frederick Shoults was appointed a capt. Ex. Jour. V. S. 370 

  
say, though I hope and expect that another year or less will in a great measure remove the dangers to which we have been exposed from the indiscriminating Tomahawk and scalping knife of the savage. Most respectfully I am your obedt. HI. Servt. Jonathan Jennings A true copy of the Original , . Basil Pratiter . W& 


Secretary of \Var to Harrison 
War Department March 3d, 1813 
Har. Pa. 53, 5^ 
To Wilkinson Major Gl. Same letters to Generals. Lewis, Harrison, Hampton, Davy, Ogden • 
Sir: 
I have the honor to inform you that on the 2d instant the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate appointed you a Major General in the Army of the United States.^ 
P. S. You will be pleased, on receipt of this letter to signify to this Department your acceptance or non-acceptance of this appointment., .. Posey to Secretary of War 


ViNCENNES, Ind. Ter, 


The 4th March 1813 ' ' ., ^ Har. Pa. U3-U5 
Dr. Sir : -' ' ■■■• ■ ^ ^^"' '-' --vr^ ■ 
I arrived at Jeffersonville in this Territory on the 7th ult. after a very fatiguing journey, tho' I enjoy my health very well.^ We have no news here worth communicating — the Indians in small parties are frequently seen, and they commit some depredations — their chief object appears to steal horses. They have killed a few of the inhabitants and some of the 
1. The following brigadier gcneral. s were promoted under appointment of Feb. 27 James Will^inson, Wade Hampton, "William R. Davy, Morgan Lewis, William Henry Harrison, and Aaron Ogdon. These wore confirmed March 1. Ex. Jo. U. S. II.329, SSO 
1. The appointment of Posey to be governor of Indiana Territory was sent to the «enate along with that of Han-isoii to be major general Feb. 27. Posey was not confirmed till Mar.3, and then on a roll call 18 to 8. Roth Ohio t^enators oiiposed him, and one each from N. Hami>., N. Car., N. Y., R. I., Pciin., and Muss, 
27—22664 rangers. Tlie rangers had a skirmish with the Indians six miles above fort La Mott, 25 miles above this, upon the northwest side of the Wabash in the Illinois Territory, in which two Indians were killed, and three of our men killed, and one wounded, this took place about ten days since, there were not more than ten of our men engaged and about 12 or 15 Indians — the Indians had the first fire. The Indians at different times have taken a 'good many horses. It is conjectured to move their families within the limits of Canada as well as to mount their warriors. We have no news of what is passing at the City of Washington or anywhere eastwardly, owing to the eastern mail not coming on for three weeks. I hope our armies will be ready to take the field and make a descent upon Canada by the last of June if not before. I am making every exertion to get the militia in a good way. A regiment of militia have been stationed in various places, in stockade, and blockhouse fortifications, which afford considerable protection to the inhabitants. The turn of service for which they were ordered will shortly expire, and their places supplied by the rangers under the comm. and of Col. [William] Russell. There are something upwards of an hundred regulars who are engaged in erecting a fortification in this town. Fort Knox being dismantled ; and there are forty at fort Ilarrison. The Col. informs me there are five companies of rangers in the Territory, this with the regulars above mentioned are the whole of the force in addition to the militia in the Territory. No late information from Harrison's army. I am with respect and esteem your obt. servt. Th. Posey 
^ ; Secretary op War to Harrison 
War Department, March 5th 1813 
Har. Pa. 55-57 
I\rajor Gcnl. W. H. Harrison. Sir: 
I have the honor to acknovvdedge the receipt of your Dispatches of the 11th, and 20th ultimo, [see above] 
The suspension of youi- movement in advance appears to have been necessary — but though this may be the case, your demonstrations against Maiden should not cease. These you1. All Militia Detachments in the Service of the United States must be made under the requisition of some Officer of the United States (regularlj^ authorized to make such Requisition) on the Executive Authority of the State or of the Territory, from which the Detachments shall be drawn.2d. In these requisitions shall be expressed the number of privates, non-commissioned and connnissioned officers required, which shall be in the same proportions to each other as obtain in the regular army. The looser method of requiring Regiments or Brigades will be discontinued.3d. So soon as one hundred privates, Eight non-commissioned and five commissioned officers shall have been organized as a company under any requisition as aforesaid, they will be mustered, inspected and received into the Service of the U. States, and upon the rolls and reports made in consequence thereof, they will be entitled to pay, etc. and — 
4th. Payment will be made through the Regimental Paymaster in all cases in which the corps shall be organized as a Regiment, and in all cases in which it shall fall short of the number necessary to that organization, by the paymaster accompanying the Army or Division to which it may belong. The Staff of your Division will be organized and instructed under the Law of which the inclosed Bill is a copy. Secretary of War to Harrison 
; ;/,,■.::,v War Department March 7, 1813 
Har. Pa. 5S, 59 
Genl. Wm. H. Harrison Sir: 
Your letter of the 18 of February [see above] was from some cause delayed much beyond the usual course of the mail and even some days after the receipt of your Dispatch of the 20th. You will find by my letter of the 5th Instant [see above] the plan prescribed for your part of the ensuing Campaign, and to prevent any ill effect arising from its miscarriage, a second copy is herewith inclosed. It is probable that Colonel's [Duncan] McArthur and [Lewis] Cass will both be promoted to the Rank of Brigadier and will be assigned to the command of the two Brigades intended to form your Division of the Army. In the enumer  
tion of Corps making parts of this Division I did not mention the two Regiments of the Line, the 17th and the 19th, parts of which are ah-eady with you. The filhng up of these would be an important service and you are requested to promote it. If you are at ease with regard to the safety of your present post against the attacks of the enemy, and have secured to yourself the means of subsisting it, there can be no motive for either reinforcing it by new drafts from the militia, or retiring from it. If on the other hand your force should be so reduced as to make your stay perilous without a further reinforcement, you may employ the two Regiments raised in Ohio, or so many of them as may be necessary to your object. If again the policy of adding to your force be forbidden by the difiiculty of subsisting it and there arises a combination of both facts, viz. a want of force to maintain your present position, and a want of means to subsist a larger one in that case and in that alone, you will retire to the frontier settlements and interpose the wilderness between you and the enemy. These directions have not grown out of any suggestions to be found in your letter but have been produced by a circumspection which it is always proper to extend beyond the mere limits of existing circumsances. Gibson to Secretary of War 
, ' .. ViNCENNES; March 10th, 1813 
•"/•■ ■: ^::.■^ ■..'-■- Har. Pa. 260-262 
Sir : 
In pursuance of the authority given me by the Hon. Doctor Eustis, your predecessor I have succeeded so far in removing Fort Knox to this place as to have a considerable part of the necessary timber brought down, and the men quartered in tovvn. But I am fearful that I shall not be enabled to progress in or complete the erection of the Fort in this place because of the great opposition made to my orders by certain ofhcers of the Military here. They openly declare that they are not subject to my orders and act accordingly, to so great a degree do they contemn my orders, that Capt.[John F.] Chunn^ 
1. For a biography of John F. Chunn see article by A. C. Duddleston on Fort Harrison, Am. MaK. of Hist. XXVIII, 20. Robert Buntin Jr. was the son of the old recorder at Vincennes. I , |1 j J^^^^ has gone from here with the few men under his command, notwitlistanding I had positively ordered him to remain here untill I should receive your answer upon the subject of himself and Lieut.[Robert] Buntin^ of which I had tlie honor of apprising the Hon. Secty. of War upon a former occassion. Altho I have caused a number of detachments from our . Militia to be placed out upon our frontiers still marauding juirties of Indians slip into our settlements and murder and plunder. A few days ago two of the Militia men a part of a detaclnncnt stationed at the river Embarras, went out (contrary to orders) about half a mile from the Block house and were killed and scalped. A man has been killed at his sugar camp near the Grand Rapids (about 30 miles from here) and another near the Bomepart (about 50 miles) below here on the Wabash — and a number of horses have been stolen out of the settlements in this neighbourhod. An act of bravery worth being recorded took place the other day. The Indians had stolen some horses from the settlement on Busseron. They were immediately followed by a small detachment of United States Rangers. They however all gave out except two, ie, Sargt. James Stewart and another man, who followed on untill they arrived within sound of the Indian Camps and finding that the Enemy were too numerous they stole off two of the Indian's horses and returned. Col. Russell, who has been absent from hero since last December has not yet returned. I have the honor to be with consideration of Respect and Esteem 
Sir Your Obt. and very hbl. Servant 
John Gibson The Honble. John Armstrong, Secty. of War. No.43 


Harrison to Secretary of War Headquarters Franklinton 12th March 1813 


Har. Pa.9JtS-9.',5 
'-'' (Duplicate) 
Sir: 
I had the honor to inform you in my letter of the 25th ulto.[see Feb 21 above] that I had organized a Detachment for  
tho purpose of striking a blow at the vessels of war of the enemy laying near Malden. Captain [Angus Lewis] Langham with about 250 men in thirty sleds and sleighs set out fi-om Lower Sandusky on the 2nd Inst, and proceeded as far as Bass Island in the Lake without difficulty. Contrary however to the experience of former years the Lake beyond was found to be entirely open. He was therefore obliged to return to the Miami Bay, where I met him with a detachment that was intended to cover his retreat. Finding that the original design was rendered abortive I had determined upon an expedition to the River Raison for the purpose of burying the remains of our unfortunate countrymen who fell on the 22d Jany. But the ice was so weak as no longer to afford a safe passage along the edge of the lake. Our horses were constantly breaking through and one man was unfortunately drowned. I therefore returned to camp with the whole of the detachment. And on the 7th Inst, set out for this place. I left Genl, Leftwich in command at Camp Meigs. The fortifications of which were so far completed as to render it perfectly secure against any attempt of the enemy. Indeed the cause which prevented the advance of my detachment to the River Raisin would also prevent the Enemy from approaching the Rapids at least with artillery. I have the honor to enclose herewith a plan of Camp Meigs, The Redoubt Marked F is yet to be erected. Col. [James] Morrison has dctermmed to resign his appointment as Deputy Q. M. Genl. There is not a man in the United States who is in my opinion capable of discharging the duty of that department with as much advantage to the public as himself. He is lost to the service in consequence of the singular arrangement which was made by the late Secretary of War of sending on another Dept. Q. M. Genl. with equal powers to those vested in Colo. Morrison. Since the departure of Captain [John IL] Piatt I have used my utmost endeavours to prevail upon Colo. Morrison to continue in service, but he perseveres in his determination to retire at the end of this month. A report has reached us this morning that Genl.[Morgan] Lewis is appointed a Major Genl. Should this be the case I am convinced that the interest of our country would be greatly promoted by the appointment of Colo. Morrison to succeed him, The duties of Q. Master to the North Western Army do not require so much Military information as is necessary for the officer or the head of that Department in the other sections of the Union. An intimate knowledge of the Western country and its resources with integrity and activity are the essential qualifications. These are possessed by John C. Bartlett^ Esq. acting at present as Field Comissary in an eminant degree. He would possess moreover the confidence of the Western country— particularly of Kentucky. I have not yet had the honor to receive any communication from you upon the subj. of the organization of the force for the ensuing campaign. With great respect I have the Honor to be Sir Yr. Hb. Sv. WiLLM. Henry Harrison 
I have understood that the duplicate of this has been lost by the person who had charge of it in the Scioto [river]. W. H. H. 
Harrison to Secretary of War 
No.44 , ., , .; Headquarters Franklinton 13th March 1813 
- "" ;• Ha/r. Pa. 9^6, 9h7 
Sir: .- / .■- ■'.:-\.^-v-;^-^-"'-:.• ■ " 
I had the honor this day to receive your favor of the 3d Inst, [see above] I must beg you to believe that I properly appreciate the distinguished mark of the President's confidence, manifested by my appointment to the rank of Major Genl. in the army. I found at this place about eighty of the Militia which were lately called into service from this state. And as it is absolutely impossible for them to proceed by the Sandusky route I have ordered them to St. Marys there to be embarked upon that river. Two out of the four divisions of Militia in this State have turned out but a small proportion of their quotas. One fourth of the whole number called for is required to garrison the Posts on the St. Marys and Auglaise and nearly an other fourth for those of upper and Lower Sandusky and Foils McA)-thur and Findlay upon Hulls road. The remaining Five or Six hundred were intended for the Rapids and would have been sufficient with the regular Troops and volunteers now there to have maintained the post untill the last of 
J, John C, Bartlctt of Ky. was appointed Quarter Master Gen. Apr.12, 1813,  
April. Cut the deficiency above mentioned has obliged me to order in all the recruits of the 19th Regt. that have been enlisted in this State and to send an express to Govr. Shelby requesting him to forward a part of the Militia formerly called for as speedily as possible. I fear however that they v.'ill not be able to reach the Rapids, before the expiration of the term for which the Virginia and Pennsylvania INIilitia was called out. I have the honor to be with great respect Sir Yr ,„, ' 
Hb. Sevt. WiLLTki. Henry Harrison llonb. John Armstrong, Esq. Secy, of TT'ar ;.'; 
(Endorsed) 
H. Q. Franklinton 13 Mar.1813. Genl. W. H. Harrison ack. letter of the 3d inst. Has ordered in the Recruits of the 19th Rcgt. from Ohio and made a requisition on the Gov. of Kentucky for a detachment of IMilitia to secure his posts. Posey to Secretary of War ' v 
- - City of Washington 14th March, 1813 
Har. Pa. 277, 278 
Sir; 
It would have given me pleasure to have had a shoi-t conversation with you upon the subject of Milit-ary supplies for the Territory of Indiana, but circumstances have not admitted it.1 am urged on my journey from imperious necessity. The information that I wished was as relates to milit-ary supplies of arms and other munitions of war that may have been ordered on, or may be in contemplation to be ordered on by the Gen. Government. I would have seen you this morning but know you must have recourse to the records of the department of war which probably w^ould cause delay and company is waiting. You will much oblige me by a few lines upon the subject as early as possible direct to me at Vincennes. I have the honor to be with much respect 
Your Humble Servant 
Th. Posey Secretary of War 
War Department March 17, 1813 
Har. Pa. 61 
Sir: 
Careful store-keepers should be appointed at the several places at which provisioiis have been deposited and the provisions themselves should be inspected and re-packed. Major General Wm. II. Harrison 
Secretary of War 
War Department March 17, 1813 
Har. Pa. 62, 63 
Sir: 
Your last Dispatch received at this Department is of the 24th ultimo. The services of the Troops under your command having become those of posts and little probability existing that their more active operations when resumed, will be on a route requiring the aid of draft-horses or draft-oxen you will no doubt have disencumbered yourself of the heavy train of these which was unavoidable so long as you expected to have reached Maiden by land. Your supplies also being abundant and even co-extensive with the consumption of the next summer, all further expenditures of this description will be forborne. The frequent and heavy demands made by your agents and other reasons of a public nature, render it necessaiy to limit their drafts on this Dept. They will hereafter not exceed twenty thousand dollars per month until their accounts are settled. You will therefore direct all such officers as have been employed in the Qr. Master's Department and all pui'chasing agents for the north western army to prepare and forward their accounts and vouchers to the accounting of this Department for immediate settlement. A Brig. General will be appointed to command the District composed of the Territories of Indiana Illinois and jMissou]"i and to him will be confided the command of the Rangers and militia within these territories. Major Genl. Harrison , .\