-PanrAT.0-aY.'
‘ la the tollowing sketches of Western America, the several
states and tierrirtories descnihed, are arranged avlphalrmtically ;_
but for the reader’s convenience. and for the punpose of pre
serving .con.tinuity to the description of any particular state
or territory, when commenced, the disposition of the articles
is geograpluicul. The immense extent of country embraced
in the plan oHhe work, has in many instances prevented mi-,
nuteness of description, even -where personal knowledge was
most pe.rl'eet.. The ﬁeld W85 rich. ample-—\oubounded; but
the circurnsoribed limits of a single volume, permitted only a.
glance at the inﬁnity of interesting objects, which presented
themselves utevery step; for instance, more than one hundred
great rivers of the west, the,greater part of which l have dis’
posed of in aeingle paragraph, 0!’ by merely naming them,
would aﬁ'ord‘Imple materials, for a volume of much interesti
In p.repar.ing~this work tor the press, it has been the writer’s
principal aim, to make its useful, correct and faithful guide
to enterprising farmers, and mechanics. of the Atlantic states, ~
who may wish to establish themselves in any of the transmon.
tan: territories. i‘
Business and curiosity has made the writer acquainted with
a large proportion of the Western Country, and many parts
never before particularly described. _Where personal knowl
edge was wanting, he has availed himself of the correspond
ence of many of the most intelligent gentlemen resident in
the west. ~
' The chief objects embraced are, Boundaries, Latitude and ,
Aspect of the Country, Soil, Climate, Diseases, Vegetable,‘
Mineral and Animal Productions. Rivers, Lakes, Swamps, Praiq
ries, Portages, Roads, Counties, Settlements, and Villages;
Population, Character and Customs of the Inhabitants, Indiana,
Antiquities, Military Posts, Situation and Price of Lands,
Price Current, Trade. Extent of Navigable Waters, EX] en
ees of Travelling, Directions to Emigrants, &c. &c.
The vast region of which I have attempted to sketch the
most prominent features, is bounded north by the great La hes.
Erie, Huron,’ and Superior, and the chain of waters bets cell
the Grand Portage and the Lake ot the Woods , west by the
r 1 1 t ,
t
vi PREFATORY. i
\,,.
‘.s-\;. “L,
"source !”
 
 
Rocky Mountains; south by the Gulfnf Mexico, and east by
the Alleghany Mountains—comprising almost one thousand
millions of acres; watered by several hundred rivers: and
containing an extent oﬂupwards 50,000 miles of internal ship 1
and boat navigation. The “ Western Country,” has, there-.
fore, the outlines of an immense empire. The mind wants
new powers of comprehension to form an adequate conception
of its extent. It has 2000 miles of Lake, 1000 of Gulf, and
100,000 of River coast; in short the whole country is one
continued net~work,of rivers, interlocking with each other,
and intersecting the country in every direction. By incurs
ring an expence-of less than 50,000 dollars, it is believed by
goodjudges, that a sloop navigation might be opened between
Buffalo and the Fond du Lac, a distance of nearly 1800 miles,
the only interruption at present'being the rapids of St. Marie,
between lakes Huron and Superior. The Ohio by one of its
branches, (Fr/each creek) approaches with a boatable naviga
tion to within seven miles of lake Erie; by the Connewango,
‘ {(1 Within nine; by the Muskingum, to the very source of the
Cayahoga. The Sciotointerweaves its branches with the
Sandusl-;y, between which there is a practicable portage of
eight miles. The Wabash mingles its waters occasionally with
those of the Miami-of-the~lakes; so do those of the Illinois,
with those of Lake Michigan, between which, Nature has her
self scooped out a canal. Well -might Lqfebvra Desnouettes,
exclaim, on beholding boats arrive at St. Louis, from lake
Michigan, without meeting with a portage; “ What a wonder
ful river, conzmunicating 1‘vz'th>t]w sea by its mouth and its
/
ALABAMA TERRITORY,
Is situated between 30 and 35 degrees of north latitude-.
Its boundaries as established by law on the 3d of March,
18 I Z, are as follows: Beginning at the point where the line
of thethirty-ﬁrst degree ofnorth latitude intersects the Per
dido river, thence east to the western boundary line of the
state of Georgia,thence along said line to the southern boun
dary line to th_e state of Tennessee, thence west along said
‘boundary line to the Tennessee river, thence up the same to
the mouth of Bear creek, thence by a direct line to the north
west corner of Washington county, thence due south to the
Gulhf Mexico, thence eastwarclly, including all the islands
within six leagues of the shore,to the Perdido river, ahd
thence'up the same to the beginning.” It has the new state
(formed from the western part ofthe Mississippi territory)on
the west; Ténnessee north; Georgia and the remnant ofWest
Florida east, and the gulf-ot'Mexico and West Florida south.
These boundaries comprise about one halfofthe late Missis
sippfterritory, which contained about 93,480 square miles,
or 59,821,200 acres.
RIVERS. _ " .
2- The main rivers of this territory run south and fall into
the gulfof Mexico. -The Alabama is the most considerable.
- It takes its rise in the Cherokee nation, near the boundary
line between the states ofGe0rgia and Tennessee, and not
-far from the 35th degree of north latitude, and proceedingin
a southwestwardlydirect ion,unites with the Tombighee,nine
. miles above the 31st degree of north latitude,and forms with
—:--~—-y _
_‘ . _ .. r e

_
-~_
5
a WESTERN GAZE“["I‘/EEIQ, on,
1
it, the river Mobile. The junction of the two rivers is about
forty-ﬁve miles from the head _ofMobile bay, and the riveris
navigable thus far, and indeed several miles further, for any
vessel which can come up the bay. From the junction to
Fort Claiborne [says Judge Toulmin] the distance is about
sixty miles, and the river is navigable thus far, at the lowest
time for any vessel which will not draw more than six feet of
Water. The distance from thence to the mouth of.t'lae' Ca
hawba, on the western side of the Alabama, is estimated at
one hundred and ﬁfty miles,and the river aﬂ"ot‘ds to this plade
four or ﬁve feetdepth ofwatmu From the mouth oftbe Ca
hawba to the forks of the Come and '1‘al'lapoose,'it.is1said
to be 160 miles, thou-gl-1 some do not estimate the dish
tance so great, and the navigation is still good except at
two 1'ipples,i-n which however there is a plenty of water,and
they pass over them with boats. in this part of the river it
is three feet deep in the shallowest places.
The river here loses its name : the eastern branch being
called the Tal-lapoose, Which, except 1'19/8|‘ the mouth, runs
through the territory still belonging to the Creeks,whilst the
western branch of the Alabama is called the Coosé. The
"l‘a'llapoose is boatable to the great falls,thirty or forty miles
above the fork. About eight miles by water, tho’ not three
in a straight line,above the junction of the(i‘oose and Talla
poose,the two rivers approach very near to each other; and
it is in this point of land that Fort Jackson stands.
From thence to the falls of Coose,the distance is seven or
eight miles,and here the navigation ofthe Coose may,in the
present state ofthings, be considered as terminating. There
is a continuation of rocky shoals to FmtWilliams,a distance
of '50 miles ; a circumstance the more to be regretted,as the
n'avigation is not materially obstructed above,and can be pur
sued up the Coose to one of its head streams called the Con
nesangah, which is about forty-six feet wide, and from the
boatable part of which to -the boatable part of theAmoy it is
but eight or ten miles over aﬁrm level country. The Ame)‘
i:MiGRANTs DmECToRY. 9 _
is about sixty feet wide, and is a branch of the Hiwassee,
Which discharges itself into the Tennessee about eight miles
below Knokville. The distance from‘ Fort ‘Villiams to Fort:
Strother, at the Ten-Islands, where the Cherokee line strikes
the Coosa river, is nearly sixty miles by land, but considera
bly more by water. From thence to the portage, or highest
point of nairigation on the Connesaugah, it is probably 120 of
130 miles by land. _
As to the great falls between.Fort Williams and Fort
jackson; it is the opinion of some that they might be render
ed navigable, with no Very great ditﬁculty. There is water
enough; but the shoals are very numerous. Indeed, boats
loaded with provisions for the troops, did descend the river,
and pass them during the late Creek war; but the hazard
Was Very considerable, and some of them Were destroyed.
As to the time it takes to navigate the Alabama, it may be
stated, that to go‘ from 1Mobile to Fort Jackson, a distance of
about 2120 miles, it will take from a month to six weeks, ac
cording to the state of the river; A barge Wfth ﬁve hands,
‘and carrying 125 barrels, has gone from Mobile to Fort Jack
sonin 30 days: but it was reckoned a remarkable good trip.
‘The business however is new, and experiencewill probably
lead to expedition;
The Coosa, under the names of Conriesangah, Estenaury,
Hightour, &c{ runs probably about 150 miles, estimating the
distance by land, through the Cherokee territory, in the north
western corner of the state of Georgia.
The country between the Mobile and the Catabouchy, is
about 180 miles wide, and watered by the Perdido river,
which forms the boundary between the Alabama territory
and the remnant of West Florida; it runs parallel to the
Mobile, and falls into Perdido bay. The streams are the
Conecah and Esca-mbia, Whose waters unite and ﬂow into
‘Pensacola bay; the Conecah is navigable upwards of 100 miles,
and is lined by forests of valuable timber. Beyond the Es
- cambia is Yéllowwater river, Which falls into the bay of Pen
  
1| WESTERN GAZETTEEB; ott,
sacola. Choctaw and Pea rivers still further east, fall into
the bay of St Roses. These streams are all navigable from
50 to 100 miles; the country which they drain is mostly of
a sandy soil, and pine timber. ,
The Catahouchy isanoble river, atfording a navigation of 400 miles; heads in the St E. corner of Georgia, pursues an
S. W. course 300 miles until it strikes the boundary line be.
tween Georgia and the Alabama territory; when itself be-' 7 .
comes the division line to the limits of ,West Florida, a dist
ance of 120 miles.
SURFACE, SOIL, TIMBER}
The n0i'lherH Parts of this territory are broken; near‘ the
Tennessee line, towards the S. E. corner, it may be said to
he mountainous. The tniddle is hilly, with here and there
tracts of level prairie land. Along the Florida line is a strip
of country 50 or 60 miles Wide, covered with the short and
,, longldved pine, cypress and loblolly, so closely resembling
the country between Pearl river and the Mobile, as to render‘r
a description of the one applicable to the other. Such are
its general aspects. The soil between the Mobile and the
Catahouchy, bordering West Florida is better than that on r the east side of Flint river; between the Conecah and ther
Catahouchy, the land is broken and waving; the ridge divid
ing their waters has high ﬂats of light sandy land,- well set:
‘with willow leafed hickory, and iron ore in places; all the
streams have cane on their margins, and are frequently orna
mented with the sour orange tree ; the country healthy, and
affording a line range for cattle, hogs and horses. The pine
Hats have the wire grass and saw palmetto: the soil of the
waving land, stilt‘ and red loam, with stone on the ridges ; the
pine land pretty good for corn. Between the Mobile and the
Perdido, the soil is thin, timber pine, lohlolly bay, cypress.
The head waters of Escambia and Conecah embrace large
quantities of ﬁne cotton and sugar lauds, and orange groves,
‘IMIGRAN'l”s DIRECTORY. u
‘long the Tensaw pine and cypress forests, of a ‘l1‘§a_'w§'
growth ; canebrakes along the river; and sometimes cypress
swamps. The Alabama is margined with cane swamps 5 these
at intervals with pine ﬂats of good soil, suitable for sugar, cot
ton and corn. The swamps at the conﬂuence with the Tom
bigbee, and for some distance below' are subject to periodical
inundations, for which reason the inhabitants never fence their
improvements. Above they are very wide, intersected with
slashes and crooked drains, and much infested with musque
toes. The land bordering on the swamps is a poor stiffclay,
for one mile back; the growth pine and underbrush; back of '
this, broken pine barren; cypress ponds and canebr'akes on
the branches. Fifty miles from the union of the Alabama with
Tomhigbee, the high broken lands commence, extending for
60 miles upwards; timber, oak, hickory, _poplar,I and very
large cedars,
The best part of the territory is to be found between the
Alabama and Tombigbee 5 the Black Warrior, and Bear creek,
have some fine bottoms} and those of the Tallapoosa from
Tookabatchee to its conﬂuence with the Ooosa, about thirty
miles, are excellent; the broken land terminates on its right
bank, the good land spreads out on the left. Proceeding to-.
wards the dividing ridge between the Alabama waters and
those of the Conecah, we pass over an extensive tract of rich
land, the timber large, and cane abundant, liberally watered
by creeks; this tract is thirty miles long including the plains,
and twenty wide. The plains arewaving, hill and dale, and
appear divided into ﬁelds, interspersed or bounded with
clumps of woodland; soil lead colored or dark clay, very rich _
and covered with weeds and tall grass. Below the plains,
soil still‘, very redin places, and gravelly; surface broken for
thirty miles, then pine barren. At the sources of Limestone
creek, there is an excellent body of land called the “Dog
wood ;" the growth oak, chesnut, poplar, pine, and dogwood.
This vein of land, is 20 miles in length, and 8 broad; the
dogwood is very thick set, and tall the Whole ﬁnely watered,
 
 
. Mﬁgsl I
/it '..
12 WETERN GAZETTEER; on,
',
_¢
[§ixty miles above the conﬂuence of Coosa and Tall:ipooea§
there is a high waving country, settled by the Creek Indians,
5 who live generally on rich ﬂats of oak, hickory, poplar, walnut
i and mulberry}-_-the springs are ﬁne; ‘cane on the creeks, and
'iéB?1'&£ branches; the ‘surrounding crountry broken and
gravelly. Most kinds ofgame are scarce throughout the territ
tory. Stone coal abounds on the Cahaba, Black Warrior, &.c.
The late Col, Hawkins long resident in the Creek n-ation‘,
pour-trays the surface and soil of this country in these words :
1 The ‘country lying between Coosa, Tallapoosa, and Cha
tahouchee, above their falls, is broken—the soil stitﬁ with
coarse gravel, and in some places stone. The trees post oak,
white and black oak, pine, hickory and chesnnt--all of them
small—the whole well watered, and the rivers and creeks have
rocky beds, clad in rnany places with moss, greatly relished
by cattle, horses and deer, and are margined with cane and
reeds, and narrow strips or coves of rich ﬂats. On the C00
sa, sixty rniles above its junction with 'l:allapoosa, there is
limestone, and it is to be found in several places from thence
to E-tow-woh and its western branches. _,
The country above the falls of Ocmulgee and Flint riv
ers is low and broken, as that of the other rivers. These
have their sources above each other, on the left side of Cha
tahouchee, in open ﬂat land, the soil stitf, the trees host and
black oak, and s-r_nall._ ‘ '
The land is generally rich, well watered, and lies well, as
a waving country, for cultivation; the growth of timber, oak,
hickory, and the short leaf pine, pea vine on the hill sides and
in the bottoms, and a late (or autumnal) broad leaf grass on
the richest land,—-the whole a very desirable country. Be
low the falls of these two rivers the land is broken or waving,
the streams are some of them margined with oak woods, and
all of them with cane or reed, The uplands of Ocmulgee
are pine forest; the swamp wide and rich; the whole ﬁne for
stock. On its right bank, below the old Uchee path, there
is some light pine barren, with some light Palmeto grass;
.
.
EMIGRAN'l"s DIRECTORY. 13
Flint river has also below its falls some rich swamp for
not more than 20 miles; its left bank is then poor, with pine
ﬂats and ponds, down within ﬁfteen miles of its conﬂuence
with Chatahouchee. These ﬁfteen miles are waving, with
some good oak land in small veins. On its right bank there
are several large creeks which rise out of the ridge dividing
the waters of Flint and Chatahouchee. Some of them mar
gined with oak woods and cane, and all the brahches for seven
ty miles below the falls have reeds; from thence down there
are bay-galls, dwarf evergreens, and cypress ponds, with some
live oak. Between these rivers there is good post and black
oak land, strewed over with iron ore, and the ridge dividing
-their waters has a vein extending itself in the direction of the
ridge? Within twenty-ﬁve miles of the conﬂuence of the
rivers the live oak is to be seen near all the ponds ; here are
limestone sinks; the land is good in veins, in the ﬂats and on
the margins of the rivers. The trees of every description
small-the range aﬁne one for cattle.
The extensive body of land between Flint river and 0
ke-fawno-cau, Altamaha and the eastern boundary of the
‘Creek claims, is pine land, with cypress ponds and bay-galls.
The small streams are margined with dwarf evergreens; the
uplands have yellow pine, with dwarf, saw palmeto and wire
grass ; the blulfs on St. Illas are some part of them sandy pine
barren; the remainder a compact, stiﬂl yellowish sand or
clay, with large swamps; the growth loblolly bay, gum and
small evergreens; the whole of those swamps are bogs, In
the rainy season, which commences after midsummer, the
ponds ﬁll, and then the country is, a greater part of it, covered
with water; and in the dry season it is ditﬁcult to obtain wa
ter in any direction for many miles.
The bees abound in the Okefaunocau and other swamps
eastward of Flint river; the whortleberry is to be found in
swamps and on the poorest land bordering on the cypress
ponds, when the woods are not burnt for a year or more ; the
latter are on dwarf bushes, grow large, and in great abundance;
J’ "J
14 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
[The dwarf saw-palmetto, when the woods are not burnt, ii
i\ like manner, bears a cluster of berries on a single stone, which »
i are eaten by bear, deer, turkeys and l_ndians,l The berries
' half an inch in diameter, covered with a black skin, and have
I hard seed: they are agreeable to the taste, sweet accompa
nied -with bitter, and whentully ripe they burst, and the bees
extract much honey from them. The China briar is in the
\ ﬂab rich, sgndy mgrgin of streams. f'The Indians dig thetj roots,'b5iin them in ahmortar, and ‘suspend them in coarse‘,i
cloth, pour water on them, and wash them: the sediment which passes through with the water is left to subside; the water is:
‘then poured off, and the sediment is baked into cakes, or
made into gruel sweetened with honey. This briar is called
Coonte, and the bread of it Coontetucaliga, and is an impor
tant article of food among the hunters. In the old beaver
ponds, and in thick boggy places, they have the bog potatoe,
V a smail root used as food in years of scarcity, '/ The Okefwunocau is the source of St. ‘Marys and Little
St. Johns, called by the Indians Sau-wan-he. It is some
times pronounced Ecunﬁnocau, from Ecunau earth, ind ti
nocau quivering; the ﬁrst is the most common among the
(‘reeks-it is from Ocka, a Choctaw word for ﬁre and water;
/ Ocau, quivering, This is a very extensive swamp, and much
/ of it a hog; so much so, that a little motion will make the mud
1' and water quiver to a great distance; hencethe name is given
, Ho-eth-le-poie Tus-tun-ug-go Thlucco, an Indian wno re
/‘ sided in it many years, says, “that Little St. Johns may be
ascended far into the swamp, but that it is not practicable to
go far up the St. Marys, as it loses itself in the swamp; that
there is one ridge on the west side of St. Johns, and three
on the east; the growth pine, live and white oak-.-the soil
good ; the lakes abound in ﬁsh and alligators; on the ridges,
and in the swamps, there were a great many bear, deer, and
and tigers--he lived on the ridge west of St. Johns, and was,
with his family, very healthy; beasts of prey destroyed most
of his cattle and horses; he could walk round the swamp in
ﬁve days.”
amona1~r1". nmscroar; I re
INDIAN CESSION.
E IThe Indian dainm are now extinguished to about three
5 fourths of the territory. By Jackson’s treaty, the Coose ri
Ver was made the boundary line between the lands of the
United States and Creeks, from the Ten Islands on the C00
on river, to Wetumke, or the great Falls near Fort Jackson.
From VVetumke, the line runs across eastwardly about 18
Iniles, then southvnrdly across the Tallapo6se to the mouth
of Ofuskee, and up the Ofuskee ten miles, and thence S. 49'
16. E. 67 miles to the mouth of Sumuchichoba, on the Chat
tahouchee, 46 miles above the 31st degree of north latitude,
or the boundary line between the Alabama territory and West
Florida, and from the mouth of Sumuchichoha, due east
through the state of Georgia to the Altamaha, two miles east
of Goose creek. The whole of the Creek country, West and
, South of the Alabama and the line above mentioned, was ce
' ded to the United States by the treaty with general Jacksom
‘ That part of the cession which ens within the Alabama
-, ierritory, ‘Amounts probably to about 17,000 square miles.
I/¢—\
SETTLEMENTS, POP ULA TION.
The settlements extend here from Mobile point to Fort
Jackson on the Coosa. On the Alabama the country is preb
ty well settled near the river, 25 miles above Fort Jackson.
There are also settlements on the Couecah, Cahaba, and
Black Warrior. The country is very thinly settled below St.
Stephens. But it is now rapidly settling between the Al~
abama and Tombigbee.
There are several new towns laid 06'; the village of Blake
lflj is situated at the mouth of Tensaw, on the east side of the
Mobile bay. Iis site is high, commanding and pleasant. lts
fountains of fresh spring water, are pure, cool, numerous and
ebpious. A good road can be found along the dividing ridge
10 wsstrnan GAZETTEER; on,
separating the branches of Conecah and Escambia from time
of the Alabama; and the distance from Mobile to Fort Clai
borne, by this route is 30 miles shorter, than by that of Sb
Stevens. The main road from Georgia to New-Orleans will
probably strike Mobile bay at this point. The borders of the
Conecah are fast settling, especially by the poorer class of
pepple, and stock owners; it being better calculated for men
of small capital than the Alabama The rapidity of the set
tlement of Madison county is probably without a parallel
in the history of the union. The census of 1816 gave the
following result:
 
Counties. Whites. Slaves. Total
Wayne, . 1,566 . 517 .. 2,083
Baldwin, . 411 . 752 . 1,163
Clarke, . 2,763 . 1 ,338 ._ 4,196
Greene, . 992 . 729 . 1,721
Monroe, . 3,593 . ‘ 1,603 .1 5,296
Jackson, . 714 . 255 . 969
Washington, 1,888 . 671 2 2,559
Madison, . 10,000 . 4,200 . 14,200
Mobile, . 301 . < 433 . . 1,300
Total, 22,704 10,493 33,287
This population is scattered, in lines, over an immense
extent of territory. It is rapidly augmenting by emigrants
from Georgia, the Carolinas, and from Kentucky and Tennes
see. A writer well acquainted with the country, predicts
that ﬁve years will not elapse before the ’opu|ation of this
territory will exceed 60,000 free white inhabitants, the num
her which gives a right to admission into the union, as an inde
pendent state.
The Creeks or Muscogees, are the only Indians inhabiting
the territory, and reside chieﬂy on the waters of Alabama and 
Catahouchy, in about thirty towns ; they are brave, raise stock, .
t_ and cultivate the soil, and although greatly reduced by war
> and famine, in 1813-14, their number at this moment exceeds
3 20,000 souls. '

 
s 5»; tg ' ILLINOIS TERRITORY.l - . 0
t -.-— _ - _¢ ‘
Y ' THE boundaries of the Illinois territory are deﬁned by _ \ ﬂj
hw :-—the Qhio washes its southern border, extending from - ‘I \
the mouth of the Wabash to its junction with the Mississippi, ‘ ~ la distance of '1 60 miles ; the Mississippi constitutes the west~ ' ‘Q
ern boundary from the mouth of the Ohio to the Rocky Hills, ' i in north latitute 41 50, a distance, measuring‘ the meanderings I ll
ofthat river, of more than 600 miles; a line due east from the iliocky Hills -(not yet run.) divides it from the North W'ester'n
'Territot"y; the Wabash separates it from Indiana, from its
, mouth to Within 16 miles of Fort Harrison, Where the division ‘
line leaves the river, running north until it_ intersects the - '
horthern boundary line in N. lat. 41 50. The length of the L
territory in a direct line from north to south is 347 miles--its
mean breadth 206. Its southern extremity is in 36 57 N.
lat. It contains 52,000 square miles, 0'. 33,280,000 acres.
The form of this extensive country is that of an imperfect ‘ triangle--its base beingthe northern boundary of the territo
Ty, or the paraliel ‘of the southern extremity of lake Michi
l
gan; and the Mississippi its hypothenuse. '" 
The present population is estimated at 20,000 souls; “all whites. It increases, itis supposed, in the ratio of thirty ' I‘ ‘Per cent. annually, which is accellerating. Slavery is not ,
‘admitted. The inhabitants principally reside on the Wabash
below Vincennes, on the Mississippi, Ohio and Kaskaskia.
No state or territory in North America can boast of su
perior facilities of internal navigation. Nearly 1000 miles,‘
(2
18 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
or, in other words, two-thirds of its frontier is washed by
the Wabash, Ohio, and Mississippi The placid Illinois tra
verses this territory in a southwestern direction, nearly 400
miles, This noble river is formed by the junction of the
rivers Theakaki and Plein in N. lat. 41 48. Unlike the other
great rivers of the western country, its current is mild and
unbroken by rapids, meandering at leisure through one of the
ﬁnest countries in the world. lt enters the Mississippi about
200 miles above its conﬂuence with the Ohio and 1 8 above the
mouth of the Misouri, in 38 42 N. lat. Is upwards of 400
yards wide at its mouth, bearing from the Mississippi N. 75
deg. west. The tributaries of this river entering from the
north or right bank, ate, 1. The Mine, 70 miles long, falls in
to the Illinois about 75 miles from its mouth. 2. The Sa
' gamond, a crooked river, enters the Illinois 130 miles from
the Mississippi. It is 100 yards wide at its entrance, and
navigable 150 miles for small craft——geners1 course south east.
3. Demi Quain, enters 28 miles above the mouth of the Sa
gamond; its course nearly south east, and is said to be na
vigable l20 miles. On the northern bank of this riveris an
extensive morass called Demi Quain Swamp. 4. Seseme
Quain is the next river entering from the north west, 30
miles above the mouth of Demi Quain; 60 yards wide and
boatable 60 miles. The land on its banks is represented to
be of superior excellence. .5. La Marche, a little river from the
north—navigable but a short distance. 6. Fox river comes
in nearly equi-distant between the Illinois lake and the junc
tion of the Plein and Theakaki rivers, is 130 yards wide—
heads nearthe sources of Rocky river (of the Mississippi,) and
pursues a north eastern course for the ﬁrst 50 miles, as though
making an effort to get into lake Michigan, approaches to
within two miles of Plein river; it then takesa southern di- '
rectiou and is navigabled30 miles. 7- Plein, or Kickapoo
river, interlocks in a singular manner, with the Chicago, run
ning into lake Michigan; sixty miles from its head it expands.
and forms lake Depage, ﬁve miles below which it joins the
DIREGTQRY: 1s
Theakaki from the northeast, These. streunsumited, areto
the Illinois what the Alleganx: and .Monongebele,_are to the-_
Ohio—they Water parts of Indiana and the N. W- T¢I'l:il‘.l7!'y!
- The.-,nive.rs of the. left brsssh of-the "linois tall in is the
followingorder: 1. The Maeopin, a sma.ll;rine.r.. 25 yards
Wide, 29 miles from the Mississippi-;, boatable9- miles to the ’
mu. 2. The Little Miehilliniaokinae, zoo miles-from; the
Mississippi; navigable 90 miles; comes from the $.-E- ' I12."
interweaves its bsanches with the Kaskosk-iw--has several
considerableiforlts. 3; Crew Meadow river; heads, in the
Knobs, near the head waters [of> the Venmillion (of: the Wa-I
bash)-itscourse is N. W.-—is but 20 yards wide at its
mouth, and navigable about L5 miles, 4. Vermillion‘ river,
from‘ the S. E.—30 yards wide -, rocky and uunavigable, falls ,
into the Illinois 160 miles from the Mississippi, near the S. E.
end of the Little Rocks. 5. Rainy lslend~l'i¥e.r,eﬁ"om the
S. E. narrow and navigable but a few miles,
“The banksof the lllinois are generally high. The bgdfof
the river. being a -white marble, or clay, or sand, the waters.
are remarkably clear-'.. it abounds with beautiful-islands, one
of which is ten miles long; and -adjoining or near to it, are
many coal mines, salt ponds, and small lakes, It passes
through one lake, two hundred and tenmiles from its month,
which is twenty miles in length, and three or four miles in.
breadth, called Illinois lake.?’*
The Kaskaskia is the next -river in magnitude. It heads.
in the extensive ,prairiessoutho£ lake M.ichigan—-its course is.
nearly It enters the Mississippi 100 milesabove the.
mouth of the Ohio, and 84 below the Illinois, and is nawiigavs
ble 130 miles. Its tributaries from the West and north~wi:st
are Water-Cress and Lalande creeks—those enter-lug from
the east are Blind River, Bighill.~oreek, Bearer, Ycllowlereek,
and Copper mine creeks
J ..
 
‘_‘ Alate -Ollicer of the I-LS. Army. / '
4
20 WESTERN GAZETTEEB; OR,
A respectable correspondent, residing on the Kaskaskia, 2
gives the following interesting sketch, under date of January
20, 1 817 : '
“Tnn Kaskaskia river waters the ﬁnest country I have ever
scen—-it is neither ﬂat nor mountainous, but maintains a hap
' py undulating medium between the extremes-it is suited to _g
the growth of Indian corn, wheat, rye, oats, barley, hemp, to
bacco, &c. &c. The climateis too cold for cotton, as a sta
ple, or for sugar. On the streams of this river there are alrea
dy built, and now building a great number of mills--it is navi
gable at least 150 miles on a straight line—it is generally con
ceded that the permanent seat of government for the state,
will be ﬁxed on this river, near a direct li11e from the mouth
of Missouri to Vincennes, in the state of Indiana. The in
habitants residing on this river and its waters, may not be as
polished as some; but 1 will say, without fear of contradiction,
. that no people have a more abundant stock of hospitality, mo
rality, and religion. On the bank of this river, a few miles
above its mouth, is situated the town of Kaskaskia, the pre
sent seat of government. Here is aﬁne harbor for boats.
“ The great American bottom of the Mississippi begins at
the month of the Kaskaskia river, extending nearly to the
mouth of the Illinois river, supposed to contain six hundred
square miles. No land can be more fertile-—Some of it has
been in cultivation one hundred and twenty years, and still no
deterioration has yet manifested itself--it is unquestionably
the Delta of America. Great numbers of cattle are bought
in that country for the Philadelphia and Baltimore-markets—-it:
is undoubtedly a very ﬁne stock country.”
Au Vase river empties into the Mississippi55 miles above
the mouth of the Ohio; it is boatable 60 miles, through a ﬁne.
prairie country, It drains a district 10 by 25 miles. The
little river Marie waters a district between the Au Vase and
and Kaskaskia. Wood river is the principal stream between
the mouths of the Kaskaskia and Illinois,
Q
= EMIG RANT’s DIRECTORY. 21
Rocky river waters thenorth-west corner of the territory. '
It heads in the hills west of the south end of lake Michigan,
and is 300 yards wide at its entranceinto the Mississippi-ite
bears from the Mississippi almost due east—about three miles
up this river is an old lndian town, belonging to the Sac na
tion. Sand Bay river discharges itself into the Mississippi
between the mouths of Rocky and Illinois rivers.
The streams falling into the Ohio,‘ from this territory, below i the month of the Wabash, are few and inconsiderable in size.
The Saline is"the ﬁrst—-it empties its waters 26 miles below
the month of theWabash. It is 150 yards wide at its mouth
. —navigable for keels and batteaux for 30 miles. The famous
U. S. Salt-Works, are upon this stream, 20 miles up by the
windings of the river, but not more than ten in a direct line.
Sandy creek between this and tort Malsac; and Cash river,
15 miles below Wilkimonville, are the only ones deserving
mention, though there are others suﬁiciently large to afford
mill seats. “ 
. In addition to the rivers and rivulets already described, the-'
eastern part of the territory is wateredby several respectable
rivers running into the WVabash. 1. Little Wabash river,
from the north-west—60 ya:-dswide. 2. Fox river, which
interlocks with eastern branches of the Kaskaskia—enters the
Wabash about 50 miles below Vincennes. 3. The Embar
ras, or river of Embarasment, enters the Wabash a little
below Vincennes——course south-east. 4. Mascontin, from
the north-west, 50 yards wide. .5. St. Germain, from the
west; a mere rivulet. 6. Tortne, fl‘ "1 the west, a crooked,
long river. The three last mentioned rivers enter the Wa
bash, in the order named, between Vincennes and tort Har
rison. 7. Bronette. 8. Duchat. 9. Erabliere. 10.
Rejoicinm These rivers all head in the Illinois territory,
and enter the ‘Vabash, between fort Harrison and Tippeca~
noe. The last is 100 yards wide atits month.
There are many small lakes in this territory. Several of
the rivers have their sources in them. They abound
'22 WE.€."I"EIt.Nv= GAZETTEER; 03,
with wild fowl‘-and ﬁsh. On the leﬁt hank-05 the Illinois,
40 mikes from its month, are a chain of small lakes. communi
cating by narrow channels, with each other; one ofthem dis
charges into the Illinios. The prairies bordering these lakes
~c,o_nstitute the Peorias’ wintering ground. Illinois and De-.
page lakes aremerely expansions of the -Illinois and Plein
rivers. Demiquain lake is situated on the right bank of the
Illinois, above the mouth of the riverof the same name—,it is
of acircular form; six miles across; and empties its water:-4
‘into the Iilinois. There are also severalsmall lakes. in the A
Inerican Bottom, such as Marrodizua, ﬁve miles long, twen-.
ty two miles below the mouth of Wood river-—Bond lake 3 
miles fa:;th_er dawn ;‘ -their outlets discharge into the Mississip
pi. Qn their margins are delightful plantations.
FACE QF THE COUNTRY.
There are six distinct kinds of land in Illinois. 1. Bottoms,
bearing honey locust, pecan, black walnut, beach, sugar maple,
buckeye, pawpaw, &c. This land is of the ﬁrst quality, and‘
may be said to be ripe alluvion, and is found in greater or less
quantities, on all the rivers before enumerated. It is called
the ﬁrst bottom. It is ahnostinvariably covered with a pret
ty heavy growth of the foregoing trees, grape vines, 8m. and
in autumn the air of these bottoms is agreeably impregnated
with an aromatic smell, caused no doubt by the fruit and leaves
of the black walnut. This land is inexhaustible in fecundity;
as is proved by its present fertility, where it has been annu
ally cultivated without manure, for more than acentury. It
varies in width from 50 rods to two miles and upwards. 2.
The nwrly formed or rmripe alluvion; this kind oﬁ iand is al
ways found at the mouths and conﬂuences of rivers; it pro
duces sycamore, cotton wood, water maple, water ash, elm
willow oa-k, willow, &c. and is covered in autumn, with a lux
uriant growth of weeds. These bottoms are subject to inun
dations, the banks being several feetbelow high water mark.
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY.~ -ZI
l_
There are -‘many thousand acres of this land at the mouth of
the Wabash,-arid at the conﬂuence of the Mississippi. Woe
be to the settler, who locates himself upon this deleterious
soil. '3. ‘Dry prairie, borderirig all the rivers, lies immediate
ly in the rearot"the bottoms; from ‘30 to 100 -feet -higher;
'an'd'from'one to _‘ten miles ‘wide, a dryrich soil,and inost hap
pily adapted to ‘the purposes of ‘cultivation, as it bears
“drought and ‘rain ‘With équalsuccessz These prairies are
destitute of trees, unless Where they are crossed by streams
'and‘oc‘casional islands ofwood land. The prairies of the Illi
nois river are the niost extensive of any eastof the Mississip
pi, and have alone ‘been estimated at 1,200,000 acres. This
soil is some places black, in others of the colour of iron rust
-interspersed with a light ‘white sand-. In point of product
‘iveness,'it is not inferior to the ﬁrst rate river bottoms, and in
some respects superior. 4. Wet prairie, Which are found
remote from streams, or at their sources, the soil is generally
cold and barren, abounding with swamps, ponds, and covered
With a tall coarse grass. 5. Timbered land, moderately hilly,
well Watered, and ofa rich soil. 6. Hills, ofasterile soil and
destitute of timber, or covered with stinted oaks and pines.
Between the mouths of the Wabash -and the Ohio, the
right bank of the Ohio, -in many places presents the rugged ap
‘pearance of bold projecting rocks. The barfks of the Kas
kaskia and lllinois in some places -present a sublime and
picturesque scenery. Several of their tributary streams
have excavated for themselves deep and frightful gulls, par
ticularly, those of the ﬁrst named river, the banks of which
near the junction of Big hill creek, present a perpendicular
front of 140 feet high, of solid limestone. The north West
ern part of the territory is a hilly, broken country, in which
most of the rivers emptying into the Wabash from the north,
have their heads. A great part of the territory is open prai
rie, some of which are of such vast extent that the sun ap
parently rises and sets within their widely extended borders.
“ The large tract of country through Which the Illinois ris
1
24 WE$‘TEBN GAZETTEER; OR,
‘ territory.
ver and itsbranches meander, is said not to be exceeded in
beauty, levelness, richness, and fel-tility of soil, by any tract
of land,ot' equal extent, in the United States. From the Illi
nois to the Wabash, excepting some little distance from the
;rivers, is almost one continued-prairie, or natural meadow, in
.termixed with groves, or copses of wood,’and some swamps
and small lakes. These beautiful, and to the eye of the be
holder, unlimited fields, are covered with a luxuriant growth
of grass, and other vegetable productions.” ‘
Travellers describe thescenery skirting the Illinois as beau
tiful beyond description. There is a constant succession of
prairies, stretching in many places, from the river farther
than. the eye -can reach, and elegant groves of wood land.
The trees are represented as peculiarly handsome; having
their branches overspread with rich covering of the vine,
Neverthsless, it is the empire of solitude, for the cheering
voice of civilized men is seldom heard on this delightful
stream. ' .
According to the late General Pike, the east shore of the
Mississippi, from the mouth of the Missouri to that of the Illi
nois (20 miles) is bordered by bills from 80 to 100 feet high;
above, they are of gentle ascent, alternately presenting beau~
tiful cedar‘ clifts and distant ridges. The bottoms aﬂbrd
many eligible situatiohs for settlements. Above and below
-the mouthgf Rocky river are beautiful prairies.
TREES, PL./nvrs, MINERALS.
The oak family may be said to be the prevailing forest
tree of Illinois. There are four species of white oak; two
of chesnut oak, mountain and Illinois; three of willow oak}; Yupland, swamp, and shingle, so called from its being an ex
_ cellent material for shingles, and which is used for that pur
pose by the inhabitants. It is found on all the rivers of the
Its height is from 40 to 50 feet—grey bark,
straight branches, large, sessile, dark green leaves, a little
downy imderneath; spherical acorns. Black jack,blac'k oak,
,.
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 25“
'1
I
>
|
_
. \Natchez.
ailwamp oak, scarlet oak, so called from its scarlet colored
"leaves in autumn; grows to the height of 80 feet, useful for
rails.’ The honey locust is found in all the swails, bottoms,
and rich hills of the west, from the lakes to the latitude of
It invariably rejects a poor soil; grows to the
-height of 40 or 60 feet, dividing into many branches, which
together with the trunk, are armed with long, sharp, pithy
spines of the size of goose quills, from ﬁve to ten inches in
length, and frequently so thick as to prevent the ascent of a
squirrel. The branches are garnished with Winged leaves,
‘composed of ten or _mbre pair of small lobes, sitting close to
the midrib, of a lucid green colour. The ﬂowers come out:
from the sides of the young branhhes, in form of katkins, of
an herbaceous colour, and are succeeded by crooked, com
‘pressedpods, from nine or ten to sixteen or eighteen inches
in length, and about an inch and a half or two inches in
breadth, of which near one half is ﬁlled with a sweet pulp,
‘the other containing many seeds in separate cells. The pods, Q. from the sweetness of their pulp, are used to brew in beer,
and afford for hogs and marry other animals a nutritious and
abundant food. I have myself beenin situations, when lwas
obliged to resort to them asa substitute tor something better,
and always found them to allay hunger, and renew almost ex
hausted strength. The black walnut is found on the bottoms
and rich hllls—it often rises to the height of 70 feet; large
‘ trunk, dark, furrowed bark; winged leaves, which emit an
aromatic ﬂavor when bruised; fruit round and nearly as large
_ as a peach. Y The wood is light and durable. Butternut is a
companion of the black walnut. Besides all the species of
hickory found in the northern states, the pecan or lllinois nut
grows plentifully in the rich swails and bottoms ; the nuts are
small and thin shelled. The banks of the Illinois are the fa
'vorite soil of the mulberry, and of the plum. Sugar maple,
blue and white oak, black locust, elm, basswood, beach, buck
eye, hackberry, coffee-nut tree, and ‘sycamore, ‘are found in
their congenial soils, throughout the territory. White pine
D
26 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
is found on the head branches of i the llliuois. Spice wood,
sassafras, black and white haws, crab apple, wild cherry, cu
cumber, and pawpaw, are common to the best soils. The last; yields a frut of the sizerof a cucumber, of a yellow rolour—
in taste resembling the pine apple. They grow in clusters
of three, four, and ﬁve, in the crutches ofa soft straight and
beautiful shrub from 30 to 25 feet high--it is rarely found on
thghills houever rich their soil. The forests and banks of the
streams abound with grape vines, of which there are several '
species; some valuable. The herbage of the woods varies
little from that of Kentucky, ‘Ohio, and Indiana.
(‘opper and lead are found in several parts of the territory.
I am not informed as to the existence of iron ore. Travellers
Speak of an nllum hill a considerable distance up Mine river,
and of 2lI10ll’1-.‘I' hill, producing the ﬂeche or arrow stone. The
French while in possession of the country, procured mfill- '
stones above the Illinois lake. Coal is found upon the banks
of the Au Vase or Muddy river, and Illinois 50 miles above
Peoria lake; the latter mine extends for half a mile along
the right bank of the river. A little below the coal mines
are two salt ponds one hundred yards in circumference, and
several feet in depth ; the water is stagnant, and ofa yellowish
colour. The French inhabitants and Indians make good salt
‘ from them. Between two and threehuudred thousand bush
els of salt are annually made at the U.‘ S. Saline, 26 miles be-,
low the mouth‘ of the \Vabash. These works supply the
settlements of lndiana'and Illinois. The salt is sold at the
works at from ﬁfty to seventy-live cents a bushel. Govern
ment have leased the works to Messrs. Wilkins and Morrison,
‘of Lexington. Bedsof white clay are found on the rivers
Illinois and Tortue. \The prevailing stone is lime.
VI LLAGES, ROADS, AND SETTLEMENTS.
There are several old,-French villages onboth banks of the
lllinoi~, Which are antique in appearance, inhabited by a peo
ple inured to the habitsof savage life. '
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 27
Cahokia--ls situated on _a small stream, about one mile
east of the Mississippi, nearly opposite to St. Louis. It con
tains about 160 houses, mostly French, who were its founders.
“This town, although apparently of considerable elevation, is
still a‘ damp and disagreeable situation, owing to its being too
level to permit the rains to run off very easily.” It former
ly enjoyed a considerable share of the fur trade. At present
the inhabitants conﬁne their attention chiefly to agriculture,
but not with much spirit. There is a post-otﬁce and a chapel
for the Roman Catholic worship; and is the seat of justice for
St. Clair county. ' '
St. Phil ippe--In the American bottom, 45 miles below Ca
hokia, a pleasant old French village. Prairie du Rockers-I-Twenty miles below St. Phillippe,
contains from sixty to seventy French families; the streets
are narrow—~there is a catholic chapel. The country be
low and above is a continued prairie of the richest soil.
, Kaskaskia--Situated_ on the right shape of the river of
the same name, eleven miles from its mouth, and six from the
Mississippi, in a direct line. It is at present the seat of the
territorial government and chief town of Randolph county
contains 160 houses, scattered over an extensive plain‘; some
of them are of stone. Almost every house has a spacious
picketed garden in its rear. Th_e houses have a‘ clumsy ap
pearance; it is 150 miles sopth-west of Vincenues, and 900
from the city of \Vaishington. The inhabitants are more
than half French ; they raise large stocks of horned cattle,
horses, swine, poultry, &.c. There is apost oﬁice,a land oﬂice
for the sale of the public lands, and a printing ollice, from
which is issued a weekly newspaper entitled the “Illinois
.Herald.” This place was settled upwards of 100 years, ago,
by the French of Lower Canada. The surrounding lands
are in agood slate of cultivation. ' ~
The villages on the Ohio, below the VVabash are,
Sh.mrn.1z1ur,tonm, above the month of the Saline, containing
30 or 40 log buildings; the inhabitants live by the proﬁts of
28 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
 
the salt trade. The growth of the town has been greatly re
tarded in consequence of the United States having reserved
to themselves the property of the scite of this place, the salt
licks, as well as the intermediate tract between this and Saline
liver, 9 miles distant. It is a place of great resort for boats,
and in time will no doubt become a place of consequence, as
the lands in its vicinity are of a good quality. Here formerly
Itood an Indian village of the Shawannm nation.
Wilkinsonville--About half way between fort Massac and
the mouth of the Ohio, stands upon a beautiful sayanna of 100 
acres, 60 or 70 feet above the river. It is a place of little or
no trade at present, and has sensibly declined since it lost the
governmental patronage of a garrison. It has a ﬁne eddy for
boats.
There are severrlother small villages, such as Belle Fon
taine, L’Aigle, Edwardsville, &c. A new village is about to
be laid out at the mouth of Cash. There are two roads lead
ing through the Ohio to Kaskaskia. The ﬁrst leaves the Ohio
at Robin’s ferry, 17 miles below the Saline ; distance to Kas
kaskia, 135 miles. The other leaves the river at Lusk’s ferry,
15 miles above the mouth of Cumberland. This is the short
est route by l5'or ‘Z0 miles.‘ A post route passes from
Vincennes to Kaskaskia, about 150 miles long-»—travellers are
obliged to camp out two or three nights. Government have
leased out a number of lots upon these roads; and receive
the rents in repairs of a given distance of road. There is a
tolerable road between the mouth of Au Vase and Wood
river, passing through Kaskaskia, Prairie du Rochers, St. Phi
Iippe,and Cahokia. Most of the settlements are connected
by practicable roads, at least for packers and travellers on
horseback. The bulk of the population is settled upon the
Mississippi, Kaskaskia and its branches. There are a few
detached settlements on the Wabash, and some of the streams
entering the west bank; and detached ones on the Ohio,
Those on the Illinois are small, insulated, and sometimes 50
iuiies apart. The American and Turky hill settlernents, bp
EMlGRANT’s DIRECTORY. " ' so
Ween the Illinois and Wood rivers, are ﬂourishing; the in
habitants are mostly from Kentucky and the southern states,
NA T URAL 0UR!OSITIES, JINTIQ UITIES.
The “Cave in Rock,” nineteen miles below Saline, hat
‘1Jeen often visited and described by travellers. The en
trance into this cave is of a semi-circular form, twenty feet
-above the ordinary level of the river, in a perpendicular rook,
thirty feet high. A few yards from the mouth you enter a
{spacious room, sixty paces in length, and nearly as wide.
Near the centre of the roof is an aperture resembling the fun
nel of a chimney, which, according to Ash, the British trav
eller, leads to an upper room, “ not unlike a Gothic Cathe
dral.” At one end of this vault, our traveller found an open
ing, which served as a descent to another vault,of very great
depth, as he judged, since “a stone cast in, whose reverbra
tion was not returned for the space of several seconds.” Our
adventurer, who is always full of the marvellous, found the
remains of several human skeletons, in this “ drear abodc;"
while searching for others, he got bewildered, and was unable
toﬁnd the place’ of his descent. He ﬁred his pistol, as a sig
nal of distress—its"eﬂ'ect was “terriﬁc”—its report ' “ tre
mendous.” “No thunder could exceed the explosion, no
echo return so strong a voice !"* Mason’s gang of robbers
made this cave their principal rendezvous, in 1797, where
they frequently plundered or murdered the crews of boats
descnding the Ohio.
The Battery Rocks, so called from their resemblance :6 a
range of forts and batteries, are noticed by travellers, as a na.
tural curiosity. They are nothing more than the perpendi
‘ npular bank of the river, seven miles above the Cave in Rock.
The Devil’s Oven is situated upon an elevated rocky point,
q-_
35:: Ash’: Travels, page 234. _ ‘ 1,,
30 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
projecting into the Mississippi, ﬁfteen miles below the mouth
of Au Vase. It has a close resemblance to an oven. On the
large prairies are frequently found sink-holes, some of which
are 150 feet across, circular at the top, gradually narrowing
to the bottom, and frequently so steep as to make the descent
diﬂicult; At the bottom, the traveller ﬁnds a handsome sub~
terranean brook, in which he can conveniently allay his thirst
These sinks have, doubtless, been formed by the waters’ un
dermining the earth, the weight of which produces successive
excavations.
Ancient fortiﬁcations and mounds, similar to those found in
Kentucky, Ohio, and Indiana, are also met with in Illinois.
Four miles above the Prairie du Rochers, are the ruins of fort
Chartres, built by the French, at the expence of one hundred
thousand dollars. At the period of its construction, it was
one quarter of a'mile from the river, but at present is nearly
undermined by the Mississippi. Fort M assac, 45 miles above
the month of the Ohio, built by the French about the middle
of the last century, and occupied by the Americans for many
years after the close of the revolutionary war; is at present
dismantled.
.lZ\lIMALS, BIRDS, FISH, SERPENTS.
The butfaloe, which. formerly roamed at will, and in vast
numbers, through the immense prairies of Illinois, have lately
disappeared, preferring the more distant plains of the- Mis
souri. Deer, elk, hear, wolves, foxes, oposum, and raccoon,
remain in considerable numbers. The inhabitants of a fine
breed of horses from the Spanish stock. Their cattle have
a lively and sleek appearance. Hogs are easily raised.
‘Vild turkies abound in the hilly ‘districts. Quails are
plenty—pheasants, scarce. Geese and ducks frequent the
ponds, lakes, and rivers; particularly the head branches of
the Illinois, and small lakes towards lake Michigan, whither
they are attracted in prodigious numbers, in quest of the wild
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. '31
rice, which furnishes an abundant and favorite aliment. Buz
zards, pigeons, black birds, paroquets, and several species of
_ hawks, abound in the same numbers, as in other parts of the
r ' westzrn country. ‘
\ ‘ Most kinds of ﬁsh which are found in the Missssippi and
r ‘ ~‘K-the great northern lakes, frequent the rivers of this territory.
N Stnrgetm are found in Peoria or lllinois lake.
3 The only venomous serpents, are the common and prairie
tattlesnakes, and copper-heads.
, _ I
X IND)’./1NS_'. The Sncs or Saukies, inhabit the ceuntryborderingi; on
Sand Bay and Rocky Rivers-—they have three villages. A
part of this tribe reside on‘ the west side of the Mississippi. I
Pike gives“ the total number of souls ‘at 2850. Four miles
below Sand Bay, the U. S. had an agricultural establishment,
under the direction of a Mr. Ewing. ‘It did not succeed,
because these Indians hold labor in the greatest contempt.
The Kasliaskias, Cohokins and Peorias, are remnants of formi
dable tribes. They have been nearly annihilated in their
wars with the Saukies and Foxes, originally provoked by i the assassination of the Saukie.‘chiefPontiac'. They are re
duced to 250 Warriors—reside principally between the Kas
kaskia' and lllinois. The Delawares and Shawanese have
a snmmer'residence four miles below An Vase river. The
Piankashaws and Mascontins mostly inhabit the Mascontin,
Tortue and Rejoicing branches of the Wabash; their total
number of Souls about 600.
JIGRICU/PURE, PRODUCTS.
Corn isat present the staple--no pountry produces ﬁner.
The traveller often meets with cornﬁelds containing from 100
to 1000 acres, these are cultivated in common by the people
Bf a whole village, or a settlement. By this method the inhab
‘am,
»
_,.
as WESTERN GAZET'I‘EER; 0R,
.
itants obviate the expense ofdivision fences, where it would 1!".
be necessary to haul timber several miles to the centre of 3 '
vast prairie. Cotton is raised for domestic use. There is no ,'-2|-1
doubt, that ultimately, considerable quantities will he pro
duced for exportation. ,Tobaceo grows to great perfection-~ Wheat does well, when properly managed, except on the'bok_é__f
toms where the soil is too rich. Flax, hemp, oats, :rish and
sweet potatoes do as wellas in Kentucky. Notwithsﬂinding 1/ 
the abundance of wild grapes to be found in the forests, it is
very doubtful, I think, whether the French inhabitants ever
made 80 hogsheads of good wine, in any single year. '1 be: successful experiment at Vevay, in Indiana, warrants the be- V
lief that vineyards, at no remote period, will embellish the
hills of the southern half of this territory,
MJNUFACTURES.
These are all of the domestic kind. In 1810, according to
the Marshall’s returns, there were, I
Spinning-Wheels, . . , . 1 630
Looms, . . . . . . . 460
Cloth produced, (yards) . . 0 . . 90,039
Value, (dollars) . . . 54,023
Tanueries,l . . . . . . 9
Value of Leather dressed, . . , 7,-750
Distilleries, _ . .- . .. . . 19
Produced (gallons) 10,200 . . 7,500
Flour, 6440 barrels—-value, I . . 32,200
Maple Sugar, 15,600 lbs,-value, . . 1,980
Sfhe population has nearly doubled since that period, and
the manufactures have advanced in a corresponding ratio.
MILITARY BOUNTY L./1NDS.>
The lands in this territory appropriated to reward the valor:
of our soldiers, during the late war, amount to 3,500,000
(,
‘
4'
aniensnra ninnemonr. as
hens. This tract lies on the north bank of the Illinois, near
its junction with the Mississippi-. It has never been particu
I Iarly described. Mr. Tiﬁn, commissioner‘ of the general
; p land oﬁce, declares it to be of the ﬁrst quality. A gentle
Inan, hi h in oﬁice in that territo , writes-—'-“ I have never ‘ 5 . "Y
--Y. been on the north side of the Illinois river, but my informa
kt-‘ ‘lion authorises me to say, that it is it very good country.”
Another correspondent writes-“This tract is of good quali
ty, and desirable to settlers--it is inferior to none of the pub
lic lands of the United States.” The U» St are now engag
ed in surveying them. They are watered by several respec-~
1table streams-, and are advantageously situated, either for the
take or Orleans trade, having the Mississippi west; lllinois
south; Mine river east, and lands belonging to the Sac and '
Fox Indians, north. The growth of vegetation is so luxuriant
that the surveyors can make no progress in summer.
LANDS, TITLES, PRICES-.
The public lands have rarely sold for more than $5 pet
Icre, at auction. Those sold at Edwardsville in October;
I 816,_averaged $4» Private sales at the land oﬂice, are ﬁxed
by law, at per acre. The old French locations command ~
Various prices from $1 to 50. Titles derived from the Unit
ed State’ government are always valid '; and those from indi
Viduals rarely false.
There are upwards of sixteen millions of acres belonging
to the United States, obtained at different cessions from'th_e
Indians, and consequently a wide ﬁeld open for purchase and l
7 Selection.
The lands belonging to the aboriginal proprietors lie princi
/ pally between the ‘Wabash and the Illinois, north of the head
of the Kaskaskia. They have large reservations north of
the Illinois, upon Rocky river, Sagamond, &c. The Unit
ed States have obtained a cession of six miles square at the
east end of Peoria lake, north of the Illinois river.
E
J ~ 1
.34 VVESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
/ FUTURE POP ULn TION. _' ' ~ 5
The territoiial population being at this moment 20,000i
souls, and the ratio of increase 30 per cent. per annuin, it will _
require ten years to give Illinois the necessary qualiﬁcations)-'4
for beiiig admitted into the Union. It is capable of sustain’- ,.;,1
ing a deiiser population than New York, and contains nearly
as many acres. Comparatively speaking, there are no waste
lands. It Would, therefore,'allowing twenty souls to the .‘ square mile, conveniently sustain a population of l‘,0()0,000l \
But on the ratio of 54 to a square mile, which was that of
Connecticut, at the census of 1810, it would contain, in time‘,
2,000,000.
EXTENT OF NA VIGABL E’ WA TERS.
Nature has been peculiarly bountiful to Illinois, for not on
ly has she blessed this favored region with a temperate deli‘-" ‘
mate, and highly productive soil, but has prepared conveni
ent chamels of communication, for the transportation of pro
ducts to market, arid to facilitate settlement and internal in- V
tercourse. The Illinois, which hitherto has been little navi
gated, except by the North-‘Vest Company’s boats,'must
in a few years become the theatre of an active commerce.
American enterprize will force its way thither.‘ The tide of
navigation, like water‘, will oversproad the fine. vallies of Illi
nois, Mine and Demi~Quain‘. A triﬂing expence, comparitive Ily to the importance of the undertaking, will unite the Illinois '
to the Chicago in all seasons of the year. Then the lead of
_of Missoiiri, and the cotton of Tennessee will ﬁnd their way
to Detroit and ,Bn‘tfY".lo. The following rough estimate, Which
. does not exceed the actual distance, will enable uninformed
readers to form a pretty correct idea of the extentpffrontier
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 35
and internal navigation, for boats, which the future state of
of Indiana will enjoy. ‘
v FRONTIER‘ NJ! VIGJ TIGN.
 
 
 
.Wabash, . . . . . . . . . 240 milesY
‘‘ Ohio, '. . . . . . . . . . 164
Mississippi, 4. . . . . _. . . . 620
Total 1024
INTERNAL NJVIG-HTION,
Illinois, navigable . . . . - . , , 320 milel,
Tributaries from the N. ‘V. . . . . 550
Ditto, from the S. E. . . . . . - 200
Kaskaskia, andbranches, . . . . . 300
I Tributaries of the Wabash, . . . . 500
Minor rivers, such as An Vase, Marie,
Cash, Sac. . . . . . . . . . 200
Internal 2070
Frontier 1024
’ , _ Total 3094
t A The distance by water, from the month of the Illinois to
/“'‘\~ New Orleans, is 1174 miles, and to Buffalo, through the lakes,
l4Qtl
r\
‘I
INDIANA,
N IS bounded west by the Wabash river, from its mouth to
(0 miles above Vincennes, and thence by a meridian line to
the parallel of the south end of lake Michigan, (supposed to
be in N. lat. 41, 50.) which divides it from Illinois territory,
Its northern limit is the above parallel, Which separates it
from the Michigan territory. A meridian line running from
the mouth of the Big Miami, until it intersects the aforesaid
parallel of the south end of lake Michigan, divides it from the
state of Ohio,on the east. The Ohio river forms its southern
boundary. Length, from north to south, 284 miles ; breadth,
from east to west, 155 miles—-contains 39,000 square miles,
or 24,960,000 acres. Its form would be that of a paralello
gram, were the course of the Ohio due west. . 
RIVERS, LAKES.
The Ohio washes the southern border of Indiana, from
the mouth of the Big Miami, to that of the Wabash, a dis.
ﬁance, measuring its windings, of 472 miles-—al| the streams
Which intersect this extensive line of coast, are comparitively
short; forthe southern fork of White river, having its source
within a few miles of the Ohio boundary line, runs nearly par
allel with Ohio, at the distance of from forty to sixty miles.
The principal of these enter the Ohio in the order named:
Tanner’s C'reeIc—-Two miles below Lawrenceburgli, thirty
miles long; thirty yards wide at its mouth-.—heads in the
Flat woods to the south of Brockville .
Lougkerg/’s C'reek-Fifty yards wide at its mouth, and forty
miles long, is the next stream worthy of mention, below the
Big Miami, from which it is distant eleven miles.
.. ,4‘ ‘
an wnsmnn GAZETTEER; on,
Indian CreeIc—S0metimes called Indian Kentucky, and
by the Swiss Venoge, after a small river in the Pays do
Vaud (Switzerland) constitutes the southern limit of the
Swiss settlement, eight miles below the dIl0Uth of Kentucky
river. It rises in the hills near_the south fork of ‘Vhite Ri
ver, 45 miles north east of Vevay.
W21/andol creek, heads in the range of hills extending in?
transverse direction, from near the mouth of Blue river, to the
Muddy fork of White river, and falls into the Ohio about
equidistant from the falls and Blue river.
Big Blue River, heads still further north; but near the.
south fork of WVhite river. After running ﬁfty miles south
west, it inclines to the east of south, and enters the Ohio 32
miles below the mouth of Salt river, from the south. I_ts
name indicates the colour of its water, which is of a clear
blueish cast ; but in quality pure and healthfuh ‘-~
Little Blue River empties into the Ohio 13 miles below the
mouth of Big Blue River—it is about forty yards wide at its
mouth--its course is from north east to south west. Ten
miles below is Sinking creek, ﬁfty yards wide at its mouth.
Anders,on’s river, sixty miles farther down, is the most con
siderable stream between Blue river and the “Tabash. Be
‘ low this, are Pegion and Beaver creeks. In addition to the
preceding creeks and rivers, a large number of respectable
creeks and runs also enter the, Ohio, at different points be
tween the Miami and the VVabash, so that that part of In
diana, lying between W'hite river and the Ohio, may be pro
nounced rvell watered. it is the character of most of the
foregoing streams, to possess a brisk current and pure water;
the consequence is, an abundance of convenient mill seats,
and a salubrious and healthful climate.
The Wabash waters the central and western parts of the
state. The main branch of this ﬁne river, heads two miles
east of old fort‘ St. Mary’s, and intersects the portage road
between Loramie creek and the river St. Mary’s, in Darke
county, Ohio. There are three other branches, all winding
EIiIIGRANT’s' DIRECTORY. as
through a rich and extensive country. The ﬁrst, called Little
river, heads seven miles south of fort Vvayne, and enters the
'VVabash, about eighty miles below the St. Mary’i portage.
'1-‘he'second is the Massasinway, which heads in Darl‘coun
ty, Ohio, about half way between tbrts Greenville andRe
ogvery, and unites with the others, 5 miles below the mouth
of Little river. The third is Eel river, rvhichjssues from ‘
ﬁiaveral lakes and ponds, eighteen miles west of fort \Vayne;
it enters the Wabash, eight miles below the mouth of the
Massissinway. From the entrance of Eel river, the general
course of the Vi/abash is about ten degrees south of west, to
V the mouth of Rejoicing river, (85 miles) Where it takesa
southern direction, to the month of Rocky river (forty miles)
—-here it inclines to the west, to the mouth of the Mascontin,
(thirty-six miles)-—where it pursues a south eastern course,
to Vincenues, (ﬁfty miles)-—from this town to the Ohio, its
general course is south, (one hundred miles.) It is three hun~
dred yards wide at its mouth, and enters the Ohio at right
angles, Its length, from its mouth to its extreme source, ex
ceeds ﬁve hundred miles. It is navigable for keel boats,
about four hundred miles, to Ouitanon, where there are
. ‘rapids. From this village small boats can go to Within sis;
miles of St. Mary’s river; ten of fort WVayne; and eight
of the St. Josephs of the Miami-of-the-lakes. / Its current
is generally gentle above Vineennes-—below this town there
are several rapids; but not ofsuﬂicient. magnitude to prevent
boats from ascending. The principal rapids are between
Deche and White rivers, ten miles below Vincennes.
The tributary waters, which enter from the left bank of
the “’ahash, and which are called rivers, are: I I. The Peloka, from the north-east, comes in twenty
_miles below Viticennes; it heads a few miles south east of
the Muddy fork of White river, with which it runs parailel, at
the distance often or twelve miles. _It is about seventy-ﬁve
miles in length‘, and meanders through ‘extensive rich bot
foms.' " '
40 VVESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
2. White River enters four miles above the Petoka, and
sixteen below Vincennes. This is an important river, as it
reaches nearly across the state in a diagonal direction, wateri
ing a ‘st body of rich land--thirty-ﬁve miles from its month
there is a junction of the two principal forks-~the north or
Drift-wood Branch, ‘interlocks with the north fork of Wkite
water, and with the branches of Stillwater, a tributary of the
Big Miami. The south or Muddy fork heads between the
branches of the west fork of W/zituvater. The country
between the two main forks of Whiteriver is watered by the
Teakettle branch, which unites with the north fork, twenty
miles above the junction of-the two principal forks.
3. Deche river, unites with the Wabash, about half way be
tween Vincennes and the mouth of Whiteriver-—-it comes
from the north east-~is a crooked, short stream, but re
ceives several creeks.
4. Little river, called by the French Le Petite Reviere,
Winds its devious course, from the north east, among wide
spreading bottoms, and enters its estuary a little above Vin‘
eennes. Between this river and the Wabash lies an alluvion
of several thousand acres, uniformly bottom, of exhaustless
fertility. '
5. The St. Marie, from north east, enters eighteen miles
above Vincennes‘, and is about ﬁfty miles long.
6. Rocky‘; river, sixty miles further up, comes in from the
east, and interweaves its branches with those of the Main
fork of White river. It is one hundred yards wide at its
mouth, and has several large forks.
7. Petite, or Little river, is the only river entering from the
left, for seventy miles above Rocky river, It comes from
the south east, and heads near the sources of Rocky river.
8. Pomme river comes in from the south east-—forty mile!
higher up, and twenty miles below the mouth of Massissim
way. Itgrises near the Ohio boundary, a little to the north
ofthe head branches of Whitewater. Besides the rivers
above enumerated, which water the left bank of the Wabash,
-.'EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY; '41
there are an immense number of creeks and runs, affording, in
inost places a sutﬁcient supply of water. But there are prets ‘
ty extensive districts between the Little and Rocky rivers,
Where Water cannot be readily procured-.
The right or north West bank of the ‘Vahash, receives a
greater‘ number of rivers than the left. Crossing this noble
stream, at the mouth of Pomme river, and descending upon
its right shore, the ﬁrst considerable water that obstructs our
progress, is Richard’s creek-, from the north west--"-ten miles
below. ‘1‘en miles farther enters Rock river, from the north
West--its banks are high, and the country around it brol'n‘:'m
Eight miles farther down, is the '1‘ippacan'oe, rendered fa
mous by‘ the battle upon its banks, between the Americansl '
and Indians, in Nov. I811. This river heads about thirty"
miles to the West of fort Wayne. Several of its branches issue from lakes, swamps, and ponds; some of whichihave
' double outlets, running into the St. Josephs of the Miami-ofi
the-lakes. Upon this stream, and on the Wabash, above and “
below its junction-, are Indian villages, and extensive ﬁelds-. l ' /
' Two Indian roads leave these towns for the northern lakes—'-» 5 one ascends the right bank of the Wabash-, to Ouitanan and X
fort Wayne; the other ascends the Tippacanoe, and crosses
the head branches of the Illinois, to the St. Josephs of lake
Michigan». ‘ /
From the mouth ‘of Tippacanoe-,' We successively pass
Pine, and’Redwood creeks; Rejoicing, or Ve'rmillion Jaune,
Little Vermillion, Erabliere, Duchat-, and Brouette rivers, at
the distance of from ten to ﬁfteen miles from each other, and
all coming from the west or with West; mostly small, and
having their heads in the Illinois territory;
Wkitewater, rises near the eastern boundary line, twelve
miles west of fort Greenville, and nearly parallel with this
line, at the distance of from six to ten miles; and watering in
its progress, twenty'two townships, in Wayne, Franklin, and
Dearborn counties. At Brookville, thirty miles from its en
/
;_ trance into the Miami, it receives the West fork, which heads I _'-:.: F ‘
~\.
42 WESTERN GAZ-ETTEER; on;
in the Flat woods, thirty miles west of that village, and inter?
locks with the branches of White river. This beautiful little'
river waters nearly one million of acres of ﬁne land, and owes‘
its nameto the unusual transparency of its Water: A ﬁsh or
a pebble can be seen at the depth of twenty feet. It is suﬂi
ciently cool for drinking during summer. The inhabitants
living upon its banks, contend that its water is less buoyaht
than that of any other river; and endeavored to dissuade me
from bathing in it: I nevertheless, swam several times across
the stream, where it was one hundred yards wide; and, al
though an experienced swimmer, was notalittle fatigued by
the exercise. But I ascribed the effect to the coldness iather
than to any extraordinary buoyancy of the water.
One of the eastern branches of this river; heads six miles
east of the state line, in the state of Ohio; and Greenville
creek, a tributary of the Stillwater fork of the Big Miami,
heads about the same distance within the state of Indiana.
The north eastern part of the state is watered by the St;
Josephs of the Miami-of-the-lakes, and its ll‘ibUt3I‘iBS——i.l1iI
river _heads about sixty miles to the north west of foit:
‘Wayne, and forms a junction with the St. Mary’s,§just above‘
this post. Panther’s creek, from the south, is its largest fork‘
.Its remote branches interlock with those of the rivers Raisin,
Black, St. Josephs of lake Michigan, and Eel river.
That part of the state borderingo'n the Michigan territory,
,is liberally watered by the head branches of the river Raisin,
(of lake Eric;) the numerous forks of Black river, (of lake
Michigan ;) and the St. Josephs of lake Michigan—-the latter
heads near,_and interlocks with the branches of Eel river;
and pursues a serpentine course, seventy miles, through the
northern part of Indiana,
The rivers Chemin, Big and Little Kennomic, all of which
fall into lake Michigan; the Theakaki, Kickapoo, and a part
of the chief branch of the lllinois, all wind through the north
western section of the state; and all, except the last, are en
tirely within its boundaries; the three ﬁrst run from south to
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ' 43
‘north; the-lattersouth and south west. Besides, the coun
-try. is chequered by numerouscreeks. The Vermillion -of
the Illinois rises in Indiana, near the sources of Tippacanoe.
The northern half of the state is a country of lakes--38
of which, from two to ten miles in length, are delineated .
on the latest maps; but the actual number probably exceeds
one hundred——many of these, however, are mere ponds, less
than one mile in length. Some have two distihct outlets ,;
due running into the northern lakes; the other intothe Mis
sissippi._ _
_The phenomenon of waters with double outlets, is not un-»
common. _The great Ganges, the greater Burrumpooter, and‘
the great river of Ava, all rise and issue from the same foun
_ tain-.-so do the Rhine and the Rhone ; the Suir, the Nora,
and the Barrow, in Ireland, spring from the same well—-and
after traversing a vast range of country, in three opposite dl!
rections, re~unit_e and form one basin, in Waterford Harbor;
there are two rivers in the Isthmus of Panama, whose head
waters are not farther apart than the Ouisconsin and Fox river;
one stretches into the southern ocean; the other into the
Mexican sea.
The greater part of these lakes, are situated between the
head waters of the two St. Josephs, Black river, Raisin, Tip=
pacanoe, and Eel rivers.
ASPECT OF THE COUNTRY".
A range of hills, called the knobs, extends fromthe falls of
the Ohio, to the ¥Vabash, nearly in a south western direction,
Which, in many places, produces a broken and uneven sur
face. North of these hills, lie the Flat woods, seventy miles
wide and reaching nearly to the Ouitauan country. Border
ing all the principal streams, except the Ohio, there are strips ’
of bottom and prairie laud; both together are from three to
'six miles in width. Between the \Vabash and lalm Michigan,
the country is mostly champaign, abounding alteryiatelygvith I
Wood lands, prairies, lakes, and swamps. /
, 41
W s.‘ ‘_“_qF_ __; ;. ______ . .--.._‘/-_.‘_...____"
44 ~ WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
A range of hills run parallel with the Ohio, from the nfontb
, of the Big Miami, to Blue river, alternately approaching to
Within in few rods, and receding to the distance of two miles ;
but broken at short intervals by numerous creeks.‘ Immes
diately below Blue river, the hills disappear, and the horizon
presents nothing to view but an immense tract of level land,
covered with a heavy growth of timber. ‘
‘- That part of the state lying west of the Ohio boundary_
line, north of the head branches of White river, east and
south of the Wabash, has been described by the conductors.
of expeditions against the Indians, as a “country containing \" “
Innch good land; but intersected at the distance of four or '
six miles, with long, narrow swamps, boggy and mirey, the.
soil of which is a stiff blue clay.”
North of the Wabash, between Tippacanoe and Onitanan,
the banks of the streams are high, abrupt, and broken-—and '
the land well timbered,except on the prairies.
Between the Plein and Theakaki, the country is ﬂat,-‘wet,
and swampy, interspersed with prairies of an inferior quality
ofsoil. ' .
In going from the Ohio to the Wabash, say from Clark’s
ville or Madison to Vincennes, you ascend from two to three
hundred feet before you ﬁnd yourself at the top of‘ the last
bank of the Ohio. You have then before you a strip ofcoumv
try, twenty nnles wide, tolerably level, except where gullied
by the -actions of streams. This brings you at the foot of
the “ Knobs,” which are at least 500 feet higher than the land
in your rear; after this you pass no very tedious hills, until you
ﬁnd yourself within three miles of Vincennes. In travelling
_._l_l..
7 from this place to the Ohio, you are not sensible of ascending to the height at which you rﬁnd yourself, on the summit of
the “ Knobs,” from which you have a boundless prospect to
the east. You can distinctly trace, with the‘ eye, at the dis!
tance of twenty miles, the deep, serpentine vale of the Ohio,
and the positions of New-Lexington, Corydon, and L0lIi$a
ville, in Kentucky.
BMIG RAN'I"s DIRECTORY. 45
PRJIRIES.
There are two kinds of these meadows—the river and up
land prairies: the ﬁrst are found upon the margins of rivers,
and are bottoms destitute of timber; most of these exhibit
Vestiges of former cultivation. The last are plains, from
thirty to one hundred feet higher than the alluvial bottoms;
ind are far more numerous and extensive; but are indeter
minate in size and ﬁgure—-since some are not larger than a
common ﬁeld, While others expand beyond the reach of the
eye, or the limits of the horizon. They are usually bounded
by groves of lofty forest trees; and not unfrequeutly adorned
with “ islands,” or copses of small trees, affording an agreeable
shade for man and beast. In spring and summer they are
covered with a luxuriant growth of grass, and fragrant ﬂowers,
-from six to eight feet high, throughwhich it is very fatiguing
to force one’s way with any degree of celerity. The soil
of these plains is often as deep and as fertile ‘as the best bot
toms. The prairies bordering the Wabash, are particularly
rich-Wells have been sunk in them, where the vegetable soil
Was hveniy-two feet deep, under which was a stratum of fine
white sand, containing horizontal lines, plainly indicating to
the geologist, the gradual subsidence of water. Yet the or
dinary depth is from two to ﬁve feet. ‘
The several expeditions against the Indians, during the late
war, enabled many of our 0ﬂicers, to become extensively ac
quainted with the geography of the Indiana and Michigan
territories. ‘ ‘
An oﬁicer, who conducted several expeditions against the
Indians, and who was at the Putawatomie villages, on the St. 
Joseph's of lake Michigan, writes to me as follows:
“The-country [between fort Wayne and the St. Joseph’s
of lake Michigan,] in ‘every direction, is beautiful, presenting
a ﬁne prospect. There are no hills to be seen ; a champaign
pountry, the greater part prairie, alfording inexhaustible graz‘ '
 
 
246 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
ing, and presenting the most delightful natural meadows, and
the grass cured would be almost equal to our hay ;\ there 'are
also, vast forests of valuable timber, and the soil exceedingly
rich. The rivers have their sources in swamps, and some
times from delightful inland lakes. It is not unfrequent to see
two opposite streams supplied by the same water or lake, one
running into the waters of the Mississippi, and the other into
the northern lakes. Neither China nor Holland ever had1
such natural advantages for inland water communications.”
Anbther otﬁcer, who had opportunities of seeing and explor
ing the country between the Wabash and lake Michigan, des
scribes it as a country, “admirably calculated for the conveni
ence of inland navigation. The sources of the rivers are in
variably in swamps or lakes, and the country around them
~ perfectly level. A triﬂing expence would open a navigable
communication between Eel river, and a branch of the Little
St. Joseph’s; the two St. Joseph’s; the Raisin of lake Erie,
and the Lenoir (Black river) of lake Michigan. Small lakes
are discovered in every part of this extensive and romantic
country. We found them covered with ducks, and other '
water fowls. For the diversion of ﬁshing, we had no leisure ;
consequently, I am notgable to inform you whether they
abound with ﬁsh, but presume they do, as many of their out
lets empty ‘into the tributaries of the great lakes.
“The country around thehead branches of Eel river, Pan
ther's creek, and St. Joséph’s, (of the Miami) is generally
low and swampy; and too wet for cultivation. But even in
that quarter, there are many beautiful situations. The tim
her is oak, hickory, black walnut, beach,» sugar maple, elm,
and honey locust. The wood lands line the water courses;
but branch out frequently into the prairies.
“The immense prairies on the south bank of the St. Jo
sephs, (of lake Michigan) aﬂbrded us many rich, beautiful, and_
pieturesquo views. They are from one to ten miles wide;
and of unequal lengths. They are as level as lakes; and in
,point of fertility, not inferior to the lands around Leatington,
 
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 41
Ken. or the best bottoms of the Ohio.
Whose southern limits were not descernable to the naked eye;
they were doubtless capacious enough to form two or three
townships each; and perfectly dry, being -at least one hun
dred feet above the river bottoms. These natural meadows
are covered with a tall grass; and are separated by strips of
woods, containing oak, maple, locust, lyn, poplar, plum, ash,
and crab-apple. In these wood lands, we generally meet with
' creeks, runs, or springs; but never in the open prairies, un
less in wet and rainy seasons, when the waters form tempora
ry sluggish brooks, wherever there is suﬁicieut descent for the
purpose.
We crossed two;
“ The St. Josephs [of lake Michigan] is a charming river, l
and navigable to within a short distance of the river of the
v v
same name. Its current is brisk, and at the upper villages, 1
one hundred yards wide.
ﬁelds upon its banks: several" Canadian French families re
side with them. Their manners and habits of life are‘semi
Savage.
“ All the rivers in the interior of Indiana and Michi
-gan, have spacious bottoms, and they uniformly wander
from the line of their courses, so that in making ﬁfty miles
progress, in a direct line, they water one hundred miles of
territory by their sinuosities. By these frequent bends, the
length of river coast, and the quantity of bottom land is near
ly doubled, which amply compensates for extra toil and ex
Pence of navigation.”
Mr. D. Buck, of Auburn, (N. Y-) who assisted in the sur
vey of twenty-two townships, six miles square each, writes to
his correspondent as follows :
I have seen a great deal of excellent land; the prairies
-on the ‘Wabash in the vicinity of fort Harrison, exceed every
thing for richness of soil and beauty of situation, I ever be
held. The prairies are from one to ﬁve miles wide, border
ing on the river, and from one to twelve in lenghth; the
streams‘ which run into the Wabash divide one rhirie from Q
The Indians have cleared large
an WESTERN Gazwrrnna; mi,
 
4
another; on these streams are strips of woods from halt’ 2!
mile to a mile wide, the timber of which is excellent; the soil
of the prairies is a black vegetable mould, intermixed with
ﬁne sand, and sometimes gravel. In choosing a situation for
a farm, it is important so to locate a tract, as to have half
prairie and half wood land; by which means you will have a
plantation cleared to your hand.
The new purchase contains one hundred and twenty town
ships, or 2,765,040 acres. The lands sell very high in the
neighborhood of tort Harrison, for it is the most delightful
situation for a town on the VVabash—4the soil is the richest of
any in the state. This will undoubtedly become the seat of a
new county, and that at no remote period. The fort is garrb
soned by one hundred and ﬁfty riﬂemen, of the regular army,
under the command of Major Morgan. There are six fami
lies living in log cabins, near the fort, who improve congress
lands. They have been here ﬁve years. Wherever they
have cultivated the ground, it produces abundantly. Besides these, there are several Indian traders-—G1-eat numbers of lur
dians resort hither to sell their peltries. The tribes who fre—
quent this place and reside on the Wabash, are the Kickapoo:
Miamis, Putawatomies, Shawanmse, Weaws, and Delawares.
They eucamp in the woods convenient to water, where they
build wigwams. We came across a great many while survey
ing in the wilderness--they appeared friendly, and oﬂ'ered us
honey and venison. Our business has principally been near
the Indian boundary line, sixty miles from any white settle
ments. The woods abound with deer, bears, wolves, and
wild turkies. About three~eighths of the land we surveyed
is excellent for most kinds of produce; the remainder is good
for grazing, but too hilly, flat, or wet, for grain.
The lands on VVhite river are Well watered with springs
and brooks. You can hardly ﬁnd a quarter section without:
water; the country in this quarter is, in many places, hilly
and broken, and in some parts stony. Limestone is most
predominant; but there are quarries of free stone. Although
EMIGRANTQ DIRECTORY. ‘ 49
‘the country is well 'watered,good mill seats are scarce. There
can be a suﬂiciency of small mills for the accommodation of
the inhabitants. Steam mills, without doubt, will be in opera
tion as soon as the country is suﬁiciently settled for the pur
pose ofﬂouring for exportation
“ There are some excellent tracts ofland in Indiana and Il
linois-corn is raised pretty easy ; and stock with little atten
tipn, and in some places with little or no fodder. This coun
try is full of prairies ; some of Which are excellent land. The
timber around them‘ consists principally oak, of which the,
inhabitants make most oftheir rails, and sometimes draw them
three iniles. These prairies are destitute of water; but it can
be obtained by digging twenty or thirty feet. 'Wheat grows
stout; but the grain is not so plump as it is in the state of
New Ytirk;”
, “ It‘is diﬂicult building in Knox county, and always will be,
on account of the scarcity of mill seats. Horse mills are com
mon ; the miller takes one eighth part of the grain for toll; cus
tomers ﬁnding their own horses-” 
He further states, that the two branches of Whiterivet
are navigablewith boats in high water for the distance of 130
miles; that coal mines are numerous near the Wabash. Iron
ore is found on Whiteriver. That wheat yields the inhab—
itants,» who are neat farmers, 68 lbs. a bushel, and never gets
winter-killed or smutty ; the only diﬁiculty they experience
in its culture is, that the land in many places is toorich until
it has been improved. Apple trees bear every year. Peaches
some years do exceedingly well; so do cherries, currents,
-and most kinds of fruit. Wheat is 75 cents a bushel; ﬂour
$3 a hundred-dc-livered at Fort Harrison four; corn 25
cents a bushel-pork $4——beef $4; butter and cheese from
12 1-2 to 25 cents; honey 50 cents per gallon. Maple -su~
gar 25 cents. . European goods exorbitautly high.
Reptiles and venomous serpents are not numerous. A
few rattle snakes and some copperheads comprise all that are
dangerous.
G
50 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
. from running into the Woods.
The banks of the “Wabash are in many places, subject to‘ be ioverﬂowed in high water. When the Ohio is at full
height its Waters set back and inundate the bottoms of the Wabash to the distance of four or ﬁve miles. I
Mr. Buck, who descended this river in March, 1816, says,
“I came down the river at the highest stage of water; the
banks were completely overﬁowed almost all the way. The
prairies extending to the river appeared like small seas ; and_in
many places, it was with diﬂiculty that we could _keep our boat;
The distance from Fort Har
rison to Vincennes by water, is 120 miles ; by land only 65.
Below the fort the river is very crooked to its mouth; above,
as far as the Indian title is extinguished, it is quite strait in a
north and south direction. The breadth of the river (at Vin~
cennes) is from 40 to 70 rods. It overflows its banks every
spring, except‘ at a few places where there are handsome si~
tuations for towns. lt inundates a considerable extent of
country opposite Vinecnnes. The ﬂoods do not last long;
nor are they dangerous, if people will use a little precaution in
removing their stock and swine.
“ The winters are mild, compared with those of the north
ern states. By all accounts, last winter was uncommonly
severe for this country.‘ There were three or four weeks of
freezing weather, during which the snow Was from six to nine
inches deep. The VVabash was frozen over so that it; was
crossed in many places upon the ice with safety. I think
that autumnal frosts are earlier here than in the western coun
ties of New York ; but the weather is very ﬁne till Christmas ;
then changeable until about the middle of February, when
winter breaks up, and spring soon commences. Peaches are
in blossom by the ﬁrst of March, and by the 10th of April,
the forests are “ clad in green.” The flowering shrubs and
trees are in full bloom some days before the leaves get their
growth, which gives the woods a very beautiful appearance.”
“Salt, at and above Vincennes is two dollars a busliel,
though considerable quantities are made at the U. S. Saline
n
.“—|
‘EMIGRAN-T’s DIRECTORY. 51
\
30 miles below the lnouth of the Wabash, in the Illinois ten
ritory, where it is sold for one dollar a bushel. The chief 
supply comes from the salt works on the Great Keuhaway.—
There have been salt Wells sunk, (by boring) near the Ohio,
to the depth of 500 feet, where the water is said to be very
strong. There are likewise salt springs on the Indian lands,
not far from the northernboundary of the ‘new purchase.”

' POP U_LJiTION, COUNTIES, VILLAGES.
Population of Indiana in November, 1815.
 
Cbuntiem No. of inhabitants,
‘Vayne, . . . . 6,290
Franklin, . . . . 7,970
Dearborn, . . . 4,426
Jeﬂisrson, . . . . 4,093
Washington, L . . . 0,606
Harrison, . . . . 6,769
Gibson, . . . . 5,330
Knox, . . . . -6,800
Switzerland, . . . 3,500
Clark, ,- - 7,000
Posey, . . . . 3,000
Perry, . . . . 3,00 0
WVarwi,ck, . . . 3,000
Total, _ , - . - $3,780
‘DE./IRBORN 00 UN TY,
is bounded east by the state of Ohio. south by the Ohio
river, west by Switzerland county, and north by Franklin
county. It is welhwatered by Tanncr’s Hougelune’s and .\
Loughery”s creeks, “’hitewater and the head branches of
Indian Kentucky. The south part of this county is broken ;
ithe north end level, being in the Flat ‘Nooale. The Ohio
5-2 WESTERN GAZETT-EER; on,
‘I
bottoms are low but fertile. The timber in the middle and
northern parts is oak, hickory, poplar,: and sugar maple.
Lumrenceburgh—Stands on the. bank of the Ohio, two
’ miles below the mouth of the Big Miami. It has not ﬂourish
ed for several years past, owing, principally to its being sub
ject to inundation, when the Ohio is high. A new town call
ed Edinburgh, half a mile from the river, on a:more;elevated
situation promises to eclipse it. :‘*."v °
Rising-Sun—Is delightfully situated on the second bank of
the Ohio, with agradual descent to the river. ' It contains
thirty or forty houses, and is half way between 'Vevay and
Lawrenceburgh. It has a post omce, and a ﬂoating mill an
chored abreast of the town. It has had a very rapid growth, ‘
and will probably become a place of considerable trade.
FRANKLIN,
Has the state of Ohio on the east, Dearborn county south
and Indian lands west and north. It is one of the best coun
ties in the state, and was established about four years ago.——
: It is principally watered by Whitewater and its branches,
upon which there is some of the best bottom lands in the
western country and has been the centre of an ancient popu
lation, as is proved by the great number of mounds‘ and forti
ﬁcations, to be seen on the bottoms and hills. There are no
prairies in this county. Both sides of lVhitewater, from its
mouth, to Brookville, are tolerably well settled‘. Here are
some of the ﬁnest farms to be met with in the western coun
try. A number of mills have been erected. The upland is
pretty level, and the principal timber white oak, hickory and
black walnut. The oak trees ‘are remarkably tall and hand
some; and well suited either for rails, staves, or square timber.
The soil is free from stone, and easily cleared and ploughed;
. producing lﬁne crops of wheat and corn. In July last, I saw
several corn-ﬁelds, which in the preceding March, were in a
state of nature with the trees and brushwood all growing.
' EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 53 '
 
7 try, and consequently the town ceased to improve.
Yet the corn looked as ﬂourishing as it did upon the bottoms.
In the woods, on the bottoms of Whitewater, I discovered
several natural wells, formed in a most ’singular manner.
They were from ten to ﬁfteen feet deep, substantially curbed,
being nothing more nor less than parts of the upright trunks
of the largest sycamores,' which had been hollowed out by the
hand of time. To explain: “Vhen these trees were in their
' iﬁfancy; their roots spread near the surface of the ground ; but
in the course of time, successive inundations and the annual
decay of a luxuriant vegetation, have formed a stratum of the
richest soil, from ten to ﬁfteen feet deep, over the roots of
these venerable trees. At length these vegetable Ma'thusa
lems die, and are prostrated by the winds of heaven, and
where once stood a tree of giant growth, now yawns a well
scooped out by nature’s hand.
Genseng grows in the bottoms to a perfection and size, I
never before Witnessed,; and so thick, where the hogs have
not thinned it, that one could dig a bushel in a very short
time. Upon the spurs of the bills, and the poorest soil, is
found the wild columho root, and is easily procured in any
quahtity. There are two villages in this county-—Brookvillo
and Harrison. V i
BT00km'lle—-Is pleasantly situated in the forks of ‘Vhite
water, thirty miles north of Lawrenceburgh and the Ohio
river; twenty miles south of Salisbury—-about forty-two
north west of Cincinnati, and twenty-ﬁve from Hamilton,
“ It was laid out in the year 1811 ; but no improvements
were made until the succeeding year, and then but partially;
owing to the unsettled state of the frontiers, and its vicinity
to the Indian boundary, being not more than ﬁfteen miles.
The late war completely checked/the emigration to the coun I At the
close of the war, there was not more than ten or twelve dwell
ing houses in the place; but since that period, its rapid ac
cession of wealth and‘ population has been imexamplcd in the
‘ western country. ' _
s-4 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
“ There are now in‘ the town upwards of eighty -buildings,
exclusive of shops, stables, and out houses, the greater number
of which were built during the‘ last season. The buildings
" are generally frame, and a great part of them handsomely
paintedt There are within the precincts of the town, one 
grist mill and two saw mills, two fulling mills, three carding ‘
nsachines, one printing oliice,*: one silversmith, two saddlers,
two cabinet makers, one hatter, two taylors, four boot amf
shoemakers‘, -twotanners and curriers, one chairmaker, one
cooper, ﬁve taverns and seven stores. There are also a jail,‘ 
zrmarket house, and a handsome brick court house nearly
ﬁnished.» , - .--'
“The ground on Which the town stands, is composed of a
rich and sandy loam, covering a thin stratum of clay, under‘
neath which is a great body of gravel and pebbles-cor_me
quently the streets are but seldom muddy, and continue so
but for a short time. The public square and a- great part of
the town stands on a beautiful level, that is elevated between
seventy and-' eighty feet above the level of the river: and, in
short, the situation of the town, the cleanlines of the streets,
the purity of the waters, and the aspect of the country arouiid,
all combine to render it one of tbe most healthy and agreeable‘
situations in the western country.
'“ There are, perhaps, few places that possess equal ad
vantages, or that present a more ﬂattering prospect of future
wealth and importance than this. As a situation for manu
factories, it is ‘unequalled; the two branches of Whitewater
aﬁbrding a continued succession of the best sites for the erec
tion ofwater works, from theirjunction almost to their sources,
and many Valuable situations may be found below the town,
on the main liver.
 
‘ At this press is published a respectable and well conducted weekly
‘~‘hm'nal, P11 titled “ Tar. Pun Deanna,” edited by B‘. F. Monnrs, Esq to
‘rinse pm and the politeness of N. D. Gannon Post Master, I am in
debtefl tor the above interesting and correct account of Brqckvtlte, and
which 1 Lave preferred to my own. '
EMIGRAN'I"s DIRTCTORY. 55
W i-I_‘._ -a - ‘_..ac__,_.,~
“ The country watered by this. stream is inferior to none.
Along the river and all its tributary streams’, are extensive and
fertile bottouls, bounded by hills of various heights; and im
mediately from the top of these, commences a level and rich
country, timbered with poplar,-walnut, beech, sugar tree, oak,
ash, hickory, elm, buckeye, Sac. and a variety of shrubs and
nnderhrush- The soil of this land is peculiarly adapted to
‘the culture of small grain, andfor grazing. The last harvest
produced several crops of wheat, in the neighborhood of this
place that weighed from ‘sixty-ﬁve to sixty-eight pounds per
bushel; and the best crops of grass I have ever seen, are pro
duced without the aid of manure. I Corn, oats, rye, ﬂax, hemp,
sweet and Irish potatoes, &c: &c. are produced in abund
ance. ' .
“During the last season, 1 816, many successful experiments
were made in rearing tobacco, and the soil has been pronounc
ed by good judges, tobe as congenial to its growth, as the
-best lands in the state of Virginia, Kentucky, or the Ca!oli—
nae. As an evidence of the fertility of the country,Icorn and
oats are selling at twenty-ﬁve, rye at forty, and Wheat a sev
e'nty-ﬁve cents per bushel, beef at three and a half, and pork‘
at four cents per pound. The country is'well supplied with
good‘ Water, from a great number of springs, and -water may
also be obtained in almost any place by digging to amoderate
depth.
' -“ Another source ﬁrom Which thistown must eventually de- ‘
rive great importance, is the ease and small expense with
which the navigation of \Vhit-ewater, from thejunction of the
forks, can be so far improved as to carry out into the Ohio,
all articles that may be raised for exportation.
“ To the north arid north west of this place, isan extensive
and fertile country, that is fast grotvingilitoimportamre; and
in Wealth and population, will soon be inferior to but few dis~
tricts on the waters of the Ohio; and, owing to the geographi
cal situation of the country, all the intercourse of the inhab
- itants with the Ohio river, must be through this place!’
as WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
' powdered state.
I was at Brookville in July last, on business, and was highs
ly pleased with the amenity of its situation, and the industry,
intelligence, and healthful appearance of the inhabitants.-—
The road from thence to Harrison, was very ﬁne. ,
Harrison.—This yillage is situated on the north side of
‘ Whitewater, eight miles from its mouth, eighteen north east
of Brookville, and in the centre of a large tractof some of the
best land in the state. More than one half of the villagg
stands on the Ohio side of the state line.
thirty-ﬁve houses, mostly new. A considerable number of
the inhabitants are from the state of New York. Mr. Look
er, from Saratoga county, Mr. Crane, from Schenectady, and
. Mr. Allen, the post master, from New Jersey, own the sur*
rounding lands. They have all very fine and valuable farms, worthbfrom forty to sixty dollars an acre. The settlement
was commenced about sixteen years ago. The bottoms are
herefrom one to two miles wide ;‘ the soil remarkably deep
and rich, and the woods free from brushwood. The trees are
of a moderate growth, but straight and thrifty. The traces
of ancient population cover the earth in every direction.
On the bottoms are a great number of mounds, very unequal
in point of age and size. The small ones are fromtwo -to four
feet above the surface, and the growth of timber upon them
small, not being over one hundred years old; while the
‘others are from ten to thirty feet high, and frequently contain
trees of the largest diameters. Besides, the bones found in
the small ones will bear removal, and exposure to the air,
while those in the large ones are rarely capable of sustaining
their own weight; and are often found in a decomposed or
There is a large mound in Mr. Allen’s ﬁeld,
about twenty feet high, sixty feet in diame_ter at the base,
which contains a greater proportion of bones, than any one
1 ever before examined, as almost every shovel full of dirt
would contain several fragments of a human skeleton. When
on VVhitewater, I obtained the assistance of several of the
inhabitants, for the purpose of making a thorough examination
There are about i
EMIGRAN'1"s DIRECTORY. 51
\
of the internal structure of these monuments of the ancient
populousness of the country. We examined from ﬁfteen to
twenty. In some, whose height were from ten to ﬁfteen feet,
we could not ﬁnd more than four or ﬁve skeletons. In one,
not the least appearance of a human bone was to be found.
Others were so full of bones, as to warrant the belief, that
they originally contained at least one hundred dead bodies;
children of different ages, and the full grown, appeared to
have been piled together promiscuously. We found several
scull, leg and thigh bones, Which plainly indicated, that their
possessors were men of gigantic stature. The scull of one
skeleton was one fourth of an inch thick; and the teeth re
markably even, sound and handsome, all ﬁrmly planted. The
fore teeth were very deep, and not so wide as those of the
generality of white people. Indeed, there seemed a great de
gree of regularity in the form of the teeth, in all the mounds.
In the progress of our researches, we obtained ample testimo
ny, that these masses of earth were formed by a savage peo
ple. Yet , doubtless possessing a greater degree of civiliza
tion than the present race of lndians. We discovered a
piece of glass weighing ﬁve ounces, resembling the bottom of a
tumbler, but concave; several stone axes, with grooves near
their heads to receive a withe, which unquestionably served
as helves ; arrows formed from ﬂint, almost exactly similar to
those in use among the present Indians; several pieces of
earthen ware ; some appeared to be parts of vessels holding
six or eight gallons ; others were obviously fragments of jugs
jars, and cups ; some were plain, while others were curiously
ornamented with ﬁgures of birds and beasts, drawn while the
clay or material of which they were made Was soft and before
the process of glazing was performed. The glasier’s art ap
pears to have been well understood by the potters who manu
factured this aboriginal crockerg/. The smaller vessels were
made of pounded or pulverized muscle shells, mixed with an
earthen or ﬂinty substance, and the large ones of clay and
sand. There was no appearance of iron: one of the sculla was
H
58 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
found pierced by an arrow, which was still sticking in it, drit~
en about half way through before its force was spent. It was
about six inches long. The subjects of this mound were"
doubtless killed in battle, and hastily buried. In digging to
the bottom of them we invariably came to a stratum of ashes,
from six inches to two feet thick, which rests on the original
earth. These ashes contain coals, fragments of brands, and
pieces of calcined bones. From the quantity of ashes and
bones, and the appearance of the earth underneath, it is evi
dent that large ﬁres must have been kept burning for several
days previous to commencing the mound, and that a consid
erable number of human victims must have been sacriﬁced,
by burning, on the spot 5 Prisoners of war were no doubt
selected for this horrid purpose. Perhaps the custom of the
age rendered it a signal honor, for the chieftains and most act
‘ ive warriors to be interred, by way of triumph, on the ashes
of their enemies, whom they had vanquished in war. If this
was not the case, the mystery can only be solved by suppos
ing that the fanaticism of the priests and prophets excited
their besotted followers to voluntary self-devotion. The soil
of the mounds is always different from that of the immediate
ly surrounding earth—-being uniformly of a soft vegetable
mould or loam, and containing no stones or other hard sub
stances, to “press upon the dead and disturb their repose!’
Almost every building lot in Harrison village contains a
small mound; and some as many as three. On the neighbor-- .
ing hills, northeast of the town, are a number of the remains
of stone houses. They were covered with soil, brush, and
full grown trees. We cleared away the earth, roots and rub
bish from one of them, and found it to have been anciently oc
cupied as a dwelling. It was about twelve feet square ; theI
walls had fallen nearly to the foundation. They appeared to
have been built of rough stones, like our stone walls. Not
the least trace of any iron tools having been employed to
smooth the face of them, could be perceived. At one end
of the building, we came to a regular hearth, containing ashes
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ~ - 59
and coals; before which we found the bones of eight persona
of different ages, from a small child to the heads of the family.
The positions of their skeletons clearly indicated, that their
deaths were sudden and simultaneous. They were probably
asleep, with their feet towards the ﬁre, when destroyed by an
enemy, an earthquake, or pestilence. '
Ia T ‘ WAYNE. 
This county is bounded on the east by the state of Ohio, on
the south by the county of Franklin, on the west and north
by Indian lands. It is watered by the north fork of White
Water, the head brooks of the north fork of Whiteriver,
sources of Rocky river, Massissinway, and main branch of
the Wabash. It is very extensive, of a level surface, well
timbered, contains ﬁne lands, and has been settled ten years.
V Its products are, Indian corn, wheat, rye, oats, and tobacco. _
Salisbury/—Lies thirty miles north of Brookville; contains
about thirty ﬁve houses, two stores andtwo taverns. It is at present the seat of justice for Wayne county; but Centre- ‘s ‘ i
ville, a new village, being more central, threatens to become
its competitor for that privilege.
SWITZERLAND, 5
Is bounded west by Jefferson, south by the Ohio river,
north in part by Indian lands, and east by Dearborn county.
Its surface is, in some places, broken by the Ohio and Silver
creek hills, which, however, are of a pretty good soil. It is
Watered by Venoge and Plum creeks, and several small runs;
some running into the Ohio, and others into VVhiteriver.
Ne1vS1uitserland—'l‘he settlement of New Switzerland
was commenced by a few emigrants, from the Pays de Vand,
in the spring of 1805. It extends from about three quarters
of a mile above the mouth of Plum creek, down the river to
the mouth of l ndian creek, now called Venuge; a distance of
B0 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
about four miles and a halt‘, fronting the'river, and originally '
extended back far enough to cover 3,700 acres of land ; about’
half of which was purchased under a law in favor of J. J. Du
four, and his associates, upon a credit of twelve years. Sub
sequent purchases have been made on the usual terms, ex
cepting an extension of credit, in order to encourage the cul
tivation of the vine. There has been a gradual accession of
numbers to this interestingcolony. As early as 1810, they
had eight acres of vineyard, from which they made 2,400
gallons of wine, which, in its crude state, was thought by good
judges, to be superior to the claret of Bordeaux. A part of
this wine was made out of the Madeira grape. They have
now greatly augmented the quantity of their vineyard grounds,
which, when bearing, present to the eye of the observer the
most interesting agricultural prospect, perhaps, ever witness
ed in the United States. The principal proprietors of the
vineyards, are the Messrs. Dufours, Bettens, Morerod, Sie
benthal. Mr. J. J .‘ Dufour arrivbd from Switzerland in Sep
tember last, with a large number of emigrants. The Swiss‘
speak the French language in its purity; and are a temperate,
industrious and polished people, fond of music and dancing,
and warmly attached to the United States. They are rapid
ly extending their vineyards; they also cultivate Indian
corn, wheat, potatoes, hemp, ﬂax, and other articles necessary
to farmers-—but in quantities barely suﬁicient for domestic
use. Some of their women manufacture straw hats. They
are made quite different from the common straw bonnets, by
tying the straws together, instead of plaiting and sewing the
plaits. They are sold in great numbers in the neighboring
settlements, and in the Mississippi and Indiana territories.
Venn;/—-Half a mile above the upper vineyards, was laid
out in 1813, but was a forest in 1814, till the ﬁrst of Febru
ary, when the ﬁrst house was built. During the same year
forty four others, four stores, and two taverns were erected,
and the village selected as a suitable place for the seat of jus
tice for Switzerland county. There are at present eighty
I
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. or
117"‘
Run‘ dwelling houses, besides thirty four mechanics’ shops, of
diﬁirent professions. , The court house; jail, and school
house are of brick. A brick market house and church are
building. ' ‘It has eight stores, three taverns, two lawyers, two
'physicians, and a printing oﬁice printing a weekly newspaper,
called the Indiana Register. There is a library of 300 vol
umes; and a literary society in which are several persons of genius, science, and literature. I
This delightful village is situatedpn the second bank of
the Ohio, twenty-ﬁve feet above high water mark, and is
nearly equidistant from Cincinnati, Lexington, and Louis;
ville, or forty five miles from each. The view of the Ohio
is extensive, being eight miles. The country in the rear is
broken but fertile. The climate is mild, and the sweet pota
toe is cultivated with success. Cotton would doubtless do
well. There are several roads which diverge from the settle- Y
ment. Three mails arrive weekly.
V - JEFFERSON, -,
Is bounded on the east by Switzerland county, on thi_
south by the river Ohio, on the west by the county of Clark,
on the north by Indian lands‘ It contains a great proportion
of excellent land. It is watered by several small creeks run‘
ning into the Ohio, and by the Mescatitak, a branch of the
south fork of Whiteriver, which heads within ﬁve miles of the
Ohio river.
New Lexingt0m—This ﬂourishing town is famous for hav
ing produced the pretended monied institution, called “ The
Lexington Indiana Manufacturing Company,” which has ex
ploded. It is situated in a rich settlement, sixteen miles
nearly west of ‘Madison, and ﬁve miles east of the Knobs ;.
and contains about forty houses, some of them han some,
brick and frame, and others built with he-wn logs, in the true
western style. There is a post-otiice, and printing establish
meat, in Which is printed the “ Western Eagle.” The sub
02 wnsrnnn GA-ZETTEER; on,
--'-'--—e ‘ > '—§k’_ - "'1-;r~ v. _ 1 .- >
face of the surrounding country for several miles, is suﬁ_i_cieut
ly rolling to give the water of the-creeks and runs a brisk
motion. The stones towards the Ohio are calcareous: to the
west and north west, clayey slate. The soil is very product
ive. In the vicinity of this place, the enterprising General
M’Farland has, with astonishing perseverance, dug to the
depth of nearly ﬁve hundred feet, in quest of salt water:
His exertions have been crowned with success, inasmuch as
‘the Water exceeds in strength any salt Water in the western
country, and affords from three to four bushels of salt, to the
_ hundred gallons of water. ,
Madison.—This is the seat ofjustice for the county, and
is situated on the upper bank of the Ohio, thirty miles below
Vevay, contains sixty or seventy houses, mostly small and
new. The banking institution, called the “Farmers’ and
Mechanics’ Bank,” is established here.
/' CLARK,
/
Is bounded east by Jetferson county, south by the Ohio
' river, west by the countiesmf Harrison and Wvashington,
north by the county of Jackson and Indian lands. It is wa
tered by several creeks running into the Ohio, such as Silver
cre.ek, Cane run, &c. and several brooks falling into the Mes
catitak branch of the south fork of Vvhiteriver. Its surface
is considerably broken in the central parts of the county.
Hickory and oak are the prevailing timber. It is thought:
that this country contains many valuable minerals; some
have been discovered; copperas is found in the high banks of
Silver creek, about two miles from its mouth. A medicinal
spring, near Jelfersonvitle, has been much frequented—its wa
ters are strongly impregnated with sulphur and iron. The reed cane grows on the ﬂats. It
Clzarleslon--The seat ofjustice for Clark county, is situat
_ed__in, the centre of a rich and thriving settlement, thirty-two
miles south of west from Madison, two miles from the Ohio
EMIGRAN'l"s DIRECTORY. as
W-'—‘
liver, and fourteen from the falls. This village, like many
others in the western country, has sprung up suddenly by’
the magical inﬂuence of American enterprise, excited into ac-‘
tion by a concurrence of favorable circumstances.
J¢ﬁ‘ersonm'lle-—Stnnds on the bank of the Ohio, nearly op-'
posite Louisville, and a little above the falls. It contains
about one hundred and thirty houses, brick, frame and hewn
logs. The bank of the river is high, which affords a ﬁne view
of Louisville, the falls, and the opposite hills. Just below
the town is a ﬁne eddy for boats. A post-oﬁce, and a land
otﬁce, for the sale of the United States’ lands, are established,
and it promises to become a place of wealth, elegance and ex
tensive business. The most eligible boat channel is on the ra diana side of the Ohio. ‘ ll 
Clarksville—-Lies at thelower end of the falls; and, al
though commenced as early as 1783, does not contain above
forty houses, most of them old and decayed. It has a safe
capacious harbor for boats.
New Alba1zy—A short distance below Clarksville, has been
pulled throughout the Union; but has not yet realized the
anticipations of the proprietors,
HJLRRISON,
Is bounded east by Clark county, south by the Ohio, west
by the new county of Perry, and north by Washington. Its
principal stream is Blue river, Which is navigable for boats
about forty miles. Gen. Harrison owns a large tract of land
upon this river, and has erected.a grist and saw mill, about
eight miles from its mouth, on a durable spring brook, running
into it. On both banks of this river are large quantiﬁes of
oak and locust timber. Gen. H. had it in contemplation,
shortly before the commencement of the late war, to establish
a ship yard at its month, where there is a convenient situation '
for building and launching vessels.
V Cor_1,(don-The seat ofjustice for Harrison county, is situ
‘-4. WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
ated twenty-ﬁve -miles > nearlyr west from Jeﬁersonville, and
ten miles from the Ohio river.. ‘(It was commenced in 1809,
and is the seat of government for the state. The selection of
this place by the legisl_ature,as the seat of government for the
period of eight years, has excited great dissatisfaction in other
~ parts ofthe state. Ithas rapidly encreased since the meet
ing of the state convention, in July, 1816. The Indians
Gazelteis printed in this village. _ ' 
. Ii ‘ > ‘~C '
~ ‘ 1' - WQSHINGTON
./'County is bounded on the east by Clark county, on the
south by; the county of Harrison, on the west by the county
of Orange, and on the north by the county of Jacksou. It is
* watered by the south/fork of VVhiteriver—is moderately hilly,
and was established in 1814.
Salem——Is the only village deserving notice; and is situat
ed thirty-four miles north of Corydon, and twenty-ﬁve near
ly west from Jetfersonville, on the Vincennes road.
JJICKSON
Lies west of Clark and Jefferson counties, north of Wash
ington, east of Orange, and south of the Indian country. It
is watered by Whiteriver and its tributary creeks, and Was
set oft‘ in 1815. Brorvnstonm is the seat of justice; and is
situated twenty-ﬁve miles east of north from Salem.
ORANGE
County is bounded by the counties of Washington and
Jackson on the east; by Harrison and Perry onthe south; '
by the county of Knox on the west; and by Indian lands bu
the north. It has a rich soil, and is well watered by WVhite
river and Petoka. A gentleman, who surveyed several town
ships in the county, declares it to be equal in point of fertility
~EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 65
——I_i
of soil, and excellence of water, to any county in the state.
“ The surface is agreeably undulating. The timber on the
hills consist of black walnut, oak, hickory, ash, sugar maple;
on the low grounds, basswood, pawpaw, honey locust, buckeye
and spicewood; besides, grape vines, and a variety of shrubs.
\/Ve occasionally met with rattlesnakes and copperheads on
the uplands, but never in the bottoms. The most common
game are deer and bear. There is a coal-mine a little below
the forks of ‘Vhiteriver; besides, we‘ met with frequent signs
of minerals; and the needle often refused to settle. The
) bottoms of Whiteriver are nearly as wide as those of the Wa- '
bash, and contain evidence of having been formerly inhabited by Indians, as the remains of their cabins and corn-hills are ‘_
yet visible.. The new village of Paoli is the county seat. It
is forty miles'nearIy east of Vincennes; and thirty north of
west from Salem.”
KNOX.
This county is bounded by Orange on the east; by the
county of Gibson on the south; by the WVabash river on the
west; and by Indian lands on the north. This is the oldest
and most populous county in the state. It is watered by the
Deche, VVhiteriver, Wabash, Littleriver, St. Marie, Bus- '
seron, Raceoen and Ambush creeks. ]t has upwards of
200,000 acres of the best prairie and bottom land, and is
rapidly encreasing in inhabitants and improvements.
Vincennes,—-The seat of justice for Knox county, stands
on the east bank of the Wabash, one hundred miles from its
junction with the Ohio, in a direct line, but nearly two hun
dred by the courses of the river; and one hundred and twen
ty west of thefalls of Ohio. It contains about one hundred
' hoiises, most of which are small and scattering; some have a
neat and handsome aspect, while others are built in an un
couth manner, having a frame skeleton ﬁlled up with mud
and stick walls, similar to some of the old German houses on
1
as WESTERN ‘GAZETTEEB; ott,
the Hudson and Mohawk rivers. The best buildings are a
brick tavern, jail, and academy. The latter, which is an honor
to the state, stands in the public square, and is underthe direc-'
tion of the Rev. Mr. Scott, a presbyterian minister, a gentle
man of letters ;~ yet, hitherto, his pupils have not been numer
ous. He teaches the ancient languages, mathematics, &c.
The meeting house, a plain building, stands on the prairie, one
mile from the town. The plan of the town is handsomelyi
designed; the streets are Wide and cross each other at right
angles. Almost every house has a garden in its rear, with
' high, substantial picket fences to prevent the thefts of the In
dians. General Harrison is one of the principal proprietors
of the soil. The common ﬁeld near the town contains near
ly 5000 acres, of excellent prairie soil, which has been culti
vated for more than half a century, and yet retains its pris
tine fertility. The United States have a land oﬁce for the
disposal of the public lands; and formerly kept a small garri
son, in a little stockade near the bank of the river, for the pro
tection of the inhabitants. The Governor of the territory
resided, and the territorial legislature convened here. The
place has‘ possessed many political advantages. “ The bank
of Vinceunes” enjoys*a good character, and its paper has al
ready attained an extensive circulation. It has recently he
come a state bank. There is also a printing oﬂice, which is
sues a paper, called the “ Western Sun,” edited ‘by Mr. E.
‘ Stout. This village Was settled nearly one hundred years
ago; by the French, who mostly catne from Lower Canada.
Buried in the centre of an immense wilderness, unprotected,
iand without intercourse with the civilized world, these colo
fnists gradually approximated to the savage state. Many of
ithe males intermarned with the Indians, whose amity- was
gby these ties secured and strengthened, and their numbers
‘ iamounted to three hundred persons. . i “ Duriugthe revolutionary war,_ their remote situation ex
empted them from all its evils, till, in 1782, they were visited
by a detachment from Kentucky, who plundered and insulted
__aWV._a_H._,-__-a_‘. ~_,-~. _q
HMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 61
them, and killed or drove off the cattle which formed their
chief wealth.
“ The peace of 1783, gave them to the United States, un
der whose benign government they began to breathe again;
but unluckily an Indian war commenced in 1788, and sidmg
with the Whites, as duty and discretion enjoined, they were
‘(annoyed by thesavages, whose animosity was embittered by
the remembrance of their ancient friendship and alliance.
Their cattle were killed, their village closely beset, and, for
several years, they could not carry the plough or hoe a mus‘
ket shot from their huts.
“ Military service was added to their other hardships ; but,
in 1792, the compassion of the federal government gave four
hundred acres of land to every one who paid the capitation,
and one hundred more to every one who served in the militia.
This domain, so ample to a diligent husbandmatn, was of little
value to the hunting Frenchmen, who soon bartered away their
invaluable ground for about 30 cents an acre, which was paid
to them in goods, -on which an'exorbitant profit was charged,
This land was of the best quality; it sold, as early as 1796,
at two dollars an acre, andl may venture to say is now worth
at least ten. Thus, for the most part, reduced again to their
gardem, or the little homestead which was indispensable to
their subsistence, they had nothing to live on but their fruit,
potatoes, maize, and now an then a little game; and, on this
fare, no wonder they became as lean as Arabs.
“ Their ignorance, indeed, was profound. Nobody ever
opened a school among them, till it was done by the abbe R.
a polite, well educated, and liberal minded missionary, banish
ed hither by the French revolution. Out of nine of the
French, scarcely six could read or write, whereas nine-tenths
of the Americans, or emigrants from the east, could do both.
Their, dialect is by no means, as I had been previously as
sured, a vulgar or provincial nnocun, but pretty good
French, intermixed with many military terms and phrases,
all the settlements having been originally made by sol
68 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
;$
diers. The primitive stock of Canada was the regiment
of Carignon.”*
The country around Vincennes in every direction, being
well adapted to settlements and cultivation, what is thereto
prevent this place from equalling, in a very few years, in
numbers, wealth, and reﬁnement, the ﬁne towns of Lexington,
Louisville and Cincinnati.’ Building lots in Vincennes sell
at from ﬁfty to one thousand dollars a lot. There are two
roads leading to the Ohio; one to fort Harrison; one to
Princeton; and one to Kaskaskia.
A new village has been laid out at Terre Haute, three
miles below fort Harrison. This situation, for beauty of
prospect, is exceeded by none in the state.
PRICES ‘AND SALES OF PUBLIC’ L-/ENDS.
Congress lands, after the auction sales are closed, sell inva
riably for $2 an acre. For a quarter section, $80 are to be paid downéthe sameislum in two years; and the remainder
in “annual payments, without interest, if punctu ally made.
Those who ‘pay in advance, are entitled to a discount of eight
per cent. '
Harrison’s Purchase, containing upwards of 3,000,000
acres, lying between W'hiteriver, the Wabash, and Rocky ri
ver, was opened for sale at auction, at Jetfersonville, in Sept.
last, and altho’ the Canadian volunteers had previously select
ed their donation lots, numerous tracts were sold at from $4
;to $30 an acre. A fractional section on the Wabash, below
{fort Harrison, sold for $32 18, and several others from $20 to $30. I Speculators from all quarters attended the sales.
The Canadian volunteers deserved the muniﬁcence of the
United States, for they freely shed their blood undergour
banners, upon the Niagara frontier, under the intrepid Wil
.,__._.. r
- ' See Voh\ey’s View of the Soil and Climate of the United States,
pages 334 and 335. 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ' 69
cooks, Delapierre, and Markle. But unfortunately the cup of
generosity was upset before it reached their months. We
gave them the choice of the best lands in the United States,
merely to enrich the Mamon of speculation. Most of these
- brave men have biindly or necessitously parted with the!‘
lands for a song. '
Q
-/INTIQ UITIES.
On the hills, two miles east of the town, are three large
mounds; and others are frequently met_with on the prairies
and upland, from Whiteriver to the head of the Wabash.
They are in every respect similar to those in Franklin coun
ty, already described.
The French have a tradition, that an exterminating battle
was fought in the beginning of the last century, on the§
ground where fort Harrison now stands, between the Indians;
living on the Mississippi, and those of the Wabash. Thei
bone of contention was the lands lying between those rivers, which both parties claimed. There were about 1000 war
riors on each side. The condition of the fight was, that the -'~
victors should possess the lands in dispute. The grandeur l .
of the prize was peculiarly calculated to inﬂame the ardor of 1
savage minds. The contest commenced about sunrise. I
Both parties fought desperately. The Wabash warriors \ ' .
I
A,’
-1
came off conquerors, having seven men left alive at sunset,
and their adversaries but ﬁve. The mound are still to be
seen where it is said the slain were buried/
GIBSON.
This county is bounded by the counties of Warwick and
Orange on the east, the county of Posey on the south, the
Wabash river on the West, and the county of Knox on the
north. It is watered by several creeks and runs, falling into
t-he~Petoka and VVabash. About one half of this county has
70 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
a fertile and highly favorable soil; ahd the greater part of the
other half would bepronounced good, in any of the Atlantic
st-ates.
Princeton-—ls the county seat; it lies thirty-ﬁve miles
nearly south of Viiscennes. It has a post—oﬂice; and has
had a rapid growth, considering the newness of the surround
ing settlements.
Hannony.—This village is situated on the Wabash, half a
day’s ride below Princeton, and is settled by the Harmonists,
front Butler county, Pentisylvania. They are under the di
rection ofthe Rev. George Rapp; and hold their property
in com'niunity. They have a very extensive establishment
for the manufacturing of wool. Their Merino cloth is not
surpassed by any in America. They also cultivate the vine;
-ind are distinguished for their temperance, industry and skill
it many of the mechanical professions.
POSE Y,
Is situated south of Gibson, bounded on the ‘east by the
county of \Varwiclr, on the south and west by the Ohio and
Wabah rivers. It contains rich and extensive prairies; but '
the banks of the Wabash are in many places subject to inun
dation, both from its own ﬂoods, and those of the Ohio, which
sets up the Wabash several miles.
WARWICK.
This county is situated east of the county of Posey,
bounded on the east by the county of Perry, on the south by
the Ohio river, on the west by the county of Posey, and on
the north by the counties of Orange and Knox. It is a level
and rich county, watered by several large creeks running into
the Ohio, such as Beaver, Pigeon, &c. It is nevertheless but
indifferently watered, owing to the early drying up of the
streams. The prairies are numerous, but mostly inferior, in.
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. .71
point of soil, to those bordering the Wabash. The prevail
ing timber being oak, the range for hogs is excellent.
PERRY,
Is bounded east by Harrison, north by Orange and Wash
ington, west by Warwick, and south by the Ohio river. It
isowatered by the little river Anderson, and by creeks and
runs falling into the Ohio. It was establishedin 1615.
X INDIANS.
These consist of , Mascontins2 Pianlrashaws, Kickapoos,
Delawares, Miamis, Shawanoese, lVeeaws,' Ouitanans, Eel
rivers, Hnrons, and Pottawattamies.
The lllascontins and Piankaslmrvs reside on the rivers
falling into the right bank of the Wabash, between Vincennes
and Tippacance. Their numbers are given at 1000 souls.
Hutchins aﬁirms that they, together with the Kickapoos,
Could raise 1000 1var1’i01's.
The Kickapoos reside on the West side of the Wabash,
above Tippacanm; and on the headwaters of the Illinois.
They have several large villages, and can raise 400 warriors.
The Delatvares reside on the bead Waters of -Whiteriver,‘
in a village surrounded by large open prairies. I have no
data for -stating their numbers with accuracy; they are not
numerous. ' ' '
The Miamis inhabit the upper Wabash, Massissinway,
Miami-of-the-lakes, and Little St: Josephs—-mostly within one
or two day’s travel of fort VVayne. General Harrison burnt
four of their towns at the forks of the ‘Wabash, in September,
1813. They are the proprietors of excellent lands, and culti
vate large quantities of Indian corrn They are‘ reduced to about 1100 souls. - i
' The S/zawanuese live on and near the banks of Tippacanw;
Ponce Passu creek, and the Wabash river. They were for-I
72 . WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
merly avery formidable and warlike tribe; but have been re
duced by their frequent wars, to about 400 warriors. They
have ﬁne lands, and raise an abundance of corn. Their coun
try was invaded by General VVilkiuson, in 1791, who de
stroyed their principal town, near the mouth of Tippacance,
called Kathtippecamunka “ It contained one hundred and
twenty houses, eighty of which were shingle roofed. The
best houses belonged to the French traders. The gardens
and improvements around were delightful. There was a tari
ern, with cellars, bar, public and private rooms; and the
whole marked no small degree of order and civilization.” Not
far from the ruins of this town stands the celebrated Prophet’s
town, destroyed by General Harrison, in Nov. 1811, but
since rebuilt. Above Tippacanw is the old French post of
Ouitanan, situated on the north side of the Wabash, in the.
centre of the Indian country. This place is as old as Vin
cennes. Several half civilized French inhabitants reside here
as well as at L’Anguil]e, on Eelriver. They raise corn, and
trade with the Indians. I
The Hurons reside in a small village, ten or ﬁfteen miles
south east of Onitanan. There are only tengor twelve fami
lies of them. The Eelrivcrs and Weizarvs are bands of the
Miamis; and reside on the YVabash and Eelriver. They
can collect about 100 warriors. V
A part of the Winnebagoes occupy a village on Ponce
Passu creek, seven miles east of the Prophet’s town, which
contains from forty-ﬁve to ﬁfty houses; several of which are
ﬁfty feet long; others reside on the branches of Plein and Fox rivers, and frequent Chicago. I
The Potturvattamiesare the most numerous tribe in the
’ state. They reside on the Elkhart branch of the St. Jo
sephs, where they have ﬁve villages, one of which is situated
in an immense prairie, sixty miles west of fort Wayne. The
course of this branch is north west. The balance of this
tribe live on the St. Josephs, Chicago, Kennomic, and Then
kaki riverm
'EMiGRAN'I"s DYRECTORY. 73
iThe best proof of the excellence of the land on the Upper ‘
Wabash. IS the circumstance of its being the scene of a numer
ous lndian population. These sagacious children of nature ,
are good judges of land. Indeed, they are rarely, if ever, found on a barren soil. I
EXTENT OF NA VIGABLE WA TFRS.
The Ohio river Washes the southern boundary 2 lifilem
of Indiana, for the distance of . 472
' Wabash, navigable . . 5 . . 470
Whiteriver, and its forks-, 5 . . . 160
Petoka, . .- . ; . '. s 30 Blueriver, ' . l. L . . . . 40
Whitewater, . . ~. . . . i 40
-Rocky River, . b . - . 1 45 '
‘ Panne, . . . . t t . 30
Massissinway . . . . . . 45
Eel, and Little rivers, . . i . ~ 60
Western Tributaries of the Wabash, . 330
St. Josephs of Miami and Panther’s Creek, ; _ 75
Elkhart and part of St. Josephs of L. Mich; . 100
Great and Little Kennomic, . . -. . 120
Chemin River, t . . . . . 40
Chicago and Kickapoo, . . . p . 80
Theakaki, and parts of Fox, Plein, and Illinois, 300
Southern coast of Lake Michigan, . . 50
Total 2487
The foregoing estimate does not embrace streams boatable
less than thirty miles; besides, several of those named are
navigable for canoes and small boats many miles further than
the given distances annexed. ' I
The distance from Chicago, to New Orleans, by water, is
1680 miles—-to Buffalo, about 800. The surplus products of
three fourths of the state will find their way to the New Or
leans market. '
K
74 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR;
\
VIEW OF PORTJIGES.
. All the .strea‘ms'in the northern parts of the state, ivhicﬁ’
‘ empty into the Wabash: and Illinois, have their branches in=
terwoven with many of the rivers running into lakes Erie
and Michigan. Indeed, as before observed, they not unfre->
quently issue from the same , marsh, prairie, pond, or lake.’
There are upwardspf twenty portages near the Michigan fron_
tier, only two of which have hitherto been used by the white‘.
The ﬁrst of these is between the St. Marys and the Littleri
ver branch of the Wabash, and is nine miles long. The road‘
which is good in dry seasons, leaves the St. Marys near Fort:
'VVayne, where teams are kept for the transportation of boats
and merehandize. It was by this route that the French, While
in possession of Canada, passed from the lakes to their posts
on the Wabash. From the levelness of the intervening coun
try, a canal could be easily opened, uniting the two streams.
The second is the short portage between the Chicago and the
Kickapoo branch of the lllinois, rendered important by the
inuridations,_which at certain seasons cover the intermediate
prairie, from which the two opposite streams ﬂow. Bythis
means nature has herself opened a navigable communication
between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi ; and it isba fact,
however difﬁcult it may be of belief to many, that boats not
nnt'requently pass from Lake Michigan into the Illinois, and
in some instances without being. subjected to the necessity of
having their lading taken out. I have never been on this.
'portage, and therefore cannot speak from personal knowledge,
yet the fact has reached me through so many authentic chan
nels, that I have no doubt‘ of its truth; Gen. P. B‘. Porter,
whose geographical knowledge of the countries bordering the
lakes, is excelled by that of no gentleman in the western coun-Y
try, has given his corroborative testimony in his speech on
internal navigation, delivered on the ﬂoor ot"t:ongress in 1810. ‘
Lientrmant Hamilton of the United States"army, a meritori
ous o$cer, whose services have not been adequately requitt
EMlGRAN'l”s DIRECTORY. 15'
Id, informed a friend of mine living at Detroit, that he had
passéd with a laden boat, and met with no obstructions on
the portage, except from the grass, through which, however,
the men easily forced the boat. But, in order to multiply
proof and remove every doubt, I consulted the Hon. N. Porn,
the Territoriali Delegate in congress from Illinois, who in an
swer to my enquiries stated, that “ at high water boats pass out
of Lake Michigan into the Illinois river, and so vice versa,
Without landing. A canal uniting them is deemed practicable
at a small expense,” &c. When on the upper lakes, I fre
quently met with voyageurs who had assisted in navigating
boats across this portage.
This morass is not the only one possessing two distinct out
- lets, I have myself witnessed this phenomenon in several in
stances ;but never where there was water sutﬁcient to ﬂoat a
laden boat. Let us hear what the justly celebrated Volney,
Days on this interesting subject. 7
“ During the vernal ﬂoods, the north branch of the Great
Miami mixes its waters with the southern branch of the Mi
ami ofthe Lake. The carrying place, or portage, of a league,
which separates their heads, disappears beneath the ﬂood,
and we can pass in canoes from the Ohio to Lake Erie, as I
myselfwitnessed in 1796.
“ At Loremier’s Fort, or store, an eastern branch of the ‘Va
bash serves as a simple canal to connect the two Miamis ; and
the same “’abash, by a northern branch, communicates, above
Fort Wayne,’in the time of inundation, with the Miami of
Lake Erie.
“ In the winter of 1792-3, two boats (perogues) were de
tached from Detroit, by amercantile house, from whom I re
ceived the information, which passed, without interruption,
from the Huron river,’Ill which enters Lake Erie, into Grand
River, which falls into Lake Michigan, by means of the rise
at the heads of the two streams.
 
"~‘ The river Huron mentioned by Volney, enters Lake Erie six milerhelow.
Maiden. There are two other rivers of this name; one labs into Lake Erie
twelve miles below Sandmky hay, and the other into Lake St. Clair.
-— ‘I
re, WESTERN eaznrrnnlz; on;-i
“ The Muskiugum, which ﬂows into the Ohio, communi~ »
cates, at its sources, through some small lakes, with the Gay
ehoga, belonging to Lake Erie.” ,
There is a portage of four jniles between the St. Joseph’I
of Lake Michigan, and the Theakaki; of two milesbetweeu
the Theakaki and the Great Keunomic; of ‘ halt a mile‘ be
tween the Great and Little Kennomic; ot‘ four miles between
the Chemin and Little Kennomic; and of three miles between
the west fork of Chicago and Plein; besides numerous ones
between the head branches of the two St. Josephs; Black,
Raisin and Eel rivers, Which Vary in length according to the
dryness or moisture of the season. There is a short port
age between the St. Marys and the main branch of the Wa
bash, over which, in times of inundation the Indians pass with
their light perogues. 1 ’
In the great peninsula in Upper Canada, formed by the
Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron, Simeoe, &e. there ‘are immense
swamps from which the waters tlow off almost imperceptibly
in opposite directions. ‘Through these swamps canoes caii pass from the Chippewa créekiinto the Grand river, and from
Lake Simcoe to Nautausawaga, running into Lake Huron.
MISCELL A NEO U81
Chicago is a small river, which forks sixteen miles from the
lake, into the east and West branches. Stoops of forty tone
burthen can enter its harbor. Six miles from the lake its cur
rent becomes brisk, and continues so as far as the portage.
FortDearborn, famous for the murder of its garrison in Sep
) tember 1815, by the Pottaw-attamies, stood upon its left bank I near the lake shore. -The Indians have relinquished to the
United States a tract of land six miles square, at the mouth
of this river. The fort has been lately re-occupied.
The Great Kdﬁnomic.-—-This river‘ rises twenty or thirty
miles S. of lake Michigan, and running a . WV. course ap
proaches within two or three miles of that lake. Thence
 
_ >7 7 _-"_U i . JA
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. as I\\,
winding to the S. W. and north, it forms a curviture nearly
similar to the end of the.lake,and parallel with it, keeping at the
distance of 8 or 9 miles. It thence turns suddenly to-the S. E.
E.‘ and N. E. in a contrary but'parrel.lel§directi0n,to its for-.
mer course, and empties into the lake 30 miles east of Chicago‘
It expands behind the sand hills near its mouth‘, and forms a.
spacious bay. It affords to the Indians an inexhaustiblesup- /
ply of ﬁsh, and an ample range for fowling and trapping. Its
banks are low, and its current gentle. - -€
Population.-,-I have recently received several letters from
gentla_men residing in Indiana, which concur in stating that;
the popnlat ion has doubled since May, 1815. In other words,
it now amounts to 128,000 souls, a rapidity of increase. altos
gether urprecedented. ' , .
Pr-ice of'Imp'r0,ved Lands.--Farms containing a log house
snd_ﬁ!'teen or tWenty"acr‘es, sell as high as eight or ten dol-_
lars; -in some insta1nces.tho necessities or rambling disposi+
tions of the, inhabitants induce them to dispose of their plan
tations at a triﬂing advance upon the original price.
Fulis of the Ohio.—An improvement of the navigation of
the falls is about to be attempted by a canal round-t therapids.
.The legislature have incorporated a‘ company with a capital of
$1,000,000. \Vhen this enterprize is accomplished, ship
building will probably re-commence with vigor. It was the
diﬁiculties encountered in getting vessels over these rapids,
which chieﬂy contributed to discourage this important busi
ness above the falls.
The Wabasb.-—The rapids at Ouitanan are impassable for
boats ; but the navigation is so good between Vincennes and
this place, that Gen. Hopkins in his expedition to Tippecanoe
in 1813, conveyed his baggage and stores in _large keels, of
thirty tons burthen. General Harrison in his expedition
against the Prophet, was accompanied in his march through
the wilderness by a caravan of maggons I They were ena
bled to proceed with tolerable speed by keeping in the prairies
to the wesLof the woodlands bordering the Wabash.
“'~1k§I‘f'\- .. ' ‘*~|
rs WESTERN GAZETTEER; cs,
Washington County/.--In addition to the streams mentioned\
in page 66, is watered by Blueriver, which rises in the east-1
ern part of the county, and pursuing a S. E. course, passes
jthrough Harrison county twelve miles ./south-west-of Cory
don. ‘ '
. Climate.--From the latitude of Ouitanan, (40 20) to the"
borders of the Ohio, the climate of Indiana may be pronoun
cecl mild. North of the ‘head branches of the Wabash, tho~
north and north-west winds are formidable enemies to human
comfort, and the winters severe and rigorous; though snow‘
is rarely known to fall so deep as it does in the northern coun
ties of New-York. The southern shore of Lake Michigan,
and the vast prairies in the direction of the Wabash have
Jittle to protect them from the rage of the hrum'al winds.
The Reed Cane.—This plant grows south of the ridge of
hills extending from the falls of the Ohio to those of the Wa
bash above the mouth of Whiteriver. Itis sometimes found
as far north as the mouth of the~Big Miami. Cotton, the
wines of Spain, the silk worm, and the sweet potatoe will ﬂour
irh wherever the reed cane grows, except, the ﬁrst, which
does not grow to perfection beyond 31 degrees of north lati
tude. Rice and Indigo, I think would do well between Blue
river and the Wabash, though I have never seen either culti
vated, or heard that the inhabitants have yet made the trial. I
have seen these plants growing luxuriantly in Overton coun
_ ty, Tennessee, which is a high broken country, near the Ken
tucky boundary line, in latitude 36 35. The mouth of the
“'aba5h is in 37 50.
The state will doubtless produce cotton suﬂicient for its‘
own consumption. It is already raised in considerable quan
tities at Vincennes, Princeton, Harmony, and in the settle
ments below the mouth of Anderson. The, Wabash will at
‘no very remote period, serve as a canal to supply with cot
ion, a part of the market on the northern lakes.
Game.--The forests of Indiana are abundantly stocked
with game. Great numbers of deer are annually destroyed
EMIGRAN'1"s DIRECTORY: 7!’
A by the inhabitants. In travelling seven miles through the
Woods of Dearborn county, I counted two bears, three deer,
and upwards of one hundred turkies ; more than half of the
latter, however, were young ones, just beginning to ﬂy. I
will here relate an adventure which may serve to throw some
light on the natural history of the deer. In the course of the
day, I missed my way and wandered several miles in the wil
zderness, in my endeavors to regain the path I started a fawn,
which I soon caught, in consequence of its becoming entang
led in the herbage. It bleated and appeared greatly fright
ened. Conceiving myself to be near a settlement and unwil
ling to destroy it, I resolved to carry it to the ﬁrst house;
but after travelling half a mile its dam made her appearance,
and seemed by her piteous demonstrations, plainly to reproach
me for my cruelty; upon 'which I gave the fawn its liberty.
But I was not a little surprised, to ﬁnd it so much attached to
me during our transient acquaintance, that it absolutely refus
ed to leave me. I pushed it from me and pursued my
course; but soon found it at my heels, apparently as docile
as a pet lamb; and was compelled to frighten it before it
would turn from me. Relating this fact to some old hunters,
they assured me that such is the docility of fawns, thab
they can be as effectually tamed in an hour, as a year. Deer,
it is said, are the mortal enemies of rattlesnakes; and often
kill them designedly by jumping on them; They can scentl
them at considerable distance ; and when pursued by dogs
will avoid those which may happen to lie in their way, by suds
denly inclining to the right or left. It is also reported that the
turkey buzzard has the power of killing the rattlesnake by
its intolerable stench—-which it most powerfully emits by 1,
violent ﬂuttering in the air a little above the snake’s head.
Farmers are greatly annoyed by the smaller animals, such
as squirrels, moles and mice ; for nature is as proliﬁc in animal ‘
as vegetable productions. The mole is particularly trouble
some to corn-ﬁelds while the seed is coming up, and injurious
to meadows, as it bores the earth in every direction.
so wnsrnnn GAZETTEER; on,
Minerak.--The surface of Indiana is too champaign tohd
rich in mines of gold or silver. It is, nevertheless, stated that
a silver mine has been discovered near Onitanan.
is found in many counties, probably in sutﬁcient quantities fol‘
domestic use. Chalybeate springs are plentiful. The water
‘between Whiteriver and New Lexington is in some places ims
pregnated with copperas to such a degree, that linen washed
in it turns black; and a few of the inhabitants have been in
duced to abandon their habitation: in consequence of the sup
'posed'unwholesomenes of their wells. 7
I Indian Claims.-—Near two~thirds of this state belongs to
-the Indians. Their title is extinguished in the eastern part,
\ ‘from Fort Wayne to the river Ohio, on an average of about
twenty-ﬁve miles wide, on the margin of the Ohio and up the
Wabash and western line to a point N. W. of Fort Harrison,
and from thence eastwardly to the eastern purchase, about
thirty-ﬁve miles from the Ohio. - Notwithstanding the great
ter extent of soil purchased from the Indians in the west, a
lmeridian equidistant from the eastern and Western boundary
l‘would_ pretty fairly divide the population; but the western
l' section will populate fastest, owing to the extent of recently
purchased lands.
Iron ore
 
 
KENTUCKY,
_ is bounded north by the Ohio river, west by the Mississip
Pi, south by Tennessee, and east by Virginia. Its length
from east to West is 328 miles; breadth from north to south
l83:miles. Its area is 40,110 square miles, or 25,670,000
acres. Its southern boundary is in 36 30-and its northern
"extremity, (which is in the north bend of the Ohio) 39 10
N. latitude;
FACE OF THE COUNTRY.
The bottoms of the Kentucky side of the Ohio, from its
inouth to that of Big, Sandy, will average one mile in width.
The timber is beech, sugar maple, sycamore, cottonwood;
hackberry, pawpaw, and honey locust. These bottoms are
in some places subject to periodical inundation, but are ne
vertheless susceptible oi‘ cultivatiou'; about one sixth part of
this land is cleared.
Parallel to the Ohio, and in the rear of the bottoms, lies a.
strip of country from tive to twenty miles wide, and as long as
the state, which is cut into deep yallies and high hills, the
7 humorous creeks and runs‘ ‘entering the Ohio. This soil,
however, is rich and the greater pm capable of improvement.
Between this strip, Big Sandy and'Green rivers, and the ‘
eastern counties, lies the garden oi‘ the state-, it not of the
World. It is about 150 miles long, and from 50 to 100 miles
wide, and comprises the counties of Mason, Fleming, Mont
gomery, Clarke, Bourbon, Fayette, Scott, Harrison, Franklin,
Woodford, Mercer, Jessemine, Madison, Garrard, Logan, Ca~ sey, Lincoln, Washington, Green. I
I1
82 'WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OK,
This extensive tract is intersected by Little Sandy, Lick
ing, Kentucky, and Salt rivers, and their numerous forks.
This district has the happiest surface; gradually rising and
descending alternately. There are no swamps, and the hills
are of such easy ascent, that the ﬁelds show to the best possi
ble advantage. ~
The angles of ascent are from eight to twenty-four degrees;
‘the vallies are very uarr'oW,'and'what is quite singular, inferior
in point of fertility to the uplands. The soil, is black and fri
able, 'generally,‘bu't sometimes of a deep vermillion hue, or of
the color of strong’ u/shes. These lands produce blackwalnut,
black cherry, honey locust, buckeye, pawpaw, sugar tree,
mulberry, elm, ‘ash, cotto'n wood, white thorn, With a grape
vine encircling almost every fourth tree. The depth er the
, soil is always the greatest on the summits of the ridges and
hills, varying from one to twenty feet. There is little or no
under wood; but its place was supplied, when the country
was ﬁrst settled by the whites, by the reed cane, which cover
ed all the rich lands. In‘ the tvoodsthe earthis not incum
bered with the rubbish of fallen timber, nor the trunks of
partially decayed trees, as is the case in the northern states. .
The trees are small and strait, and do hot in many places
average more than twenty to an acre, except near the princi
pal streams, where the Prevailing timber isoak, and the. soil’ 
hard and sterile to the distance of two orthree miles. This
' part of the state is not so well watered asthe hilly strip near
the Ohio andthe broken country near the Virginia boundary
line, yet almost every farm is blessed with a durable spring.
The counties bordering the Virginia and Tennessee fro'u
tiers,',situated in the eastern and southeastern parts ofthe
state, are broken by the spurs and lateral branches of the Al
legany and Cumberland mountains. Besides, it is in these
sections of the state that the Big Sandy, Licking, Kentucky,
and Cumberland rivers have their sources. The small streams
are numerous; and have gullied the earth into sharp hills,
long crooked ridges, deep glens, dark hollows, and frightful
._.l;‘.._.n|Il4
EMlGRAN;T’s DEREGTORY. ' 83:
‘ gulfs. ' The hills are covered with oak, chesnut, hickory, gang,
1‘ / and poplar, and thegvallies with beech, sugar maple, elm, pop.‘
‘ lar, black walnut and hackberry. In the bottoms of the gulfs,
or “coves” as the inhabitants call them, the trees are thick
lyplanted, andgrow to a. most extraordinary size,part'icularly
the poplars, which frequently measure eight feet in diameter, and of immense height. It is in these, unfrequentqad recess-I
es that solitude may be said to hold herco_urt;l for the light off
heaven is not able to penetrate the eternal gloom which reigns
beneath the impervious foliage. \Vhat ascene fon Scott! His
description of the woods-of Soignies is strikingly appropriate
to the coves and gulfs of Kentucky and Tennessee.
“ Thy woods, dark Soignies, holds us now,
Where the tall beeches’ glossy bongh,
For many a league around,
With birch and darksome oak between,
Spreads deep and far a pathless screen,
Of tangled forest ground.“
The areas of these gulfs are from one to ﬁfty acres, perfect—
ly level at the bottom, and covered, when in a state of nature,
with a thick growth of cane, they have gaps or out-lets on’
one side through which flows the brook created by the nu
merous springs issuing from the base of the almost surrounding
hills. The water of these springs is excellent and durable;
the sides of the hills, when not too steep for the plough,_
yield ﬁne crop_s of corn, potatoes, &c. The soil is exceedingly
rich, and the inhabitants often locate themselves in these
peaceful retreats. They afford a pleasant residence in win
ter, but are too conﬁned and,sultry in the summer.
Between the Rolling fork of Salt river and Green river, in ‘
Nelsoncounty principally, is a tract of country, about forty
miles square, mostly barren, interspersed with plains and strips of good lands, which are aidvantageou-$ Si.Ll1ﬂti0r1§ for
raising cattle, as the neighboringbarrens, as they are yimprc-_
perly called, are covered with grass, and afford good pasturage,
Small tracts. of iin1ilar'land, are found uppn Great and Little
84 WESTERN GAZETTEER; o1t,
Barren rivers. But the -country between Green and Cub?
berlandrivers is emphatically called “the barren-9,” by the
inhabitants living north of Green river and the Knobs of Pu
taski county; not because the soil is unproductive, but be-'
cause the timber is uniformly oak, chesnut, hickory, gum, ,
lyn, poplar and cucumber. The .“ oak” or “ knob” district,
includes‘ the counties of Pulaski, Wayne, Rocky Castle,
Knox, Cumberland, T/Varren, Barren, Livingston and Chris
*i=m- ' '
In 1800, the Legislature of Kentucky made a gratuitous
gmnt of this extensive tract to actual settlers. Every actual
settler was entitled to a lot of four hundred acres. At the
time, this land was considered of little Yalue; but time and set
tlement has given it a reputation. It proves to be excellent
grain land-, and hogs and cattle are easily raised1 In conse
quence of the great size of the lots, and the destitution of wa
ter in many places, the range cannot be destroyed, as has
been the case in the old or northern settlements. There are
no meadows or pastures to be seen in this quarter; all the,
domestic animals run in the wpods. These lands will yield
froni forty to ﬁt_'ty bushels of Indian corn; ﬁfteen bushels of
rye, twenty of wheat, and ‘thirty of oats, an acre; besides,
tobacco does well in the swails and ﬁats, which are sometimes
very fertile; cotton and indigo will do tolerably well. The
gardens produce onions, cabbage, sweet and Irish potatoes.
The bottoms of Cumberland, where it runs on the Kentucky
side of the boundary line, are yery productive, not so subject
to inundation, nor so wide as those of the Ohio. The soil is a
gravelly clay or loam of a vermillien color, except in the pop
lar timbered lands, where it isa deep, ash colored mould,
rich, durable, and capable of producing one hundred bushels
of corn an acre. The inhabitants make use of this soil for the
culture of tobacco, of which they raised great quantities last
season. I scarcely passed a plantation,'which' had not a to;
bacco ﬁeld; for which purposethey had uuiforrnly cleared a
piece of new ground. The country merchants were offering
  
. \ ' EMIGRANT’s nmncroar. as ‘
from twelve to ﬁfteen dollars a hundred in advance. The
chesnut trees are remarkably tall and handsome; and the in
habitants mostly use this timber for rails and shingles.
RIVERS.
__ The Ohio washes its northern margin for the space of 838 v miles, and the Nlississippi its western limit 74 miles. Most
of the rivers have a northern direction and empty their water;
into the Ohio. '
The~Bi'g Sandy, rises in the Allegany mountains near the
heads of Clinch and Cumberland, and forms the eastern
boundary of the state for nearly 200 miles; it is 200 yards
wide at its mouth, and branches into the north-east and south
forks forty miles from its entrance into the Ohio. The south
fork receives a great number of large creeks, among which are
\ /‘ Shelby, Bear, Turkey, Bartle’s, Paint and Blane’s, all of
which run east or north-east, It is navigable to the Ouascioto
_mountains. '
Between the mouths oFBig Sandy and Licking, the fol
lowing creeksand rivulets enter the Ohio; they are from
twenty to seventy miles long, and from ﬁfty toptwelve yards
wide at their mouths. ‘
- Miles.
Little Sandy, (‘Below Big'Sand_1/.) . . 22
-Tigers creek, . " . . ‘ - .7 . . 2!
Connoconneque, . . . . K . . 19
Salt Lick creek, . . . .' " , . 14
Sycamore, ' . . . . . , . 18
Crooked creek, . . . .\ ._ _. 13
Cabin creek, . . . '_, . . , .; - 2 Brooke creek, . l . -I. . . J ~6
Limestone, (small) . ‘ . . , . . . 3 '
Bracken, . . . . . . . . 222'
I/iekingﬁver heads in the south-east corner of the-'state,_
pear the source; of ‘Cumberland river, pursues anorthv
-1: “ wmmm __¢,~A;z.ETTE;E-R';‘ - 03,
‘ rvesternceurse éand taillsiuto the Ohio, at N'ewporh.directly-t
opposite, Cincinnati.’ In high water it swells to a respectable:
size, but in long, dnoughts-. nearly disappears beneath the.
limestone rocks, which constitute its bed. r
The Kentucky rises in the mountains in the S. E. corner of
the state, and interlocks with thehead waters of Licking and
Cumberland. Itruns a N.'W. course, and falls into tbeﬁhio,
at Port YV,illiam,. 77 miles above Louisville. .Itis-_150 yards-_
wide at-its mouth, and has a boatable navigation -150 miles.
It receives the north and south forks which are considerable;
streams, which enter the main branch ahouttwo miles_apart in
‘Madison county. These forks rise in the hills near C,urnber-.
landriver and run nearly north. Dicks, asmall river which
rises in Lincoln ,co,unty,; and by running N. N,. VV. falls into
the left bank of, the Kentucky below the mouth 01] Hiokrnam,
It is about ﬁfty miles long and ﬁfty yards wide at its mouth ;
its current is very rapid, and its course continedby precipicel I
of limestone and white marble, and in someplaoes.nearly' 300
feet high. Elkhorn, which has two forks, the N- and St
the ﬁrst heads near Lexington, and the second near George
town.‘ These branches water. Scott and Fayette counties,‘
and are well calculated. for driving hydraulic machinery-'.
This river enters -the Kentucky eight miles below Franktbrt,
and is ﬁfty yards wide at its mouth. Eagle creek rises in
Harrison county, and runs. N. W. and empties into the Ken-, tucky tifty_miles above its mouth.‘ _ , V Y j
Salt river rises in Mercer county-_—has,three brsnches- all
issuing from the same county, and enters the Oh_io20 miles
below Louisville. It is 150 yards wide at its mouth, and
navigable l50_miles, It waters Jeti‘erson,_ Greenup,.Wash
, ington and Mercer counties. , ~'
Green river has its sources in Lincoln, county. It pur
sues a western course, and enters the Ohio, 200 miles below
Louisville, and 50 miles abovethe mouth of Cumbﬂel-land. I t
is 200 yards wide at its mouth, and navigable for boats nearly
Bﬂthrniles-_--It l’6§6l,VBS:ii1 its progress a great number of tribu
 
 
mnenanri ’DIRECT0RY., ' er
tarystreatns, the principal of which is :Great Barren -river,
Which also divides into numerous for-ks, heading near ithe
ilumberland and Tennessee. Its course is N. E. Little.Bar
ren river heads in Bullett county, and enters -the right. bank 135
Green river, .50 miles below the mouth of Great Barren. Rough
river rises from the S.. E. enters Green river 50 miles above
its entrance into the ‘Ohio; and Panther’s creek comes in
Item the'S. E. 26 miles from t;he0hio.- Y I
-Tradervater river heads in the bend of Cumberlandwiver, in
Christian county, and running a NL QV. course falls into the
Ohio, 200 miles below the mouth ofGreen river, or about-equi distant; from the mouths ot'lGreen and Cumberland. Iitt-isabout
70 yards wide at its mouth and 80 miles long. i
~'C'umberland river rises near thesouth fork of Big iSandy,'
in the S. E. corner of the state; 80 miles below its head, it
passes the Tennessee boundary line, and runs about 40 miles
in‘ that state, amﬁhen re-enters Kentucky, but by a c-urviture
I of 50 miles separates Wayne county from Pulaskik; it then
turns to the S. \V. advances into the state of Tennessee. At'~
termeandering about 200 miles through that country, turns
to the N. W. passes by Nashville into Kcntuek‘y,:and"uuites
with the Ohioin a W. direction, 1113 miles below Pitt-slmrg:
I t is 300 yards Wide at its mouth, and is navigable in large
vessels to Nashville, where it is about 190 yards wide,land
continues that breadth upwards M200 miles. Ibis -naViga
‘ ; blemere than 300 miles above Nashville in boats of 15 tons
bnrthen. At Nashville it is 20t'eet- deep, from November to
June, but frequently in freshes it is40, 50, and sometimes 60
feet-deep;overﬁowing a great part of the low grounds. From
June to November, it is usually 10 and 12 feet deep. The
current is very gentle from Nashville to the Ohio, about 200
miles, affording an easy navigation. . I
Red river heads in Cumberland county, and runs a S. 'W.
course into Cumberland river. This stream is 60 yards wide
and 50 miles long. '
~Tennesse0 river runs about 75 miles in Kentucky, before it enters the Ohio. ' i i
it p WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
Kaskimmpds river Waters the western end of the state-'-‘
it heads near the Tennessee and runs a western course, ens‘,
tering the Mississippi, about half way between the mouth at‘
the Ohio and New Madrid.
POPULATION IN 1810. ~
Coimtiel. Population. Chief Towns. liopulatiom ,
Adair ' 6,01 1 Columbia 1 75
Barren 1 1,286 Glasgow 244
Boone 3,608 _ _
Bracken. 3,451 Augusta ‘ 255
Breckenridge 3,430
Bourbon 1 8,009 Paris 838
Butler 2,181 '
Bullet: \ 4,311
Clarke 1 I ,5 1 9 Winchester 538
Casey 3,28 5 Liberty 33
M Campbell 3,060 Newport 413
Christian ’ 1 1,020 Hopkinsonville ‘ 131
Cumberland 6,191 Burkesﬁlle -we
Clay I 2,398
' Caldwell 4,268
Estle 2,031
Fayette 21,370 Lexington 4,326
Franklin - 8,013 Frankfort 1,099
Fleining ' 8,947
Floyd 3,485 Prestonville 32
Gallatin . 3,307 Port William 120
Greenup I 2,369 ~ _
Green ‘ 6,735 Greensburgh 1 32 ' Grayson 2,301 i
Garrard 9,18 6 Lancaster 260
Henry 6,777 Newcastle . 125
Harrison 7,752 Cyntheana 369
Henderson‘ 4,703 Henderson‘: 169
 
EMIGRANT’s ninncronr. '80‘
éounties.
, Harden
Hopkins
Jessamine
Jetferson
Knot
Livingston
,_ _\, Lewis
7 Lincoln
Logan
Mason
Mercer
_Madison
' Muhlenbergh
Mon tgomery
Nicholas
Nelson
Ohio
Pulaski
Pendleton
Rockcastle
Scott
Shelby l-Wayne
Washington
Warren
Woodford
54
Population.
7,531
2,964
8,377
13,399
5,875
3,674
2,357
6,676
12,123
12,459
12,630
15,540
4,181
12,975
4,898
14,078
3,682
6,397
3,061
1,731
12,419
14,837
5,460
13,246
1 1,937
9,659
 
406,311
Chief Towns.
Elizabeth Town
Madisonville
Nicholasville
Louisville
Barbours ville
Smithland
Russelville
Washington,
Danville
Richmond
Greenville
Mountsterling
Beardstown
Hartford
Falmouth
Georgetowrt
Shelbyville
Monticello
Springﬁeld
Bowling-green
Versailles
RA TIO OF INCREA SE.
Population.
181
37
1 58
1,357
55
99
532
815
432
366
’ 7.5
325
821
110
121
529
424 '
37
249
154
483
In 1790 the population, was 73,677; in 1800-—220,960;
-in 1811-—-406,511.—It therefore appears that the population
from 1790 to 1800 encreased atthe rate of about eleven per
cent; from 1800 to 1810, at the rate of about six per cent;
and doubled itself in about eleven years. Since 1310 it has
M
as WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR‘,
probably increased at the rate of three per cent. and will agaii
double in about twenty years. But Mr. Niles, editor of the‘
7 Weekly Register, says, that it is estimated on ascertained
facts and reasonable data that the present population of Ken
tucky is about 527,000—viz. 420,000 free white, and 107,000
slaves, which gives an increase of 125 per cent. in ﬁve years.
VILLAGES. 6’
These are not so numerous as in the northern states; yet
every county has its seat of justice. I shall only notice such
as I have seen.
llfa-,1/ville stands on the bank of the Ohio, just below lime‘
stone creek, 500 miles below Pittsburgh, and 66 above Cin
cinnati. Its site though pleasant is conﬁned, as the bottom on
Which it stands is not more than 50 rods wide, and the hills
in its rear rise abruptly to the height of 450 feet. It con
tains about 400 houses; there are three streets running par
‘ allel with the river and four cross ones, besides lanes and
alleys. There is a glass factory"and a printing oﬁice. It is
a brisk place, being the principal river port for the north
east half of the state, as Louisville is for the south-west. Boats
and waggons are continually arriving and departing; and great
numbers of emigrants cross at this place for Ohio and India
na. The taverns are well kept, and charges reasonable. The
great road from Lexington to Chilicothe, crosses the Ohio at
Maysville. Several vessels have been built above the town,
where the bottom expands to the width of a mile.
Wu-slrington is situated in a rich settlement, about three
miles south-west of Maysville-—It has three parallel streets,
but the buildings are not thick; many of them, however, are
large and handsome. There is a brick jail, a stone church
for Scotch Presbyteriaus, and a Baptist meeting house; an
academy, post oﬁice, printing otﬁce, ﬁve taverns, and several
stores. Several new buildings were going up in May last,
and what is deserving of mention, I saw several waggons la
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 91
den with boards sawed in Allagany county in the state ofNew
York, and rafted clown the Allegany and Ohio rivers, as far as
Limestone. These boards are sometimes carried in waggom
as far as Paris and Lexington.
Paris—,-The capital of Bourbon county, is situated upon
a handsome ridge on the right bank of Stoner fork of Licking,
at the mouth of Houston creek. There are two merchant
ﬂowering mills, and several carding machines, two churchesI
and a printing otiice, besides a large number of well ﬁnished
stores, mechanic shops, &c. The greater part of the build
ings are brick, and as large as any in the state. It is twenty
miles east of Lexington, sixty-ﬁve S. S. E. of Newport, and
in N. lat. 33, 14. The surrounding country is rich and de
lightful—.-and the road from thence to Lexington leads through
a district surpassing in beauty, if possible, tbs brilliant descrip-_
tion oflmlay. ‘ ~ I
Lexington. I had occasion to visit this place in the sum-.
mer of 1797; it then contained about 50 houses, partly
frame, and hewn logs, with the chimneys out side; the sur
rounding country was then new ; a village lot could have been
purchased for $30, and a good farm in its vicinity. for $5 an
acre. The best farmers lived in log cabins, and wore hunting
shirts and leggings. In May last, (1616) business again call
ed me to Lexington. But how changed the scene! Every
thing had assumed a new appearance. The beautiful vale of
Town Fork, which in 1797, I saw variegated with cornﬁelds,
meadows, and trees, had in my. absence been covered with
stately and elegant buildings-—.in shortl a large and beautiful
town had arisen by the creative genius of the west. The log
cabins had disappeared, and in theirplaces stood costly brick
mansions, ‘Well painted and enclosed by ﬁne yards,‘Obespeak
ing the taste and wealth of theirpossessors. The leathern pun
taloons, the hunting shirts and leggings had been discarded, for
the dress and manners of the inhabitants had entirely changed,
The sceneryaround Lexington, almost equals that of the elys-.
iuui of the ancients. Philadelphia, with all its surrounding
92 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
beauties scarcely equals it. The surface resembles the gen
tle swell of the ocean, when the agitations of a storm have
nearly subsided. The roads are very ﬁne and wide. The
grazing parks have a peculiar neatness; the charming
groves, the small, square and beautiful meadows, and above
all, the wide spreading forests of corn waving in grandeur and
luxuriance, and perfuming the air with its fragrance, combine
to render a summer’s view of Lexington inexpressibly rich;
novel, grand and picturesque. The site of the town is in a
valley ; but the declivities are so gentle that some travellers,
not scrupulously accurate, have described it as a plain. Town
Fork creek waters the central parts of the town; it is narrow,
and in severe droughts nearly dry. The main street, which
is one mile and a quarter long, runs parallel with the creek on
the north side. There are three other streets running paral
iel with the main street. These are intersected at short in
tervals by cross streets; all of which are wide and mostly
paved. Main street presents to the traveller as much wealth,
and more beauty than can be found in most of the atlantic
cities. It is about 80 feet wide, level, compactly built, well
paved, and having foot ways, twelve feet wide on each side.
I was surprised to see at every step, ﬁnely painted brick
stores, three stories high, and well ﬁlled with costly and fan
ciful merizhandize. Near the centre of the town is the public
square, lined on every side with large substantial brick houses,
stores, hotels, &c. In this square stands the market house,
which is ‘of brick, and well furnished on Wednesdays and
Saturdays; but occasionally the scene of a barbarous prac
tice ; for it is here that incorrigible or delinquent negroes are
ﬂogged unmercifully. I saw this punishment inﬂicted on two
of these Qretches. Their screams soon collected a numer
ous crowd—I could not help saying to myself, “ These cries
are the knell of Kentucky liberty.” I had not leisure to
count the buildings, and found no person capable of giving the
requisite information. This town appears as large and populous
as Cincinnati, which contained in 1816, 1000 houses and 6.000
'EMIGRANT’B‘ DIRECTORY. 98
 
 
‘souls. The public buildings consist of several churches, be
longing to methodists, presbyterians, baptists, seceders, epis
copalians, and Roman catholics. The court house is a three
story brick building, with a cupola rising from the middle of a
square roof, and contains a bell and a town clock. The Ma
sanoicHall and the Bank, are ﬁne brick buildings. There is
a public library, and a university called Transylvania, liber
ally endowed, the terms of tuition are $200 per annum'. There
is a female academy, where the following branches are taught,
viz. reading, writing, arithmetic, grammar, cor1-espondelloe,
elocution, rhetoric, geography,~astronomy, ancient and mod-1
ern history, chronolog , mythology, music,drawing, embroid~
The taverns and boarding houses are neat and well
Wilson’s hotel is excelled by none in America,
for extensiveness, style and good living. The streets are of
ten thronged with well dressed people. A prodigious quan
tity of European goods are ret.-died to the crowd of custom
ers, who resort here from the neighboring settlements. There
are two bookstores, and three printing oﬁices, from which
are issued as many weekly papers, viz: the Reporter, and
Kentucky Gazette, both republican, and the Monitor, federal,
and the only one of that political cast in the state. The in
habitants are as polished, and I regret to add, asluxurious
as those of Boston, New-York or Baltimore ; and their assem
blies and parties are conducted with as much ease and grace,
as in the oldest towns of the union. The manufactories are
extensive, and promise a continued growth of the town. There
are four nail factories, which manufacture seventy tons of
nails yearly—two copper and tin mauufactories—-several jew
ery, &c.
furnished.
‘ ellers and silversmiths, -ten sadler shops, ﬁve cabinet shops,
and three painters, seven tailor shops, an umbrella manufacto
ry, twelve blacksmiths, two gunsmith shops, several tobacco
nists, ﬁve chair makers, three dyers, six batters, sixteen
ahoemakers, two stocking weavers; besides tanneries, brewe
ries, distilleries, cooperies, brickyards, carding machines,
_&c. The rope walks are on a large scale, and its manufac
_> il-—km¢~ J ;m- P__
v
'94‘ WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
tures of hemp in 1'81], were Valued at $500,000. There
are several cotton and woolen manufactories--three steam
grist mills, and two steam paper mills. The Lexington wool
enmanufactory, erected by Messrs. Prentis’s & Co. and Mr.
Sanders large cotton manufactory are built on the Town
Fork, about a mile south-west of the town. They-went into
operation in June last. Mr. Sanders employed about 150
hands; the articles manufactured, consist of cotton yarns,
sheeting, shirting, bedticking, counterpanes, table cloths,
chambrays, cassinets, aattinets, woolen cords, &c. The wool
en manufactory also employed 150 hands—..-it manufactures,
broadcloths, cassimeres, blankets, and ﬂannels. It has 8.
steam paper mill connected with it, which produces paper of
a ﬁne quality. The other paper nill rivals any establishment
of the kind in the United States.
There are between ﬁfty and sixty villas, or handsome
country residences in the vicinity of Lexington, and that of
Henry Clay, Speaker of the House of Representatives, may
be pronounced one of the most delightful. It is situated
about one mile east of the town, on an agreeable rise, and is
nearly surrounded with poplar and locust groves.
The inhabitants of Lexington have a healthful and spright- .
ly appearance ; there are several families from the New
England states, who have resided here for a number of years,
and enjoyed good health.
There is nothing in the manners or morals of the people
of Lexington, to justify the shameful calumnies of the British
hireling, Ash. “ The inhabitants (he says) shew demonstra
tions of civilization; but at particular times, on Sundays and
market days, they give a loose to their dispositions, and ex
hibit many traits that should exclusively belong to untutored
savages. Their churches have never been ﬁnished, and
they have all the glass struck out by boys in the day, and
the inside by rogues and prostitutes who frequent them at
night.” ‘
Land is as dear around Lexington as it is in the oldest
‘EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 95:
-I
4
settlement on the seaboard, whole farms have sold for $100
an acre ; and small parcels for a far greater sum; town lots
are exorbitantly high.
The cattle, horses and sheep are very ﬁne. Great num
bers of cattle are bought by the drovers for the Baltimore and
Philadelphia markets. A ﬁrst rate yoke of cattle can be pur
chased for ﬁfty dollars; and a horse worth one hundred dol
-lars in New-York, could be bought for seventy dollars. Pro
visions are cheap, and abundant. Mechanics charges are
high. A tailor will charge you from ﬁve to ten dollars for
making a coat I Board 92,50 a week for laborers. Most of
the mechanics are in prosperous circumstances.
Georgetown, the capitol of Scott county, is situated on
Royal Spring, which empties its waters into North Elkhorn,
nearly a mile from the town. It has several manufactory es
tablishments, a court house, baptist meeting house, printing
otﬁce, post otﬁce, and a rope walk. It is fourteen miles north
of Lexington, and on the head of a ﬂourishing settlement.
Ifarrodsburgh, a post-town of Mercer county, is pleasantly
situated on both sides of Salt river, which is here a handsome
rivulet, of good water, and atfordinga liberal supply for sevaral
mills. This village is ten miles N. by ‘V. of Dansville, and
contains 76 houses, some of them of good size and appear
ance ; it has a meeting house and post oﬂice ; the country
in its vicinity, is neither so rich nor so level, as around Dans
Ville.
Dansville, the capital of Mercer county, is situated on the
S. VV. side‘ of Dicks river, which is here a mere brook. 40
miles S. by VV. of Frankfort, and 33 S. S. VV. of Lexing-,
ton. It has 200 houses, a court house, jail, presbyterian
church, post otﬁce, and a printing office ; in which is publish
ed a newspaper called the “ Light House.” The surround
ing country is rich and closely settled. There are several
mills, factories, and an extensive rope walk.
Stanford, the chief town of Lincoln county, is situated on
a fertile and handsome plain, ten miles S. S. E. of Dansville;
 
 
as WESTERN GAZETTEERQ OR,
it has about 100 houses, a stone court house and jail, post
oﬂice, and a rope walk. There are ﬁve plantations in its
neighborhood, abounding with good springs, which constitute .
the sources of Green river.
Summersel--The seat ofjustice for Pulaski county, stands ‘
on the side ofa hill in a rich undulating country, twelve S. S.
E. of Stanford.-—lt contains about 70 houses, brick, framed,
and,hewn logs; it -has apost oﬁice, three taverns, six stores,~
three blacksmith shops, and a grist mill. Six miles beyond
Summerset on the Monticello road, the aspect, soil and tim
ber of the country, changes instantly; for you pass almost at’
a single step, from the deep, black, rich soil, covered with
honey locust, sugar maple, buckeye, &c. into the oak or knob
region, where the soft Vegetable mould, the accacia, grape
vine, and rich pastures disappear, and you tread on a ﬁrmer
soil, and make your way through a lofty oak and chesnut for
est. The ascent from the rich lands to the summit of the Knobs, is several hundred feet. I
Mhnticello-—the chief town of Vvayne county, stands on a
dry ridge, about half way between Cumberland river and
the Tennessee boundary line. It has about 50 inelegant
hewn log,r dwelling houses, a rude court house, and a place for
public worship, three‘ taverns, four stores, three blacksmith
shops. The country for several miles tothe south, is broken,
and abounds with streams and saltpetre caves. The waters
are remarkably pure and wholesome. A lead mine was dis
covered in the mountains about twelve miles south of Monti
cello, in April last: This discovery was made by a water-‘
witch, as the inhabitants informed me. The proprietors, are’
conﬁdent of making their fortunes ;' they have already‘ expend-'
ed a considerable sum in excavating the rock through which
the vein leads. My curiosity lead me to visit the spot, and
procure a specimen of the ore, which was very ﬁne, but the
Vein was only a yard wide and six inches deep. . lmprovedi
Jahd is selling near the Tennessee boundary line, for ten, ﬁf
teen and twenty dollars an acre, according to quality.
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. '97
Wayne county is the most healthy part of the state. Dis
'eases and physicians are almost unknown to the inhabitants;
but as a drawback on this blessing, they frequently experi
ence the most tremendous thunder storms. In travelling
from Limestone to Cumberland river, I scarcely saw a single
tree which had been struck by lightning. But.inimediately
.. on entering this county, I discovered frequent instances of the
,, lightning’s rage; and soon had an opportunity of beholding it
exerting all its power on the forest which covers Poplar moun
_ V tain. The storm overtook me several miles from any house, ' i and upon the summit of the mountain. The cla’ps came in
quick succession and were distinguished for uncommon vivid
ness of the lightning, and terrific severity of the thun
der. There was but very little rain, and not the least ap
pearance of wind. Several trees were struck within a short
distance of the covert I had selected. A large chesnut tree
was literally shivered into splinters, and scattered to the dis
tance of several rods, in every direction. The fragment:
exactly resembled the strips of a basket-maker.
Frankfort, the metropolis of the state, and chief town of
Franklin county, stands on the east bank of Kentucky river,
sixty miles above its entrance into the Ohio. The site of
the town is asemicircular, alluvial plain, two hundred feet low
er than the table in its rear. The river which is here about
100 yards wide,with bold limestone banks, forms a handsome
curve and waters the southern and western parts of the town.‘
The bottoms on both side of the river are very broad,’ but
subject to inundation. For several years after the settlement!
were commenced, the inhabitants were aﬁlicted with bilioul
complaints. But the low situations have been drained, and
they now enjoy good health. The town is but little inferior‘
to Lexington in the size and number of its houses ; but is nei
ther so pleasant, nor so rich in its surrounding scenery. The
,public buildings are, the state house, penitentiary, two church
es, court house, jail, market house, &c. The ﬁrst is of rough
marble, eighty-six feet front by ﬁfty-four deep—it is aparel.
. N
  
as WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
lelogram, with a cupola rising from the centre of a square
roof. The public oﬁices are on the ﬁrst floor, the hall of the
representatives on the second, and senate chamber on the
third. The court house is of brick—i_t is large and conveni
ient, and in every‘ respect worthy of the metropolis of Ken
tucky. The penitentiary covers one acre; the walls are of
stone, the Wdrk shops occupy the front. The labor of the
convicts and articles manufactured, aftet‘ paying for the raw .7
materials, considerably exceed in value the annual approprim-a
tions of the state... It contains from 70 to 100 convicts.
There are several valuable rope Walks, two bagging manu
.far/tories, powder mills, a grist and saw mill (below the town)‘
tobacco warehouse, two book stores and three printing offi
ces, in which are printed the Palladium, the Argus and the
Pulse. This town is in 38, 14, north latitude arid 24
miles N. VV. of Lexington. Several large brigs have been
built here and sent to New-Orleans. The public inns are commodious, and conducted in the best manner. ‘I
Franklin county is bounded west by Shelby, north-west by Henry, north by Gallatin, east by Scott and Woodford,v
and south by Mercer. ]t is a rich county, but not so popu
lous as Fayette, Scott, or Woodford. It has no poor land
except narrow strips along the banks of Kentucky river. It
is watered by Kentucky and Elkhorn rivers. It abounds with
excellent marble, freestone; and sand suitable for the manu
facture of glass, which is found in the river. There is a sub
stantial chainbridge across the Kentucky at Frankfort.
Versailles—the seat of Justiize for \Voodford county, is sit~
uated on a creek running into the Kentucky river. It con
tains about 100 houses, mostly large, of brick and stone. It is
thirteen miles S. W. by S. of ‘ Lexington. Its inhabitants
are (listinguished for their politeness and hospitality. Wood
ford county is rich and populous; bounded N. by Scott, E.
by Fayette, S. E. by Jessamine, S. W. by Mercer, and N.
W. by Franklin.
The public were last summer amused with a description
1
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 99
of a wonderful case, said to have been discovered in this
county. I made particular enquiries respecting caves and
caverns, but heard nothing of any corresponding in grandeur
and diinensions, with the one described in our newspapers Of
August 1816.
Shelbg/ville—the principal town of Shelby county, stands
on Brashan’s creek, twelve miles above itsjunction with Salt
river. It has a court house, meeting house, post oﬂice,
printing otﬁce. It is about twenty miles southwest of Frank
fort—Shelby county is bounded north by Henry, west by
Bullitt, east by Franklin, and south by Nelson. It is fertile,
and copiously watered by several creeks running into Salt
nver.
Cg/nilﬁana-—The seat ofjustice for Harrison county, is a
ﬂourishing town, stands on the north-east bank of the South
Fork of Licking, 20 miles on a strait line above its junction
with Main Licking. It contains about 100 houses, of brick,
stone, frame, and hewn logs; it has a brick court and mar
ket houses, stone jail, an academy endowed by the legislature
with 6000 acres of land. There are ten grist and saw mills,
within three miles of the town. The town is situated on a
large and handsome bottom, in a healthful, rich settlement. It
is 34miles N. E. of Frankfort, and 26 N. by E. from Lexing
ton. The road from Frankfort to Augusta passes through Cyn
thiana. Harrison is bounded north by Pendleton, south by
Scott, west by Franklin, and east by Bracken. Its surface is
in many places broken--it is very well watered by the South
Fork of Licking, Eagle creek, and its head branches.
Jiugusla, the seat of justice of Bracken county, stands on
the bank of the Ohio, on a spacious and pleasantbottom, 22
miles below Maysville. The margin of the river is beauti
fully ornamented with a double row of locust trees, and the
streets and yards are also Well shaded by‘ locust and pop.
It was court week, and the day very hot and sultry,
when I arrived here from Cincinnati, and proceeded by land
to Washington. Slavery never appeared more odious tome
lars.
 
 
zoo ‘ WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
than on that day. The neighboring ﬁelds were ﬁlled with ne
groes, bear headed, toiling beneath the rays of a scorching '
sun, and covered with sweat and dust, while the 'well dressed
.whites, satin groupes beneath refreshing shades, engaged
in reading newspapers, and beguiling the hours in the vivaci
ty of coloquial intercourse. This town hasT a particular air
of neatness; but its trade is not very extensive._ 1 omitted
counting the buildings, or making any topographical notes. J
There is probably about 75 houses, a court house and meet
ing house. The ﬂats above the town are more than one mile \
wide. Bracken creek enters the Ohio about halfa mile above
the village. This creek/branches about a mile and a half
from the river; and affords water for several grist mills.
Bracken county is considerably broken, but it may be rank ed among the rich counties. I
Newport, the seat of justice for Campbell county, is situa
ted immediately above the mouth of Licking, and directly
opposite Cincinnati; its site is a rich, elevated and beauti
' ful alluvial plain, commanding a ﬁne prospect of Covington,
Cincinnati, the opposite hills, and both up and down the Ohio
river. It is healthy and affords good well water at the depth
of 40 feet. It has enjoyed considerable political advantages,
being the point of rendezvous for most of the military expedi
tions from Kentucky against the British and Indians. The
United States have erected an arsenal immediately above
the conﬂuence of the Licking with the Ohio ; and make this
place a point of deharkation for such troops as are sent down
the river. Notwithstanding its early settlement and ﬁne si
tuation, it has not ﬂourished until within the last two years—
It begins to assume the appearance of a handsome town.
There are several ﬁne brick houses—it has a court house,
(building) ejail, market house, an academy (not yet in opera
tion) endowed by the legislature of Kentucky with 6000 acres
of land ; arrangements were made last season for the erection
-of a brick school house, and the organization of a school on
the lancastrianplan; there is a baptist and a methodist engro
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. , 101
Mg, .
/
gation, but no permanent meeting houses-—a post oﬁce, no
printing qﬂicc, but a ﬁne vacancy for such an establish
ment.
The arsenal “ consists of a capacious, oblong, two story
armory of brick; a ﬁre-proof, conical magazine, for gunpow
der; astone house for the keeper, and wooden barracks suﬂEi'
_cient for the reception of two or three regiments of men, the
fwhole inclosed with a stockade.”
The proprietor of this town is Gen. James Taylor, who
commenced building and laying out lots ip l79l,and convey
ed two acres to the county as a site for the public buildings.
His title is indisputable, and his terms and policy liberal. He
has introduced the culture of the vine; and his vineyard
greatly embellishes the place.
Covington is a new town ﬁnely situated on the bank of the
Ohio, immediately below Newport on the opposite side of
L_icking—the plain on which it stands is extensive and simi
lar in soil and elevation, to the site of Newport. The propri
etors are Messrs. Gano’s and T. D. Carneal. “It is so plan
ned and surveyed, as to make the streets appear to be a con
tinuation of those of Cincinnati. Each block of lots has the
advantage of two 16 feet alleys.”
donations for the erection of public buildings. This town is
to be connected with Newport by a bridge across Licking—
nay, some are so sanguine as to talk of a bridge across the
Ohio, thereby connecting at a future period, “ the three cities.”
The great road to the Miami and Whitewater settlements,
from the interior of Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia and the
Carolinas, passes through this place. I
If the lover of the sublime and beautiful of nature, wishes
to contemplate a ravishing panorama, let him embark at C0
lumbia, on a ﬁne summer’s day, and suffer his boat to glide at
leisure until he passes the mouth of Licking. His eye will
ﬁx itself alternately on the broad, placid “ belle rivicrg” roll
ing in grandeur, the extensive valley of the Ohio, clad in the
rich luxurianee of its summer vestments, equalling in beauty;
They have made liberal _
*¢~r:~'>-F*’_'_'.'?.-_)I"' , 7/ -..»_-~_..».
ll
102 ' YVESTERN GAZATTEER; OR a
. 1| . ..-»-4'- ' ~ i---b-—_~“-'-1--'~‘L‘—-r;aalim=-ra>;~.-Q-s:""'t_."
the fabled vale of Tempe, the hills, rising majestically from
the bottoms, like two immense amphitheatres, the ﬁne planta
tions, the vast assemblage of beats, the sites and buildings of
Cincinnati, Newport and Covingtou--he will be charmed, and
forcibly struck with theiout ensemble of so many interesting
objects, and the striking proximity of three ﬂourishing towns.
Campbell county is generally hilly, being broken by Licking
river, and several creeks-—tl1e soil, however, is tolerably good,
and the growth of timber very heavy. The woods abound
with vast quantities of genseng, and there are large tracts of
land to be sold, ouieasonableterms; they are well watered,
and in a healthy part of the state. / .
“ In the bed of Licking, within a mile of its mouth, when
the river is low, several copious veins of chal_1/bea-la water
burst out, and have occasionally been resorted to, by the citi
.zens. In addition to the carbonate of iron, they contain the
different salts common in the spring water of this region.
They seem to be formed in the alluvial grounds which skirt
the river, and may be mentioned as specimens of a numerous
-class of chalybeate springs, with which the alluvial formation
abounds.”
Newport and Covington will enjoy a large share of the in
terior trade‘ of Kentucky ; as Licking river, in high water, is
navigable for more than one hundred miles, for boats carrying
two hundred barrels of ﬂour.
Port William, the chief town of Gall-atiu county, stands on
the right shore of Kentucky, just above its emboudntre. It
contains about ﬁfty houses, many of which are of brick--but
although pleasantly situated at the mouth of a navigable river,
the outlet of a ﬁne country, it has not ﬂourished.
Newcastle, the seat ofjustice for Henry county, is situated
in a populous district, 18 miles nearly south of Westport.
It contains about 70 -houses, principally of hewn logs. The
court house is a large convenient brick building, two stories
high and about forty feet square.
Weslport, is situated in Henry county, on a high blutf near
 
EMlGRANT’s DlREC'l‘t)RY. 103
\y
 
 
the bank of the Ohio, 48 miles below the mouth of Kentuc
ky river, and 17 above Louisville. It has about 25 houses.
The county of Henry was established in 1799; it is bound
ed north by the Ohio river, west by Jelferson, south by Shel
by, and east by Kentucky river. It is about thirty miles
square, and obtained its name from the celebrated Patrick
Henry of Virginia. It is watered by the Little Kentucky,
which has a suﬂiciency of water for mills the greater part of
the year—Drennon’s, Harrod’s, Flatt, Six mile and Corn
creeks, upon all of which are a number of grist and saw mills.
A considerable part of this county is broken by the Ohio, Lit
tle and Great Kentucky rivers. The soil is favorable to the
growthof corn, rye, oats, wheat, tobacco, hemp, sweet and
Irish potatoes. Each family may easily raise cotton enough
for its own use. The hills afford a plentiful supply of oak
timber suitable for ship building, and the county is rich in fos- .
sil productions. >There is a salt lick on Drenuon’s creek, 25
miles from the Ohio, at which salt has occasionally been made,
and it is believed by many-, that by proper management the
whole state could be supplied with that necessary article from
these works alone. Lead ore is found near the lick; and
about three miles higher up the creek is a medicinal springs
much frequented by the inhabitants in summer. The grass
fed beef of this county is said to possess a superior ﬂavor, ow
ing chieﬂy, it is supposed, to the many sulphurous licks on
almost every little water course. The tobacco crop for ex
portation in favorable seasons has exceeded 300 hogsheads.
Loui.=ville—'l‘he chief town ofJeﬂ‘erson county, stands on
an inclined plain, about one quarter of a mile above the Falls
of Ohio. The three principal streets run parallel with the ri
ver, and the view of the rapids, the opposite shore, Jeﬂ'erson
ville, Clarksville, and Silver Creek hills, is very fine. For
several years succeeding the ﬁrst settlement of the town, the
inhabitants were annually visited by agues and bilious fevers,
but latterly, these disorders have in a measure disappeared.
Louisville is at present in a state of rapid growth and im
104 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
provement and nearly equals Cincinnati and Lexingtonin
size and beauty. It has many public buildings, several rope
walks, maniifactories-—two printing oflices, bookstore, &c. It
is 706 miles, by the windings of the Ohio, below Pittsburgh,
40 ‘W. of Frankfort, and 481 above the mouth of the Ohio;
in north lat. 38 15. Beargrass creek enters the river at the
upper end of the town and affords a good harbor for boats.
Building lots are high ; more houses were built last summer,
than during any season since the town was commenced. The
boards, plank and shingles used, are mostly brought in rafts
from the mills of Allegany county, in the state of New York.
The buildings extend from the mouth of Beargrass down the
- . Ohio to opposite the lower end of Com Island, a distance of
upwards one mile; boats can lie with perfect safety at any
point of the'shore, from the mouth of the creek to the middle
of the island, the river being deep, with little or no current in
the bend of the river abreast the town.‘ The eminence on
which the town stands is seventy feet in height, and gently
descends to a narrow plain along the bank ofthe river—it is
along this plain that the contemplated canal. on the Kentucky
side of the rapids, is proposed to be cut; it is to commence a
little below the mouth of Beargrass creek, and discharge itself
below Shippingport, a distance of one mile and three quarters
and twenty-eight perches. The legislature of Kentucky have
incorporated a company for opening this canal. Mr. L. Bald
win, an able engineer was employed in the winter of 1816, to
survey the ground ; be bored through the various strata along
the route, and estimated the expence of a permanent canal
for keels or other vessels of 30 tons at $ 240,000. It is said that
a canal, sutliciently capacious for a vessel ot':1‘00 tons burthen,
could be opened by digging to the average depth ot’ 20 feet:
an 6 inches -the soil is generally a stiff clay, upon a bed of
limestone rock, which no where rises more than three feet and
a half ‘above the ﬂoor of the canal. It is the opinion of many
that the completion of the proposed canal, on a scale large
enough to admit vessels of 3 or 400 tons burthen, would mates
.r
hM:cRANT's DIRECTORY. 105
tially check the future growth of Louisville; but i can see no
just reason for concurring in this belief--the canal will aug
ment, rather than diminish the alraady extensive business of
this town; and the principal pillars of her prosperity is found
in the great fertile district between Kentucky and Salt rivers;
Jelferson county is bounded north and West by the Ohio, east
by Bullitt and south by Nelson. It is one of the mist popti‘
lous counties in the state, of a rich soil and ivatered by creeks
running into the Ohio and Salt rivers.
Shipjringporl-‘Is situated at the foot ‘of the rapids, and
about two miles below the mouth of Beargrass. ldoats, which
pass the rapids through the Kentucky channel generally stop
here. Mr. Berthoud has a convenient shipyard and Mr. Ter‘
Tasson one of the ﬁnest ropewalks in the United States, being~
twelve hundred and ﬁfty feet long. A little above the harbor
is a mill turned by the Ohio, by means of a race.
Russellsvillc, the chief town of Logan county; is nearly
‘equidistant from Green and Cumberland rivets,-or 35 mile!
_from both. Red river approaches it within 15 miles‘on the
’ South, and Muddy river a branch of Green, on the north, with‘
*“a‘-.._-':3‘-'§Z‘.\{I*v~ ' -51-—, 1 "Ir-as 5".’-7"-Q 4 ‘
in 25 miles. Each of those rivers are navigable in freshes fol‘
large boats into Green and Cumberland rivers-. This town
contains upwards of 150 houses-'-it has a court house, college;
a branch of the Kentucky bank, meeting-house-, two printing
presses, &c. It is ‘I80 miles S. W. of Frankfort, and 85 SE»
of Louisville. Logan county is bounded N. by Ohio county;
N. VV. by Mublenburgb, W. by Christian, E. by Warren,
and S. by Tennessee. On the south it is watered by the amo
iliary streams of Red river, and north by those that fall into
Green river. There are a great number of grist and saw mill!
in this county and line sites for the erection of water-works. '
There are several salt licks in the vicinity of Rnsscllsvillet
To-the north of this town the land is covered with a very hein
vy timber—to‘tl1e south, barrens,-oropen prairiecountry: this
strip is about 15 miles wide and extends from east to west 90
miles. These prairies ‘are rich, ﬁnely watered, and adorned
Q
.‘,--~-'
‘*"
we wnsrnan eaznwrann; on‘,
with islets or intersgcted by groves of timber suﬂicient to main“
tain an immense population. A vineyard has been planted
two miles from Russellsville, by a society organized for that
purpose. Cotton is raised for exportation,._and wheat‘ for
domestic use‘- _
Bairdstown,-—The capital of Nelson county, is situated on the east side or Beech Fork, one ‘of principal branches ofI
Salt river. Itcontaius nearly 200 houses, a stone courthouse
and jail, church, market house, &c. It is 35 miles south of
Frankfort—a:-id ip north lat. 36 49. Nelson county is bound
ed north by Shelby, north west by Bullitt, west by Hardin,
east by Mercer‘, south east by Lincoln arid south by Greene.
This coupty is watered by the head waters of Salt and Green
rivers. It contains some good and much poor laud.
Ifenderson--the county town of Henderson county, stands
on the red bank of the Ohio, 75 miles below Louisville. The
houses are principally built of logs, and its appearance is dull,
but it’ enjoys a considerable share of this Orleans trade ; ﬁve
hundred‘ lnigshcads of tobacco have been shipped at this
place in a single year. Henderson county is bounded north
by the Ohio, east by Green and Muddy rivers, which sepa
rate it from Ohio and Muhlenbu-rgh counties, west by Trade
water river which divides it from Livingston county, and west_
by Christian. Thestaple of this county is tobacco; but
cotton is raised in considerable quantities.
, 'Vang'eville,--A mg city, at the mouth of Salt Lick( Creek;
36 miles above May sville, has ﬁfteen or twenty old log houses,
situated near the margin of the Ohio, on low ground, subject
to fnaquept; inundation. The water of this Saline is not ve
ry strong—yEelding only one bushel of salt from 300 gallons
ofwater. The inhabitants have had as many as 200 kettles in
operation. It is thought that if the wells were sunk to a pro
per depth, water of a superior quality might be procured in
abundance. Yet owing to the cheapness of the Kanhaway '
salt, andthe proximity ofthose works, it will probably be ma»
ny years before the trial will be made.
-_..(lr-I §L.._}._......____i ' ‘
EMIGRANT’s DRECTORY. ‘ 107
EX TENT OF NA VIGABLE WATERS.
Jlilc-s..
The Ohio navigable on the northern frontier, . 500
Mississippi, . . . . . . . 75
Tennessee, . . . . . . . 100
Cumberland and its branches, . . '. . 700
Trade water, , . V . . , , . 60
Green river and forks, . . . . - . 350
Salt river, . . . . . -‘ . 150
Kentucky,‘ Q . . . _ . . . 230
Liqkziig, . . " . . . . . . 100
Big Sandy, - . . . . . . . 60
 
Total, 2325
ANTIQ UITIES.
Ancient fortiﬁczitions and mounds are found in Kentucky,
and in almost every county. The only work of this kind
which I have particularly examined, is situated on the second
bottom of the Ohio, nearly opposite the mouth of the Big
Scioto river. It is evidently the remains of a military posi
sition of great strength. It is about half a mile from the riv
er. The walls, which are of earth, are yet standing; and
enclose, as nearly as I could‘ ascertain by pacing, fourteeri
acres of ground. It is of a square form. The otﬁcions hand
of civilized man has not yet marred the woods which shade ~
these venerable ruins ; nor has any curious antiquary mutilat
ed the walls, by digging in quest of hidden treasure. Time
appears to have been their only enemy ; and he seems in this
instance, not to have manifested his usual rage for oblitera
tion. The walls are in many places sixteen feet high, and no'
where less than eight; they are about thirty feet wide at the '
base andwide e owh on the-to to admit a hor::e lean: amt : B a P
10_8 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
Waggon. There are seven gateways, three on the west, two
on the east, and two on the north; -they are all about 20 feet
wide ; from the north west angle the ruins of a covered way,
extend toacreek which runs on the west side of the fort,
at the distance of 280 yards-—the covering has fallen in, and
large trees are growing in the ditch, but the course can be dis-\
tinctly traced, and no one in the least acquainted with milita
ry aﬂ'airs, can hesitate for a moment to pronounce it the re
mains of a e=.=vered rvay. From the west side of the fort are
{wo parallel walls, thirty feet apart, reaching to the creek,
which is there 220 yards distant. These walls are as wide
and as high as the walls of the fort; they appear to have been
carried to the bank of the creek, where they abruptly termi
nate. There is no appearance of a head ‘work beyond the
creek, to protect the water carriers ; but this defect was
probably supplied by strong pickets. Another creek or run,
approaches within 150 yards on the east side of the fort,and
two parallel walls run from the fort to this stream, which also
is not defended by a head work. Thus the garrison of this
ancient fortiﬁcation had three avenues through which they
could safely procure water. There are two large mounds a
few rods south of the fort. The timber growing in and around
these works, consists of white oak, hickory, sugar maple and
beech; many of the trees are very large, and these perhaps,
the third generation since the construction of the fort.
Travellers assert that several hundred mummies were dis
covered near Lexington in a cave, but which have been whol
ly despoiled by the ﬁrst settlers. Dr. Cutler, who has accu
rately examined the trees on some old forts near the mouth of‘
Kentucky river, thinks from their appearances that they are
the second growth, and the fortiﬁcations “ must have been
built upwards of one thousand years. One fact is also clear -,
they must have been the efforts of a people acquainted with
some science, and capable of inﬁnite labor; and it is diﬂlcult
to conceive how they could be constructed without the use of
iron tools and the instruments we are compelled to employ in
 
 
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 109
works of much less magnitude and character. ' At a small dis
tance from each fort there stands a mound of earth thrown up
in the manner of a pyramid.”
THE RANGE.
The reed cane, ah evergreen, which in the ﬁrst settlement
' of the state covered the country on all the rich lands from
Big Sandy to the Tennessee fmntier, and which constitute
the principal food for horses and cattle in winter, has of late
years almost entirely disappeared. But a still more valuable
succeedanum has sprung up in its stead, so that the woods
and couunons in the best counties aﬂbrd a rich and luxuriant
pasturage. This is a short, nutritious grass called “nimble
will,” which has completely overspread with astonishing ce
lerity. almost every spot of waste or uncultivated ground.
The inhabitants atiirm that the range is now better for horses
and cattle, than it was when the country was in’ a state of .
nature.
u
DOMESTIC JNIMJLS.
The horse, “ noble and generous,” is the favorite animal of
the Kentuckians, by whom he is pampered with nnceasing at
tention. Every person of wealth has from ten to thirty of
good size and condition; and upon which he lavishes his corn
with a wasteful profusion, A common work horse is worth
$50, and a genteel saddle horse $100. Cattle are raised in
great numbers in every part of the state; large droves are
annually bought up for the new Territories, and for the and
atlantic markets—oxen are very little used on the farm ;
and are mostly reared for the drovers. A large sized on can
be purchased for 25 dollars; and a cow for ten and twelve
dollars. Sheep have multiplied greatly since the Merino
 
 
m WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
\ ’ ~ kies are still numerous in the unsettled parts. The robin of
'
\
mania of 1810. Hogs are raised with great ease, and in vast;
numbers, on the oak and chesnnt lands in the southern coun
ties. I have myself seen several farmers,‘who owned be
tween two and three hundred.’ '
POULTRY, WILD FOWL, GAME.
The farm yards swarm with domestic fowls, and hens lay and
sit in _winter as well as in spring and summer; they can be
multiplied to almost any‘ number and with a triﬂing expence.
The quail is the—most common of the feathered tribe—they
are to.be seen at every step, singly and in ﬂocks. Wild tur
the northern states is almost a stranger in Kentuc-lry and Ten
nessee. Bear, deer, wolves and foxes are numerous in the
eastern and southern counties. Rabits and grey squirrels are
very plentiful in the settlements.
NATURAL CURIOSITIES.
These are numerous and are to be found in almost every
county in the state-— they chieﬂy consist of caves, sinks, and ‘
prem};ices—Wany of the most remarkable caves hitherto dis
covered, have been minutely described in our newspapers and ‘
geographical publications ; they are a source of neverending
wealth to their owners. The earth Which they contain is so
_strongly impregnated with nitre that the inhabitants often ob- I
tain from‘ 100 lbs. of it, 50 lbs. of saltpetre; and if returned
to the caves after leaching, it will ina few years'regain its
original strength. The richest counties in this article of
commerce are_Barren,Rockcastle, Montgomery, Knox, Estle, I
_ Warren, Cumberland, and Wayne; the last has produced
- from 50, to 70,00.0_ lbs. a year. The returns of 1810 for
the state gave 201,937 lbs. But during the war the quantity
O
 
 
 
EMIGR/-ANT’s DIRESTORY. m
‘u
g from the mouth of'H'
bfsaltpetre made exceeded 400,000 lbs. a year; and the
amount of gunpowder manufactured for the last ﬁve years,
will average 300,000 lbs. annually.
‘The precipices formed by the Kentucky are in many
places sw;'ully sub_lime—-presenting perpendicular banks of
300 feet, sond limestone, surmounted with a steep and diﬂi
cult ascent four times as high. It is by descending this river
n Creek, to Port William, that one"
'is enabled to form some mg like an adequate idea ofthe depth
and extent ofthe imtnense calcareous rock upon which rests
the soil of Kentucky. To the geologist, these stupendous
piles exhibit a most interesting spectacle of contemplation ;
for it is here that nature has laid bare the very bowels of the
earth;
The banks of Cumberland river are less precipitous, but
its bed is equally depressed below the surface of the surround
ing country. The descent from the hills to the bottoms is_
abrupt, and the traveller sees with wonder‘ alternate strata of
limestone rock and earth, both from one to ten feet thick. I
counted at Cotl'ee’s ferry, in ‘Vayne county, asl descended
the hill, sixteen distinct layers of this rock, the aggregate
thickness of which was 485 feet; and the intermediate earth
was collectively much thicker. Surprising as it may seem,
the lower stiata of earth contained pebbles and cg/Iindrical
Itones,smoothed by the action of water. I leave it to phikﬁ
lophy, to explain how they came there, or rather what con
vulsion or revolution of nature has buried them beneath such
an accumulation of sand and lime stone They have appar
ently been entombed by the progressive growth of the earth.
SPECULA TION.
The monster speculation, has fixed his en;Zer grasp me
some of the best tracts of land, to the great injury of the
state, and with ﬂagrant injustice to the poor. I must confess
'1'1~2 . WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
I felt indignant, when, after passing an extensive and fer-tii_e
tract of beautiful land, of many thousand acres, and surround
ed ‘ by rich and ﬂourishing settlements, I enquired the cause
why it was not settled, and received for answer, that it be‘
longed to a rich gentleman in Virginia-, or to some other opus
lent, non-resident land.jobber, who would not sell it for less
than $ 30 dollars an ‘acre-. One often meets with these waste
tracts in Kentucky, and the Western é‘Ynties of Virginia; and
the evil is felt in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York, to the
disgrace of our legislation, which grants every facility to the
‘rich, without consulting the interests of the poor.
BANK CJIPITJIL, MANUFJCTURES.
‘The Bank of Kentucky the only one in the state is estab
lished at Frankfort, with-branches at Washington, Paris, Lex
tngm, Dansville, Russellsville, Bairdstown, and Louisville.
Its capital stock is ' - $ 2,077,750 10
Debts due, - ' - 4,087,740 87
Deposits in cash-, - 1,864,326 11
, Notes in circulation, - 1,877,557 83
Cash on hand, - 1,233,148 64
The notes of this bank are in excellent. credit, but bills from
the neighboring states, particularly those of Ohio, have a free
and extensive circulation.
There are no data by which to determine the annual amount
of manufactures; The returns of 1810 gave $ 6,l82,010
since Which they have probably do-ubled. They consist of
cloths and stuffs, begging for cotton and hemp, iron, castings,
nails, earthenware, glass, leather, cordage, paper, distilled spi
rits, oil, salt, saltpetre, gunpowder, and maple sugar. There
‘ are about 60 rope Walks, 7 paper mills, 5 furnaces, upwards
of 20 powder mills. Between 2 and 300 bushels of salt are‘
yearly made at the diﬂ'erent licks. Almost every plantation
has a sugar camp. The sap is sweeter than that produced
 
  
  
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 113
Tram the sugar trees in the northern states ; besides, the quan
tity is actually greater from trees of the same diameter. T-ze
maple of Kentucky is a short, thrifty-looking tree, with nu
merous limbs and branches. The quantity of maple s\.;~.~.r
annually produced in the state, is supposed to exceed two
millions of pounds.
I
D WELLING HO USES.
In the new settlements, the inhabitants uniformly live in
log cabins, the logs being laid up round or hewn, according to
thetaste or convenience of the builder. In the old settle6
ments ofthe rich counties, log houses have nearly disappear
ed, and stone, brick, or frame houses of good size and appear
ance have arisen in their places ; the ﬁrst are most in vague,
but no matter what the material, the cbiinizry is sure to be
placed out doors.
CHARJICTER, MANNER-S’, RELIGION. -' ‘
It is almost superﬂuous to say that the Kentuckians are gen
erally brave, patriotic, and hospitable. Their courage and
love of country have been evinced in the marshes of Lonisi6
ztna, in the wilds of Indiana, on the borders of Canada, and
by the alacrity with which 20,000 volunteers, repaired to re‘ mote scenes of danger, during the late wa-r. Y The godlike vir~
tue of hospitality is still cherished by all classes, as well by
those living on public roads, as by those resident in retired
situations, and the stranger of decent deportme-nt, is sureto
ﬁnd a cordial -welcome at the ﬁresides of private dwellings.
To reverse the picture, the rich hold labor in contempt, and
frequently make the possession of slaves a criterion of merit;
that is, most farmers, would make a marked distinction be
-tween two young gentlemen, one possessing slaves, the ethel‘
B
114 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on;
not, but equal in point of property, personal accomplishments,
and moral endowment, who should pay their addresses to hil"
daughter; the suit of the slaveholder would be favorably re
ceived, while that of his rival would be disdainfully rejected.
The climate of Kentucky, judging from the appeararce of
the inhabitants, must be highly favorable to the growth of the
human species: they are Well formed—-have ﬁne complexions,
and teeth very little liable‘ to decay’ Their dispositions
may be pronounced cheerful, and suicides are much less fre
quent than inythe northern states. Coffee is a favorite bev
erage. Luxury begins to show herself on their tables, and in their best rooms. ' i
' ' Baptists, Methodists, Presbyterians and Seceders, are the
prevailing sects ; they manifest a spirit of} harmony and libe
rality towards each other; and whatever may have been said
to the contrary, it is a solemn truth, that religion is no where
more respected, than in Kentucky. Ilast summer traversed
the whole state; and I had previously at two different periods
passed from its southern to its northern frontiers; and front
my own observation can speak with conﬁdence. In many '
places the inhabitants are not satisﬁed to attend divine wot
ship on Sundays only, but meet in conference three times I
week. In May 1816, ﬁve miles north of Harrodsburgh, I saw‘
the greatest religious assemblage I ever witnessed. Our
camp meetings in New-York bear no comparison to it in point
of numbers. The day was favourable; the minister stood
on a scaﬁblding erected for the occasion, in the centre of a
handsome woods free from brush or logs, the hearers to the
number,_asI judged, of at least 10,000, stood in concentric
circles around the orator. The number of horses and car
riages was absolutely incredible; and I do not enlarge, when
I say that they iiterally covered twenty acres of ground.
The Reverend Elijah Parish, whose book can be found in
most of our schools, is Very incorrect and unjust, when he
says, “' A large portion of the people are poor,‘ and in a low
state of society; idleness and dissipation having been very
M-__. A".___\-._—l__.._____.__a_-Q.-._.‘
EZVIIGRANTI‘ DIRECTORY. 115
prevalent, the frontier inhabitants commonly build a but of
logs, clear two or three acres for corn, depend on the woods
for the pasture of one or two cows and to fatten a number of
swine; the gun furnishes them with most of their meat. When
the range, as they call it, is eaten up by the cattle, and the
game scarce, like wild Arabs, they load their pack horses,
take their families, cows, and swine, and seek a new settle ment in the bosom of the forest," I
HISTORY. "L
Kentucky remained unnoticed by the whites until 1766,
“ when John Finley, an Indian trader, travelled through it,
and on his return to North-Carolina, represented to Colonel
Boon, the beauty, and fertility of the country. In 1709,
they, in company with some others, agreed to travel there,
and explore it more fully; but were unfortunately plundered,
killed, and ‘dispersed, except Colonel Boon, who remained a
solitary inhabitant of thewilderness, until 1771, when he re.
. turned to his family on Yadkin river. In 1773 he ﬁnally re
solved to take out his family, but was prevented on the way
by the hostility of the Indians, until 1775, when he and his
.family, with 6 other families, that were joined by 40 men
from Powell’s valley, arrived on the banks of Kentucky river,
and erected a_ fort, which they named Boonsborough; and so
rapid has been the population since, that it was erected into
an independent state by an act of Oongress,_D,ec., 6th, 1190,
and take" into the union two years afte_r._”j
i J“ LQUISIANA
IS situated between 29 and 33 N. latitude, and is bounded
north rnd west by the Missouri Territory, south by the
Gulf of Mexico, and east by the Mississippi Territory.
Its. boundaries are thus deﬁned by law: “Beginning at the
mouth of the river Sabine ; thence by line, to be drawn along
the middle of said river, including all islands to the thirty-se
cond degree of latitude ; thence due north, to the northern
most part oi the thirty-third degree of north latitude ; thence
along the said parallel of latitude, to the river Mississippi;
thence down the said river to the river lberville, and from
thence along the middle of the said river and lakes Maurepas
 
and Pcnchartrain, to the gulph of Mexico; thence bounded ‘
by the said gulphfto the place of beginning, including all isl
ands within three leagues of the coast.” By a subsequent
law of congress, that part_'of ‘Vest Florida, lying between the
rivers Mississippi, Iberville and Pearl, and the 31st degree
of north latitude, containing about 6,000,400 acres, has been
annexed to Louisiana. ‘
RIVERS’.
The rivers of this state empty themselves into the gull’ of
Mexico, the Mississippi and lake Ponchartrain.
Pearl river heads in the Choctaw country, near lat. 33 N.
and pursues a S. W. course for 60 miles, thence east 150
miles until it falls into lake Borgne, a little to the east of lake
P0nchartrain.—lt is said to be navigable 150 niiles-—it has 7
feet water at its entrance, but deepens at the distance of two
miles from the lake; but the navigation is at present obstruct
ed by logs and drift wood.—It flows througha fertile district,
and separates Louisiana from the Mississippi territory.
3
-EMIGl‘lANT’s DIRECTORY. ' in
’ Chgfimcii, a small river, having its source near the parallel
of 31 N. falls into lake Punch 1rtrain' at Mzidisonville ; it
is pboatable thirty miles :‘‘the 1’0;sgiftilio, another small river
runs nearly parellel with the Chcfnncti, and enters‘ the lake
about ten miles further west. The bayous Castain, Lacombe,
and Boucfouca are ‘also tributaries of this Datke.
Amite river, heads in the ‘Misssissippi territory, a little
north of tat. 31, and wins south into' the '1’-iver lbervitle.-—l"t is
‘navigable for boats and canoes nearly to its head. The road
from Madisonville to Natchez crosses its head branches: the
Ticfah, 35 'miles long, heads to the east of the Amite, and
runs south into lake Nlaurepas. '
Ibervilleriver, is properly oneof the dechurges of the Mis
sissippi; it leaves the Mississippi 20 miles below Baton
Rouge, and runs cast into lake Maurepas. It is only about
three months in a year that it is navigable‘, and then by vessels
drawing less than three feet water; and is perfectly drv dur
ing the remainder of the year, from the Mississippi to the
entrance of the Amite, _a distance of twenty miles.
The Mississippi waters the eastern frontier of Louisiana,
fromlat. 33 to 3], where it enters the state through Which it
passes, by various channels, into the gulf of Mexico. The
distance from lat. 31 to the Balile or mouth of the‘ main
branch of this river, is 354 miles.
The Bayous which leave the Mississippi and fall into the
gulf of Mexico to the west of the Balize, are :
Bag/on Alchofalaya, leaves the river three miles below the
mouth of Red river, and ,enters the gulf near Vermillion bay,
It is large, but rendered unnavigable by an immense ﬂoating
bridge, or raft across it, formed by the gradual accumulation
of drift wood. It is many leagues in length, and so ﬁrm and
compact in some places, that cattle and horses are driven
over it. lt is the opinion of some travellers, that this bayou
was anciently the only passage of the Mississippi to-the sea ;'
but Schultz has suggested a more probable hypothesis, which
is, that it was formerly a continuation of Red riveu The '
-118 WEQTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
:0
water which descends this channel passes under the bridge,
and in many places may be seen Whirling through small holes
and crevices, and at last rushes forth with considerable vio~
lence. In times of inundation small boats can pass the bridge
by keeping on the ﬂats. Large boats drawn into the ver
tex of this Bayou, ﬁnd it diﬂicult to regain the Mississippi.
I Bayou Placquemi_ne, leaves the Mississippi eight miles be-.
low the outlet of the lberville on the opposite shore, and com-. .,
municates with the gulf, through Freshwater bay, .AtCl1ﬂfﬂe .
laya and La Fourche; it is about 70 yards wide, and navi-s
gable for boats.
Bayou La Fourche, leaves the Mississippi thirty-two miles
below Bayou Placquermine, and communicates with the gult‘
by two months a short distance to the west of lake iVaehas._
In the old French maps this stream is called La Riveire des
Catarnaches. It is navigable at certain seasons for vessels of
sixty tons burthen.
In addition to the above, numerous short bayous, canals and
passes, leave the main branch of the Mississippi, between
the outlet of La Fourche and the Balize.
' Bag/o'u,Sara and Tkompson’s Creelc, water the Felieiana
district, between Baton Rouge and fort Adams. They are
about forty miles long, and sixty yards wide at their mouths—
they run parallel with each other and enter the Mississippi
twelve miles apart; the ﬁrst a little above point Coupee, and
the last seven miles below.
The small rivers, Teche, Vermillion, Mermanto, and Cal
easu, water the Attacapas'and Opelousas countries, and fall
into the gulf between Atchafalaya and the mouth of the Sabinie.
The Slbi1l€ forms the boundary between Louisiana and the
Spanish province of Texas—-enters the gulf 250 miles west
of the Belize, and is navigable 280 miles. About 35 miles
from its mouth and a little above the Sabine lake it receives
' the river Natchez.
Red river rises in Mexico, near the sources of Rio del Norte,
and meanders in a south-easterh direction from the north-west
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 129
w of ten or ﬁfteen feet.
\
corner of the state to the Mississippi, which it enters in N;
lat. 31, 5; and where it is 400 yards wide. Its waters are
brackish, of a redish color, tinged by the red soil of its banks
high up the river. It is navigable 1500 miles‘; and although
never departing but a few miles from the line of its general
course, is nevertheless ‘cl-ooked.‘ The banks are overﬂowed
in spring to a great extent, and in some places to the depth
The Rapids 135 miles from its mouth
is impassible in dry seasons with loaded boats. This rapid is
occasioned by a ledge of soil; rock, which crosses the river.
This rock is soft, and of the consistence of pipe clay; so that
the obstructions could be easily removed.
Its bottoms, or rather prairies, are wide and rich. Thirty
miles from its mouth it receidés Black river, a large and navi
gable stream which winds 200 miles through the state, nearly‘
equidistant between the Mississippi and Red river. This
ﬁver branches 50 miles from its mouth into the Barchelet and
Washita forks. The north fork of Red river is a considera
ble stream, and joins the main branch about one hundred
Iniles above the entrance of Black river.
The Dacheet and Saline are the most remarkable branches‘
of Red river proper. The ﬁrst waters a great range of rich
soil, which forms the north-west angle of Louisiana. The
Saline is a valuable salt flat, from Which any quantity of that
mineral could be produced, that the population of ' the state
could require.
About three hundred miles above Natchitoches, the navi
gation of this river is totally obstructed by rafts or covering:
of driftwood,at intervals, for seventeen leagues, and so exact
ly do these bridges resemble the common bottoms, in soil,
brushwood, and trees, that the traveller could cross them, un
conscious of their existence. Towards its he‘ ‘ts current
narrows to the width of a small creek, in consequence of the
rocks and precipices, which prevent its expansion.
Black river is large and winding——its course is nearly parel~
lel with the Mississippi, at the distance of about 40 miles;
v
be M1
120 VVESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
j?'- is n “ Is .. J’H,
the name of Black river, at the distance of 60 miles is chang
ed, and is then called the “’ashita river; here its course
bends to the westward. The ‘Washita receives the Tensaw
from the east, and the Occatohoola from the west at the same
place. In 1799, the ﬁsh of Black river perished in conse
quence of the stagnation of its waters, caused by an inundation
of the Mississippi. '
LAKES.
The chain oflakes which wash the eastern side of the island
of New~Qrleans, consist of Maurepas, Ponchartrain, and
Borgne. Lake Maurepas lies about 20 miles north of New
Orleans, and is twelve miles long and eight wide. It receives
and discharges the river Amite andthe little river of Ticfah,
nine miles furthereast is lake Ponchartrain, which lies imme
diately behind the city of New-Orleans. It is about 35 miles
long and 25 wide, and generally from ten to fifteen feet
deep. . ,
This lake receives the little rivers Pongipaho and Che‘
functi, as well as the bayous Castain, Lacombe, and Boucl'ou
ca. Lake Bcrgne lies still further east, but bya deep bay ap
proaches to within a few miles of the Mississ?ppi, with which
it communicates by means of a bayou and Vilere’s canal. It
was by this route that the Ekitish approached to the banks of
the Mississippi in the winter of 1814. The margins of all
these lakes are in most places low and marshey. Lake Wa
chas lies to the west of the Mississippi, and 22 miles from
New Orleans. It is 23 miles long and six mileswide, and
communicates with the gulf by several outlets. Colcas-u lake
lies near the mouth of the river of the same name, and is 35
miles in drcfnference, 40 miles below Natchitoches is lake
l ' Occasse; and near this town are two large lakes, one a mile,
I‘,
and the other six miles distant. One of these lakes is 30 and
the other 50 miles in circumference—they communicate with
Rod river by means of bayous. When the river is high the '
Q
EMiGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ‘ 121
Water ﬂows back into the lakes. “ The immense number of
fowl which abound in these lakes, during the\winter, almost ex
ceeds credibility. The air is darkened with the large ﬂights,
especially near the close of the day ; and the ear almost stun
ned with the noise they make. One man may kill many hun
dreds in an afternoon. The hunter takes his station on a
convenient spot, and loads and ﬁres as fast as possible, with
out taking particular aim, until he ﬁnds he has killed a sulﬁe
cient number to load his horses. These fowl are swan,
geese, brant, and several species of ducks. In the summer,
-several kinds of ﬁsh are said to be equally plenty. The In
dians, in taking ﬁsh, frequently make use only of the bow and
arrow. With this instrument an Indian will often load his
horse in a very short time. The fish consist principally of
the cat, pike, buffalo, sucker, and white and black perch, and
are generally of a very large size.”
Lake Noiz lies ten miles above Natchitoches, and is 50 miles
in circumference. It discharges its waters into the bayou
Rigula de Bondieu, a tributary of Red river, which comes
in three miles above Natchitoches. All the salt used by the
inhabitants of the Red river settlements, is made near lake
Noiz. The Water is so highly impregnated with salt as to
require very little boiling. The conveyance of the salt to
market is easy, as the outlet of the lake is navigable for boats
most of the year. Eight miles further up, is Spanish lake,
also about 50 miles in circumference, which rises and falls
with the river. Above this, at the distance of twenty leagues
is Lake Bistiueau, sixty miles long, extending parallel with
the river, at the distance of from three to ﬁfteen miles. This
lake is situated opposite of the driftwood raft. and has
double outlets, called the Bayou Channa, and the Ba
you Dacheeh It receives numerous tributary streams.
Sabine lake is twenty-ﬁve miles long and twelve wide——it
receives and discharges the river of the same name ; and lies
about twelve miles from the gulf. Cattahoola lake near the
mouth of Washita, is a pleasant body of water, 40 miles in
circumference. Barataria lake lies west of the Balize
Q .
'---1-\\ﬂ.\._ q.a=>~- G2‘! ‘Ia.-‘k~ ..._.&_.a~. T ‘M’ ‘ -<2
122 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR
EX TENT, SURFACE, SOIL, ISLANDS.
Louisiana is 300 miles in length, from east to west, and.
240 miles broad from north to south, having an area of 41,000
square miles, or 26,240,000 acres. Its surface is champaign
from the gulf of Mexico, to Baton Rouge, and Red river,
Which includes a vast alluvial tract extending from lake Borgné
to the Sabine, 250 miles long, and from 70 to 140 miles
wide. This extensive district is intersected by numerous
rivers, bayous, creeks, lagoons and lakes, dividing the coun
try into a great number of islands, very unequal in size and
ﬁgure. The island of New-Orleans, formed _by the lberville
and lakes on the east, and the Mississippi on the west, is 150
in length, and those formed‘by the bayous La Fouche, Plac
quemine, and Atchafalaya, are very large. The country
about the Balizefor 30 miles, is one continued swamp, desti
tute of trees, and covered with a coarse species of reeds four
or ﬁve feet high. Nothing can be more dreary than the
prospect from a ship’s mast head while passing this immense
Sabornoeian waste, where the eye gains no relief, but ranges
over a boundless horizon of pestilential marsh.
Thesoil gradually becomes ﬁrmer as we ascend the streams ;
all of which have narrow strips of rich tillable land, from half
a mile to a mile and a half wide ; but these bottoms uniformly
incline from the Mississippi and its bayous; consequently,
where they overﬂow their banks the waters recede to the
low grounds in the rear of the bottoms, where they either
stagnate and thereby perpetuate the empire of swamps, or
form for themselves distinct channels to the gulf—~hence the
origin of the mimerous bayous. This country, therefore, in
stead of having dividing ridges between the streams, has a
surface considerably depressed below the level of the river
banks, to receive the superabundant waters.
The country between the Mississippi, lberville and Pearl
;l‘lV€l'5, and N. lat. 31, is an important part of the state; the
Q,
- _._..A
EM lGRANT’s DIRECTORY. I28
\
southern half of this extensive district is a level, ﬁne country;
yet highly productive, for cotton, sugar, rice, corn and indi
go. The banks of all1 the streams are low, and the current of:
the water sluggish; and good springs are scarce; but from
Baton Rouge to Pinckneyville, about 50 miles in~a direct line,
the country presents an undulating surface, and covered with
a heavy growth of timber, consisting of white,’red and yellow
\- oak, hickory, black walnut, sassafras, magnolia and poplar.
The district of Feliciana is considered by many as, the
garden of Louisiana. Planters residing on Bayou Sara and
Thompson’s creek, and in the rear of Baton Rouge, are very
rich—some of them have as many as 600 acres of land in a
state of cultivation. The cotton raised here is of superior
quality; and the culture of the sugar cane hasbeen introduc
ed. The hills, in a state of nature, are covered by thickets
of reed cane, of the most luxuriant growth. A New-England
farmer can hardly form an adequate idea of the wealth of these
planters. , ,
Their plantations consist of from three hundred to one
thousand acres ; and some of the most opulent frequently have
300 acres of cotton in one ﬁeld. They all have slaves, and
some as many as 300. The soil is of the richest kind, simi
lar in quality and appearance to the best lands of Kentucky ,'
but the hilly parts are more liable to be washed and gullied
by heavy rains. Between Thompson’s creek and Aliaton
Rouge there is a rich savanna six miles long andaone Wide,
bordered alternantely by woods and plantations. All the
creeks which enter the Mississippi above Baton Rouge are
,liable to be suddenly swelled to the size of rivers during
heavy showers. The tract of country between the old de
markation line and Thompson’s creék, is watered by bayou
Sara, and its tributary streams.
“ At the distance of 20 miles from. Baton Rouge to the east,
the ﬁne lands commence, and forming a barrier between the
white settlements and the Choctaw nation, extend to Pearl
mriver. These lands are the most healthful for settlements of
.-_->1-'1: "1-' a'- -. - ’
1'24 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
‘any in Louisiana. They have a pretty mdulating surface;
and although the soil is light and sandy, is highly produc;.
ive.
Bartram’s description of the soil of an island at the mouth
of Pearl river, will answer for a considerable district border‘
ing the lberville, lakes Maurepas, Ponchartrain and Borgne,
and Pearl river.
“The ‘interior and by far the greatest part of the island,
consists of high land ; the soil to appearance a heap of sea
sand in some places, with an admixture of sea shells, this soil,
notwithstanding its sandy and sterile appearance, When di
vested of its natural vegetative attire, has, from what cause I
know not, a continual resource of fertility within itself; the
surface of the earth, after being cleared of its original veget
able productions, exposed a few seasons to the sun, winds
and triturations of agriculture, appears scarcely any thing but
heaps of white sand, yet it produces corn, indigo, batatas,
beans, peas, cotton, tobacco, and almost every sort of escu
lent vegetable, in a degree of luxuiiancy very surprising and
unexpected, year after year, incessantly, without any addi
tion of artiﬁcial manure or compost; there is, indeed a foun
' dation of strong adhesive clay, consisting of strata of various
colours, which I discovered by examining a well, lately dug in
Mr. Rumsey’s yard; but its lying at a great depth under
the surface, the roots of small shrubs and herbage, cannot
reach near to it, or receive any beneﬁt unless we may sup
pose, that ascending fumes or exhalations, from this bed of
clay, may have a viviﬁc, nutritrive quality, and be received
' by the ﬁbres of the roots, or being condensed in the atmos
phere by nocturrial chills, fall with dews upon the leaves and l
twigs of these plants, and there absorbed, become nutritive or
exhilerating to them.”
As an instance of the salubrity of the atmosphere on this
island, Mr. Bartram observes, “ The French gentleman
(proprietor of the plantation) was near eighty years old, his
hair almost white with age, yet he appeared active, strong
\
HMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 125
5-;
-am.-.=s.,.a
and muscular, and his mother who was present, was one hun
dred and ﬁve years old, active and cheerful, her eyes seemed
as brisk and sparkling as youth, but of a diminutive size, not
half the stature and weight of her son ; it was now above ﬁf
ty years since she came into America from old France.”
The northern coasts of the lakes Maurepas, Ponchartrain
and Borgne, are generally dry and healthful; the land east and
west of Madisonville, along the borders of the lakes is a sandy
plain, extending in some places twenty miles from their shores,
and nearly as level as the ocean, which appears to have reced
ed from it. The bottoms of these lakes are even and sandy,
and appear to be a continuation of the great inclined plane be
tween the Mississippi and Pearl rivers. The southern banks
are low and marshy. Madisonville is handsomely situated on
the right bank of the Chefmicti, two miles above its entrance
into lake Ponchartrain, and about 26 miles south east of New
Orleans. This place has not yet attained much importance in ,
point of wealth and population, but is unquestionably destin ed to become in great commercial city. it is favorably situ
ated for the coasting and ‘Vest India trades, having about two
days sailin going out, and about two weeks in coming in, the
advantage of New Orleans. It lies more convenient for the
necessary supplies and materials for repairing and building
vessels, and such are the local advantages of this place, that
government have ﬁxed on the site of a navy yard near the
mouth of the Chefuncti, where the keel of a light frigate was
laid down in 1812, intended for the defence of the lakes. It
is believed to be a more healthful situation, and less infected
with musquetoes, than New Orleans. The wild lands are
ﬁnely timbered with pine, live oak, cypress, magnolia, plum,
gum, bay, cottonwood, ash, willow, and occasionally impervi
ous cane brakes. These cane brakes are sometimes improper
ly called swamps, but the reed cane is never found on wet,
marshy ground, always grows in a rich, deep, dry soil. The
pine timber is remarkably tall and strait, with trunks from 70
to 80 feet high beforecoming to the limbs. The pine of Lou
126 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
isiana and Florida, is more sappy and yields more turpentine’ ‘ \
than the pine of-the north ; and a considerable part of the
inhabitants gain a livelihood by making tar and pitch, which
they sell at New-Orleans. The vast forests of pine between
lake'Ponchartrain and the Choctaw territory, will furnish an
inexhaustible supply of these articles for a century to come.
The beach of the lakes are lined with a species of muscle
gshells, called by the French des coquilles, from which lime of
the best quality is produced. The ﬁsh of the lakes and riv
ers, and the gameof the forests, is plentiful but inferior in
quality. The soilvis found to be highly favorable to corn;
cotton, sugar, indigo, rice, sweet potatoes, pumkins, plums,
cherries, ﬁgs, peaches, grape vines, and most kinds of garden
vegetables. ‘ Sugar plantations are becoming numerous; and
the settlements extending. The country above Madison
ville, is peculiarly adapted to the rearing of hogs and cattle--,
for they neither require salt, nor attention in winter; and no
where in the United States are they raised in greater num
bers than in the district under review; the reed cane, and
the grass of the prairies constitute their principal food. The
most natural grass of this country is of a very harsh nature,
and the cattle not at all fond of it. It is known by the name
of wire grass, and they only eat it while young. For the
procuring it young, or renewing this kind of pasture, the
woods are frequently ﬁred, and at different seasons, in order to have a succession of young grass, butithe savannas that
are interspersed in this kind of land furnish a more plenti
ful and more proper food for the cattle. ‘ '
“Some high pine hills are so covered with two or three
varieties of the oak, as to make an underwood to the lofty
pines; and a species of dwarf chesnnt grows here; another
species, of a larger growth, is also found in the lower parts,
particularly in the edges of the bay or cypress galls.
“ The sandy and most sterile soil, in wet seasons, bears
many things far beyond expectation, and is very useful for
the cultivation of peach and muiberry orchards. This land
~-, - ‘ , .2 HM‘ " "~ " :."F'_t\- ..'-. _._'-_.'-A“' -‘
EMtGItANT’s DIRECTORY. 121
tnight also be rendered useful for many other purposes ; but
either the people do not choose to go out of the old beaten
track, or content themselves with looking elsewhere for new
land, improveable with less cost. The method of meliorating
it, is certainly obvious to the meanest capacity, as it every
where, at a greater or less depth, covers a stiff marly kind of
clay, which I am certain, was it properly mixed with the
land, would render it fertile; and this might be done with lit
‘Tie éxpence, the clay lying in some places, within half a foot
of the surface: in most places it is found at the depth of
three, four, or ﬁve feet, consequently not very hard to come
at. This land is also frequently found rocky, with an iron
stone, especially near where the pines are found growing in
a gravelly tract, which is frequently the case.
V “ The hammock land, so called from its appearing in tufts
among the lofty pines: some small spots of this kind, if seen
at a distance, have a very romantic appearance. The large
parcels of it often divide swamps, creeks, or rivers from the
pine land; this is indeed its most common situation. The
whole of the uplands, remote from the sea in the northern
parts, is this kind of land : its soil is various, in some places a
sand of divers colours ; but the hammock soil is a mixture of
clay and a blackish sand, and in some spots a kind of ochre.
bu every kind of this land lies a stratum of black mould,
made by decayed leaves, &c. of the wood and other plants
growing upon it. The salts contained in this stratum render
it very fruitful, and, when cleared, this is the best, nay, the
only ﬁt land, for the production of indigo, potatoes, and pulse ;
the ﬁrst crops, by means of the manure abovementioned, gen
erally are very plentiful ; but the salts being soon evaporated,
if the soil over which it lay should prove to be sand, it is not
better than pine land; the other sort bears many years
planting: its natural produce is so various in_ this climate,
' that the complete description of all would be more work
than one man’s life-time would be snfﬁcient for.”
Pearl river, like the Mississippi, has its bayous, and enters
.\
)2»
128 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OIL
lake‘ Borgne through various channels. The swamps skirting
this river for eight or ten miles from its months, are too subject
to inundation to admit of extensive settlements, until protect
ed by levees, when the banks of its channels will ‘no doubt
present ﬂourishing sugar and cotton plantations. The lowest
grounds are covered with ‘a heavy growth of cypress trees.
In the rear ofthe cypress groves are found strips of the rich
est land, rendered almost impassable by the reed cane, which _,
is much thicker on the ground than our best nurseries, of all
sizes, from half an inch to two inches in diameter, and from
six to thirty-ﬁve feet in height. It. is thought that this river
might be rendered navigable for sloops, by the removal of the
rafts of driftwood, as high up as the ford, near Ellicott’s line,
whichcrosses the river about 75 miles from its mouths ; this
ford in dry summers is little more than ancle deep. At this
point the country has assumed an uneven surface, which it
maintains, with the exception of a few savannas, to the Mis
sissippi. The savannas are in this country of two very dif
ferent kinds: the one is to be found in the pine lands, and
notwithstanding the black appearance of the soil, they are as
much white sand as the higher lands around them. True it
- is, that clay is very often much nearer to their surface than in
the higher pine lands; they are a kind of sinks or drains to
those of higher lands, and their low situation only prevents
the growth of pines in them. In wet weather, the roads lead
ing through them are almost impassable. On account of
their producing some species of grass, of a better kind than
the wire grass, they are very often styled meadows ; and I
believe, if they could be improved by draining them, without
taking away all their moisture, very useful grass might be rais
ed in them ; but on draining them completely, they prove to
be as arrant a sand as any in this country. These savannas
often have spots in_ them more low than common, and ﬁlled
with water: they are overgrown with dilferent species of the
cratmgus, or hawthorn, as also very often a pecies of shrub
much resembling the laurus in appearance, but as I never
EM[GRANT’s DIRECTORY. 129
had an ‘opportunity ofseeing it in blossom, I cannot describe '
it, so as to ascertain the genus to which it belongs. In its
fruit it is widely diﬂ'e-rent from any of the laurel kind, that
have fallen under my inspection; it is a bacca, with several
cells, full of an agreeable acid, like the common lime from the
West Indies; it is ‘of the size of a large pigeon’s egg, but more
oblong. The other savannas differ very widely from these ;
they consist of a high ground, often with small gentle risings
"in~'them. There is generally a rivulet at one end, and of
ten at both ends of them. The soil is here very fertile; and
in some I have seen fossil shells in great numbers, in others
ﬂint, in others again some chalk and marl. It is remarkable,
that the cattle are very fond of the grasses growing here. in
these savannas, if a Well or pond is dug, the water has a very
strong nitrous taste.” *
The banks of the Boguechitto, a respectable tributary of
Pearl river, and which heads near the sources of Tongipaho,
are in many places bordered by rich and extensive prairies,
Which afford an inexhaustible pasturage to vast droves of cat- '
tle belonging to the White settlers and to the Choctaw Indians.
These prairies are remarkable chieﬂy for the immense num
ber of strawberries, which they produce, of superior size and
ﬂavor. ‘
The great valley of the Washila, is nearly in the form of a
semi-elipsis, and extends far beyond the northern conﬁnes of
the state, with an average width of 50 miles. This river
‘Winds above 300 miles through an alluvial region, and together
with its numerous bayous, lakes, and hibutary streams, che
quers 6,000,000 of acres, into a net-work of natural canals. af
fording in the aggregate more thanl500 miles of easy inter
nal navigation. Betweenthe Washita" and the Mississippi
the little rivers Ox, Bricklayers, and Providence, meander
at the, distance of ﬁve, ten, and ﬁfteen miles from each other,
and parallel with the Washita. The country is alluvial and
ﬂat, from Red river to the beautiful hike Occatahoola the
 
’ Bernard Romans.
R
130 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
water sluggish and the currents of the streams less than 0'2
inile an hour. The ﬂoods of the Mississippi have been known
to cause a regurgitation of the Washita’s current above one
hundred miles. Above lake Occatahoota the waters have a
brisker motion, and it is there that the high land and perma
nent strata of soil commence. Above the alluvial tract the
timber is chieﬂy pine and oak,‘ the soil sandy or clayey, and
the rocks principally slate; some of it alluminous, but none
ﬁt for covering houses ; there is a kind of argillaceous compo
sition, resembling oil-stone or turkey-stone, but too brittle for
ﬂints; and a kind of sandy aggregate, which seemed as if it
might be employed for grindstones. Mineralized and can
bonated wood is found in several places. There are no cer
-tain indications of fossil coal.
The plains of the Washita, like those of the Mississippi,
have a slight inclination from the river; and the inundations
of the Mississippi have been known to approach to within a
short distance of the VV-ashita, threatening to break through
its banks; this, however, is nota common occurrence. Some
writers have represented the country between the Mississip
pi and the Washita to be one entire cypress swamp; but
late discoveries prove that there exists large tracts of ﬁne cot»
ton and sugar lands between those rivers; especially above
Bayou Barchelet.
The garden of the Washita bottoms includes Bostrop’s
H grant, twelve leagues square, lying on the bayous Siard, Ber
thelemi, and the VVashita. This grant was made by the
Spanish governor general, the baron Caroudelet, on conditions
that Bastrop’s colony should conﬁne themselves to the culti
vation of wheat; and that he should erect several grist mills
upon the bayous. This tract is mostly high prairie, inter
spersed with woodland ; the soil is exceedingly rich and the country delightful; yet -the inhabitants are mostly poerrand
indolent, and frequently intrude on the public lands.
~ The wealth which annually ﬂoats out of Red river to New
Orleans market, is absolutely incredible— even at this early
Q
- _ EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. . 131
period of the settlements, when it may be said that the capa
city of the country to produce is but imperfectly understood ;
When not the tenth part of its natural resources are put in re
quisition by the hand of industry; and when a great propor
tion of the inhabitants are poor and all are comparatively in
dolent, yet the trade of this river is already astonishing.
About six miles from its mouth"is a bayou leading from Long
lake; this lake is three miles wide and fourteen long.
‘~ 3Red river pursues a very serpentine course. The coun
try at short intervals on both sides from its mouth to the
Missouri boundary, is interspersed with lakes, a part of which
have been described ; but the total number ‘of them exceeds
foFty. They all communicate with the river by bayons, and
rise and fall with it:_ these lakes, bayous and tributary rivers
and creeks, canal the country in every direction and greatly
facilitate the transportation of goods, produce, lumber, &c.
rPhe bottoms are from one to ten miles wide; very rich in
soil and productions. The timber oi; the bottoms is willow,
cotton-wood, honey-locust, pawpaw, and buckeye ; on the
rich uplands, elm, cucumber, ash, hickory, mulberry, black.
walnut, where the grape vine greatly abounds; upon the se' condi rate or sandy uplands, white, pitch and yellow pines,
and most kinds of oak. The settlements extend from tho
, mouth of the river, generally on both sides, as far as the great
jam of driftwood, a distance of nearly two hundred miles.
These settlements are distinguished by the -names of Baker-’s
Station, Avoyelles, Holmes’ Station, R-apide, Gillard’s Sta
tion, Cane river, Natchitoches, and Bayou Pierre. Above
Baker’s Station is a prairie nearly forty miles in circumfer
ence. It is entirely destitute of trees or shrubs, but produces
an excellent grass for fattening cattle. The beef is said to
be of a fine quality; and hogs ﬁnd in the roots and nuts an
abundant food. The inhabitants are settled in- the outer
skirts, on the border of the woods. The inhabitants are
Spanish, Irish, French, and Americans. A few miles above
this prairie, the land becomes moderately hilly- The pine
132 ' WESTERN GAZET-TEER; OB,
woods are here between thirty _and forty miles wide, extending
to the great prairies of Opelousas. Holmes’ station is 40.
miles above Baker’s. The land produces sugar, cotton, corn
and tobacco in perfection. On the south side of the river is
a large body of rich land reaching to Opelousas, which is wa
tered and drained by two large bayous called Bayou Robert
and Bayou Au Boeuf. '1 heir waters are very clear, and
‘take their rise in the high pine hills between Red river and g
the Sabine. These afford a safe communication with tEe’“’
gulf of Mexico, for an extensive range of country. It is be
lieved that this body ofland which is about forty miles square,
for richness of soil, growth of timber, excellence of water, sa
lubrity of climate, extent and convenience of naviga
tion, is not excelled by any tract of land in Louisiana. From
Holmes’ Station to the Bayou Rapide is thirty miles. The
lands on this bayou are nearly of the same quality with that
on the Bayous Robert and Au Boauf. These lands feed vast;
herds of stock. This Bayou has two months, which enter
Red river about twenty miles apart, forming a curviture_
somewhat in the shape of a halfmoon. A large creek of
pure waterenters the stream upon which are several sawmills,
and groves of pine timber. Boats canndt pass round this
curv-itnre on account of obstructions formed by rafts ot-‘drift
wood, but can ascend from the lower part more than half
the distance. On both sides of the lowenmouth of this bay-.
on, are situated the richest part of the Bapide settlement.
Few countries exhibit more beauty or greater indications of
wealth. The plantations are in a high state oi‘ cultivation,
the soil rich, and the cotton raised here is ofthe best quality
in the state. The sugar cane ﬂourishes. The cotton and
tobacco are very good, as are all kinds of vegetables. The
‘orange and ﬁgtrees grow luxuriantly; ti) complete these bless
ings,the climate is healthful and the inhabitants in a manner ex
empted from thediseases usually I/rioident to warm climates.
This country furnishes immense quantities ofiumber for the
New-Orleans, and "West India markets; and is capable of
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ‘ ma
continuing the supply for ages. From the Rapide to the In
dian villages is about 24 miles ; the bend is ﬁne and suscepti
ble of every kind of cultivation the whole distance. These
villages are situated on both sides of the river in a very pro
ductive soil. Just above the Indian towns, the rich and popu
lous settlement of Gillard’s station, commences. Six miles
higher up is the Balnxa Indian village, where the river dit
vides into two branches forming an island of ﬁfty miles in
length, and three or four in breadth, very fertile. The east
stream is called Rigule de Bon Dim ; on the left hand is the
boat channel to Natchitoches. On this branch for forty
miles, there are thick settlements, rich lands, and the inhabi- ‘
tants wealthy. This is called the River Cane settlement.
A little above this settlement, the river divides into three
channels, and forms the Brevel islands, the largest of which
is thirty miles long and three or four wide. The central di
vision is lined with settlements and is the boat channel ; the
western channel, called Fausse Biviere, is navigable but is
uninhabited, owing to the lowness of the banks. This chan
nel passes through lake L’Occasse, above which the three
ehahnels separate, where is situated the town of Natchito
ches, and fort Claiborne, which stands on a hill elevated about
thirty feet above the banks of the river. This town contains
about 100 houses; it was originally settled by the French.
The land has here a handsome swelling surface, yielding a
rich and spontaneous pasturage to prodigious herds of cattle,
and droves of horses,_which give beauty and animation to the I prospect, and croud the earth in every direction. Cattle can
be purchased for six dollars a head; horses, for ﬁfteen or
twenty dollars. Swine run wild and are raised with little of
no expence, in immense numbers. The planters commence
their cultivat'on about the ﬁrst of March. During the growth
of vegetation they have sutiicient rains to keep the earth
moist, but in September and October, severe droughts are
experienced. Although the dews are very heavy and pow-I
erful, yet the sun’s rays lick up this moisture before it dc.’
\
I34 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
scends to the roots, and only gives it time to cool the wither
ing stalk. The dews are known to fall so profusely as to be i
seen running in little streams on the ground. ‘
From Natchitoches a road leads to the Sabine, Nacogdo
ches and San Antonio. The Bayou Bon Dieu enters the
river about three miles above this town. Another bayou ‘
communicates with Bon Dieu and lake Noiz; above this lake
the river continues in one channel, passing through the ﬁne
settlement of Grand Ecorce, seven miles long; .at the l1pI!e‘F_"
end of which comes into the river- a bayou or decharge of
Spanish lake. The river again divides a short distance above
this lake; after which, the course of the west branch is
westerly for nearly 80 miles, when it turns to the eastward
and communicates with the right branch, forming an island
100 miles long, and thirty wide. Boats cannot ascend by the
west branch in consequence of collections of driftwood, which
choak up its current, in several places. The French settle
ment of Bayou Pierre extends nearly the whole length of this
branch; the land is At the best quality, and the inhabitants
" possess large herds of cattle, and are good livers. The face
‘ good navigation; and by passing through the lake and bayou
of this part of the country is agreeably hilly; and the water
very good. On the main or eastern branch, are several set
tlements. The land on this branch is very rich; but much
out up by bayous, lakes and islands. ‘
The bottoms are several miles wide. The plantations
reach up to the commencement of the driftwood bridges.-—
Bayou Channo, -leading into lake Bestenean, affords a pretty ,
Dacheet, boatmen gain several miles, as the meanders of the
river are very tedious. The medium depth of this lake, is
from fifteen to twenty feet, and never less than twelve, _though
the remains of cypress trees of all sizes, now dead, most of
them with their tops broken off, are yet standing in the lake.
From bayou Dacheet to the mountains, the river is free of
obstructions. Eighty miles above Dacheet, is the Caddb In
dian towns. The lands for this distance, are high, rich bot
 
’EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. I35
tolns, widely extended from the river. Twenty miles be
low these towns, the river changes its direction, and turns to
the west.
The great range of pine forests that occupy the space from ‘
the prairies of Opelousas to the Red river, wind along the Sa
bine. The general surface of this region rises gradually from
prairies into hills ; the principal range of which pursues near
Iy the same course as the Sabine, at the distance of twenty
6‘r_twenty-ﬁve miles from the river, and divide the waters
that ﬂow into it from those that ﬂow into the Red river and
Calcasu. Along the creeks, through this tract of country,
are found spots of productive soil. Pine and oak are the pre
vailing timber on such situations, and pasturage is abundant
during the months of spring and summer; but want of wa
ter during the dry seasons is the greatest defect of tl13llvC0lH!'
try. The Prairie grand Chevreuil begins between the ovenL
ﬂown lands of the Atchafalaya and the Teehe rivers, on the
west of the former, following the direction of the Teche,
nearly north—-sometimes north west, terminates eight miles
east of Opelousas. Most of the prairie is extremely rich, par
ticularly on the borders of the Teche. The timber consists
of several species of hickory, sycamore, sweet gum, black oak,
willow oak, American elm, magnolia, sasmfras, &c. with some
live oak below lat. 30 15. The soil is a rich, friable, lrlack
loam, from a foot to 18 inches deep—-and the climate, though
the place be surrounded with swamps and lagoons, is mild
and healthful. .
The country between the Mermentan and Atchafalaya, ex.
tending 115 miles. along the gulf, and about 90 north, is call
ed the Attacapas. Within this there is a great prairie, hear
ing the same name. Considerable tracts are subject to inunda
dation, but many parts possess the highest degree of fertili
ty.
North and east of this lies the great Opelousas prairie, ex
tending to the Sabine, and forming; the south west corner of
the state. It has several large prairies, such as the Opelousas
136 wnsrnnu GAZETTEER; on,’
s
prairie--on the north of that the Grand prairie, the prairie
Mamon, prairie Calcasu, and the Sabine prairie. The ﬁrst
of these contains upwards of 1,120,000 acres. Rich soil, and
good timber are found along the southern and eastern parts of
this district; but the rest is wild and the most of it barren}
occupied only by great herds of cattle and bulfaloe.
LE t/Ens. ’ WW,
/_/
These are embankments formed on the niargin of the Mis*'
sissippi; and those of its bayous, to prevent their currents
overﬂowing the plantations during the periodical ﬂoods. The
principal levee commences at the head of the island of New
Orleans, and extends to Fort Placquemines, a distance of 180
miles. It is in some‘ places lined with two rows of orange
trees. ‘
“ The levee is commonly constructed in the following man-'
ner, and is indeed but a triﬂing work, considering the impor
tance of its object :—At a distance, seldom exceeding thirty
or forty yards from the natural bank, a mound of earth is rais
ed about ﬁve feet high, and twelve at the base, with a sulﬁ
cient width at the top for a foot path; in general, resembling
very much the embaukments on the Delaware, erected to
keep out the tide from the marshes on its borders. The size
varies considerably; in some place, particularly on the points,
where the land is higher, and against which the current of
the river strikes with less violence, the levees are very tri
ﬂing; but in bends, where the current acts with greater force,
it is found necessary to oppose a more considerable mound;
on some of the bends, where the force of the current is very
great, the embankment is a work of considerable consequence.
The levee of M‘Carty’s, a few miles above New-Orleans, is
almost ﬁfteen feet high, by thirty at the base, and six feet at
the top; this is the most considerable on the river, excepting
that immediately in front of the city. As there is no stone
to be had, the only material is a soft clay, with cypress stave:
 
n\uer.mvr's umncrom. iai
Placed on the outside, that-is, next the river, and the whole
covered with earth and sodded. On the inside a ditch is
inade, for the purpose of receiving and carrying 08' the wa
ter, which weeps through the embankment in the season of
the ﬂoods. The road lies between the ditch and fences, and
-is crossed at intervals of half a mile, by drains from the
ditch just mentioned, and covered like the sewers of a city;
thgse drains pass through the ﬁelds, and carry the water to
the swamps. A vast quantity of water is continually oozing
through the porous embaukments, and in many places gush-'
es through holes made by crawﬁsh, which often increase so
rapidly as to cause a breach in the levee. It requires sever
al years for the levee to become perfectly solid and ﬁrm; pre
vious to this, it is liable to be injured by rains. The em
bankment runs in a very irregular line; in many places it’
changes its direction every twenty or thirty yards, for its
zig-zag course is not only suited to the sinuosities of the riv
er, but also to its smaller indentations, for being too slight a
ﬁork to compel the river to hold a_ regular course, it is oblig
ed to yield to its caprices: and as the river encroaches or re
cedes, another levee is constructed nearer the river or be
hind the ﬁrst; from which circumstance, there are in many
places what are called double-levees. A person standing in
side of the levee, during the ﬂood, seems to be considerably
below the surface of the water, or as some have expressed
it, “the water appears to roll over his head.” There is,
however, something of a deception in this; for there are in
few more than two or three feet of water against the
levee, asthe' ground betweenit and the river is much higher
than on. the inside; this may be accounted for, from the
quantity of sediment there deposited, and the circumstance
‘ of the road having been wom down by constant use. ‘What
is considered a good levee, may in most places be made for
live hundred to a thousand dollars per mile; but in many it. '
would cost several thousands. Every individual is required
to keep up the levee in front of his own land, and before the
S
'-1-38 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
season ofhigh water it is inspected by commissioners appoiHt~
ed for the purpose, in each parish, and if found insnﬂicient
.it is made at his expense. But this is by no means adequate
-to ensure safety; for during the continuance of the ﬂoods
the levees demand the most vigilant attention; they must be
continually Watched, and all hands are often drawn from the
ﬁelds to guard them for whole days and nights. The action
of the current discovers defective parts, before unobserved ; here earth must be added and slabs placed, to preventiti
from crumbling in; and often, after the rains, which prevail
‘at this season, it becomes spongy and lose in its texture, and
the holes made by crawﬁsh at this time are particularly to.
be dreaded. It not unfrequently happens, that from the
want of strength, or from the negligence of some individual,
both heand his neighbors are ruined.*
ORE VA SSE.
A crevasse is abreach formed in the levee by the waters.
of the river in time of inundation. The one which broke.
through the levee, six miles above New-Orleans, on the 7th.
of May, 1816, was 140 yards broad, and received a volume
of water six feet deep. A crevasse, says Mr. Breckenridge,
“rushes from the river with indescribable impetuosity, with
a noise like the roaring of a cataract, boiling and foaming, and _
tearing every thing before it. To one who has not seen, this
country it is almost impossible to convey any idea of the ter-‘
rors excited by a cretmsse, or breaking of the levee. Like
the breaking out of ﬁre in a town where no one knows when
his own dwelling may be assailed, it excites universal con
sternation; every employment is abandoned for miles above ,
and below, and all hasten to the spot, where every exertion
is made day and night to stop the breach, which is sometimes
successful, but more frequently, the hostile element is suffer
ed to take its course. The consequences are, the destruc
 
" See Breckenridge’: Views of Louisiana,
‘ EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 139
'\.
tion of the crop, the buildings, and sometimesthe land itself
is much ‘injured where the current rushed over, carrying
away the soil, or leaving numerous logs and ‘trees drawn into
the-vortex as they ﬂoated down the river; these must; be
destroyed before the land can again be cultivated. The ef
fects of a breach of the levee are even more desolating than
those of tire. ' ‘ ’
'uThe ﬁrst view which the traveller has of the levee on de
scending the Mississippi, is at Point Coupee, 172 miles above
New-Orleans by the courses of the river. ltis here that the
country assumes a new aspect; am] it is here that the navi
gator emerges from a gloomy wilderness, presenting detached
settlements, at long and tedious intervals, into charming and ﬁnely cultivated plantations. I
Here the beauty of the Mississippi and prospect of the
country exhibit a view so enchantingly delightful,'as scarcely
to admit of description. On the side of this elevated, artiﬁ cial bank, is a range of handsome, neatly built houses, appear-T
ing like one continued village, as far as the city of Orleans.
They are one story, framed buildings, elevated on piles six or
eight feet high, and well painted; the paint generally white.
The houses for slaves are mostly placed on straight lines and
nicely white-washed. The perpetual verdure of- numerous
orange trees, intermixed with ﬁg trees surrounding the houses,
and planted in groves and orchards hear them, highly beau
fy the prospect ; while the grateful fragrance of i:onstantblos soms, and the successive progress to plentiful ripenedlfrtlit,
charm the eye, and regale the senses. ‘ ' '
In the rear of Point C-upee, is the settlement of Fausse'
Riviere, bordering on the ancient bed of the river, which is
now impnssible for boats except in the highest ﬂoods.
The high ltmd terminates at Baton Rouge in all elevated
bluﬁ‘, 30 or 40 feet above the greatest rise of the water in the
river. And here commences the eastern embanlrm,ent
Which is continued, like thaton the ‘western side, to Orleans;'
and a range of houses, ornamented with orange and ﬁg trees,‘
/ em ‘ ‘ \ g l ’
_._,_- _ W~w.,,_L, L.__ , ;; Ms...“
Tic WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
the same distance, perfectly similar to that on the opposite
bank. Baton Rouge settlement extends about thirty miles
on the river, and to a considerable distance back, in an eastern
direction. t
At a point a little below the lberville, and sixteen miles
below Baton Rouge, commences an uninterrupted series of
Plantations, which are continued, upwards of one hundred
miles, to the city of Orleans. These plantations are all clqa/r-_,
ed in front, and under improvement. Some of them are
planted with sugar cane, but the greater part with cotton
They are narrow at the bank, and extend back to the swamp
ground, which is incapable of cultivation; the land no where
admitting of more than one plantation deep. '
The settlements of Bayou la Fourche extend about 50
miles on both sides of that stream, qpe plantation deep7 From
the outlet of this bayon, to the city of New-Orleans, the land
will admit of only one plantation deep, and is rarely capable
of cultivation, more than one mile from the bank of the river
It then becomes low and swampy to the lakes and the sea.
The swamps are immense, intersected by creeks and lakes;
but the swamps generally abound with large cypress trees.
Great quantities of this timber is sawed by mills, erected on
streams formed by cutting sluices through the Levee. These
mills are worked with great rapidity nearly, half the year.
Concord settleent lies between Tensaw river and the
Mississippi, opposite to Natchez, and contains about 400
‘families. Contrary to the statements of most travellers, who
have pronounced this district an tminhabitable swamp, Mr.
Darby atﬁrms, that the wide space between the Washita and
Mississippi, is either a cane brake along the water courses,
or a hard, dry surface, when the ﬂood has subsided, of course
ﬁrst rate corn, sugar or cotton land. 0
Fifteen miles below the city of New-Orleans, and at the
head of the English bond, is a settlement, called Saint Ber~
nardo, or Terre au Boeuf, containing two parishes. The in
habitant are nearly all Spaniards from the Canaries, who
 
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 143
improve a narrow strip of land, -principally for raising poultry
and garden vegetables, for the market at New-Orleans.
' - BARRA TARIA,
_. ‘I Is abayou, or or a narrow arm of the gulf of Mexicohwesl
!' of the Balize. It communicates with the lakes which lie on
the smith-west side, and these with the lake of the same name,
and which lies contiguous to the sea, where ‘there is an island
formed by the two arms, or decharges of this lake and the sea.
Bothends of this island were fortiﬁed in 1811, by the pirates
under M. La Fitte. This island is situated in N. lat. 29 ;
and is remarkable for its health, strength as. a military posi
tion, and the vast quantity of shell ﬁsh with which its waters
abou‘nd.. In time, this may become a place of wealth and im
portance, as by a late survey of the country in its rear, it is
found that there is a district of half a million of acres, very
fertile, and sutﬁciently high to constitute a healthful settle
ment, ofthe ﬁrst rate sugar lands. Barrataria affords a safe
and capacious harbor for light ships of war and merchant
Vessels.
JILLUVI./1L SOIL.
. The alluvial soil of Louisiana, independent of its intrinsit:
fecundity, ﬁnds in the annual ﬂoods a perpetual renewal of its
strength, from the fertilizing slime and mud deposited by the
overﬂowing current of the Mississippi.
“ The deterioration of the alluvial lands of the Mississippi
is scarcely perceptible, even on ﬁelds which have been under
cultivation 60 or 70 years, or more.”*
When the river, says Dr. Dunbar, by disruption, alters
its course, and new accumulations of slime, sand and marl are
laid upon this very compact earth, a false belief might be in
 
" Extract of a letter from Mr. Robertson, member of Congreldrom Louiriane,
.!o the authoqdated Feb, 10, "I7.
1
".'.'ﬁ_~y"-.":'*~i~/‘t"‘ﬁ§j\¢ 5
 
 
I42 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
duced that this"solid soil is not the otl’sprif1g'of"the river, but
the original parent earth coeval with the.Mississippi itself, ups
on which this great river afterwards deposited the rich spoils
of the northern regions; borne down by its mighty tide. This
compact soil I have found at the depth of from ten to thirty
feet; and in other situations no appearance is to be seen of
any other than the common soil formed of the mud of the
river. The soil nearthe river is sandy,- particularly ﬂy
which has been lately formed. From a quarter to half a mile
from the margin of the river ‘ the sand is less apparent, and
loses its name of“ terre sablonneuse,” acquiring that of “ terre‘
grasse,” being the richest black marl, with a moderate ad:
mixture of sand. At greater distances, and frequently at
some depth under the last mentioned soils, is found the above
mentioned compact earth, called glaise (potter’s earth) : it is
no doubt eminently adapted to the use of the potter, though
hitherto not much applied "to the manufacture of earjhern
ware. Upon all lands long subject to culture,,and defended
from the inundation, although near to the margin, the appear<
ance of sand is almost lost; but it is evident, from the friabil-'
ity of the soil, and the facility with which it is cultivated, that
a large portion still remains intimately mixed with it ; whereas
the terre grasse (unmixed or pure marl) yields with ditﬁculty
to the plough: it exhibits proofs of the richest marl, a slight
shower Causing it to crumble into powder after being turned
up. 3
Y SUG./QRCJINE, COTTON, RICE. 7
Late experiments prove that the sugar cane can be Success-i
fully cultivated in any part of Louisiana, except in the swampy
or “ unripe” alluvial soils.
Sugar lands yield from one to two hogsheads of a thousand
weight and 50 gallons of rum, per acre; the value is about _
$100 a hogshead.
It conﬁdently stated, that two young French gent.“
I
.EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 143
‘.3’
\
men made in one season with 28 hands, 200 hogsheads of
sugar—and the same letter states that an old man, assisted
only by his two ‘ sons, carried 30 hogsheads to market, the
produce of their own hands, in one season.
‘ The planters, in order to guard against the eﬂiect of an
early frost, regularly ﬁnish about the 15th of October pull—
ing up the canes intended for next year’s planting. This is
done by putting them into stacks (morasses) with all their
leiives on, in such a manner as to expose the smallest possible
quantity of the stalk to the weather. Early in the spring,
those canes are laid along in plough furrows, the large end:
of one cane nearly touching the small end next to it, and the
furrows distant from each other about three feet. The plant
is cultivated as we cultivate the Indian corn, and with equal
ease. The cutting and grinding are commenced whenever
the seed canes are put up, and continue frequently till the
latter end of December; and long after the canes has been
killed by the frost. .
A mill which grinds 300 gallons per hour and will deliver
upwards of two tons of sugar per day, costs in workman
ship and materials 1000 dollars, besides the expense of a
rough cover for it, 40 feet square. The cost of three pes-.
tles of suﬂicient size to keep pace with the mill,‘ is 350.
dollars, and that of the mason work in bedding them and
making the furnaces, is 250 dollars; which with the price of
30,000 bricks, a proportionable quantity of mortar, a rough
building to cover the boilers, and six draft beasts to impel the
machine, constitute the _whole expenses of an establishment suﬂicient for the manufacture of 200 hogsheadslof sugar.
It must, however be|recollected,_,that the, Louisiana hogs
heads contain a little more than 1000 cwt. j,
. “ The cotton lands of Louisiana yield from 500 to 2000
pounds weight of seed cotton per acre. A hand will cultivate ten acres.”’ll= Several of the planters assured me that the land I
from Pinckneyville to New Orleans will produce an average of
 
MM» ..1L_...
'.\ Mr. Robertson’: Letter. _ ‘ " i
I44 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR
200 lbsfin the seed from each acre. The proﬁts of a good
slave may be estimated at $240. ‘
Rice is cultivated with the greatest facility, as water is
easily diverted from the rivers and bayous into the ﬁelds.
The use of water on rice is more to suppress the growth of
noxious weeds and grass, which would otherwise stiﬂe the
grain, than for promoting the growth of the rice itself; for:
none of the grasses can stand the water, but rice does, an
long as it is not totally immersed. Therefore it is, that aft§‘
weeding, the planter, if he has it convenient, lets on water to- '
about half the height of the grain.
Table ofprqﬁts resultingfrom the employment of ﬁfty work
men on a farm in Louisiana.
 
  
 
2 5 Q’ 8 §' 3, E E G u
"' 0' E g Q 5 9‘ , surnn. AMOUNT. rams. < 2 " - 18 2: v w‘ ~| 2 as .1 ' I E -- '<' ' 5 g 2 9 s ~ 2;? __ ~ 
._____- ._-___ ___-_.
Sugar, 00,000 lbs. $5 .08 per"), $12 000. $240 150 250,000 ‘
llice, 700 bbla; 6. per bbl. 4300 B4 IUD 250.70“?
Cotton, 60.000 lbs. .lb per lb. 9.000. 180 250 2,400, Indigo, 73000103. 1. W lb. 1,000. 140 ' 2.000, V v
Tobacco, 00,000 lbs. l0. 11. uvl. , 5,375. 107 1,000,
 
Nor:-—The whole extent of the state of Louisiana, after deducting one-ﬁfth
forthe swamps, rivers, lakes, pine_ barrens and other irreclaimuble tracts, ex
tends over 23,480,320 arres. The one-tenth of that quantity may be assumed
for cotton. lndiro, which demands a richer soil, but similar climate, is allowed
another tenth. Tobacco can be raised in all parts of the state, but the suit best
suited for it is nearly the same as that reqmred for sugar cane. [A tiles!
TREES, SHRUBS, PLANTS.
The forests of Louisiana, ‘Florida and a part of the Mis
sissippi Territory, are festooned in many places, with a grey
ish vegetable moss, called Spanish beard. It grows from
the limbs and twigs of all trees in the southern regions, from
north lat. 35 deg. down as far as 2t} deg. and lbelieve every
where within the tropics. \Vherever it fixes itself, on a
limb or branch, it spreads into short and intricate divarica
 
 
. EllIIGR;\NT’s DIRECTORY. 145
tions; these in time collect sand and dust, wafted by the
wind, and which, probably by the moisture of it absorbs,
softens the bark and sappy part of the tree, about the roots
of the plant, and renders it more ﬁt for it to establish itself;
and from this small beginning it increases, by sending down
wards and obliquely, on all sides, long pendant branches,
which divide and subdivide themselves, ad i1y‘initum_ It is
common to ﬁnd the spaces betwixt the limbs of large trees,
almost occupied by this plant; it also hangs waving in the
wind like streamers, from the lower limbs to the length of
ﬁfteen or twenty feet, and of a bulk and weight more than
several men together could carry; and in some places cart
loads of it are lying on the ground, torn off by the violence
of the wind. Any part of the living plant torn off and
caught in thelimbs of a tree, will presently talte root, grow,
and increase in the same degree of perfection, as if it had
sprung up from the seed. When fresh, cattle and deer will
eat it in the winter season.
The laurel magnolia is the beauty of the forest, and rises
100 feet and often much higher; the trunk is perfectly erect,
rising in the form of a beautiful column, and a head resembling
an obtuse cone; the flowers which are on the extremity of
the branches are large, white and expanded like a rose; and
When fully expanded they are from six to nine inches in di
ameter ; and have a most delicious fragrance.
The cypress of Louisiana and Florida, is a tree of the ﬁrst
magnitude and utility: often measuring from six to ten feet
in diameter, and from 40 to50 straight shaft. It occupies ma
my parts of the swamps, frequently tq the exclusion of any
other timber; and is never found on high dry land. Axmen
are sometimes obliged to erect scaffolds before. they fall the
tree; in consequence of a number of conical excrescences ris
ing from its base to the height of eight or ten feet, called‘cy
press knees, and being hollow are used for beehives. The
sugar maple is rarely seen south of N. lat. 31. Sassafras,
persimon, holly, b::c‘;eye, mulberry, wild cherry, pawp-aw,
71‘ .
I-46 WESTERN GAZETTEER ;?OR,
.~ I
myrica Iincdm-a, (from the berries of which the green wax
is made) chinquapin, chesnnt,-all the species of the oak family;
all the Varieties of pine, red cedar, sweet arid sour oranges,
the latter are indigenous, hawthorn, ozier, plum,“ bois (fare,
is found on the Washita; its bark dies 0. beautiful yellow;
The China root and passion ﬂower are abundant on the nick
grounds. T-he sensitive briar is ‘commonlto the poor and
sandy lands. Séveral species of the beautiful ‘plant, Stir
acinia in the margins of swamps and wet grounds; and three
or four handsome speciesof the water dock ; poke, very large
and luxuriant. Sumac, along thewater courses, aﬂd,- in the
swamps where the land is good, several species of Well tasted
grapes are found in great plenty. Many of the trees inthe
low grounds are loaded with avariety of vines, the most com
spicnous of which are the creeper, and ivy. The Mi-sldoe i!
very abundant and saucily attaches itself to almost every
kind of tree, not excepting fruit trees;
Bums,’ BEASTS. "
Most kinds ofwater fowl found in the northern lakes frequent
the waters of Louisiana in winter. Thee of the feathered
tribe which may be considered as local,- consist of the
white pelican, White eagle, swan, sandhill crane, great white
owl, wild turkey_, crested bittern, paroquet, prairie hen, tufted
Woodcock, ivory Woodpecker, great bat, rice bird, red bird.
The‘ pelican is the largest, measuring from wing to wing seven
feet. Its pouch or reservoir contains its food, and will hold six
or eight quarts. The prairie hen is something larger than a
partridge.
Deer, bear, wolves and a species of the tyger, abound in
the hills and prairies. Buffaloe are found in the prairies to the
west of Opelousas and north of Bed river. The tyger re-.
sembles the spotted leopard of Africa. They have been
frequently killed between Natchez and Baton Rouge. Wild
horses are frequently seen in large droves between Red rive;
---7 .. i
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 141 ‘
.4'_._-1_._ . ,
and the Sabine-5; and ‘small game abound in all the upland.
forests. -'-. ‘ s 1 .- .. . i'v'xo'i'-2";
... .:.,:.., ‘; J. . " "' _,g :. _,:“.,;.-E
.. _' ‘’‘“''-'‘‘ P'0PULi4TION.' “
-. -. I . 4...‘ ' -in \ -\h ‘v 1' :2’-I
Thepopulation according to the census of 1810;. was".
76,556 ;but may now be safely estimated at 120,000 souls, of‘
all colors. ' The following estimate was given in 1814: . It
Thisstate is divided into three great natural se'ctions,.viz:'t
the north-west, Red river and WVashita section ;' 21,649 sq?
miles, and 12,700 inhabitants. The south-west, Dpelousas
ﬂd Attacapas section, 12,100 square'miles and 13,800 inhab
itants. South-east, New-Orleans and West Florida section,
12,120 square miles, and 75,200 inhabitants. ' '
1 .
. ‘L
NEW-ORLE4_NS. Y I ‘
_ This city stands on the left bank bf the Mississippi, 1015
miles from the gulf of Mexico. ':'The city is regularly laid
out; the streets are generally forty feet wide andcross each‘
other at right angles. The houses are pi-incipally brick on
the streets near the river; but on the back part of the town‘
mostly wood. The population‘ is -at present 30,000‘ souls,
Which are rapidly increasing by accessions from all the states‘
in the uniian;'and from almost every kingdom of Europe. It‘
it is above oiie mile and a half lorig, and half a mile ‘deep.
A great number of new buildings were erected‘ last year, dis‘
tinguished for size and the improved style of the architecture.
The public buildings‘ consist of three banking houses, two’
handsome churches, custom house, town house, market house,
arsenal, convent, jail, theatre, governor’s palace, built by the
Spanish government. These are all ﬁne buildings. The
place dcs armes is a beautifpl green, which serves as a parade.
Most of the houses in the suburbs have beautiful gardens
ornamented with orange groves. The great cathedral church
and town house are in the centre of the town, fronting the
~_
149? wnsrnan GAZETTEER; on,
It
square)? There are ﬁve newspapers printed in this city, two'
in French and English, viz: The Courier, and Jlmi ales Lois,
(friend of the laws) and three in English, the Louisiana Ga
‘, setle, the Orleans Gazette, andI_'rice Cy:-hrent or Commercial
Register, by Dubourg. The buildings have no cellars, ex—
cept the vacancy formed between the ground ‘ahdjthe lower,
doors‘; which are raised ﬁve or six feet from the earth.: The~
tornadoes to which the country is-subject‘, will‘ tiotadmit1'>£
the houses being carried up several stories, like thoseflof
New-York and Philadelphia ; b.ut they have terraces and?
walks on their tops a la mode Francoise. The market is;
plentifully furnished with the necessaries and luxuries of eve-Y,
ry clime. It is upon the levee fronting the city that the“
universe is to be seen in miniature. It is crowded with ves-5'
eels from every part of the world; and with boats from a
thousand dilferent places in the “upper country.” Here
\ in half an hour you can see, and speak to Frenchmen, Span
iards, Danes, Swedes, Germans, Englishmen‘, Portuguese,
I-Iollanders, Mexicans, Kentuckians, Tennesseans, Ohioni-1
ans, Pennsylvanians, New-Yorkers, New-Englanders and a-,
motley groupe of Indians, Quadroons, Africans, &c. Here
are boats from Chatauque lake in New-York ; from La Boeuf,
Connemeugh, Brownsville, in Pennsylvania; from the heads
of Holston and Clinch; Cumberland,‘ Licking and Green
river, Muskingum, Scioto, Tusearawa, Wabash, Kaskaskia,
Missouri, Washita, Red river, Vermillion, Ponchartraim
Amite, and an hundred other rivers.
 
* The chapel of the convent of the Ursuline nuns is small, but very neat within,
bei ng chieﬂy calculated for the accommodatl on of that sisterhood. Public service
is performed here regularly. The nuns are separated from the audience by a par
tition of lattice-work, through which they may barely be distinguished. Theia
whole number at present does not amount to more than forty or ﬁfty. A summer
residence in New-Orleans must be extremely disagreeable, as even at this early
season I ﬁnd it intolerably hot and sultry. The evenings however are cool and
pleasant, and as this city has no public gardens or promenade, the levee after sun
set is crowded with company, who having been confined all the day to their houses,
seldom miss this favorable opportunity of breathing a little fresh air. That unfor
tunate class of females, the mulaltnes, who from their infancy are trained in the
lrts of love, ere far fron being considered in the same humiliating light with those
white ladies to whom they are nearly allied in profession. Since custom has plant
ed an insurmountable barrier to their ever forming an honorable connexion with
uhite men, necessity has compelled them to resort to the practice of forming tem
¢
EMIGRA.NT’l D.IRECTO.BI.-? P.‘ 149;.
I
Q ~ » 1' ‘_
2' ~
,.i ' L ‘i COMMERCE, WMLTH. ‘
'--.'|-v
'1““l'he exports of Louisiana already exceedthose of all the
New‘-England states by more than $150,000 a year. Be-'
tWeen 3 and 400 sea vessels arrive and depart annually.
hundred and thirty-seven vessels of all denominations
departed during the yearl8l6, from the Bayou St. John, a
port‘/of delivery in the district of Mississippi; -the tonnage‘
6t‘-‘these vessels is calculated atsixteen thousand; they are
chiefly employed in carrying the' produce of that part of the
Floridas belonging to the United States, consisting in ba~rks,J
coals,"cotton, corn, furs, hides; pitch, planks, rosin, shins,
tar, timber, turpentine, sand, shells, time, &c._ The ‘re
ceipts of this city from the upper country is beyond con
ception. Five hundred and ninety-four ﬂat bottomed boats
and -three hundred barges have arrived within the last
year from the western states and territories, with the follow-'
ing articles of produce viz :--Apples 4253 bbls; bacon and
hams 13000 cwt. bagging 2579 pieces; beef 2459 bbls. beer
439 do. butter 509 do. candles 358 boxes; cheese 30 cwt.
cider 646 bbls.‘ cordage 400 cwt. cordage bailing 4798 coiis;
corn 13775 bushels; corn meal'l075 bbls. cotton 87371
bales; ﬂaxseed oil 85 bbls. ﬂour 97419 do; ginseng 957 do;
hay 356 bundles; hemp yarns I095 reels; hides 5000 ; hogs
500; horses 375; lead 5500 cwt. white lead 188 bbls. lin
ens, coarse 2500 pieces; lard 2458 bbls. oats 4065 bushels;
paper 750 reams; peltries 2450 packs ; pork 9725 bbls; po
 
porary engagements with those whom they may fancy. Engagements of this kind
are every day formed, for a month or a year, or as much longer as the patties may
he mutualy pleased. During any engagement of this kind, it is in vain to solicit
improper favors: they are generally as strictly continent as the marriage ceremoJ
ny could possibly make them. When the time is expired, or the lover gone, they
accept of the next best oﬂ‘er that may be made to them. This class of the society
of this city is so generally esteemed, that no gentleman hesitates a moment in
paying his eoinpliments to those females belonging to it. ‘whom he may meet with
urthe street or elsewhere. A far greater degree of distinction prevails among
this class than even among the whites. They who are so many degrees removed
from the black that the connection is no longer visible in the skin, consider them
' selves as the “ best blooded ;" and sodown to those who are only one degree su
perior to the blacks, whom they all that with more contempt than even the whites
do. LSchullx.]
150' WEITE§P‘FGAZETTEER.;. DR,
tatoes 3750 bushels; powder, gun 294 bbls. salt petre 175
cwt. soap 1538 boxes; tallow 160 cwt. tobacco 7282 hhds.
do. manufactured VII bbls. do. carrots 8200; whiskey
320,000 gallons; bear skins. 2000. ‘Besides a quautityfiof
horned cattle, castings, grind stones, indigo, musketnmer.-5
chandize, pacan nuts, peas, beans, &c. The schedule. of;
the above produce is independent of what :is furnished by
Louisiana, consisting of cotton, corn, indigo-, molasses, masts.
and spars, planks, gunpowder, 1-ice, sugar, shingles,,,soap,i
taﬁia, tallow, timber, bees wax, &c. which are g’ener-allyp
brought to market, in planters crafts, ortaken from oﬂi the
plantation by foreign bound vessels. . ' . , . . e.;.. __g'\
The quantity’ of sugar made on the Mississippi alone; is
estimated by a late writer, at ten milliqns of pounds. Twen~
ty thousand bales of cotton were exported in 1812. ' ;._.
, Perhaps there is no country in the globe where so much
wealth is divided among sofew individuals as in Louisiana. Its-_
resources are immense, while its population is comparatively
small. The yearly income of many of the planters, amounts
to 20,000 dollars: and it is said to be not uncommon to mark
from one to three thousand _/calves in_ a season,‘ and to have
from ten to twenty thousand headof ﬁne cattle. '
MILITJRY TOPOGRJPHY.
New-Orleans was fortiﬁed ,by the Spaniards more for the.
purpose of defending it against the inroads of the Mississippi,
than theapproaches of an enemy. It is unquestionably in
vulnerable to a naval attack; as the late improvements at
Fort St. Philip, at the English turn, will prevent the ascent of
ships of war. Mr. Stoddard thinks that a ﬂeet ‘wholly nihili
structed by land batteries, would ﬁnd it extremely diﬁicult’
to ascend against the rapidity of the current.. '
About 12 miles below New-Orleans is a narrow extent of
land, never overwhelmed, which runs towards the Lakes,
reaching about twenty miles; this tongue of land is called the‘
 
Emronaura nrnncroax. ' 151
Terra au Boeuf, (ox land) about a mile in length, and
divided in the centre by a creek, having swamps on each side.
An enemy might land upon this tongue from lake Borgne,
which approaches it on the north-east. The British army
under Packeuham gained the Mississippi, through the swamps
between Au Boeuf and bayou St. John, near Velere’s canal.
South-west of the city is an other narrow elevated tongue of
land. The road from the back of the city divides at two
miles from it, and the one road proceeds northeastly on a
tongue of land about half a mile in width, known by the name
of Chantilly ; this terminates in marshes and swamps at the
distance of twenty miles. The other road on the left wester
l;Y,t;t_‘0!ses St. John’s creek over a draw-bridge, and intersects
the river road about ﬁfteen miles above the city. This St.
lohn’_s creek heads in a swamp south-west of New-Orleans,
and after meandering about six miles in a north by east direc
tion, falls intolake Pouchartraim At the mouth of this bay
ou there is a fort which protects the city against the approach
of an enemy. It was expected that the British in 1814
would have attempted to gain the city by this route. The
depth of water in it varies from three to nine feet, as the wa
ter may rise or fall by the winds, or by the waters of the lake.
From the bar to the canal of Carondolet, are usually from
nine toten feet of water. This canal rises in a basin direct.
ly behind the Charity; Hospital of New-Orleans, and is large
enough forseveral small vessels. It extends in a direct line
about two milesicto, St. Johu’s creek, and is about twenty feet
wide. Several handsome country seats, a village, and orange
groves adorn its banks. It has already been of great advan-.
tage to the inhabitants. Articles for transportation are con.
veyed by Lake Ponchartrain to the mouth of the creek of
St. John, and thence, pass up the creek six miles and then
pass through the, canal;t0_the walls of the city. It has been
proposed to extgné the canal to-the Mississippi, and it has
been contemplated to deepen the whole canal for military and
commercial purposes.
3152 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
,/
/
l
‘
INDL/INS.
The Indians of Lohisiana chieﬂy reside on the Red river. _
Natchitoches tribe formerly numerous and much attached to
the French, who highly respect these Indians, and a num
‘ ber of decent French families at Natchitoches have a mix
ture of their blood in them. This tribe anciently dwelt in a
large village near the site of the present town of Natchitochesi
They have been reduced by war and small pox to about 30
souls. and reside at present at lac de Muire, 25 miles above
Natchitoches. The Boluxas from Pensacola live at the
mouth of Rigulet de Bondieu. They are reduced to thirty
warriors—are harmless and friendly. The Appalacbes, con
sisting of 14 families reside on bayou Rapide. The Aliba
mies, consisting of 70 families reside at Opelousas and near
\ the Caddo towns. The Cons/mllas live on the Sabine, and
have about 400 souls. The Pacanas live on the Quelque
chose river, and consist of thirty warriors besides women
and children. The Tunicas reside principally at Avoyelles;
and are reduced to 140 souls. The Paseagolas reside on
Red river; have only 24 warriors. The Tensaws live on
Bayou an Bosuf; and are equally reduced in numbers and spir
it. All the preceding tribes, except the Natchitoches, are
emigrants from West-Florida. The Chactoos inhabit the
branches of Bayou au Boeuf and are the aborigines ofthe coun
try where they live. The Wachas are reduced to half a
dozen ‘souls and are servants in French families. The Choc
tmvs frequent the state, and have two or tliizee ﬁxed villages.
The Opelousas, consist of about 150 souls, and reside near
the church of the same name. The Houmus and Attacupu
are united and amount to about 200 souls : the former were
original proprietors of the soil of the island Bf New-Orleans.
These Indians, as well as the Tunicas and-éhoctaws, are to be
seen at all times, near the suburbs in grmipes, men, women,
and children, reeling under the inﬂuence of the bottle. ‘
EMlGRANT"s DIRECTORY. ma
-_‘¢'
_ EXTENT OF NA VIGABLE WA TER8.
Miles.
The Mississippi proper, is navigable in Louisiana, . 712
lberville and the lakes east of New-Orleans, . a 250
Amite river, . . . . . . . 100
Ptmgipaho, Chefunctl, and the bayous Castaiu-, Lacombe-,'
and Bauttofuca, . . .\ . . . 300
Pearl river and Boguechitto, . . ‘ 5 . 100
Bayous Alchafal-aya, Placquemine, La Fourche, and others
leaving the Mississippi, . . . . . 300
Red river (in Louisiana) . . . . . - 450
Bayous and lakes of Red river, a . . . ~. 500
‘Vashila and its tributary lakes and rivers, . 1600
Teche, Vermillion, Sabine, &c. . . . 550
I Gulf coast-, bays and lakes, . is -- . . _ 1000
5762
MICHIGAN TERRITORY; >
[S situated between 41 50 and 45 20 N. latitude, and 5
12 and 8' 16 W. longitude. Its boundaries, established by
law in the winter of 1804-5, are a due N. line from the
southern most point of Lake Michigan, thence S. E. by
the divisional line. which separates the British possessions in
Upper Canada, passing through Lake Huron and St. Clair,
to Lake Erie, and south by a due E. and 'W.- line, which di
vides it from the states of Ohio and Iudiana.- As this south
ern line has never been run, it is uncertain Where it Would
‘intersect lake Erie. An observation of aBritis¥1 traveller,
makes the latitude of the southern extremity of lake Michi
gan, adegree and a halt’ south of Detroit, Which would carry
the line entirely south of lake Erie. However, the mouth
of the Miami-oﬁthe-lakes has been assumed as the line, putil‘
an actual survey shall remove the ambiguityqL ‘lhis territory
is 256‘ miles long from north to south; breadth from east to
west 154 miles-—contains 34,320 square miles, 22,284,006
 
acres. It is a large peninsula, of‘ a triangular form, with its .
base resting upon Ohio and Indiana-a
RIVERS.- '
These are numerous and mostly navjgable.for boats and
canoes, nearly to their heads, Those running into lake Michi-'
gan are,
1. The St. Josepks, which heads is Indiana and inter‘
locks by its several branches, with Black river, St. Josephs
 
1 It is not yet ascertained which lies furthest south, Green bay or lake Miehir
gm 
EMlGRANT"s DIRECTORY. I55
qf.Miami, Eelriver, and Tippecanoe. It enters the S. E.
end of the lake-it is rapid and full of islands, but navigable
150 miles, and is 200 yards wide at its mouth. The Potta
wattimie Indians, who reside on the shore, catch prodigious
quantities of ﬁsh in its waters. It runs about forty miles in
the Michigan Territory. On the north bank of this river
stands the old fort St. Josephs, from which there is a bridle
road to Detroit. '
I .2. Black river, called Le Noir, in the French maps, heads
near the )’liami-of-the-lakes, in small lakes, interlocks with 
' the two St. Josephs,gRaisin and Grand river, and enters the
lake 14 miles north of the mouth of St. Josephs, with which
it runs nearly parallel for seventy’ miles. The land on its
banks are said to be of an excellent quality. It is a ﬁne nav
igable stream for boats; theré are several lndian towns upon
its head branches. ‘ \
3. Marame, a short river, heads about 45 miles from the
lake, runs west and empties into the lake about ten miles north
of Black river, and forms a capacious bay at its mouth.
4. Barbue, which falls into the lake a few miles north of
Marame, is nearly similarin size, course and appearance.
5. Raisin, a short river, having its source about 50 miles
from the lake, discharges its watersinto a bay 16 miles north
of Barbue. Great quantities of grapes are found on its banks,
fromhvhich circumsbnce it derives its name.
' 6. Grand river, the largest tributary of lake Michigan
heads in lakes and ponds in the $. E. corner of the ten-ito!
ry, interweaves its branches with those of Raisin,,Black riv~
er, Mastigon and Saganaum, and falls into the lake about 20
miles north of Raisin, This river is described as running
through ncountry, consisting alternately of wood lands and prairies, abounding with most kinds of wild game. i It is navi
gable for small craft to its source; in high water boats and,
perognes pass from lake Michigan into lake Erie, through
this and Huron rivers. The general course of this river‘ is
“C N. ‘V. A canal connecting it witlrthe Sagaziaum, rug.
/
156 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
I
string into lake Huron, could be opened, it is reported, at a
small expence. This canal is among the number recommend
ed by judge _Woodmard, of Detroit, in his able report on the
subject of internal navigation.
7. The Mastigon has its sources in ponds and marshes,
near the centre of the territory--its course is nearly west,
and the bay into which it falls, lies 20 miles north of the
mouth of tiirand river. '
8, 9, 10. Whits, Rocky, and Beauvuis, all short rivers,
running a westerly course, and emptying themselves into the
lake in the order named, ‘at the distance of from ten to ﬁfteen
miles apart, _
11. St .NicItola‘s,' 50 miles long, and 50 yards wide at its
mouth, is the next stream worthy of notice, as we proceed
northwardly; itenters the lake about halfway between Mich
ilimackinac and St. Josephs.
12. Margwterite, a handsome boatahle river, interlocks
with branches of Saganaum, St. Nicholas and Grand rivers.
A voyageun in the service of the North West Company, who
spent awinter hunting and traﬁicing on this stream, informs
that the country is considerably broken and well timbered, a few miles from the lake, i Q
13, 14, 15. Mon-istic, Aux Sables, Lasiefte, and Grand
Terverse, sm ill rivers, which enter the lake between Mar
guerite and the straits of Michilimackinac.
, 'l'he greater part of the rivers just described expand and
form circular hays or small lakes, behind the sand hills near
the lake. This effect is produced by the frequent conﬂicts
between the currents of the rivers and the surf of the lake;
for the latter not only repels, as it were, the tributary streams
but at the same time washes the sand of the shore into their
mouths, causing the smaller ones to contract at their entrances
into mere brooks.
These basins are from two to three miles across, and are,
at t".(‘|‘l‘ll" seasons literally covered with ducks, wild geese and
other water fowl, which resort here to harvest the folle avoine,
I
EMIGRANTQ DIRECTORY. is?
profusely sown by nature’s hand. The pious and benevo
lent St. Pierre could have found in these bays materials for
an eloquent chapter on the beneﬁcence of the deity.
The rivers which fall into lake Huron between Mickilimack~
lnac and the straits of St. Clair, have a northern or north wes
tern direction. Cluagnhagun river enters the lake about35
miles east of Michilimackinac.
2. Thunder river, falls into\the bay of the same name,
about half way between Michilimackinac, and the outlet of
lake Huron.
3. Sandy river runs into Saganaum bay.
Sagnnuum river, which is next in size to Grand river, and
with which it interlocks, heads near the centre of the territory.
The land on this river is of agood quality, and snﬂiciently ex‘
tensive to form at some future day a rich and populous set- '__ I
tlement. lt enters the bay of the same name. The Chip- r"!
pewa Indians have several villages on this river; and there
are two salines running into it, which it is believed will be
able, when properly worked, to supply the territory, if not
all the settlements on the upper lakes. Sugar river and sever
al considerable creeks run into the lake between Saganaum
and the strait of St. Clair. At the upper end of this strait,
on the American side stands fort Gratiet, built by Capt.
Gratiot in the summer of 1815.
The straits ofthe St. Clair are 26 miles long. The land
on both sides is partly prairie interspersed with strips of lofty
woodland, of oak, sugar, poplar, black walnut, hickory, honey
locust, and white pine. I Nature has here planted groves of
white pine suitable for boards, shingles, and masts ; and Which
is increased in value by the scarcity of this valuable wood,
since it can be easily transported to distantparts,destituteof so
useful a material. In the strait are several valuable islands,
and there is Water suﬂicient for a '20 gun brig.
The rlvers’and creeks running into St. Clair, from the
American territory are, Belle riv+r which heads near the
Saganaum, and enters the lake nine miles.below the strait.
,/
158 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
There are good situations for settlements, and some pine
groves upon this river. About fourteen miles further down
the lake is the river Huron. On the banks of this stream is
found some of the best land in the territory. Here is a con
siderable French settlement, which was commenced more
than 20 years ago
A little above the mouth of this river, the Indians have a
reservation three miles square, on which is Machonee’s vil
lage. The white settlements on this river are rapidly in-.
creasing by reason of numerous emigrants from Oxford
and the settlements on the river Thames, in Upper Canada;
who are disgusted at the colonial administration of the British
government. Several mills were erected last summer; and
the lands are rising in value. The bottoms of Huron, are
wide and rich; the principal timber on the bottoms, is syca
more, hickory, elm, locust, poplar, maple; on the upland, oak,
ash, hickory; there are considerable quantities of, whité
pine. Below Huron at the distance of eight or ten miles is
Buttermilk creek upon which the land is susceptible of ad
mitting a pretty handsome settlement. Between this and
Detroit is Tremblee, and another creek, the name of which I
do not recollect. I
The strait of Detroit, connecting lake Erie and St. Clair,
is 24 miles long, and like the strait or river St. Clair, naviga
ble for large vessels and studded with islands; it is about half
a mile wide, with acurrent running nearly three miles an hour.
This strait receives the rivers Rouge, Ecorce, Magvago and
Bronmstown creeks. The river Rouge heads about 40 miles
south-west of Detroit, near the head branches of Huron; it
enters the strait five miles below Detroit, expands to the
width of 600 yards _at its mouth, forming a considerable bay,
and is navigable to Conley’s ship yard, ﬁve miles from its
mouth, for vessels of 150 tons burthen; and it is navigable
for canoes and light boats thirty-ﬁve miles. Ten or twelve
miles from the strait commence wide and fertile black Walnut
and sycamore bottoms. I have been 15, n;iles=;;p-this streanu
\
EMlGRANT’s niancronr. m
I
and was surprised to ﬁnd so large a body of rich land, so cheap
and so little cultivated, Within eight or ten miles of a town set
tled nearly a century ago. The corn, wheat and potatoes _
raised on the banks of this river, yield as abundantly as the
best soils of the state of Ohio. These lands belong to the .
United States, with the exception of two sections, one mile I
square each, at Srginsavin’s Indian village, on the river; '
and two sections at T0nquish’s village; and can bepurchas
ed at two dollars an acre. The river Ecorce (Bark river)
falls into the strait three miles below the mouth of Rouge,
and nearly resembles that river in the width of its mouth,
slowness of current, and the great qmtntities of folle avoine
growing in its waters. Maguaga creek comes into the strait
opposite to Grosse isle, and about one mile below the village of
the same name. Brownstmvn creek is crooked, deep, slug
gish, and winds through the Wysndot reservation and empties
into the strait against Maiden, behind Bois Blane island.
Iwas told that neitheir of these four streams afforded mill
seats. Between Brownstown village and the mouth of the
Nliami-of-the-lakes, we cross the following streams inthe or
der named, viz:
Huron river, called by some little Huron, enters the lake
seven miles south of Malden; it heads in the vicinity of the
principal source of Grand river, and between which and_ it,
there is -said to be a navigable communication for canoes,
through a chain of ponds and marshes. Before reaching the
open lake, it winds its way two or three miles through a vast meadow of follelavoim, in which the water is from ﬁve to sev
en feet deep; and it is with much difficulty, that boatmen
nnacquainted with its entrance, mazy sinuosities, find its
Inouth, a harbor, fuel, and a resting place, when overtaken by
night or menaced with a storm.
Six miles south of Huron, Swan creek or river Aux
Cignes into the lake ; its banks near the lake are low, but the
meadow or prairie is susceptible of cultivation ; a few wretch
ed French families are the only human beings that have had
,1
/’
/
160 WESTERN GAZETTEER; oit,
the courage to brave disease and rattle snakes. Their wheat;
corn, pumpkins and gardens do well, indeed there is very
little of the meadow but what might be ploughed ; corn, ﬂax,
and hemp would do best ; the pond lilly, folle avoine and
other aquatic plants almost choak up the channel of the river.
giving the water an offensive and putrid smell; it will rope‘
in summer like molasses, yet the inhabitants make a free use
of it for cooking and drinking. Why it does not produce
almost instantaneous death I cannot conceive; their children
near the lake look miserably. This is by far the worst
looking stream tributary to lake Erie. The timbered land
here, ‘approaches within a mile of the lake; four miles from
Which this stream has a brisk current, and afford situations
favorable to the erection of water machinery. The trees are
lofty—-the land high and arable.
* Three miles farther south is Rocky creek, digniﬁed by the
French, ‘with the title of “ la riviere aux Roch'ers.~” lt has
higher banks anda swifter current than any of the neighbor
ing streams, and furnishes sites for mills. The rocks found
in its bed and on its banks are calcareous. The Little river
Aux Sables, (or Sandy creek) falls into the lake two miles S.
of Rocky creek. The lake here forms a‘ considerable bay,
which receives the waters of these streams. A few French
families are settled on their banks. The soil of the upland
bordering on these creeks, is sandy.
Seven miles south of Sandy creek following the road, but
not half that distance by the lake coast, enters the river Rai~
sin. Itinterlocks with the St. Joseph of Miami, and Black
rivers, running into lake Michigan, and heads in swamps and
small lakes. Its general course is a little south of east. Fif
teen miles from its mouth it receives the river Macon. The
Raisin is about 45 yards wide and boatable to within a few
miles of a branch of Black river. There is an extensive
prairie at its mouth, and several hundred acres of folle avoine.
The settlements extend from within two miles of the lake to
the mouth of the river Macon, a distance of 15 miles. The
‘
\
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ‘I81
lots are surveyed in the French mode, being only three Paris‘
ian arpents wide on the river and extending back far enough
to contain one hundred acres, more or less; This river
owes its name to the vast quantities of grapes which are found '
on its bankst The inhabitants are mostly French, who raise
wheat, corn, and potatoes, ‘more than suﬂicient for their own
eonsumptiom The soil proves to-be rich and durable, and
the settlements have been blessed with unusual health. The
bottoms are equal to those of the Miami; but the soil of the
upland is in many places light and sandy. There are sew
eral grist and saw-mills on the river. The country has been
settled about thirty years; and the orchards already yield an
abundance of apples-. Cider and peach brandy are made
for exportation. The French settlers, until very lately,
did not set a proper value on their improvements; but would
often dispose of them, for comparatively, a triﬂing sum.—
From the river Raisin to the mouth of the Miami-of the-lakes
is 18 miles. The ﬁrst stream is Otter creek, or river Le
Loutre, 4 miles from Raisin. It aﬁbrds several situations for
mills, upon which there are already €l;I]lllI’lbt‘I' erected. Wa
poo creek ﬂows into the lake about two miles north of Miami
bay. Swan creek, which rises near the head of Otter creek,
falls into the Miami-of-the-lakes or Itlaurice, four miles
from its mouth. This is a brisk stream, abounding with mill
seats. The Miami will particularly be noticed in the descrip¢
tion of the state of Ohio.
ISLANDS, BA YS, LJKES.
Michilimackinac island is important ina military and politi
cal point of view, being the Gibraltar of the North West.
It is of an elliptiral forum; about seven miles in circumference,
rising gradually to the centre; its ﬁgure suggested to the
savage mind, its appropriate name, Micki liIackina,* (Great
 
' 'l‘hei‘ndiau tradition concerning the name ofthis little harrenislsnd is curious.
They say that .\’li(-hapnus, the chief of spirits, sojmrned long in that vir-init. .
They believed that amouutaiu on the butler of the lake was the place of hip
X
§~
J
F62 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OI/1,
1‘
Turtle.) The greater part of the island is almost an impen€
trable thicket of underwood and small trees, which contribute
materially to the defence of the garrison. Fort Holmes stands
on a summit of the island several hundred feet above the lev
el of lake Huron, and is now one of the most formidable po
sitions in the Western country. The French were the ﬁrst
settlers; and their descendants to the number of about 300
reside near the garrison. 1V[am't0u island is situated near
the eastern coast of lake Miehig'an,.south of L’Arbre (,}ruche
It is six miles long and four wide. The Castorislands, are
a chain of islets extending from Grand Traverse bay nearly
across the lake. They are low and sandy; but aﬂbrd a shel
ter for light boats in their passage to Green bay. Grosse Isle
already named is a valuable alluvion of several thousand acres,
being five miles long, and from one to two wide. It divides
the river Detroit into two channels, commencing two miles
above Malden. Bois Blane (White Wood) island is situat
ed directly in front of Malden, and at the distance of 200
yards; but south of the ship channel, which circumstance
gives the United States an indubitable claim to its possession,
although the English have in contempt of Mr. Jay's treaty
kept military possession for the last ﬁt"teen years. The most
considerable bays on the east side of lake Michigan, are those
of Sable and Grand Traverse. The last is about twelve
miles deep, and four or five broad. Those on the Huron
coast are Thunder and Saganaum bays. The last is forty
miles deep, and from eight to twelve wide. Miami bay,
which resembles a lake, is situated at the mouth of the river
Miami-of-the-lakes, and is about eighteen miles in cir
cumference. The interior of the Michigan peninsula con
tains a great number of small lakes and ponds, from half a
mile to twelve miles -in length—-from which issue many of}he
rivers. The strait connecting lakes Huron and Michigan, is
 
aim ie: and the_v ea‘led it by his name. It was here, say they, that he ﬁrst in
strurt:-d man to fahricate nets fur t~king fish, and where he has collectrd the great
est qnantitv 0! these tinn_\ inhahitnnt.-i of the waters. On the island he left sprr—
its. ‘named lmﬂiinalms. and hem these aerial posiessors, it has l\ncehed the :19‘
pellationof Michilimackinac. [H0509-I
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ‘ lea
called Lac des Illinois; is ﬁfteen miles long, of an oval ﬁgure,
and subject to a ﬂux and reﬂux.
SURFACE, SOIL, TIMBER.
There are no mountains in this territory; the interior i ta-_
ble land, having a western and northern inclination, inter,
spers_ed with small lakes and marshes, from which issue the
head branches of the rivers. Prairies exist, from the banks
of the St. Josephs to lake St. Clair; some are of an excel
lent soil; others, sandy, wet and sterile. There are, never
theless, extensive forests, of lofty timber, consisting of oak,
sugar maple, beach, ash, poplar, White and yellow pine, cu
cumber, buckeye, basswood, hickory, cedar, plum, crab ap
ple, cherry, black and honey locust. The last ﬂourishes
as far north as the margin of lake Hurou.—yet east of the Al
legany mountains, it is never found north of the Delaware.
The bottoms, and high prairies are equal to those of Indiana.
A considerable part of the coast of lake Michigan consists
of a range of sand-hills, thrown up by the surf and. “eddying
Winds.” The timbered uplands are well adapted to the pro
duction of most kinds of grain; and appear to bear a long se
ries of crops, as is the case with the ridge in the rear of De
troit.
EXTENT OF CEDED LANDS. '
, At a treaty held at Detroit in November, 1807, between
Gen. Hull and the chiefs of the Pottawattamie, Ottawa, VVy
andot, and Chippawa tribes, all the lands within the following
limits, except the reservations hereafter described, were ced
ed to the United States, viz: “Beginning at the mouth of‘
the Miami river of the lakes, and running thence up the mid
dle thereof, to the mouth of the great Au Glaize river; thence
running due north until it intersects a parallel of latitude, to
be drawn from the outlet of lake Huron, Which forms the
164 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
' settlement on the river Raisin.
5 on the river Rouge, and several on the St. Josephs, and one
river Sinclair; thence running north-east, the course that may
be found, leading in a direct line, to White rock, in lake
Huron; thence due east, until it intersects the boundary line
between the United States and Upper Canada, in said lake;
thence southwardly, following the said boundary line, down
said lake, through river Sinclair, lake St. Clair, and the riv~
er Detroit, into lake Erie, to a point due east of the afore'
said Miami river, thence west to the place of beginning.”
I VVithin these limits, the United States have about four mill
ions of acres at their disposal; and the lndians the following
reservations, viz: one tract of land six miles square, on the
Miami, above Roche de Bzmtf, including Tendagands vil
lage; three miles square, (immediately above the United
States’ twelve miles square, ceded by the treaty of Green
ville;) four miles square at the mouth of the Miami, including
I/Vuugau’s and M_ishkemau’s villages; three miles square
near the junctions of the rivers Raisin and Macon; four sec
tious of one mile square, each on the river Rouge, including
Segi'.isavin.’s and 'I'onquisli’s villages; three miles square
on lake St. Clair, above the river Huron, including Macho
sm’s village ; considerable reservations at Muguaga* and
Brownstown; besides six sections of one mile square each,
to be located by the Indians, so as not to interfere with the
claims of white settlers,
INDIANS.
There are two small villages of Ottawas near Miami bay,
and another of the same nation near Roche de Bmuﬂ six miles
above Fort Meigs. The Miamies have four or ﬁve towns on
' the head branches of Black river. The Pottawattamies have
an It-stablishment on the river Macon, a little above the French
They have also two villages
H!‘
* T~ tarot‘-its chief .M.j/tnwh rt Walk-in the water, resides in this village. -Al
thougt. a ti wage tlestizute of science and civilization, he may be pronounced 00¢
of “ Mare’-s nolilel.“
 
EMIGRANT's DIRECTORY. 1 65
on the river Huron, about ﬁfteen miles from Brownstown.
The Wyandots reside at Brownstown and Maguaga; the
ﬁrst village contains twenty-ﬁve houses and the last nineteen.
There is a large Ottawa village on the river Huron, under
the ferocious chief Makonee : * the Chippewas have villages
on Sag-anaum river; and the Ottawas are also established at
L’Arbre Cruche; the Indians of this village raise large quan
tities of corn; and have made greater advances towards civili’
zation, than any of their aboriginal neighbors; they profess
the Roman Catholic system of worship, and have a chapel
and a missionary priest. The Indians of this territory have
been estimated at 3000 souls; this number has doubtless
been considerably diminished by the battles which they
fought, and the uncommon sufferings which they endured,
during the late war. Their trade is very valuable to
their white neighbors; they all cultivate Indian corn, and
some of them -rrheul, as well as most kind of garden vegeta-»
bles and fruit-—-raise horses, cattle, hogs and poultry, but
nevertheless derive a principal part of their subsistauci: from
the waters and forests. '
SETTLEMENTS.
The white settlements are chieﬂy on the strait of Detroit,
the rivers Miami, Raisin, Huron, and lake St. Clair; but
extend from Fort Meigs to lake Huron, separated, however,
at short intervals, by woods, or Indian reservations of from
three to ten miles in extent. VVhere the French inhabitants
are seated, the lots are narrow, houses thick ;' only one plan
tation deep, always fronting the creeks, rivers, and lakes.
Hitherto, this territory has not enjoyed the character-to which
its soil, climate, and advantageous situation for trade, justly
entitle it_. Time, and the enterprising emigrants, who are
 
* In !808, this monster ﬁnding one of his tribe drunk, and asleep, at short dis~
tance above Detroit, deliberately cut off his head, with his tolnnhawk. nnrl kick-.
ed it along the street fl-r several rods. The cause of his displeasure wasjealousy; '
be suspected the victim of his vengeance with having had an illicit connexion with
-one of his numerous wives.
\_
we WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
now rapidly encreasing in numbers, will place its reputation
in a proper point of view. Settlements are now beginning
on lakes Huron and Michigan, and promise to become exten
sive and permanentsf From the river Rouge to lake St. Clair,
I distance of twelve miles, the country resembles the suburbs
of alarge town, the houses being no more than twenty rods
distant from each other, and the greater part of the way much
thicker.
The United States’ troops under the command of Gen.
M’Comb, were employed last summer in opening a road from
the river Ecorce to the rapids of the Miami, a distance of
sixty~six miles. Upon this road may be found many eligible
situations for farms and stands for taverns; and no where
north of the cotton and sugar climate, could agriculturalists
ﬁnd aﬁner ﬁeld for enterprize, or a surer prospect of reward.
DETROIT.
This city stands on the western side of the strait, eighteen
miles above Maiden, and six below the outlet of lake St.
Clair. The buildings approach close to the river bank,
which is from thirty to twenty feet high; abrupt at the
lower end oft the town, but subsides into a gentle slope near
the upper limits, where the plain on whicbit stands becomes
about 500,yards wide. There are three streets, running par
allel with the river; these are intersected by six cross
streets, besides several lanes. The situation of the town is
agreeable and romantic. The buildings are brick, stone,
 
1- Capt. Price, of the U. S. army, passed from Mchilimackinac to Detroit,
by land, in March last, a distance of 4.'2U miles. He coasted the shore of lake
Huron on the ice, to Saganaum bay, and thence by land. Capt. P. describes
the lands on the Sagansum, " of an excellent quality. and most beamifnlly situat
ed; the river bold and navigable for 2| miles, with large prairies from 4 to6 miles
deep, From Saganaum to Flint river, I5 miles, a level country, lauds excellent
and wellﬁmbered: from thence to Flint river, a waving country, not brokenI
nor high hills; from thence to the river Huron, 30 miles from Detroit, the face
ot the country and soil very much resemble that of the county of Cayuga, in New
York, principally cloathed with Oak, :1 very open country, and no undern-end,
interspersed with small beautiful lakes abuunding in ﬁsh of a ‘superior quality:
h-om Huron to D-;troit, generally a low ﬂat country, susceptible of being drained
and cultivated, the soil deep and rich.
_\
E.\IiGR.-tNT?s DIRECTORY. 16;
F frame, and in some instances, hewn logs; but two thirds are ‘I frame; some very fine and painted; there are about three
hundred buildings of all descriptions, exclusive of the sub
urbs, or “ Cotes,” extending above, as far as lake St. Clair,
and below, as far as the river Rouge, which appear to be a
continuation of the town. The principal streets are wide,
and most of the houses have picketed gardens in the rear.
The inhabitants are more than half French; the balance
consists of emigrants and adventurers from various parts of
Europe and America.
Before the great ﬁre in 1806, the town was surrounded by
: strong stockade, through which there were four gates; two
of them open to the wharves, the others to the land; this de
fence was intended to repel the attacks ofthe Indians. Gen.
Hull, while governorof the territory, planted a long line of
pickets; but the length of the line to be defended, and the
interstices, which were left, render them, nearly useless.—
Several wooden wharves project into the river; the U. S.
wharf is about 140 feet long, and a vessel of 400 tons bur
then can conveniently approach its head. The public build
ings consist of the council house, jail, and United States’
store. The last is a ﬁne brick building, situated near the
water in the rear of the public wharf, 80 feet in length, 30
feet wide, and three stories high. It was ﬁlled in November
1813, with the trophies ofthe Thames. Lots are rising in
value; the French are now preparing to build an elegant
Roman chapel, 150 by .50. Government are about commenc
ing the building of a state-house, which is to be a large and
handsome brick building. There are a number of store!
which appear to have a brisk trade ; the owners know how to
extort an exorbitant price for their merchandize. The
streets of Detroit are generally crowded with Indians of va
rious tribes, who collect here to sell their skins. You can
hear them whooping and shouting in the streets the whole
night. There is a kind of nunnery, a Roman chapel for de
votion and singing; a wretched printing oﬂice in which re
I
 
 
' 168 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
ligious French books are printed in a rude style. A new's=
paper, entitled the “ Michigan Essay,” was issued from this
otﬁce by James DI. Miller, from Utica, in 1809, but the
proprietor was obliged to relinquish the undertaking for want
ofan adequate patronage. A new paper, however, will ap
‘ pear in the course of the present year, which, will, no doubt,
be permanent. Learning is at a low ebb; yet there is a large
number ofmen of genius and education resident in the city‘
The French are dexterous watermen, and will navigate a
small bark, in a rough sea with incredible skill. They have
nothing like enterprize-.'ln business; are very fond of music,
dancing, and smoaking. The- Women have generally live
ly and expressive countenances. The complexions of the
lake-faring men have approximated almost to the savage hue
“ At Vincennes and Detroit," says Volney, “ I met with faces
that reminded me ofBedwins and Egyptian fellahs. In the hue
of their skin, quality of hair, and many other circumstancen
they were alike. They likewise resemble in having a mouth
shaped like a shark’s, the sides lower than the front, the teeth
small,-regular, white, and very sharp, like the tyger’s. This
form may perhaps arise from their custom of biting from a
large piece when they eat, without the use of knives. This
motion gives the muscles a form, which they at length retain,
and the solid parts are modiﬁed conformably to it.”
The fort stands on a low ridge, in the rear of the town, at
the distance of about two hundred yards. From the summit
of this ridge, the country gradually subsides to a low swampy
plainfrom live to nine miles across, covered with thick
groves of young timber. Beyond this plain, commences
a surface moderately hilly, and a soil more congenial to the
growth of grain, and fruit, if not of grass. The inhabitants
have to draw their wood a mile and a half, from the United
States’ lands, in the rear of the town. It sells in market for
three dollarsa cord; almost every farm has an orchard; ap
ples, pears and peaches do well-—several hundred barrels of
cider are annually made, which sells at a high price.
_.1.‘
 
 
‘ EMEGRANT’s DIRECTOR Ya I39
FISH, WILD FOWL, GJIME.
There is no state or territory in North America, so boun
tifully supplied with.ﬁsh, aquatic fowls, and wiltkgame; all
the rivers from the Miami-of-the-lakes to the St. Josephs of
lake Michigan, afford an inexhaustible supply of ﬁsh, to say
nothing of the vast lakes, which wash 600 miles of its fron
tier. The trout of Michilimackinac have a superior relish;
and unlike most kinds of ﬁsh, never cloy the appetite by use;
they weigh from ten to seventy lbs.-—and are taken at all sea
‘ sons. VVhite ﬁsh are caught in prodigious numbers with
seines, in the strait of Detroit and lake St. Clair; and there
are situations, where a person, with a hook or a spear, may
soon catch as many as he can carry. Sturgeon are com
mon to lakes Erie, St. Clair; Huron and Michigan; they are a size less than those of the Hudson, and are doubtless Ia diss
tinct species.
Myriads of ducks and wild geese frequent the rivers, bays,
and lakes, and can be easily shot; for their fears seem to be
drowned in the constant din of vociferous quakings and in the
incessant thunder of their wings. Wild turkies, quails,
grouse, pigeons, hawks, are numerous; the latter, are, per
haps, the most common land bird, the black bird excepted,
hrhich in autumn appear in swarms, and are injurious to corn
and new sown wheat.
Wild game is plentiful; bears, wolves, elk, deer, foxes,
beaver, otter, muskrats, martin, raccoon, wildcats,, rabbits,
and squirrels are found in the forests. The beaver frequents
the rivers running into lake Michigensf
 
1- To kill the beaver, the hunters go several miles up the rivets before the ap
proach of mght, and after the dusk comes on, suffer the canoe to drift gently down
the current, without noise. The beaver, in this part at the evening. come abroad
to procure food, or materials for Repairing their habitations; and as they are not
alarmed hr the canoe, they often pass it within gun-shot. The most common way
of taking them, is by breaking up their houses, which is done with treucliing-touts, _
during the winter. when the ice is strong ennw_rlt to allow at‘ approaching them; and
when, also, the fur is in its most valuable uate. [Henry-]
Y
W"*“st.. --~r'~5~ -r-‘ﬁll---=-.'a. aw, 1.1 _ ham 7
no W'l§!STERN GAZETTEEB; oh,
JINTIQ 'L'YIT'IEJS.
On the river ‘Huron, thirty miles from Detroit, and about
eight miles from lake St. Clair, are a number of small mounds,
situated on a dry plain‘, or bluff near the river. Sixteen
baskets full of human bones, of a remarkable size, Were discoﬁ ‘
ered in the earth while sinking a cellar on this plain, for the
rhissionary. Near the mouth of this river, on the east bank;
are ancient works representing a fortress, with Walls of earth
thrown up, similar to those of Indiana and Ohio. ‘
At Belle-Fonfaine, or Spring-Wells, three miles below De
troit, are three small mounds, or tumuli, standing in a direct
line, about ten rods apart. One of these having been open~
ed, bones, stone-axes, arrow-heads, &c. were found in abun;
dance. About one fourth of a mile below these, are still to be
seen the remains of an ancient fortiﬁcation. A breastworlr;
in some places three or four feet high, encloses several acre!
of ﬁrm ground, in the centre of an extensive marsh.
EXTENT OF NA VIGABLE WATERS‘.
. Milea.
Lake Michigan navigable . 1 . I . 260
Lake Huron, . . . . . .- . 250
Lake St. Clair and Straits, . . t . . 56
Detroit river, l . . . . ¢ . 26
Lake Erie, . . . . . . . 12
Rivers running into lake Erie, . . . . 175
Do. entering the straits of Detroit and St. Clair river
and lake, . .y . . . . 100
Rivers emptying into Huron, ’ . . . - . 150
Streams entering Michigan, a . . . 700
1789
l1MIGRANT’s mancroar. pt,
POP ULA TION, DISEASES, OLIMA TE.
There is no data to determine with accuracy thewpresent
population; however, it probably exceeds 12,000 souls, BX?
elusive of Indians. The census of 1810, gave 4642 souls, dis
tributed as follows .~
Counties. Whites. Slavu. Total.
Detroit, . . . 2114 . 17 21.31
_Erie, . . . . 13,2: . - 4 1331
Huron (of St. Clair . 578 . 2 580
Aﬁchilimackinac, . 5.99 . I " 600
The diseases of this territory, are chieﬂy fevers, bilious
and intermittents, agues, jaundice and dysentery ; the last is
often fatal to children. Consumption is unfrequent. The
fatal epidemic of the winter of 1813 traversed this territory
like a destroying angel ; and swept oﬁ‘above 100 men, besides
Indians. ' ‘
The climate of the eastern part of‘ this territory is nearly
similar to that of the western counties of New-York and Penn
sylvania ; towards the Indiana territory, milder; but upon
the coast of lake Huron, and even that of St. Clair,it is more
severe; and winter-like weather is felt at least two weeks ear
lier than at Detroit. Lake St. Clair is frozen over every '
year from December to February. Observations made by
Gen. “’ilkinson in 1797, show that from August 4, to Sept.
'4, the thermometer in several places between St. Clair and
Michilimackinac, was never higher at noon than 70 degreeh,
and that in the morning and evening it often sunk to 46 de
grees. The northwest wind sweeps with great force across
lakes Huron and Superior. I shall close the account of this
territory with an extract of aletter from Gen. Hull to his cor
respondent in Auburn.
“ There is very little settlement on the west part of lake
Huron, or on the east part of lake Michigan. VVhile I was at
I72 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
Detroit, lmade a treaty with the diﬁ'erent_nations of Indians,
andpurch_ased their lands for the U. S. from the Miami of
lake Erie, nearly to Saganaum bay, including all the lands,
between that distance on lake Erie, the river Detroit, lake St. 7
Clair, the river St. Clair, and lake Huron ; and extending back
to the westward about eighty miles. I believe the Indian .
title has not been extinguished to any otherlands,-within the
territory ofMichigan; excepting some small tracts in ditﬁerent
situations. g ‘ ‘ i 
f‘Wi_thi\_1 this tract, are the rivers Miami, Raisin, Huron,
Rouge, Huron of lake St. Clair, Trent, and some branches of
the Saganaum 1-iver, besides many other smaller streams.
There is supposed to be included within this tract, about seven
millions of acres.K The lands on all those rivers are fertile,
and capable of abundant productions. The country is gen- \
erally level, and easy to be cultivated, VVhile I was in De
troit, I sent in the full of the year, a number of oxen, cows,
 
and in company with others, amounting probably td 2 or 30(_), 7
with one man to take care of them, give them salt, &c. on the
upper branches of the river Rouge. In the spring when they
returned, the cows had ﬁne calves, and the whole were in ex»
cellent order; they looked better than those fed on hay. I
consider that country, after it is cleared, a very healthy coun
try. My family yvere at Detroit eight years, and were more
healthy than when they lived in this town, [Newtown,] which
is thought to be as healthy as any in Massachusetts. The
climate is much milder, than in the same latitude in the Atlan
tic. ' We rarely have sleighing many days, excepting on the
ice. I believe there is no part of the world where the soil it
better for wheat, and fruit ot ali kinds.’-’
 
MISSCURI TERRITORY,
IS situated between 29 and 49 N. latitude, and 12 50 ands’.
36 W. longitude; and is bounded north by Upper Canada,
south by Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, east by the
North West and Illinois Territories, Indiana, Kentucky and
‘ \'l‘ennessee; west by Spanish possessions, Indian Territo
ries,&c; lts computed length from north to south is 1494
miles-i-breadth 886 miles,—-its area is about 985,250 square
miles, or 630,560,000 acres.
RI VERS.
Red river and the Wmhita, both wind several hundred
‘miles through this territory ; the tributaries of the Washita,
north of Louisiana, are Bayous Cerne, Cypress,‘ Saline, and
Hachios. The Hot Springs constitute its extreme sources.
The Arkansas, 1- after the Missouri and Mississippi, is the
most considerable river of this territory. It takes its rise
near the 41 st degree of north latitude, with the Rio del
f The _—\rlransas river, taking its meanders agreeably to Lt. WiIkinson’s snr.
vey of the lower part, is l98l miles ti-.~m its entrance into the Mississippi to the
mountains, and from thence to its source 192 mites, making its total length 2.173
miles, all of which may he navigated with proper boats, constructed for the pur
posei except the H32 miles in the mountains. It has emptying into it, several
small rivers navigable for 100 miles and upwards. Boats bound up the whole length
of the navigation, should embark at its entrance, on the lst ol February '; wuen
they would have the fresh quite to the mountains, and meet with no detention.-—
But if they should start later, they would ﬁnd the river I500 miles up nearly dry.
It has one singularity, which struck me very torcihly at ﬁrst view, but on reth-etiun
I am induoedto believe it is the same case with all the rivers which run through a
low, dry, and sandy soil in warm climates. This lohserved to be the case wnh
the Rio del Norte, viz : for the extent of 4 or 500 miles before you arrive near
the mountains, the bed of the river is extensive, and 9 perfect sand bar, which at:
‘certain seus0u,ﬂs‘dry; at least the water is standing in ponds, not atfordlug sut§- V
cient to procure a running course. When you come nearer the mountains, you ﬁnd
the river contracted, a gravelly bottom,ond a deep navigable stream. From these
circumstances It is evident, that the sandy soil imhihes all the waters which the
l0urces project from the mountains, and renders the river (in dry seasons) le=s navi-~
gable,/inc hundred mi-lee’; than 200miles from its source. , [_1"ik£-1
174 _ WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
Norte, and the Platte and Roche J uane of the Missouri, and
the Colorado of Caliaforna, in an immense ridge of mountains
which gave rise to the Red river of the Mississippi, and runs
in a S. E. and N. W. direction across the province of New
Spain.
the navigation, however, cannot be said to be good; the
channel is Wide and shallow, and is interrupted by a consid
erable number of rapids. Its principal tributaries, are,
1. The Nagracka, from the N. W. upwards of 100 yard!
wide. 2. Neslcalonlca, about 120-yards wide, shoal and nar
row at its mouth, but deepens and spreads above its outlet
~3. Grand Saline, or Newsewketonga, from the north, which
interlocks with the Kansas river; about 50 miles from its
mouth the prairie gras is encrusted with salt ;_ the lndians
collect it by scraping it off the prairie with a turkey.’s wing,
into a trencher. 4, Strong Saline 75 yards wide. 5. Ver
digris, 100 yards wide, hears north-west. 6. Grand River,
interlocks with the Osage 130 yards wide ; the two last enter
‘within a quarter of a mile of each other-. Below the mouth
of Grand river commence the rapids which continue for sev
eral hundred miles below, down the Arkansas. 7. Des Ithl
nois, which enters from the N. E. side. 8. Canadian river,
comes in from the S. W.; the latter river is the main branch
of the Arkansas, and is equally as large, 9.. Pottoe, a deep
narrow stream, which puts in. on the S. W. 10. River an
llflillieu, falls in from the N. 11. Bayou Marcallin; be
'sides numerous creeks, bayous and small rivers.
\Vhite river, waters the country between the Arkansas,
and the St. Francis--it is a noble stream, and occupies with
its numerous tributaries, a vast extent of country. The
Westernmost branch, or more properly White river, rises in
the Black mountains, Which separate it from the Arkansas ; the
Northern and Eastern, take their waters from the vicinity of
the Usage, the Gasconade, the Maremeg and the western
branch of the St. Francis. It enters the Mississippi, about
twenty miles above the Arkansas; thirty miles up, it commu~
The Arkansas is about two thousandmilesin length ;‘
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. > 176'
nicates with that river, by a channel with a current setting
alternately into the one stream, and into the other, as either
happens to be the highest. By computation it is navigable
eleven or twelve hundred miles, though it is exceedingly
ciisoked. It is 'mterrnpted by no shoal or rapid; its waters
pure and limpid, and its current never becomes low, even.
in the dryest season. Four hundred miles from its mouth it
receives Black river, its principal eastern branch; it after
Wards receives a numberofothers which are known by various
names. Rapid, John, James and Red rivers, are each navi~
gable from one to three hundred miles. Black, or he Noir
river, is navigable tour or ﬁve hundred miles; receiving a
number of tributary streams of considerable size. The Cur‘
rent, Elevenpoint and Spring rivers are principally spoken of.
The last deserves a more particular description. It rises sud-'
denly from a number of springs, which uniting within a short”
distance of the place from whence they issue, form a river
two hundred and ﬁfty yards in width, affording a navigation‘
from thence, for laden batteaux to the Mississippi : contract~
ing its width however, to ﬁfty or sixty yards. This immense
spring is full of the ﬁnest ﬁsh; bass, perch and pike mingle
here indiscriminately. In the winter, it is the resort of
swarms of ducks, swans, and geese. It is about two hundred
miles west of Cape Girardeau.*
These rivers are all remarkable forthe navigation Which
they aﬁbrd; most of them having sufficient water to carry a
boat without any interruption, almost to their very sources.’
Springs, creeks, and rivulets are very abundant. Every
one who has traversed it agrees, that the country occupied
by the Waters of White river, perhaps two hundred and ﬁfty
miles square, is one of the ﬁnest for settlements in western
America. It is interspersed with what are called knobs;
hills or ridges, the summits are strewed with horn stone, but
generally the land is of the ﬁrst rate quality; in most places
 
' See Breckenridge’; Sketches of Louisiana, published at St, Louis in
the autumn of L8“.
‘L 1‘ s-~--Q~IL\'Q-1» - 7-. #.e4~..,‘,._.___..
‘I76 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
. I
ﬁnely wooded, and the prairies of small extent. The descrip»
tion of Kentucky, at ﬁrst deemed romance, would be applica»
ble to this country. »
The St. Francis, enters the Mississippi 75 miles above
White river, and aﬁbrds a navigation of six. hundred miles.
Its western branch rises with the waters of White river, and .
its eastern one with Big river, a branch of the Maremeg.
It is very erroneously laid down on the common maps; its
general course must be at least sixty or seventy miles further
east. After pursuing a course nearly south, and uniting with
its western branch, it suddenly turns S. W. so as to corres
pond with the course of the Mississippi, and runs nearly par
allel with that river four hundred miles. The St. Francis is navigablelwfrom a point sixty miles West of St. Genevieve.
Before it makes the sudden turn to the west, it is a beautiful
limpid stream, passing through a charming country; but af
terwards encreased in size, and entering the low lands, ﬂows
with a slow and lazy current. ~ It communicates with the
lakes that lie to the east, between it and the Mississippi;
Which are formed by rivulets flowing from the upland country,
and the springs. which lose themselves in the level commenc
' ng at Cape Girardeau. On the south side it overﬂows its
banks considerably; so that when high, a person may easily
lose the channel, unless Well acquainted With its course. The
channel is, in many places, much impeded with driftwood.
The north bank is less subject to inundation, and in many
places produces quantities of cane.
Between the St. Francis and the mouth of the Ohio there
are no large streams; two bayous leave the Mississippi and
enter the St. Francis many miles from its mouth, forming
several large islands. The Clzepousa river heads in a lake,
and after running about seventy miles falls into the Mississip
pi ninety miles below the mouth of the Ohio.
Between the month of the Ohio and that of the Missouri,
we successively pass, the Tayawatia creek, Riviere de la
Pomme, Obrazo, Amite and St. Lora rivers; this is a hand-.
'IlMIGRAN’i“a' DIRECTORY; tﬁ
stuns stream; Saline ‘river or creek, on which is made' great
quantites of salt. Gabourie and Platine creeks, and the rivs
er Maremeg. These streams, except the last, are n'e'cess_a~
rily short; by reason of the proximity of the St; Francis:
The Maremeg river; enters the Mississippi about forty
miles below the Missouri. Although extremely crooked, it
is a ﬁne river, and navigable two hundred and ﬁfty miles to
its very source; for like Spring river, it issues forth sudden-'
ly from a large fountain. This appears to be a circumstance
not unusual with the rivers of this country; It rises near the
waters of White river. The Maremeg is reniarkable for
the quantities of ﬁsh with which it abounds; large quantities
are caught and salted up.—‘-The White ﬁsh is considered one‘
of the best ﬁsh of the fresh water, and is found in abundance
in this river. A considerable branch called the Negro fork
navigable forty or ﬁfty miles with canoes-, rising near the
Minea-Burton and the Big river; abranch of this, has its
source at a very short distance from the St. Francis; and in
a circuitous course of forty miles almost includes the Mine-a
Burton. The Maremeg has no‘ considerable branches on the
north, owing to its prokimity to the waters of the Missouri
on that side.
The Missouri, is the largest branch of the Mississippi;
the sources of this river are still undiscovered. it was navi
gated by Captains Lewis and Clark 3090 miles,‘where it was
inclosed by Very lofty mountains. Its breadth is various;
from 800 to 300 yards Wide ; 1888 miles from its mouth it is
527 yards wide ; at this distance from its mouth, it is larger‘
than the Illinois; from its mouth to Fort Mandan in lat. 47
21, a distance of upwards of 1600 miles, the navigation is
good, the current deep and rapid, and the water muddy; at its
entrance into the Mississippi, in lat. 38, 45; it is 700 yards
wide. In lat. 47 3, two thousand ﬁve hundred and seventy
ﬁve miles from its conﬂuence with the Mississippi, are the
grand rapids; these falls are eighteen miles long, and in that
distance descend 362 feet. Ehe ﬁrst great pitch is 9? feet’
m WESTERN GAZET_T‘EER;" on
the second 19, the third 48, the fourth 28; smaller rapids!
make up the balance ot'_.the descent. The rivers entering
from the right bank of the Missouri, are, . 
1. Bonﬁomme river ﬂows into the Missouri about 70 miles
above its mouth. This stream interlocks with branches of
the Maremeg; waters a tine district of territory, has a north
ern direction, and is about 100 yards wide at its mouth.
2. Gascontute, heads near the St. Francis, runs north and en
ters the Mississippi about 40 miles above the Bonhomme.
'3. Osage river, rises in the Black mountains, which separate
its waters from those of the Arkansas. It is said to‘ be navi¢
gable 600 miles;" but it does not afford a good navigation,
being full of shoals and ripples.‘ It has a great number of
tributary rivers,besides large creeks, among Which are, Mw
T3/’s river, heads near the Gaseonade, r-nnsi N. W. and falls
in twenty miles from the Missouri.- Little Gravel, heads
near the Missouri, and pursuing a S. course enters from
the left bank, nearly 100 miles above the mouth of the Osage;
Great Gravel, from the south, interlocks with the St. Fran-'
eis, enters the Osage, east of Little Gravel. but thirty-sin‘
miles above, and according to Pike, is 118‘ miles above the
conﬂnence of the Osage with the Missouri. The Pottoe, a
small‘ river. The Yungar, heads betweenf White river of
the Mississippi, and the Grand Fork of the Osage, pursues it
trorth-east course, and joins the Osage about 25 miles above
Great Gravel river : the Indians call it Ne-fiempgar; it derives
its name from the vast number of springs at its source; it is
supposed to be nearly as extensive as the Osage river, navi
gable for earioes 100 miles, and is celebrated for the abnnd-‘->
ance ofbear,which are found on its branches. On it hunt
the Chasseurs du Bois of Louisiana, Osage, and Creeks (or;
Muskogees) a‘ wandering party of which have established
themselves in this territory; between whom and the French
hunters, frequent skirmishes take place. Above this river art}
the Park, Cardinal, Buckeye, and Grand Fork from the south ;
and Grand river, East Fork, and Vermillion from the S. W.
EMIﬂRAN'l"s DIRECTORY. ' 119
Little Saltwater, abounding with salines,'is’the\ne'xt stream
entering the left bank of the Missouri. Mine river, heads
between the great Osage and branches of the Kanzas, and is
the largest ﬂowing into the Missouri between the Usage and
Kansas: The main branch of the Mine river, called Salt
Fork, is generally impregnated with salt as thoroughly as the
sea water, from June to November. A small creek runs into
It, from ﬁfteen to twenty feet wide, and from six to twelve
inches deep formed entirely ofsalt springs, without its cur
rent encreasing or decreasing during the whole season.
PBlue water river, 80 yards wide. Kansas river, is large
and navigable, heads near the sources of the Arkansas, is 230 yards wide at its mouth ; empties itselfabout 650 miles above ‘I
‘the mouth of the Missouri. The Kanzas nation of Indians
claim the lands bo_rde|-ing on this river and its extensive
branches; the country is rich but destitutetrf timber, except
on the water courses; grapes are tbund in abundance and the
country back from the streams is almost one continued prai=
rie. lndependence, 120 yards wide. Wolf river, {Great
Nemahaw, 130 yards wide, ‘Weeping river. Platte river
is the next important stream; it heads to the west of the
Arkansas, winds several hundred miles through an open
prairie country, and enters the Missouri 330 miles above the
Kansas. Its banks are much frequented by white and red
hunters. Quieam river 1026 miles from the mouth of the
Missouri, 150 yards wide, not navigable, heads in tl1e black
mountains, and waters a -broken country. Teton river falls
into the Missouri 132 miles higher up; it is small, and heads
in the plains.’ Whitc river,oomes from the south, is 150 yards
wide at its mouth, and navigable IOQ miles. Cizim, or Dog
mo--t
river, is nearly half a mile wide according to the Indians, ﬂows I
through a plain level country, for several hundred miles,
mostly destitute of timber, but settled along the bottoms with
Indians, towards its head. IVarricu-.
Irhich are several Indian villages; it has several branches, is
about 100 yards wide and a hilly broken country. Liltlf’
Ballram: river, on 
180 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
Missouri, falls into the Missouri 90 miles above Fort Man
dan; it resembles its namesake, exactly in‘ the color of its
water, current and taste. Some of the tops of the hills here,
are as white as chalk. Yellon: Stone, or Roche Jaune,nearly
halt‘ a mile wide, rapid, rather shallow but not fordable; the
water clear, excepting when rain falls, and then it becomes
immediately thick from the earth which is washed into it
from the barren hills. Many of these bills are so washed,
and become so steep, that no animal can ascend them, except
the cabree, and mountain ram. The bottoms are rich ;: tim
ber mostly cotton wood. The mouth of this river is 278 miles,
above the Mandane villages; 186 above the little Missouri,
and 1888 miles from the mouth of the Missouri. Big Horn
river, 300 yards wide, has several forks. Muscleshell rivejr,
empties itself 660 miles above Fort Mandan; it is 110 yards
wide-.-its mouth is in N ._ lat. 47 24. The Missouri is here
522 yards wide. Above the Muscleshell in lat. 47, 24 12,
Captains Lewis and Clark, arrived at the Forks of two rivers ;
doubts arose, which of these rivers was the Missouri. Par
ties ascended both branches about 5.0 miles ; the south branch
was found to aﬂbrd the best navigation, and was a¢¢ordingly
assumed as the true<M_issouri; it is 372 yards broad; and
the other, which they named Mar-ia’s river, 586 yards wide;
both streams abound with ﬁsh. The south branch had for
two or three days, the appearance of claret, but again assumed
its usual muddy color. At the distance of 250 miles from
the great falls,‘ and in the rocky mountains, the Missouri di
vides into three nearly equal branches at the same point.
The two largest branches are so nearly alike in magnitude,
measuring sixty yard across, that captain Lewis did not
conceive that either of them, could with propriety, retain the
name of Missouri, and therefore, called the north branch
Jefferson, the west or middle branch Madison, and the south
branch Gallatin river.
2848 miles from the month of the Missouri, by the_meander
ings of that river, and in lat, 45, 22 34. He ascended the
The conﬂuence of these rivers is '
EMXGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ‘ 181
Jijferson, or most northerly fork, 248 miles to the upper
ﬁwrks, where the navigation become impracticable; making
the total distance from the mouth of the Missouri, time thou
sand and ninety miles.
The rivers which ﬂow into the Missouri from the left or
northern bank, beginning at its month, are, Femmeosage,
Clwrelte, Otter and Mag/.rivers, -which enter between the
mouths of the Bonhomme and the Osage: Cedar river, Great
Manitou, Little Maniton, .Goodworman’s river; Chariton,
Grand river, Tyger river, Little Platte,‘ Soldier’s river, Lit
tle Sioux rivers; the last rises in lake Esprit ﬁfteen miles from
Sioux’ river, which heads with the St.‘*Peters and waters of
lake ‘Vinnipique in a high wooded country; about ninety
miles higher up, the river Jacqne falls in on the same side, and
about 100 yards wide, this river heads with the waters of
lake Winnipique, at no great distance east from this place;
the head of the river Moyen is in Pilican lake between the
Sioux nivers and the St. Peters; above this, are Three rivers,
Ball river, Chuss-chu1 Maria, &.c.
The rivers entering the right bank of the Mississippi, above
the mouth of the Missouri, are, 1. Buﬂizloe river, comes
from the north~west, 190 yards wide at its outlet; it bears
from the Mississippi S. 30 VV. 2. Bur river, about 20 yards
Wide. 32 Oabahah, or Salt river, bears from the Mississippi
N. 75 W. and is upwards of 100 yards wide at its entrance,
of a mild current; about one day’s sail up this river there
are salt springs, at which salt has been made for several years
past. 4. Jaustioni, 30 yards wide, bears from the Mississip
pi S. W. and constitutes the boundary line between the Uni
ted States and Sac nation on the west side of the Mississippi.
5. W_1/aconda, 100 yards broad at its junction with the Mis
sissippi ; beus from the latter nearly due west. 6. De
Moym river, very large, 200 yards wide, and seven or eight
hundred miles long; heads to the north-west of -the Sioux,
the rivet Moyen, and is sixty-four yards wide; here com- "
mences the Sioux country ; the next river of note is the big i '
/
.
an rvnsrnnrz eaznrrnna, on,
/
/
/
branchof the Missouri; its chief tributaries are, Rustand,
Tetone, But?-aloe, Point, Grand and Village rivers, all runningL
in from the south and southwest, and north Fork. ' 7, Ionid
river, 150 yards wide, bears from the Mississippi S. W,
lThis river is navigable for batteaux near 300 miles, where it
branches out into 'three forks," called the Turkey’s foot.
These forks shortly after lose themselves in Rice lakes.
Thirty-six miles from its mouth it divides into two branches _; the right fork is called Red Cedar river, fromithequantity
that "wood on its banks. 8. Wabisisinekan, runs nearly
parallel with Red Cedar Fork of the‘ Iowa; ‘and has Very lit
tle wood on its banks. 9, Great Macoiteth, 10. Little Ma
iwketh: these rivers have no remarkable characteristics;
though it is said that lead mines ' exist on their banks. 1 2,
Cat Fish river. 12. ’l‘irrkey river, 100 yards wide, bears
from the Mississippi about S. W. The R-e‘nard Indians who
‘reside on this river supply Prairie des Chienswith corn.’ 1 3.
Yellow river, bears from the Mississippi nearly due “T,
-‘Upper Iowa, about 100 yards wi_de,' enters the Mississippi
about .35 miles above Prairie des Chiens ;' bears N. W, 15,
Racine, or Root river, bears due west, navigable for canoes
80 miles. 16. 17. Le Claire, and Embarras rivers, which
join these waters just as they form a conﬂuence with their
grand estuary. 18. River of the Montaigne qui tramps
dans Perm, a email stream in the rear of the hill of that name,
.19. Riviere Jlu Bo2u_/§ 30 yards wide, bears N. VV. and falls
into the lower end of lake Pepin." Cannon river, enters the
Mississippi 40 miles above lake Pepin.. St. Peters river
-which has several large large forks, the principal is the river
/ Bauteaux; 15 miles up this river commence ﬁne prairies
i ‘and the Sioux villages. Great and Little Sac rivers,
i the ﬁrst is two hundred yards wide; and joins the‘ Mis
sissippialitﬂe above St. Anthoriy’s falls; about 45 mile:
higher up is Pine creek, where Lt. Pilre wintcred in 1805;
on its margin are large groves of Red and White pine ; in the
rear. of thﬂlb prairies Elk river; this stream affords
14;
_....'

EMt_Gt_t'ANT1s DIRECTORY. - up
a tfornthunication with the river St. Peters ; they ﬁrst ascend
it to a small lake, cross it, then ascend a small stream to a
large lake, from Which they make a portage of four miles
west, and fall into the Sauteaux river, which they descend
into the St. Peters River dc Corbeuu, about 375 miles
above the falls of'Stt Anthony, has a mild current, and emp
ties itself into the Mississippi by two channels. 0
Lieut. Pike thought that the junction of these streams
should be called the forks of the Mississippi, as it is of equal
tnagnitltde and heads not far from the same source. This
fork aﬂbrds the-b_est and most approved communication with
Red river, a tributary of Hudson bay, by ascending the De
Corbeau 180 miles, to the river Aux Feuilles, running N. WV.
Which must also be ascended 180 miles, Where there is a per‘;
tageof one mile into the Otter Tail Lake, which is a princi
pal source of Red river. The other branch of the river De
Corbeau, bears S. ,W. and approximates with the St. Peters7
The mouth of the De Corbeau is in lat. 45, 47, 50 Pine
river, bears N. 30 E. is eighty yards wide at its mouth, and
communicates with Lac Le Sang Sue, or Leech lake, through
a chain of lakes, ponds, &c. by a short portage. Pike river, ‘
is the next stream entering from the west; it bears nearly due
north; running at the distance of from twenty to forty miles
from the Mississippi. Lake Winnepique river, bears north
west, rises near that lake; Leech lake river, running out of
Leech lake, one of the main sources ofthe Mississippi.
The northern frontier of this immense territory is watered
by streams ﬂoiving into Hudson bay. The principal ofwhich
constitute the head branches of Red river and the Pasqua~
yah Assinnibiom ' I
At present, it is not known how far this territory extends
westwardly beyond the Sabine, along the coast of the gulf of
Mexico. The Spaniards contend that their province of
Texas reaches to the Sabine. The rivers Which water the
disputed territory, are Rio Toyac ﬂowing into Sabine lake,
Rio Trinity, running into Galveston bay, Rio Brassos, Rio
.'
184 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
Colorado, and Rio Guadaloupe, all emptying into the gulf:
the last at the distance of 170 miles from the Sabine. The
country between the Sabine and Colorodo is in many parts
rich, and capable of producing sugar and- cotton to almost any
amount, besides it is a very good stock country, agreeably va
riegated with prairies and forests of heavy timber.
LAKES.
The country north of the Missouri abounds with lakes and
ponds. Lake Despice forms the grand reservoir ofthe Little
Sioux, and is seventy miles in circumference. West of the
head branches of the Mississippi are Paclngamau, remarkable
for the wild rice which grows in its water. Lake Winnipique,
of an oval form, thirty-six miles in circumference, Leech, and
Otter Tail lakes. In the south along the vallies of the We-'
shita, Arkansas, White river, St. Francis. Small lakes are
numerous.
MOUNTAINS.
The Masserne ridges, extend westwardly from near the
.Mississippi to the sources of the Red river, and give to the
country west of the VVashita, a rugged surface. The Black
mountains run nearly parallel to the Missouri, from the head
of the Kanzas. The rocky tnountains form a formidable nat‘--'
ural boundary on the west and northwest
SALINES.
The country between the river Platter and Fort Mandau,
on both sides of the Missouri contains a number of small lakes,
many of which is said to be so much impregnated with saline
properties, of the nature of glauber salts, as to produce simi
lar effects. It is certain that the water of some of the smaller
streams possess this quality. Sabine, Chalybeate, and Sub
~
EM[GRANT’s DIRECTORY. 185
ture approaching the‘ boiling heat.
1 to complete health and activity.
phur springs are numerous; particularly the ﬁrst, which are
useful in many diseases. The Hot Springs, at the head of
the Washita, are a great natural curiosity; they are six in
number, issuing from the side of a hill, the body of which ii
silicious, partly ﬂint-, and partly free-stone; the soil overﬂow
ed by the waters of the springs is incrusted with a calca
reous matter. Their heat is too great for the hand to bear;
the highest temperature is about 150 deg. and is greatest in
dry seasons. Meat has been boiled in them in a shorter
space of time than could be accomplished by a culinary ﬁre.
The Water is soft and limpid, without smell, and of an agreea
ble taste. It is drunk after it becoines cool, and used for eve
ry other purpose in preference to the water of the cold springs
in the vicinity. The Indians have from time immemorial re
sorted to them on account of their medicinal virtues. The
land around them is called by them the “ Land of Peace ;"’
for hostile tribes frequent the waters at the same time with
perfect harmony. Dr. Hunter, who visited these springs,
found a green plant growing in the hot water, which seemed
to be a species of the conﬂwva ,‘ but what is more remarkable,
a small testaceous animal adhered to it and lived in a tempera
He beheld plants, shrubs
and trees, and a species of wild cabbage, absolutely growing
and appearing healthy, while their roots were exposed to a
heat of 130 degrees. He, and his companion, Mr. Dunbar,
cooked the cabbage and found it to be mild and good for
food. These waters have effected surprising cures in chronic
pains, paralysis, &c. Persons, who, by exposure to the vi
cissitudes of climate and season, have been restored by the
use of these springs, from a state of entire inability of motion,
A careful analysis of these
waters, by evaporation and precipitation, indicated the pres
ence of a small portion of carbonic acid, some of the muriate
of soda, a small quantity of calcareous matter, and a scarcely
perceptible portion of iron. Invalids in great numbers fre
quent these springs; they ﬁpd relief not by drinking the wa
a
*- .-as
0
l
,,—
186 wnsrnnn GAZETTEER; on,
ter, but by exposure to the steam, which the springs constant?
ly emit, and which in very dry weather is too hot to be en
dured.‘ Volcanic ‘productions are found in the neighborhood 
of the springs.‘ It is stated that severe explosions have been
heard and lava seen in the ﬁssures caused by the irruption.
The saliries have uncommon‘ strength‘; and they are so
1 abundant that almost every coimty, and in some districts
every township will forever have an inexhaustible supply‘ of
a salt; particularly, south ofthe1Vlissour'i. One of the head
branches of the Kanzas, (20 yards wide) which Lient. Pike
crossed on his route to the Arkansas,‘ was so saltthat the wa
ter suﬂicientiy seasoned the soup of the meat, which his‘ men
boiled in it. In many places the earth was so strongly impreg
nated With nitre and saline qualities that the bare spots at noon
day were covered With a thin layer of congealed salt. Lieut.
‘Wilkinson found the water of the Grand Saline running into
the Arkansas, so strong as to render unpalatable the corn
Which his party boiled in it. “ Every day,” they “ passed
strongly impregnated salinesand perceived the shores of the river‘ completely frosted with nitre.”i The grass of the
prairies in the Vicinity of the Grand Saline; resembles that
of the salt marshes of the seaboard.~ Lt. Pike found rock 
salt in the banks of a stream west of the Arkansas.
Mines of sal gem or Rock Salt exist towards the head
branches of the Arkansas, and sometimes approach to the
very‘ surface of the earth. The Indians employ levers to
break it up and loosen it, some is white and some of a reddish
hue. Upon the south-western head branches of the Arkan
sas is another remarkable saline : i
“ On the declivity of a small hill, there are ﬁve holes about
'3' foot and an half in diameter, and two feet deep. They are 7
always full of a very salt water, but never run ,over. Dip
out as much as you please, there is no diminution ; the_ deﬁ
ciency is instantly supplied; and about ten feet lower‘ down
the hill there issues a spring of pure and fresh water.-H-Wllen
these regions become peopled, thetransportation of this rock
I
E3ilGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 137
salt will be perfectly easy, by means of the_Arkansas. Esp ‘
perience has proved it to be preferable to every other kind
in curing provis'ons.” The intelligent Dr, Sibley says, that
the “ Grand Saline is situated about 280 miles south-‘
west of Fort Osage, between two forks of a small branch of
the Arkansas, one of which washes its southern extremity,
and the other, the principal one, runs nearly parallel, within
a‘ mile of its opposite side. It is a hard level plain of a red.
dish colored sand, and of an irregular or mixed ﬁgure; its
greatest length is from north-west to southeast, and its cir
cumference full 30 miles--from the appearance of driftwood
that is scattered over, it would seem that the whole plain is i at times inundated by the overﬂowing of the streams that pass
near it. This plain is entirely covered dry hot weather,
from two to six inches deep, with a crust of beautiful clean
white salt, of a’quality rather superior to the imported brown
salt‘; it bears a striking resemblance to a ﬁeld of brilliant snow
after a rain, with a light crust on its top. On a bright‘ sunny
morning the appearance of this natural curiosity is highly
picturesque. It possesses the quality of looming or magnify-;
ing objects, and this in a very striking degree, tllaking the A
lmall billets of wood appear as formidable as trees. Bombers
of buffaloes were on the plain. The Saline is enviroued by a
strip of marshy prairie with a few scattering trees, mostly of
cotton wood. Behind, there' is arange of sand hills, some of >
Which are perfectly naked, others thinly clothed with ver
dure, and dwarf plum bushes, not more than thirty inches in 
height, from which we procured abundance of the most deli
cious plums I ever tasted. The distance to a navigable branch
of the Arkansas is about 80 miles, the country tolerably level,
and the water courses easily pass_ed.’_’
MINER-HLS,
Lead is the most abundant mineral hitherto discovered in this
territory. It is the opinion of alate traveller that the mines
-ma wssrnnu GAZETTEER; on,
on the river Maremeg and Gouberie, are alone capable ofsup
plying the whole world. About 1000 tons have been smelt‘
ed at the several furnaces annually. These mines are numer
ous, and extend over a large district of country, being ﬁfty
‘ Xniles long and twenty-ﬁve broad. The most noted, are
Mine Le Burton, Mine la Motte,_ New Diggings, American
Mine, Sac, The ore can be found in almost every direction.
The price of lead is from four to ﬁve dollars a hundred, and
shot nine dollars. Most of the mineral is so exceedingly
rich, that 100 pounds of ore will produce from eighty to nine~4
ty of pure lead.’ll= Lead mines are said to exist on the waters
of the Washita and the St. Francis. Iron, tin, zinc, copper,
salt-petre, and fossil coal, are found in abundance.
sons, SURFACE.
There are extensive alluvial tracts on all the rivers. This
land, where it is not subject to inundation, is of the ﬁrst qual~
ity, and apparently experiences little or no deterioration from
producing a long series of crops. Between the bayous of the
E--_
* The mineral at Mine le Burton is generally found in veins of almost every
line from three feet in circumference and under, and from six to twelve feet beneath
the surface of the earth. At the New Diggings it is found from four to thirty feet
under ground, where they are obliged to discontinue their work on account of the
Water coming in upon them. They have no contnvance to draw it off, except a
lingle bucket, suspended from an arm in a crochet, after the manner of most of
our country wells. The workmen are ill provided with instruments, having no
other tools than a pick-ax and shovel, with which they open a hole about six or
seven feet deep, and four or ﬁve in length and breadth ; if they are successful they
enlarge the hole, but if not they abandon itand open another, either along side
of the former, or in any other spot where their fancy may direct. l have no.
doubt that those grounds or mines which have apparently been exhausted, or abari~
doned on account of the water ﬂowing in upon them, will eventually be found the
richest dlscoveries'yet made. I am of opinion, that in no instance have they yet
fallen upon the main bed of ore, which probably lies at such r. depth as will re.
quire the sinking of a shaft to a considerable depth, to enable them to work it.—
Hitherto they have been contented with the small spurs or veins which are found
near the surface of the earth. When the mineral is collected for smelting, they
build up in the woods a back wall with two sides, about sixteen feet in front, eight:
wide, and six in height, with the ﬂoor a little inclining towards the back, where
I few small holes are left for the lead as it melts to run into the moulds. Here
they pile up wood and mineral in alternate layers, and setting tire to the whole,
the operation of smelting is quickly performed. There is but one regular built air‘
furnace throughout this country, which is at the Mine le Burton. The expense
of such a building is so great, and the mineral so plenty, that the miners prefer an
open furnace. which in all probability" cannot cost them more than forty or fifty
dollars; whereas a proper air furnace, like the one just mentioned, would cost
\hgrn_ 5 or 6000 dollars. [Schulla.l
/
L’-s
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. - 189
p.
M
 
 
St. Francis and the Louisiana boundary line, the Mississippi,
St. Francis and Arkansas annually overﬂow considerable
tracts, which in many places produces irreclaimable swamps.
The country may be said to be fertile from the mouth of
the Missouri,westwardly, as far as the Kansas, and north
wardly, up the' Mississippi, as far as the Great Sac river.
Beyond these limits the soil gradually deteriorates, until you
reach the morasses of the north, and the sterile prairies and
barren hills of the west. ,
Never having travelled in this territory, except from the
mouth of the Ohio to St. Genevieve, I shall chieﬂy conﬁne
myself to extracts from writers of well known authenticity. In
the ﬁrst place I will introduce the testimony of Mr. Brown,
the surveyor, who was employed by government, to run the
Osage boundary line extending from the Missouri to the Ar
kansas. Y
“ The Boone’s Lick country no doubt is the richest consider
able body of good land in the territory. I think it very simi
lar to the good land of Kentucky, and as it has no bed of rock
as is in Kentucky it is perhaps superior. Between Boone’s
Lick and the fort, the land south of the river is one extended
prairie, except perhaps a hundred sections or so of tolerable
good wood land, extending more or less, say twenty miles down
the river from the fort. One or two creeks pass through this
timber from the prairie, suﬂicient for small machinery or grist
mills. The prairie lies well and in general is scarcely inferior
in pointof soil to the river bottom. The fort is in latitude
thirty~nine degrees ﬁve minutes north, and stands on the brow
of a hill with a rocky base and within a hundred yards of the
river. It commands a full view of ﬁve miles east down the
river and two miles north up. The square of two leagues re
served for the fort was so laid oﬂ‘ as to have the fort near the
north east corner; about half this square is timbered land of
good quality. . x
“ Proceeding on the boundary line at seventy-six miles from
the fort, we crossed the Osage river, some three or four miles
190? WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
 
 
-_.__._._..__._.____;\
below the Osage village. Thus far the land is prairie alto
gether, except some little spots and strips on the creeks, not
, any where suﬁicient for a settlement. ‘A great proportion of
. the land, so far, is of good quality and lies well. There is a
very extensive bottom on the north side of the Qsage river of
the ﬁnest quality, and on the south side of secondary bottom,
There rises on this plain, south of the river, some high mounds
or insulated hills, near the.Indian village, and about two miles
‘west of the line; I ascended them and am persuaded, that
turning round I could survey 500 square miles, and nearly all
of theﬁrst quality‘; thnber and springs only are wanting to
make this the ﬁnest part of the world Ihave yet seen : About
a hundred and thirty miles took us to the timbered land; we
observed the land to be poorer as we approached it. About
this we found the ﬁrst running streams except the Osage river;
they ran west and were waters of the Grand river of the A1?
kansas. Having entered the timbered land we saw but little
more prairie. At 200 miles we crossed the head water of
the Buﬂidoe fork of White river, it was inconsiderable and
hardly ran.
Two hundred ﬁfty-four and a half miles took us to the Ar
kansas river, at a point some twenty miles below a stream on
the other side called the Pottoe and near the mouth of a creek
called Frog Bayou. It is a piece below the settlementwhich
is above the Cherokee village, The woodland we passed
through was oak timbered, poor, stony and perhaps should
be called mountainous, There is but little exception to this =
remark. This highland separates the head waters of White
river from those of Grand river. As to game we found plen
ty for use, though not so much as I expected; I saw no'bu‘t',
faloe until near the watersof VVhite river. Having comple
ted the boundary line, which is about 140 miles due west
from the meridian run from the mouth of the Arkansas, we
started down the river at some little distance off rThe land
is poor, stony, and broken, oak and pine timber, down to the
Cherokee village, say sixty miles, east of the line. About
§
EMlGBANT’s DIRECTORY. 191
twenty miles further east to the mouth of the Quadrant, the
land is less broken and stony, though still rather poor. The
river bottom is generally rich, I believe, though not very eit
tensive where] was and somewhat subject to inundation.
From the Quadrant we came the usual way to St. Louis. On
our return found the land generally poor, broken and stony,
‘yet there is some very good bottom land on the tributary '
streams of VVhite river and the St. Francis, and many spots
might be selected fit for cultivation, though not enough to give
‘a character to\the country. Near the little village of St. Mi
chael, is some very good land, and some little further on the
way toward the Mines is a small settlement of very ﬁne land.
Lieut. Pike states that “the country round the Osage vil
lages, is one of the most beautiful the eye ever beheld. The
three branches of the river, viz: the large east fork, the mid
dle one (up which he ascended,) and the northern one, all
Winding round and pass the villages, giving the advantages of
wood and water-and at the same time, the extensive prairies
.crowned with rich and luxuriant grass and ﬂowers--gently di
dersiﬁed by the rising swells, and sloping lawns-'-‘-presenting to
the warm imagination the future seats of husbandry, the nu
merous herds of domestic animals, which are no doubt destined
to crown Ilith joy those happy plains. From the Osage towns
to the source of the Osage river, there is no diﬂ'erence in the
appearance of the country, except that on the south and east,
the view on the prairies becomes unbounded, and is only lim
ited by the itnbecility of our sight. The waters of the White
‘river and the Osage, are divided merely by a small ridge in
‘the prairie, and the dry branches appear to interlock at their
head. From thence to the main branch of said river, the
country appeared high and gravelly ridges of prairie land.
On the main While river is large timber and ﬁne ground for
Gultivation.” Lt. Pike found valuable bottom land on White
5river. But from the Verdigris to the Arkansas he passed
over gravelly hillsand a prairie country, in some places well
watered, but deﬁcient in timber, except for a_limit;ed,nnml1er
192 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
of inhabitants for a few years. He frequently met with sa
lines, spa.springs and iron ore. All the country, between the
forks of Kanzas river, a distance of 160 miles, may be called
prairie, notwithstanding the borders of woodland which orna~
lnent the banks of those streams, but are no more than a line
traced on a sheet of paper, when compared to the immense
tract of meadow country. . As he approached the Arkansas,
the country appeared low and swampy for the space of ﬁfteen
or twenty miles. From thence, about half way to the mouné
tains, is a continued succession of low prairie hills, badly wa
tered and nearly destitute of timber.
BOONE’s SE TTLEMEN T.
“Boone’s lick, now Howard county, begins at the mouth of
the Great Osage river, and runs up said river to the Osage
boundary line; thence north with that line to the Missouri;
thence up the Missouri to a point opposite the Kanzas river;
thence northward]-10 miles; thence eastward to the main di
yiding ridge of high ground between the Mississippi and Miss
souri rivers; thence along said ridge to the head of the mail}
fork of Cedar river; thence down this river to the Missouri,
and down the Missouri to Osage river, or place ofbeginning:
containing about 30,000 square miles; one half of which is
ﬁrst rate land, and but little that is not ﬁt for cultivation;
-three ﬁfths are prairie. .
“ The ﬁrst settlement of this county_was made in 1805, at
Boone’s lick, Mackay’s saline, by Maj. Nathan Boone, son of
the celebrated Col. Daniel Boone, for the purpose of making
salt, and has since been occupied for salt works. Farmert
did not settle until the fall of 1811, when about twenty set
tled Boone’s lick bottom. This settlement increased slowly
on account of the Indians, during the late war. In Novem
ber, 1815, the population amounted to 526 free white males,
and it was formed into a separate county of the above boun
Klary and name. It now, [August 24th,] contains about 1,050
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 193
ﬂee white males. A site is ﬁxed upon for a town by the
ooumy commissioners, on the bank of the Missouri, in avery
eligible situation. The lots will shortly be put in market.
The face of the country is n_either mountainous nor hilly,
yet a great part of it is uneven, or rolling ground. There is
great uniformity throughout the county, and but little diversi~
ty of soil, stone, or timber.
The river Missouri runs through the county. ‘The other
navigable stress are the Great Os_age, Mine river,‘and Kan
zas from the south; the Charlatan, Grand river, and Little
Platte from the north, besides numerous small streams.
Salt springs are found in abundance in some parts of this
county. The main branch of the Mine river, called the Salt
fork, is generally impregnated with salt as strongly as the sea
water, from the month of June to November.
Minerals of various kinds are found here. Iron in abut!‘
dance, lead, tin, copper, zinc, silver rare, sulphur, alum, cop
peras, saltpetre, &c. To the botanist this country will aiford
a rich harvest. It abounds in medicinal plants, from among '
which the aborigines select those capable of curing the most
inveterate syphilis. The natives also cure the bite of the
rattlesnake, and rheuniatisms of long standing. They are
also remarkable for their treatment of gun-shot wounds. The
Great Osage Indians, or, as they call themselves, Wassasllsha, '
are the most skilled in medicine. Agriculture is but little
attended to, although the country is extremely fertile. One
acre of land will produce 100 bushels of prime corn, ﬁfty do.
of wheat, sixty lbs. to the bushel, and 1000 lbs. of Carolina
cotton in the seed. Hemp, ﬂax, and every article of agricul
ture, except tobacco, in greater abundance than any county
near the same latitude in the United States. Tobacco does
not do well; nor can any farmer with us tell the ‘-reason. A
public road is now opening from Potosi, the lead mines, in
‘Washington county, to this settlement, and is already out to
the Osage river, which will greatly facilitate the intercourse
with the States. The air in this climate is less liable to sud
B b
194 WESTERN GAZETTEER; 03,
den changes than the country more eastward. We seldonﬂl
have chi-lling cold, unless the north-west winds break across
the vast extent of prairies which lies between us and the north
ern regions ;‘ that wind, however, seldom cbntinues longer than
eight hours. The spring season opens With heavy rains, which
contine,_with short intervals, until the ﬁrst of May,- and from
that month to the ﬁrst of August there is but little rain ;.
weather hot, with frequent thunder and lightning. Diseased
are but little known in this agreeable climate ; those most fre
quent are rrmittent fevers. The greatest scourge is the in
ﬂuenza. lt is probable that diseases will be introduced with
wealth and dissipation.
The place selected for a town is nearly in the centre of
the great body of rich land in this Territory, and is situated
in about 38 deg. 43 min. north lat. lt is 150 miles west of
St. Louis, 158 from the mouth of the Missouri by land, and
180 by water, from St. Charles 130, from Pole sans dessire
60, from the Grand river* 24, from the Great Osage town
100, the same distance from the nearest point on the Missis
sippi, and 130 from the town of Potosi, Washington county.‘
The principal articles of trade aresalt, live stock, beef, pork,
beaver, tallow, beeswax, honey, ‘peltries, saltpetre and grain.
The inhabitants are composed of ditferent religious persua
s-ions. The state of education is very deplorable: yet the
mass of our citizens are perhaps not as ignorant as the same
class of men in the States. We are in the ﬁrst stage of our
political existence, and expect to emerge from our darkness
and obscurity very rapidly.-1"
On the west bank of the Mississippi, there is a continued
 
line of settlements except at short intervals, of low bottoms. or
. barren bills, from the mouth of the Missouri to the conﬂuence
“ The mouth ofthe Grand river will, at some future day, be the capital of the
]\lissr-uri country. It is at the centre of all the ﬂat lands. and is the most delight
ful spot in the western territory. Fr- m~tl1is spot to the Nlississlppi, at the near
est point, it is only 28 leagues across a delightful country, dry and open.
_ -t Extract of a letter from John G. Heath, Esq. published in the National Re
gister. ‘ ‘
 
EMlGRA_N'1"s DIRECTORY. ' 195
of the Ohio; there are also considerable settlements at New
Itiladrid, and below the St. Francis, extending to the motitll
of the Arkansas. There are likewise, a few insulated settle
ments up the St. __Francis, Arkansas, ‘Whiteriver, and We
' shits
BANKS OF THE MISSOURI.
The banks of this immense river, are lined with mineral
and vegetable riches. Fiftebn miles above its entrance into
the Mississippi, on the southern bank, is a coal hill, called by ‘
the French, la Charboniere. This hill is one solid mass of
stone conl,and' is supposed to afford an inexhaustible supply
of that valuable species offnel. The northern shore, as far up
as the Gasconadc, is generally a low, rich bottom, from one to
two miles wide, covered with ash,‘ sycamore, pecan,V black
walnut, honey locust, &c. On the south hills, rivulets and a
small number of small creeks, with a rich soil, ﬁne timber,
grape vines, and a luxuriant growth of cane,
From the Gasconade to the entrance of the Osage, the
south side of the river is hilly, but well timbered. Thus far
the soil is well suited to the cultivation of the grain and agri
cultural products of the middle and western States. The
timber is of various sorts, but the cotton-wood predominates
on the made bottoms. “ To give," says Mr, Soulard, ‘.‘ a_
precise idea of the incalculable riches scattered along thesides
of the Missouri, would require unlimited knowledge. The
low bottoms are covered with large trees, especially the pop
lar and cotton trees, large enough for ﬁrst rate canoes, the
sugar maple, the red and black walnut, so useful to joiners;
the red and white elm, the three-thorned acacia, of which
impenetrable hedges can be made; the osier, the red and
black mulberry, the limetree, the horse chesnut, all of which
are very plentiful ; red and white oak, ﬁt t‘or'vessels, and all
other sorts of timber, pine, and on the Rocky mountains, ‘ce
dar are common productions. I ﬁnd it impossible to e:iume;=.
we wnsrnan eaznrrnnn; on,
rate all the trees, which are yet unknown in other countries 3
and with whose uses and qualities we are as yet unacquaints
_ ed. The smaller plants are still more numerous. The In
dians know the virtues of many of them; some are used to
heal wounds, others to poison arrws, some again for dying
Colors, and they employ certain Vegetable simples to cure
radically and promptly the venereal disease. They conceal
from us, with great care, a plant which renders them for some
instants insensible to the most vehement ﬁre. I have seen
them take hold of red hot irons and burning coals without suf
fering any inconvenience.
‘Q The lands in the neighborhood of the Missouri are excel
lent, andwhen cultivated are capable of yielding all the pro
ductions of the temperate climates, and even some of the hot
ones; such as wheat, maize, and every kind of grain ; com
mon and sweet potatoes; hemp, which seems to be an indie
genous vegetable; even cotton succeeds here, though not so ‘
well as further south; and the raising of it answers a good pur
pose for the families already ‘settled on the river :- for irons
aﬁeld of about two acres, they obtain a crop suﬂicient to
cloiheafaniily. The natural prairies are a great resource
forlthein. These afford excellent pasture, and require but
little labor to clear them. After one year’s exertion, a man
' may enjoy his ﬁelds duly prepared for crops. Brick and
potter-‘s earths are very common,and the true Chinese Kaolin
is reported, by good judges, to be here, that substance to
which porcelain, owes its peculiar ﬁneness. And there exist‘
on the borders of this grand river, salt springs enough to fur
nish salt for the country when it shall become inhabited, and
I great deal to spare.
“ Saltpetre is found very abundantly in numberless caverns
near the Missouri The rocks are generally calcareous;
' though there is one “high is peculiar to this river. It is of as
blood-red colour, compact, yielding to a tool, hardening in the
air, and receiving the neatest polish. The natives make
1their pipes of it. The strata are so extensive that there is
EMIGRANTH DIRECTORY. 19‘!
any quantity that may he wanted for other purposes. There
are also quarries of marble; but we know as yet little more
than its colour, which is veined red. It is said there is a body
of gypsum ; and this would not be very dilﬁcult to explore.”
Captain Lewis relates that he for several days saw burnt
hills, furnishing’ large quantities of lava and pumice stones;
of the last he observed several pieces ﬂoating on the Mil
souri as low as Milk river.
BANKS OF THE MISSISSIPPL.
The bottoms of the Mississippi aﬂbrd suitable situation!
for settlement, from the mouth of the Missouri to the falls of
St. Anthony, except at certain blutﬁ, where the soil is too
barren to invite séttlers. The alluvial bottoms are generally
composed of a rich, sandy soil, yielding a pretty heavy
growth of pecan, poplar, sugar-maple, honey-locust, ash, cot
ton-wood, black walnut, and cucumber. The prairies in ma
ny places approach close to the river; they are sornetimes
Visible through the ‘skirts of the woods. Above the Wa_
bisipiuekan, the land bordering the river is threefourths prai
lie, or rather “ bold hills, which instead of running parallel
with the river, form a continual succession of high, perpen
dicular clitfs, and low vallies: they appear to head on. the rim
er, and to traverse the country in an angular direction.-;
These hills and vallies give rise to sublime and romantic
views. But this irregular scenery is sometimes interrupted
by a wide extended plain, which brings to mind the verdant
lawn of civilized life; and would almost induce the traveller
to imagine himself in the centre of a highly cultivated plan
tation. The timber above this, is chieﬂy ash, elm, cotton
wood, birch and sugar-maple."f
Above the falls of St. Anthony the pine country commen
ees; this timber borders all the streams, except occasional
tracts of sugar maple, basswood, beech, &c.
'---—
rt See Pike's Journal, Appendix No. 1, page 5'.
. _m_ -wnsrnnn GA/ZETTEER; on,
ANIMALS‘,
Nature has been bountiful to her red chihdren resident on
the waters of the Missouri and Mississippi. The butfaloe
abounds from the plains of Assinnibion to the conﬁnes of
Louisiana, and from the Mississippi to the Rocky Mountains.
Their hides and tallow, are important articles of the com
merce of the territory. Lieut. Pike, Whose route was up
the Osage river to theﬁreat Osage village, from thence across
the head streams of the _Kanzas and Whiteriver‘ to the An
I kansas, and thence up that river to the Mexican Mountains,
found no ditﬁculty in supplying himself and party with an
abundance of meat, by laying the immense herds of buffaloes
pnder contribution. I-[e'afﬁr-ms that he does not think it an '
exaggeration to say, that he saw _30t)0 buffaloes in one drove,
and “ the face of the earth I appeared to be covered with
them.” In one ol"_his hunting excursions, a scene took place
Which “gave a lively representation of an engagement ; the
herd of buﬁ'alOes, being pursued by his horsemen, divided in
to separate bands, and covered the prairie with dust, and ﬁrst
charged on the one side, and then to the other, as the pursuit
of the horsemen impelled them; the report and sinoke from
the guns, added to the pleasure of the scene, which, in part
compensated for our detention. The cow butfaloe ‘was equal
to any meat I ever aw, I will not attempt to describe the
droves of animals we now saw on our route, [up the Arkan;
sas to the Mexican Mountains ;] suﬂice it . to say, that the
face of the prairie was covered with them on each side qt‘ the;
nivei; their numbers exceeded _ignagina,tion._”
“The borders of‘ the Arkansas river may be termed the
paradise (terrestrial) of our territories, for the wandering
savages. Of all countries everyisited by the footsteps of
civilized man, there never was one probably that produced
game in greater abundance, and We know that the manners
and morals of the erratic nations, are such (the reasons llewo
I
‘EM‘IGRANT"s DIRECTORY. we
to be given by the ontologists) as never to give them anume
rous Population ; and I believe that there are buffalo, elk, and
deer suﬁicient on the banks of the Arkansas alone, if used
Without waste, to feed all the savages in the United States’;
territory one century.”
' The Indians have several methods of taking the bulfaloe ;
they sometimes drive them down precipices ; whole droves,
are often killed or dashed to pieces, by the violence of the
fall; they frequently attack them on horseback, with bows
and arrows. This is a dangerous sport, as the assailants are
sometimes vanquished, pursued, and overtaken by these ani
mals, rendered furious by the anguish of niunerous wounds.
‘ The usual mode with the Sioux is to make a fence of stakes,
wattled with small branches. A small partyis sent out to
decoythe animals into the pound; they are dressed in ox
skins, with the hair and horns, and by their gestures so com
pletely resemble the buﬂ'aloe that they readily lure them to
_ destruction; the decoyers bellow and paw the earth, gradu
ally retreating to the enclosure, which they enter, and are fol
lowed by the herd or drove, until the animals ﬁnd_themselves
enclosed in a pound, which the utmost force cannot break
down. At this moment the Indians, women, children and
dogs, rush from their hiding places, and fall upon the rear of
their unsuspecting prey, and commence the slaughter, some
times killing as many as 100 at a time. The affrighted ani
mals make desperate efforts to escape, by retreating, or forcing
the fence, but are deterred, by the ﬁerce assaults of the dogs,
a shower of arrows, and by the activity of the Indians on
foot and on horseback, who togtheir discordant yells,w inspire
additional terror, by the shaking of skins,‘ beating of drums,
and all the dread-exciting devices of which savage ingenuity
is susceptible. _ ’ V
The great brown hear of the Upper Missouri, is a terrible
animal; and the extreme difficulty with which they are killed
render them a dangerous and formidable enemy to man. In,
an encounter with two‘of these beasts, above White or Milk
4100 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
river, Captain Lewis was pursued by one of them after being
wounded, a considerable distance before he could reload his
riﬂe, when a shot from the hunter who accompanied him,
brought him to the ground. Nothing but a shot through the
brains will stop their career, and this is a very diﬂicult opera
tion, on account of two large muscles which cover the side of
the forehead, and the sharp -projection of the centre of the
frontal bone, which is also very thick.
One of his men who was aﬂiicted with bites, was suffered
to walk on shore; butlate in the 'at”ternoon,- he came running
to the boats with loud criés, and every symptom of term7 and
distress; for some‘ time after we had taken him on board, he
was so much out of breath as to be unable to describe the cause
of his anxiety; but he at length told us that about a mile and
1 half below, he had shot a brown bear, which immediately
turned and was in close pursuit of him: but the bear being
badly wounded, could not overtake him. Captain Lewis
with seven men, immediately went in search of him, and hav~
ing; found his track followed him by the blood for a mile, and
found him concealed in some brushwood, and shot him with
two balls through the skull. Though somewhat smaller than.
that killed a few days ago, he was a monstrous animal, and a
Itiost terrible enemy; our man had shot him through the cen
tre of the lungs, yet he had pursued him furiously for half a
mile, then returned more than twice that distance, and with
his talons had prepared himself a bed in the earth two feet
deep and live long, and was perfectly alive when they found
him, which was at least two hours after he had received the
wound.
< A few h0lll's afterwards, the men in the hindmost canoes '
discovered a large brown bear lying in the open grounds,
about three hundred paces from the river; six of them, all‘
good hunters immediately went to attack him, and conceal
ed themselves by a small eminence, came unperceived within
forty paces of him; four of the hunters now ﬁred, and each
lodged a ball in his body, two of them directly through the
EMIGRAN'1"s DIRECTORY. 201
lungs: the furious animal sprang up and ran open-mouthed
upon them; as he came near, the two hunters who had re
‘served their ﬁre,gave him two wounds, one of which breaking
his shoulder, retarded his motion for a moment; but before
they could reload, he was so near that they were obliged to run to the river, and before they reachedllit, he had almost;
overtaken them; two jumped into the canoe, the other four
separated, and concealing themselves in the willows, ﬁred as
fast as each could reload; they struck him several times, but
instead of weakening the monster, each shot seemed only to
direct him towards the hunter, till at last he pursued two of
them so closely, that they threw aside their guns and pouches,
and jumped down a perpendicular bank of twenty feet into the
river; the bear sprang after them, and was within a few feet,of
the hindmost, when one of the hunters on shore shot him in
the head and ﬁnally killed him; they dragged him to the
shore, and found that eight balls had passed through him in
different directions: the bear was old and the meat tough, so
that they took the skin only.'|' ‘
VVild horses are foundin droves on the prairies, between
the Arkansas and Red river; they are very ﬂeet and dili
cult to be taken, and of various colors; they are taken by ex
pert riders, on swift domesticated horses, who throw a noose
over their necks with inconceivable dexteritydj Deer, elk,
bear, wolves, panthers and antelopes are numerous. Wolves
 
1 See Lewis and Clark’: Travels, Vol. 1, pages 214, 216.
1 The Spaniards of Texas are the most skilful people in the world, in pursuing
and noosing the wild horse. They adopt the following method :—“ They take a
few ﬂeet horses and proceed into the country where the wild horses are numerous.
They then build a large strong enclosure, with a door which enters a smaller enclo
mr'e; from the entrance of the large pen they project wings out into the praine a
great distance, and then set up bushes, &c. to induce the horses, when pursued’,
to enter into these wings. After these preparations are made they keep a it-'»l:,_(\\|g
' for a small drove, for, if they unfortunately should start too large a one, they ei
ther burst open the pen or till it up with dead bodies, and the others run over
them and escape; in which case the party are obliged to leave the place, as thg
stench arising from the putrid carcases would be ,insupportal)le; and, in addition
to this, the pen would not receive others. Should they, however succeed in dri
ving away a few, say two or three hundred, thev select the htsndsomest and young
est, noose theni, and take them into the small enclosure, then turn out the rp
mainder, after which, by starving, preventing them taking any repose. and con
tinually keeping them in motion. they make them gentle by degrees, and ﬁnally
break them to submit to the saddle and bridle." [Pike 1
C c
~<,L'¢an.~' n__ %“
.202” Wnsrnnn GAZETTEER; on,
'5
4
/
/7
/'
_ white.
and panthers follow the buﬁhloe herds, and feast on the calves.
A .The grizzly or white bear, is found on the head branches
of the Missouri, and is equally ferocious as the great brown
bear, and often attacks the Indians. Cabree and njoose are‘
5 plentiful. Rocky Mountain Sheep are the most common an-'
imal. Their horns are anatural curiosity, shaped like those
of the common sheep, but enormous in size, full of knobs and
ineasuring three feet in length, ﬁve inches in diameter near‘
the head,~ and weighing twenty pounds and upwards. This
animal is taller than a deer, and has a larger body; it is cov
ered with soft, dun-colored hair,-eXcept on the belly,- which is
Its legs and feet resemble those of the domestic:
sheep. It possesses uncommon agility, and climbs sass and
steep mountains with such ease that no other animal can fol
low it. Its ﬂesh is considered equal to that of a deer.‘-8
Beaver abound from the Missouri throughout the Sioux coun-'
try,- and in most parts of the territory.
There are several species of wildcats. They are small,~
but very ﬁerce, and often kill sheep and cabree, by leaping;
on their necks and eating zﬁvay the sinews and arteries, until
they fall, when they suck their blood. One species is very
beautiful, being ornamented with black and white spots; on a
bright yellow ground. The lynx, marten, muskrat and er
mine, are common.
The prairie dogs reside on the prairies south of the Mis
souri, in towns and villages, having an evident police establish
ed in their communities. The sites of these towns are gen
erally on the brow of a hill,- near some creek or pond, in or
der to be convenient to water, and to be exempt from inunda
tion. Their residenoe is in burrows, which descend in a spi- V
ralform: Lieut. Pike caused 140 kettles of water to be
poured into one of their holes,‘ in order to drive out the occu
pant, but failed. ~They never travel more than half a mile
from their homes, and readily associate with rattlesnakes.—~
They are of a dark brown color, except their bell-ies, which
are red. They are something larger than a grey squirrel,
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 203
and very fat—supposed to be granivorous. Their villages
sometimes extend over two or three miles square, in which
there must be innumerable hostsof them, as there is general
ly a burrow every ten steps. As you approach their towns,
you are saluted on all sides by the cry of wishtonwish, utter
ed in ashrill and piercing manner. See Pike’s Journal, page
156' '
INDIAN CESSIONS.
The Indian title, by various treaties, has been extinguish
ed to about 70,000 square miles, or about 45,000,000 acres
a tract of country as large as the states of Vermont, New
York and New-Jersiey.
The line between the whites and the Indians begins three
hundred miles up the Missouri river, at the mouth of the Kan
zas, in lat 39 deg. 5 minutes north, and runs north over a rich
country, one hundred miles, to the head of the little river
Platte, then east over naked sterile ridges one hundred and
ﬁfty miles and a half, to the des Moines, (river of the Monks)
then down that river.l6 miles to the Mississippi. ' South of
the Missouri, the line begins at Prairie de Feu (ﬁre prairie)
thirty miles below the mouth of the Kansas, and runs south
254 miles down that river to “Arkansas; then down that riv—,
er supposed 250 miles to the Mississippi. M I
TO WNS, VILLAGES, FORTS.
Y Belle-Fontaine is pleasantly situated on the south side of
the Missouri, four miles above its mouth. The head quar-r
ters of the ninth military department, are established here.
There is a palisade work, with quarters large enough for the
reception of about 300 men. The barracks, oﬂicers’ quar
ters, magazine, &c. are built of logs. The garrison is situat
ed on the river bluffs, at the distance of about 450 yard‘
from the water. The inhabitants are chieﬂy Fr¢n§lt=
204 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
Florissant, a ﬂourishing French village, is situated on the
north side of the Missouri, about twelve miles above Belle
Fontaine.
5!. Charles, is a handsome village, settled by the French,
but at present containing many American families. It con
tains about 1000 inhabitants. It is twenty-one miles from
the mouth of the Missouri, and eighteen from St. Louis, by
land-—over an excellent road and through a rich country, prin
cipally prairie land. The_ main street of St. Charles, is on
the ﬁrst bank, the second on the top' of the hill. On this
street is situated a round wooden tower, fbrmerly occupied
by the Spaniards as a fort or guard house.
The villages and settlements of Femme Osage, Cherette,
Bonhomme.'Gasconade, and Cote sans Dessire, embellish the
banks of the Missouri, above St. Charles. / 
St. Louis, the largest town of the territory, and at present
the seat of ‘government, stands on a high bank, ﬁfteen miles
below the entrance of the Missouri, and in N. lat. 38,39.-—
The buildings are scattered along three parallel streets, ex
tending upwards of two miles along the river, and each ris
ing above the other, which gives to the town a neat and ro
mantic appearance. Most of the houses are built of stone,
and whitewashed on the outside. Almost every house has
an extensive garden or park, around which high stone walls
are built. Some of the buildings arevery large and costly,
and surrounded with galleries. The population exceeds 8000
souls. It has a bank, printing-olﬁce, post-oliice, and Roman
chapel. It already enjoys a handsome trade, and from its
/ local advantages, promises to become a rich and populous
city. The country, around and west of St. Louis, is for [it'
teen miles, one extended prairie, of a very luxuriant soil and
in a high state of cultivation. There is a ferry from this
town to the Illinois side of the Mississippi : from hence pass
es the main road to Kaskaskia.
Caronddet, is a small French village, six miles west of St.
Louis, in the direction of the mines. .
IQ
EM lGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 265
Villepuclze, a French village of sixty or seventy houses, is
situated on the margin of the Mississippi, nineteen miles be
low St. Louis, and just below the mouth of Bigolua creek.
Herculaneu-m, stands near the Mississippi. It is settled
by Americans, and has a line manufactory of shot; the pro
prietor, Mr. Matlock, has a fall for the shot, of 200 feet per
pendicular. The lead mines are about t'orty~ﬁve miles due
west from this place.
St. Gene-via-ve, is situated on the second bank of the Mis
sissippi, about one mile_ from ~the river, and twenty-one miles
below Herculanenm, in lat. 37 5], N. It was commenced
about the year 1774, and is at present the principal depotfor
most of the mines on the waters of the Maremeg; and the
storehouse from whence are drawn the supplies of the miners.
Its site is a handsome plain of about 100 acres ; the little riV'
er Gouberie, the two branches of which form a junction be
tween the town and the river, water it on its upper and lower
margins. ' In front of the town there is a ﬁne bottom, extend
ing from the mouth of the Gouberie, eight or nine miles along
the Mississippi, and the greater part of the distance. three
miles wide. The common ﬁeld, enclosed and cultivated by
the citizens, contains about 7000 acres. The surrounding
country is broken, but yields good crops. The town con
tains about 350 houses, an academy and eight or ten stores.
A road runs from this town to the lead mines, and the great
er part of the inhabitants have an interest in, or are employed .
in some way, in the lead trade.
New-Bourbon, is situated on a blulf, two miles lower down
' the river, and contains about seventy buildings. The in
habitants of both villages, are principally French, and a gay
and hospitable people.
Cape Girardeau, stands on an eminence 20 miles above
the mouth of the Ohio, and seventy--two below St. Genevieve ;
it is settled by Germans and-a few French. The country to
the west of the village, is uneven, but of a good soil, for sev

<—_._
-<s-._*__-~.~,..._»,_-J
1 .. J-.-“=i_>_._:;:._.
206 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; 0R,
hral miles. The bottoms are deep and capable of producing
the greatest crops of corn, cotton and tobaccoﬂ‘
1\’em-Madrid, is situated on a rich plain near the river bank, 7
about seventy miles below the mouth of the Ohio. This
place has been ﬁnely described, and appears to better advan
tage on paper, than when under a coup d’a:il. The soil is
very rich, producing cotton, indigo and corn; but the back
country for several miles is reported to be swampy and sickly,
There is a creek entering the Mississippi just above the town,
which affords a good harbor for boats, and a pleasant lake in
its rear. The river is constantly making encroachments up
on the banks in front of the place,
I
\
INDIA NS.
The Knisteneaux, Chippewas, Sioux, Foxes, Sacs, and
Iowas, reside between the Missouri and the British possessa
IOXXS.
The Knisteneaux chieﬂy reside in the British possessions
north of lake Superior; yet some bands have established
themselves south of the boundary line, as determined by the
treaty of Paris, and reside on streams rnnping into Red river,
[of Hudson bay, which heads south of the sources of the Mis
sissippi,] Moose river, Pasquayah, &c. They are of a mod
erate stature, well proportioned, and of great activity. Ex
amples of deformity are seldom to be seen among them.—
Their complexion is of a copper color, and their hair black
Their eyes are black, keen, and penetrating; their counte
nance open and agreeable, and it is a principal object of their
vanity to give every possible decoration to their persons. Of
all the nations which 1 have seen on this continent, says Mac
 
‘ Christian Schultz, an American, and an agreeable writer, who travelled in
this country in 1808, counted the layers of the alluvial bottom, where a large part
of the bank had newly broken off and fallen into the Mississippi. He found the
whole height of the bank to be forty three feet auda half, and ascertained, with
tolerable accuracy, that the total number of the lagers, was seven hundred and
ninety-eight. The strata were generally distinct and easily indicated, and from’
less than a quarter to three inches in thickness. He infers from these data, that it
hill taken at least 800 snnupl inundation: to rain the bank to its present elevation
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 201
kénzie, the Knistdeneaux women are the most comely. Their‘ I
ﬁgure is generally well proportioned, and the regularity of
their features would be acknowledged by the more civilized
people ofEurope; Their complexion is not of so dark a tinge. ‘
as is common to those savages who have less cleanly hab~ -' K
its. It does not appear, that chastity is considered by them
as a virtue‘; or that ﬁdelity is believed to be essential to the
happiness of wedded life, for a temporary interchange of
wives is not uncommon; and the offer of their persons is con
sidered as a necessary part of the hospitality due to strangers. ,l _,.,.--e
A part of the Cﬁippewa nation reside in this territory— I
they inhabit the head branches of the Mississippi, Leech, Ot
tertail, Winnipique and Red lakes, the river De Corbeau,
and Red river. They claim an immense extentof territory,
and are a numerous nation. They speak a copious language,
which is Very difficult to be attained, and furnishes dialects
to the various emigrant tribes. They are not so warlike as
their Sioux and Knisteneaux neighbors. They are sober,
timorous, and vagrant, with a selﬁsh disposition which has
sometime created suspicions of their integrity. Their stat
are has nothing remarkable in it; but though they are seldom
corpulent, they are sometimes robust. Their complexion is
lwarthy; their features coarse, and their hair lank, but not
always of a dingy black; nor have they universally the pierc
ing eye, which generally animates the Indian countenance.—
The women have a more agreeable aspect than the men, but
their gait is awkward, which proceeds_from their being accus~
tomed, nine months in.the year, to travel on snow-shoes and
drag sledges of a Weight from 2 to 400 pounds. ‘ ‘~~''”"‘"''
The Siozlx, claim a tract of territory, equal in extent to
some of the most powerful empires of Europe. Their boun
daries " commence at the Prairie des Chiens, and ascend the
Mississippi on both sides, to the river De Corbeau, up that
river to its source; from thence to the source of the St. Pe
ters ; from thence to the Montaigne de la Prairie ; from thence‘
to the Missouri, down that river to the Mahas, bearing thence
208 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
to the source of the river de Moyen; and from thence to the
place of beginning.” They also claim a large territory south
of the Missouri. The country east of the Mississippi from
Rum river to theriver De Corbeau, is in dispute between
them and the Chippewas, and has been the source of many a
' sharp encounter for 150 years past)’ These Indians are the
dread of all the surrounding tribes: for they are unquestiona
bly the most warlike. 
Their best lands, and most populous villages, are on the
St. Peters. This nation are divided into 6 bands, viz. 1. Mi
norva Kanlong, who extend from Prairie des Chiens to
Prairie des Francois, thirty-five miles up the, St. Peters.
This is a very warlike band. 2. The Washpetong, who
inhabit the country from the Prairie des Francois to Roche
Blanche on the St. Peters. ' 3. Sussetongs—-they extend
from the Roche Blanche to lac le Grosse Roche, on the St.
Peters. This band hunt on St. Peters and upper portions of
Red river of lake Winnipie, which is a level, plain, fertile
country, free of stones, and intersected with small lakes. It
abounds with for animals, the beaver, otter, and marten, which
enables them to purchase more merchandise, in proportion to
their number, than their neighbors. 4. Yanktons of the
northinhabit a country which is almost one entire plain, des
titute of wood, but a good soil and well watered. 5. Yank
tons Ahnah are considered the best disposed Sioux, who
move on the banks of the Missouri. Their country is very ‘
fertile, consisting of wood land prairie. 6. Tetons Bois
Brule. 7. Tetons Okandandas. 8. Tetons Minnakineazzo.
>9, Tetons Sahone are four bands which rove over a country
almost entirely level, where a tree is scarcely to be seen, un
less it be by water courses, or steep declivities of a small
number of hills. It is from this country that the Missouri
derives most of its colouring matter; the earth is strongly
impregnated with glauber salts, allum, copperas, and sulphur,
and when saturated with water, large bodies of the hills are
precipitated into the river. On this account the waters of
EM[GRANT’s DIRECTORY. $09
the Missouri have a purgative effect on those who are not
accustomed to use them. These four bands are the pmates
of the Missouri, and considered the vilest miscreentsof the
savage race. 10. Wahpacootas band rove in the coun'tr_y W.
of St. Peters, from a place called Hardwood to the mouth of
the Yellow Medicine riveri never stationary only when their
traders are with them, which-is not at any ﬁxed time; a
great portion of their country is open plains, and tolerabty
fertile.
The Assinnibions, (0sinipoilles,) are a revolted band of the
Sioux; they inhabit a prairie and champaign country, situat
ed between the Pasquayah or Sascatchiwine and the Rocky
Mountains; they‘ live by the chase, and have very little com
merce with the whites, and can muster now upwards of i500
warriors. Their lodges are tents formed of buﬂhloe hides.
“ The Iowas reside on the rivers De Moyen and Iowa, in 
two villages. They hunt on the west side of the Mississippi, '
the river De Moyen, and westward to the Missouri‘; theit'~ E
Wars and alliances are the same as the Sacs and Rieynm-ds,;
under whose special protection they conceive themselves to
be. They cultivate some corn; but not so much in propor
tion as the Sacs and Reynards. Their residence being on
the small streams in the rear of the Mississippi, out of the
high road of commerce, renders them less civilized than those
nations.” “ The Reyuards (or Foxes) reside in three villages. The V
1st. on the ‘V. side of the Mississippi, six miles above the
rapids of the river De Roche. The 2d. about twelve miles
in the rear of the lead mines, and the 3d. on Turkey river,
half a league from its entrance. They are engaged in the
same wars, and have the same alliances as the Sacs, with
whom they must be considered as indissoluble in war or peace.
They hunt on both sides of the Mississippi from the river
Iowa, (below the Prairie Des Chiens) to ariver of that name
above said village. They raise a great quantity of corn,
D d
.’
i_.
' 1
t
i
wﬁs‘rh1R5N'Gxz@‘rTEEk‘ ‘J ';’o‘1c,
Eééns, ‘"5 11' xhelhﬁs ;' 65¢‘ forxiierqéf th‘ds‘e £a'rti't:1é‘s' it1“é'\i8h "t'{1I"§l!'¢
t‘i£fés,‘é:\'o séh a;a’n’y‘h‘msaiéa br‘isbeIs’I‘1’er =i‘r‘1'1Sdih.""'* I
€[‘he~3:'at§s (er‘Sél'fkies‘) hid Reyﬂards (dr:FtJ‘x'e'§') "éléim
rrieyu;-H-f¥6%n’{ﬁe i11b‘lith' ar‘me~t|'jm‘srisni, 0'11 {the ‘W. eiHe"§£
i1ie_1v1i§§1g§:‘;s;;i,a};‘i0’§se~h§§er‘Iawa iﬁér, ‘aibéie =a1e'P|-:1: 3 .ﬁe'iIesi(JJhierts,J§\h'(1 ‘wéstwardly 2to “the I'IQIiB¢‘E‘('J‘I‘1I'i;"b¥1t Hit:
Tllfli-t§~ti)f t’.he'ir' re§p'éctive e1aT:hs"are 'i1nﬂeEh'eH.
J '“';lihe rﬁrér ‘1'%lers,‘6r’St. ‘Pi'eir’'e,'‘hécofdfﬁg'togﬂdﬁer,
! ﬂows through a most delightful country, aboumjing wi_th‘§ﬂl
%he'r1ece'§§ar‘|és hf ﬁfe, 't'hat"§‘r’5w '§fPdht5ﬁé6d§Yy, ahd‘With a htt|e"eﬁltiv§tion 1it hﬁghtlbe "i1iia3e"to‘}')i‘o}1liCe éiedthe hi!!!
¥iés of life. W716 I-tee, ~(f6ﬂe:a‘v'b{He)"g"rows he‘1~e'h g'r"é£\t'hbut1’d 'a'nee,‘ahd éVe1*y'}$éi~t ‘is"'ﬁlled "with I t‘l‘éei bmkﬁng uﬁﬂér 7 their
-Mastrmm,'§u€h'a§i>1aam,’grapa,, ant: apples; the ma dows' with 'ho'{>s, Lzipd ’h15ny s6’ita ’bf"vegetb'Bles; Wh'iISt'ﬁie
‘grdﬁhd is"'sto'red"w“1th ‘useful _t"o?its,"'IH‘th‘i1lt‘geIi(Ea, éptkeﬂhrd,
wegiamid-i1i§is"=s lar'ge"as"h'e'1’ts’ ' eggs. At‘a little "dfs't51ii!e
"frﬁm the‘bi_Gé§ Of the r'i€'er ‘ate éu1'ine‘n'<’SEs,?'t'rt'ii1i iﬂiibh join
’l'i:i%e‘ ﬁéws that bannot be éxc'eeai:d’év'en' By ‘the;m6st'béaiiti
’ﬁ1Tbfth6s'e‘f lt'é've ‘§lréa'dy‘ Hébcﬁbéd ; éiiiiiilst t1i'e'se"a‘i‘e “ﬂe
‘ﬁghtful 'groves,"§tn'd s1ich"am'a‘ling ‘tiiitihtitiés Jot” mai>les, mic ‘they Wt)‘I.IId:i)I‘OdUt('38 Sugar suﬁCi§nt’fof e!1'y'ﬁtimber16FIhhibi~
:t'a'nts;* ' ‘
“'A'l'1ttle way' frbm the'nh6uth' bf 'this'river, bn ‘the n‘dﬂh
side of it, stands a hill, one part of which, that towards the
-Mississippiﬁs compoéed entirely of white" stone, bf the Same
50ft‘ nature as that I have before described; for‘such,'ind'ee‘d,
is all the stonein this couiitry. But what eippe'a'rs remarka~
Me is, that the colbur of 'it is {as Whiteas the driven snow.
The outward part ofit W415 crumbled by‘the wind and‘ wehthier
= into heaps ofsaml, of whicha beautiful cdmposition might be
 
made; or, I am of opinion, that when prbperly ‘treated the
stone itself wbuld grow harder‘ by time,' and have am-y ifolile
effect in architecture.
’ See Pike, Caner, &.e_.
211!,M!G.1$.A.N'I."~. 1.J1BEC'!f0!Y,~. _
“ Near that branch which is termed the Marble River, is a
mountain, from whence the Indians get a sort of red stone;
out of which they hew the bowls of their pipes. In some of
these parts is found a black hard clay, or rather stone, of
Whichthe Naudowessies (Sioux) make their family utensils;
This country likewise abounds with a milk white clay, of '
which China ware might be made equal in goodness to the Asiatic; and also with a blue clay that serves thicilndianis for
paint; with this last they contrive, by mixing it with the red
stone powdered, to paint themselves of diﬁ"erent colours.”
South of the Missouri are the following tribes, viz: The _Great and Little Osage tribes, who reside principallyion the
Osage river and the Arkansas; they are next to the Sioux in
point of population; both bands can assemble a combined
force of 2500 warriors. They are remarkably tall, large, and
ferocious-—-erect and well proportioned; their complexion is
between an olive and a copper color; their eyes daik brown,
their noses large and acquiline; they usually wear a dressed
butfaloe skin over their shoulders. They are expert warri
ors, and generally engaged in war with the Sioux and western
nations. Their chief villages are on the bank of the Osage
rive-r—the houses stand in two rows on. a straight line, with a_ "
Wide street between them.
The Kanzas reside on the river of that name about 240 miles
from its mouth. ‘They have a ﬁne country, rich in game and
vegetable productions. They hunt on the head branches of
the Kanzas and Arkanzas, can muster 460 warriors, are simi.
lar in form and manners to the Osage.
The _Pawnees reside on the Kanzas, Great Nimmehaw, and Arkansas; they are divided into three bands, the Pawnee if
L-oups, Pawnees proper, and Pawnee republicans; they can
raise 2500 warriors; and trade with the Spaniards and Amer
icans: they are said to be friendly to white people, but the
treatment which Pil<e’s party received at their hands, was
such as to giveno very favorable idea of their morality.
There are colonies of Cr_ee_ks, Cherokees, and Choctaws set.
~-._.._.
I
2!! WESTERN GAZETTEER; OB,
t
I
tled on the Arkansas and Whiteriver, who are drawn thither
by the facility with which game is hunted.
The Ottoes and Missouris, whose tribes are consolidated,
‘ live on the river Platte, 45 miles from its mouth, and are re
' duced to about 650 souls.
The 'Wetepahatos, live on the Padouca fork of Platte river,/ i I I are agreeable and well disposed people.
' The Kiawas are neighbors to the Wetopahatos, and are
two thousand strong:
The Kenenavish, or Cow Indians, live on the head branch
es of the Padouca, and have about 1500 souls.
The Kites, frequently associate with the Keuenavish, and
have about 550 souls.
The Mahas, once a formidable nation, residing in villages
5 on the west bank of the Missouri, 235 miles above the mouth
of river Platte-, but now a wandering, feeble tribe, reduced
by war and the small pox, to about 650 souls. I ‘
The Poncars have been reduced by the Sioux, from a res
pectable nation to about 250 souls-they live on the river
Poncar,_west of the Missouri.
The Ricaras reside in fortiﬁed villages between the river
Tetone and Mandan villages. They were once powerful;
and are of Pawnee origin. ‘
The Mandans are described as a friendly and hospitable
nation--they have been reduced by war and the Sioux, to
about 1250 souls. Their towns are defended by a strong
stockade, and are situated in the Great bend of the Missouri,
35 miles above the Ricaras. ,
The Ahwahawas, are a small nation, live three miles above
the Mandans, whom they resemble in their persons and man
ners; they have about 55 warriors and 250 inhabitants.
’The Minetares, or Grosse Ventres, (big bellies.) They
claim no lands except what they occupy. Their villages are I on Knife river, ﬁve miles above the Mandan towns. There
is a great scarcity wood in the neighborhood of these towns,
Which induces them to leave their homes in cold seasons, and
 
 
EMIGRAN'I"s DIRECTORY. 213
seek a shelter on the bottoms of Roche Jaune and the Mis
south
The Chiens, or Dog Indians emigrated from the borders
of Red river of Hudson bay, but now wander on the banks
of Chien river. Their numbers are about 1250 souls.
The Katas, 350 strong, reside on the north and south forks
of Chien river.
The Nemausins are a small tribe inhabiting the south fork:
of Chien river.
The Datomes live on the head waters of Chien river, and
have only 50 warriors.
The Castahanas, are very strong, and roam in an open coun
try between the head waters of Roche Jaune (Yellow Stone)
and Platte rivers, and raise great numbers of horses and mules,
are friendly to whites, but maintain a defensive war with the
Sioux.
The Quchatsas or Gena de Corbeau, (Crow Indians) are a
peaceful nation; they live on both sides of Roche Jauue riv
er; and are divided into four bands.
The Gene de Pause, (Paunch Indians) reside on the head:
of Roche Jaune and Bighorn rivers, and can count 850 war~
riors. *
The. Snake Indiahs inhabit the Rocky mountains, from the
head waters of the Missouri to the sources of the Arkansas.
They are an inoffensive people, and greatly oppressed by
their neighbors.
The Aliatons, Qfthe west, live south of the Snake Indians,
near the Spanish frontier; they lave very few arms; but of
ten attack the Spaniards successfully, only with bows and
arrows. >
The Tutseewas or Flat-heads, live on the west side of the
Rocky Mountains; little is known of their habits and villages.
South of the Arkansas, on the head branches of Redriver,
,.and beyond the Sabine are the following nations, viz:
The Caddoquies, a small, but martial tribe residing on Red
river of the Mississippi. V ‘
il Ia;
211* WESTERN GAZETTE“; 03,
The Yatasees live on the same niw¢l:,,l9BlQW 31¢ Qiﬁldg,
/ towns ; the Spanish government claim jurisdiction over thernh."
The Naudaquies live 01.‘: the Sabine and R10 T03730
The Adaize live" on. lake Macadon;_their language is sp.dif
ﬁcult to understand, that no nation it is, said, 0111.1‘. §g€4k it’-ll.
words of it.
The Aliche reside near Nacogdoches on Rio Brqsspg
Tlk? Keychies inhabit the eastern shores of the R59 Tibia
ty, near the road from Natchitoches to St. Antonio.
The Techies reside on a branch 0f the Sabine,
The Nebadaches are settled on the same. stream.
The Bedies live to the south of Nacogdoches,
T11¢ Maya live OR the bay‘ if the St Bernard near the
mouth of Guadeloupe river. They are at perpetual w_ar- with
the Spaniards, but friendly to the French. ,
The Carankouas, live on a peninsula in the bayof St, Bey
nard; they are enemies to the Spaniards. but kind tn the
French. ‘
The Tetaus or Comanches, a powerful vagrant tribe, rosin
at will over the immense prairie region, stretching from the
head waters of the Arkansas to the Rio del Norte. They
never reside at the same place but a few days; the butfaloe
is their principal food; They travel on horseback.
The above nation», except the last, which resides between
Bed river and the Rio Guatlaloupe, inhabit 3 country ah0und
ing in deer and buff-aloe, and wild horses. They cultivate
‘the richest soil and are generally harmless and friendly; they
are reduced in. numben from thirty to twp hundred yvnrriorg.
.
.
RECAPITULA TIONJ
1Vanu.Hi Tribes. -1,“ . ,]l’nrr_im‘_a. Tptal No, §pti,ls\l .Vl'{la‘e(.
Assinibions, about - ,; . 1,250 . V§,5_QO_ ‘_ 7 Knisteneaux, . . ‘ H.’ , 550 I _ 2,450 1 _
rtchhipapewas, . .‘ 3,200’ '
av\. Sioux, . , . " . 3,33; ""21,s\7:,5. s
 
sasiieaanra ’D1’REC"I"0'R’Y. sis
Fumes 0/‘ Tribes.
lteynards, \ . .7
Sans, . . .
Iowas, . . .
Osages, . . - .
K'anzas, . . ~
Pawriees, . t. .
0tto'es,= Boo. . .
Mahas, . -.
Ponears, ' . .
Ricaras, . .
Ma'ndalns, ‘ . .
Ahwahawas, . . .
Minatareq . .
Chieus, . .
tVeta‘pahatoes'a1td‘Kiaw@_$,
Kenenavish, . .
Kites, . . e .
‘ Katas, . e . .
Nenmusins, ' . .
Dotames, -. .
Castahamis, '.~ .
Quehatsas, . .
-Gens de Panse, .
~TubseeLwas, .
akliiatans of the West,
Caddoquies, .
Yattasees, .
iNaudoquies, .
“ldaize, .
“Aliche or Heiche, .
"1K'eychies, .
‘Tachies, ' . i Nebedaches, .
75Bedies, i.‘
Jtccokesaws, .
(Mayan, 
Warﬁofs. 'I‘otalN0.jb11ls. ‘Villager.
440 431-50 it
.150 2,850 4
300 1,400 3
8,560 10,500 4
/ 465 ' 1,650 2
795500 7,560 4
.250 ' sea -2
2350 760
50 250
550 2,500
-350 1,200
so 290
$20 250
4550 1,250
5,250 :11,e50
, 450 1,510
120 410
15 250
50 ' 220
'80 120
.1,a0o ~5;00s
1960 43,560
'-eeo 2,850
Unlmown.
Unknown.
150 ' 350
150 350
40 150
20 \ 190
. -25
so 220
so 350
so 350 _- ~
. ,' 350
as 350
250
216 WETERN GAZETTEER; OR,
Corankouas, . . 550 2,500
Tetaus or Comanches, . . 5,500
Tour, 30,920 103,025
BOUNTY LANDS.
Two millions ﬁve hundred thousand acres of bounty lands
are surveyed in the Missouri territory, between latitude 85
and 40 degrees north, and longitude 10 and 12 degrees west
from the city of W’ashington. This tract is watered by the
Missouri, Gasconade, John’s river, Gravel, Great Osage, &c.
and is chieﬂy of the ﬁrst quality, prairie and woodland inter
spersed; the timbered land is covered with tall canes, a sure
indication of a warm and productive soil. These lands are
capable of sustaining a numerous population ; and from their
advantageous local situation, will rapidly enhance in value?"I
ANTIQ UITIES.
The Sioux country, on the Wabisipinekan, St. Peters, and
Yellow river, abounds with ancient entrenchments, mounds,
and fortiﬁcations. Similar works were discovered by Lewis
and Clark, and by later travellers on the. Missouri, Osage,
Platte, &c. Six miles west of St. Louis, is a place called the
“ valley of bones,” where the ground is pmmiscuously strew
ed with human and animal bones; some of the latter have
been discovered of an enormous size.
 
' “ The emigration to this country continues to an unparalleled extent. This~is
probably the easiest unsettled country in the world to commence farming in. The
emigrant has only to locate himself on the edge of a prairie, and he has the one
half of his farm a heavy forest and the other half a fertile plain or meadow, cov
ered with :1 thick award of ﬁne grass: he has then only to fence in his groundanl
put in his crop. The country abounds with suliues and salt works sutﬁcient to sup
ply the inhabitants with good salt: a navigation to almost every inan’| door, which
will give him a market for all his surplus produce, and bring to him all the neces
sary articles of merchandise. The soil and climate are favorable to the growth of
Indian corn, wheat, rye, oats, cotton, tobacco, hemp, ﬂax, and almost all kinds
gt‘ vegetables which grow in the Unitedﬁtates. Take the country for all in all,
I believe there is no section of the U. States has-ever opened such a great and ad
vantageous ﬁeld for enterprise, either for the industrious laboring man or for the
steady, professional character.”
[Eatract sf’ n tetterfmm Fort Osage, Feb. 28, 181?.
THE NEW’ STATE,
‘Formed from the western part of the Mississippi Territ¢
ﬂy, (not yet named*) is bounded as follows: Beginning on '
the river Mississippi at the point where the southern bounda
ry line of the state of Tennessee strikes the same, thence east
along the said boundary line to the Tennessee river‘,-thence
up the same to the mouth of Bear creel;,the’nce by a direct:
line to the northwest corner of the county of \Vashington, ,
thence due south to the Gulf of Mexico, thence westwardly,
including all islands within six leagues of the shore, to the
most eastern junction of Pearl river with lake Borgne, thence
up said river to the thirty-ﬁrst degree of north latitude, thence
West along the said degree of latitude to the Mississippi river,
thence up the same to the place of beginning.
It is situated between 30 and 35 N. lat. and 8, and 14 W.
longitude. -Length from North to South, about 340 miles,
breadth about 150, containing about 45,000 square miles, 0!‘
30,000,000 acres. '
RIVERS.
All the principal streams of this state have a southern die
rection, ﬂowinginto the Mississippi, the Tombigbee, and Gulf‘
of Mexico. ' 4
The Mississippi winds along its western frontier, 572 miles.
The streams which join it from the south in this distance are, The Yazoo river which heads near the Tennessee bounds: I
ry line in lat. 35. It has numerous head branches of excel.»
lent water. it joins the Mississippi at right angles, 112 miles
 
I‘ The convention will probably adort that of "‘ 4‘llLsis:ip'p.'."
T11 8
218 WESTERN GAZETTEER; SR,
abdve Natchez. It is 280 yards wide at its mouth, of a geri
tle current, and navigable about 100 miles; It waters that
part of the state lying between the Tennessee boundary,
' the Mississippi and the road leading from the Muscle shoals
to N atche_z; _Big Black river enters the Mississippi about
50 miles ahtive Natchez, heads in the Chickasaw country,
and is navigable about 70 miles in Wet seasons. Bayou Pi
erre ﬁowsiuto the Mississippi 40 miles above Natchez; the
next streams are Cole’s creek, and Catharine’s creek, each
about 46 yards wide: Between Natchez and the line of deq
ma_rc‘ation are Homochitto river, about 60 yards wide, heads
south-east of Natchez near Pearl river, and is a handsoine
stream of puts. Water; Below this a few miles is Buﬂhloe
creek, about,40 yards Wide? these streams are not fordable
except in seasons of drought; Proceeding to the east along
the Louisiana or old West Florida bmlndary line; run by An
drew Ellhzott, We successively cross branches of bayou Sara,
Thompsoxds creek, Arilite, Tict'ou,- Pongipahe, Chefuncti,
and Boguechitto, before we reach Pearl river ;' all of which have
- been noticed’ in the description at the rivers of Lqllisiana,
Pearl river, is the largest stream between the Mississippi and
Mobile, and runs through the Choctaw territory. Between
Pearl river and the Pascagola, is the Benasouah and several
other Small streamstributary to the bays of St. Louis and
Biloxi; east of this bay the ﬁrst river is the Pascagola a large‘
and navigable river. It rises near lat. 333 audruns south
parallel to the Tombigbee and Mobile 250 miles,- expanding
Bear the gull‘, into a broad bay, but too shoal at its entrance
to admit vessels drawing more than four feet Water; above
this bay, there is a good boat navigation 150 miles; twenty
miles from the gulf it receives from the west the river Hatch:
Leecha. Fifteen miles north of the old Florida line,r it 110
ceives the (Jhickasaka river, which heads near the head
branches of Pearl river, and waters a part of the Choctaw?
‘territory. Chickasaka receives from the West Chabol river,
besides numerous creekm Paseagola receives from the
 
EMiGRANPs' DIRECTORY. 219
north-east Cedar, Pine Barren, and Red Bank creeks, Sm.
_Between_ the Pascagola and Mobile is the bayou Batrie- The
Mobile river is only 45 miles in length, deep, broad, and navi
gable for _ vessels of coxisiderable burthen; the bay of the same name, however, which it '30 milesulong, may be consid
'ered_as an extension of the liioliile, which gives 75 miles
from the gulf of Mexico to the confluence of the Tombigbw
"and Alabama, whose tinited waters fortilthe Mobile river and
‘V -1.. . - ‘ -' -—- '\-lﬁﬂb-1",‘-,, ‘ - f ~n~é--Q-ere --‘.
bay. The only remaining‘ ﬁver to be particula1'ly noticed,is
the Tombigbee, Which will be probably‘ (band to run nearly
on the line, or will be assumed as the boundary, between the
newly erected state and the Alabama territory. This is a large
‘navigable river rising in the Cherokee country, within a fetv
iniles ofthe Tennessee river, a few miles below the Musele
Shoals, being 450 miles long, by its meanderings, from its
'source to its junction with the Alabama.
The Tombigbee receives a great number of creeks arid
sinall rivers from the west; such as Chickasaw creek, .which
enters ﬁve miles below Dog creek, ﬂowing in four miles above
fort Stoddert. Bassa Bagﬁe, entering near the conﬂuence
with the Tombigbee and the Alabama. Opalee river comes
in about 40 miles above the mouth of Alabama; after which,
among others, it receives Senelee, Nooxabbva, Noisy creek,
Swan cfeek, Salabamaby, and Black Warrior. "
Vessels drawing twelve feet water can ascend as far as Fort
Stoddert, and frequently as far as St. ‘Stevens, a little above
which are rapids, but which in a good pitch of water, do not
oppose many obstruction: to boats. Six miles below the
junction of the Tombigbee with the Alabama, the Mobile dil
vides into two branches, the easternmost of which is chilled '
the river Tensaw; this falls into the east side of Mobile bay‘,
about nine miles below the town of Mobile.
A subsequent division gives to each of these channels two
mouths; and whilst the mouths of the western channel are
designated by the ‘names of Mobile and Spanish river; those
of the eastern are called the 'l‘ei:saw and Appalachee rivers.
~ ‘ -qkis-x'od~\9'
220 WESTERN GA.ZET".‘EER ; OR,
Indeed the wholeof the eastern channel from its ﬁrst sever‘
ance from the restof the river is often designated by the name
of the Tensaw river; but certainly with no propriety, as it no distinct river at all;_ but ‘merely the eastern channel of '
the main Mobile -aim. \ These diﬂizrent channels are cori
nectedby interveninglstreains; the most remarkable nfwhich
is called Lizard’s creelc, andunites the western channel with
an oﬂ'set from‘; the "eastern channel now called Mobile river,
but formerly the bayou Matthieu. It is by thewestern chan
nel and Lizard’s creek, and the bayou Matthieu or Middle
river, that vessels usually ascend the Mgbile, especially when
the wind is favorable, as this route is more direct than the
main westernchanneh Lizard’s creek is about twenty miles
above the town of Mobile, and the distance through it from the
western channel to the Middle river, is about three miles,
After getting up the hay, over what is called the bar, there is
no diﬂiculty in ascending the Mobile by any of the channels.
That which passes immediately by the town of Mobile, is not
so deep as that at the mouth of the western chamiei, which is
called Spanish river; but vessels frequently go up Spanish
river into the main western channel, and then drop down six
or seven miles;to the town of Mobile. If you leave the bay,
and proceed up Spanishriver, and then continue up the main
western channel to Fort Stoddert, ymi will generally ﬁnd, from
four to ﬁve fathoms of water in the middle of the river, and -.
about twelve feet near the bank. The shallowest part of the
river is near Sir_non’s bluff, where there is only 7 feet of wa-‘
tcr. The population from the town of Mobile to the junction
of the Mobile, or Tombigbee, with the Alabama, is very tri
ﬂing indeed: and the lowness ofthe land adjacent to the riv-.
or for thirty miles above the town, with the indifferent qualis
ty of the high lands contiguous to it, forbid the expectation
of any rapid increase of population. The high land approach
es the river at seven places in the space of forty miles, and
at each of these places a family or two-reside. The coun
try behind is generally uninhabited, The distances of the
 
V.,EMlGRAi\’-T's DYRECTORY; 221 .
v
several blnlfs or highlands near the river, are as follows:
From Mobile to the Bayou St. Louis, four miles; thence to K» , K Dubroczfsi bluﬂ', seventeen; Chasti~ng’s, or the old French
fort,\six; Simon’s bluff} six; Bazil Chastang’s, three; Cedar
creek, two; Fort Stoddert, six; total 44 miles. 17''
The entrance of Mobile bay is in N. lat. 30 15; the aver~ Verage width of the. bay is about twelve miles. Opposite ni
mouth is Dauphin island extending from east to west about
leven miles.- The coasters from Lake Poachartraiu and bay
ou St. John enter the bay through the strait between the
West end of the island and the main land; the water in this
pass is very shoal, and is incapable of receiving vessels draw
ing more than ﬁve feet of water. Vessels from Pensacola,
the West Indies and other places, enter, the bay between
Dauphin Island and Mobile Point, or the extremity of the
mainland on the eastern shore. Between Dauphin Island
and Mobile Point, there are eighteen feet of water, and the
channel is so near that you may throw a biscuit on shore.
Proceeding up the bay, you ﬁnd three fathoms of water for
about ten miles. Then you have thirteen feet for about eight
miles further, or to within nine or ten miles of Dog river,
which is three leagues below the town of Mobile. From the
place last mentioned below Dog river to the upper end of the
bay, the depth of water is about twelve and a half, except at
the shoal Which extends across the bay, and is called the bar,
over which you cannot calculate on more than eleven feet of
water. From one end of the bay to the other, the water is
very shallow for a considerable distance from the shore. The
bay appears well adapted to Vessels of about 150 tons bur
then; but the cotton and lumber, which will become the sta
_ ple articles of the country, would render vessels of 300 tons
more eligible.
The Tennessee river forms the north eastern boundary of
the state for about 50 miles: thus it will be seen by reference
to the Map of the late Mississippi territory, that the new state
is peninsulated by the Mississippi, Gulf of Mexico, Mobile,
 
 
222 I
WESTERN nizmrsss; on,
Tombigbee and Tennessee rivers. The northern half of the
state may be said to be well watered by pure and wholesome
streams, more especially that part drained by the head creeks
of the Natarchucky, [main branch of the Tombigbee] Black
Warrior, [eastern branch of. the Tombigbeej and Yamo I rt?-'
tags, which interlock‘ at nuinerous points. The southern
part_ot' the state abounds with an abundance of nsvigabie \
streams, but having sluggish currents, the water neither
so pure nor so wholesonJe.- ' ‘
VIEW or THE GULF’ coasr.
iThe distance from the mouth of Pearl riyer to the entrmms
of Mobile bay is about one hundred miles, The Coast is in.
dented ‘with numerous bays‘ and lined with a great number
of islands. The navigation from lalre"Borgne to Mobile is safe
I and easy for lightwessels. The bay of St. Louis is 25 mile!
east of the mouth of Pearl river; is about ten miles long and
fo or wide, timbered by a low country of pine forests, and cy
press swamps, except where the ground has been cleared by
' the few French inhabitants who have settled on its margin.
Two miles east of the bay is Pass Christian; the coast for
a short space is high, commanding, and healthy, and is resort
ed to in autumn by many of the inhabitants of New-Orleans,
who here ﬁnd an airy and healthful situation during the sickly
season. From Pass Christian to the bay of Biloxi, is 24 miles ;'
this bay is ten or twelve miles deep, but narrow; a number of
French are settled on its borders. Pascagoia bay is the next
harbor, but only for light Vessels. It is about four miles
across the several branches of the Pascagola, and the inter~
vening marshes, intersected by bayous and cut-offs; from
thence to Mobile, a distance of 45 miles, the coast presents
low, sandy banks, covered with pine forests, with very few
settlements, to cheer the way and relieve the fatiguing same
ncss of the prospect.
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY.
‘ SURFACE, SGIL, TIMBER.
Q
in exist to fqrm a correct idea of tha surfage, xsoil1 and tip
her of this state; it would he necewry to tmel from Um
mouth of Pearl or Pascagola rivéri, novthwardly, to the Ten-l
ngpsge boundary line ;the ﬁrst hggdrgd miles would be through '
forests of the long leaved pine, interspersed with cypreﬂ
iwamps, bay galh, and open prairies---the surface generally
Qlmmpaigu ; hut opcasiqnally swqlling into hills of moderate ale-.-.
vation, and receding into vast lprailiﬁﬁ, inundated marsh“
Ind pestilential Swampg‘ A wnsidegalgle proportion of thia
part of the country is susneptibk .qf sucqegsful cultivation.
The soil 'u ‘gmlemlly aandyk-eqmetimes ggavelly and‘ clayey.
It will, neveﬂhclesa, produce several kinda Qf . £miL plums;
chelrim peaches, ﬁgs, w!1r‘9NBg<iw~au'd gmpes; cqtmn, eon»
indigo, sugar and garden vegetgblgg. It hga g ulbmil of clay,
(mm whichitis mpposedto deniw its f.e1-tiIity- This sec
tion of the state so nearly resembles in Soil, gurfaze and t'un~
bar, that part 0f Lnubim, lying between lalw Panchartrain
and the old West Florida .538; that a reference to, page 126.,
in» will render further description unne¢eH5a"Y'
Proceeding northwardly, lhronh the Ghoetnw, Chickasaw
and Cherokee territorisii, me perceive a gradual change If
timber, improvement of wil, and elevation of surﬁwe, pgxssing
from a level; pine, sandy cquntyy, to fdreﬂs of poplar, hickory,
balm black walnut, éugar maple, buckeye, elm, hackberry, &c.
—--a sail of deep Yegﬁtgble mould qf suxprising fert'x,lity ; and
3 surface agrembly undulating. !
In soil, the country bordﬁipg on the Tennessge frontier
gggegqblqs that of the best parts of Kentucky--in surface,
more rolling and broken-V--in productiqns, more various any]
lg;;_qriapt, ;,The -country bordering; on the Tennessee river,
{pry '1 00 miles above and belnw the Muscle Shoals, and for forty
mike nprth and south, I congigler ;tﬂm-J.ga_;j(l‘en-of ‘Norllh
.,Amer'u'.a, and unqpuestjqnnhly ghg §aq;§ adapted to longévﬂy
fl 33$’,-v»--‘ _ _r\‘ MWW—;~ rﬂ
294 WESTERN GAZETYPEER; OR,
/,
-and human enjoyment. Here is a soil happily congenialto
corn, sweet potatoes, indigo, cotton, garden vegetables and
fruit. Even nilwat will yield a productive crop. But it is
the excellence of the water, mildness and healtht'ulne'ss of the
climate, and proximity to the navigable waters of Tennessee
and Tombigbee, that render it the most desirable to new set
tlers of any of the states or territories, within the limits of the
Union. ' ' '
The long leaved pine prevails from the Gulf coast to the
northern boundary of the Choctaw territory. This timber is
tall, straight, and majestic, running‘ frequently from sixty to
eighty feet clear of a limb-some probably goes far as 100
feet. The Choctaw and Chickasaw‘ countries abound with
rich prairies: the largest is on the road from the Choctaw to
the Chickasaw nation—-and is in length near forty miles over,
from north to south, with a horizon, in that direction, appar
ently as boundless as the ocean. '1
Almost every foot of the land from the banks ofthe Yazoo,
to the Mississippi on the west, and the Tennessee on the east
is incomparably rich and beautiful, well Watered and healthful.
A great proportion of this tract, however, belongs to the
_, 3 Chickasaw Indians. The pine lands do not approach within
twenty or thirty miles of the-Mississippi, even as low down as
Ellicott’s line, forty-ﬁve miles below Natchez; in the ihterio1',
between the Mississippi and Tombigbee, it extends north to
the Yellow Fork of Yazoo, in N. lat. 33 30. ‘
The soil of the richest uplands is nearly of the color of ash-‘
'es-—deep and capable of long series of crops without manure;
the rocks and stones are calcareous, intermixed with ﬂint, sand
stone and slate. Canebrakes cover the whole 'face of the
country, wherever the soil is deep. Swamps are almost un
known for one hundred miles south of Tennessee river. ‘ ‘
‘The cypress galls, whichis the poorest species of land,
contains veins of a very ﬁne ‘clay, ﬁt for manufacturing; it is
very white, soft and tenacious, and free froni gritty particles.
There is she a great variety of nitrous and bituminous "'*-"tbs;
EMlGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ass
fossils, marls, iron ore, lead, chalk, slate, free stone 2 amber‘
gris has been found on the coast. Coal is found on the Tom
bigbee, Tennessee, Black Warﬁor, and several other streams.
On the navigable waters of the Chatahouchee, Conecah,
Mobile, Tombigbee, Pearl, and Mississippi, are immense
supplies of all kinds of timber suitable “for, foreign markets ;
White oak, live oak, pine, cypress, r,e'dar,bla_ck walnut, locust,
-magnolia, hickory, of great size, and conveniently situated for
hauling to the waters. Vast quantities ,of Junaber are ship
pedat Mobile. ,. K. - . '
‘I .5 L‘CLIMA TE, PROD U0 TIONS. I
The best lands produce cotton of a ﬁne quality; the ave
rage quantity of cotton raised on an acre of land in the Missis
sippi Territory, has been estimated at one thousand pounds
in the seed; but I think one thousand two-hundred may be
safely calculated on in good seasons.
I have before me several letters on the subject of the cli
mate and productions. Mr. Lattimore, delegate to Congress,
from the late Mississippi Territory, considers the climate as
not unfavorable to northern constitutions; he admits that there
‘ are certain situations in the southern parts, which are rather
sickly; but speaks favorably as to the geueralhealthfuluess of
the country. The following, letter of James M’Gutiin, Esq.
along and respectable inhabitant of St. Stephens, may, per
haps, represent the countryin a too favorable point of view,
if applied to the country south of the demarcation line; but
he certainly does not draw a picture too highly colored for
the upper part of the state, say from the sources of the Ya
zoo to the Tennessee. The letter was addressed to a gen
, tlemen in Louisiana; the reader will perceive that his obser
vations relate to the country on both sides of the Mobile.
“ I believe it [the Mobile country] to be the most agreea
ble climate I ever'experienced south of my native state, (Penn
sylvania). The diseases are less violent and fewer in num
F f
_ .-- *&W‘kv --Q--._ _
2'26 , WESTERN~GAZETTEERQ os,
ber, more easily removed by medicine than in any country
north, or even west or south. In this country, ‘we ﬁnd the
natives of almost every climate or country. And although
they expose themselves to severe labor during every month
of the year, an‘ unusual portion of health is found universal.
Notwithstanding the southern latitude, it is an universal re‘
mark, that the heat of summer is found less oppressive than
in the middle states. The constant‘ prevalence of the sea
breeze‘ during the summer, from the Gulf of Mexico, together
with the elevation of the surface of our country, satisfactorily
accounts for this circumstance; however extraordinary it may
appear, we have neither the climate of the Mississippi, nor
that of the Atlantic in the same parallel of latitude.
The rapid improvement of the sheep of our country, and
the perfection to Which the apple and cherry are brought,
completely ﬁx the fact, however extraordinary. The Missis
sippi and Georgia, both refuse these products.
“On the same plantation Ihave seen the apple, cherry, or ange, ﬁg, quince, Irish potatoe, Wheat, rye, buck-wheat, ﬂax, I
cotton and sugar cane, grow well, nearly all of which excel.
The productions of our country, that we ﬁnd on the surface
of the earth, merit an early attention. The lumber of our
_' rivers are a source of wealth sufficient to enrich:the country,
had we no other; the groves of white oak are immense, imme
diately on the margin of our rivers, -the lumber of which is
highly prized in- the foreign markets. The groves of red ce
dar are extensive, also live oak, a variety ofpines, cypress, &c. .
I calculated to execute commercial enterprize. The cotton of
our country was the ﬁrst that was sold in the New-Orleans
‘market last year, for the enormous sum of ihirI_1/;/ive dollars
per hundred.
It ought never to be forgotten that When our produce or
lumber is on hand, it is at once at market. The case with
which stock of every description is raised, is alone a source
of wealth, when attended to. The farmer may calculate for
years to come on having no other trouble in raising his cattle,
— ~0‘~ .
EMlGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 227
‘hogs, sheep, &c. than that of looking after. The mutton,
veal and lamb of our country is certainly superior fo any ani
mal food I ever tasted. The fowling of our rivers is not sur
passed by any countryin the United States. The oysters
and ﬁsh of the bay of Mobile have been much admired by the
'citizens ofoven New-York; and, were I to point out a situa
tion best calculated to meet every source of advantages and
furnish the best access to enjoyment, I have no hesitation in
giving the vicinity of St. Stephens and Fort Claiborne as af
fording it; lying in the high country, affording high and river
bottom land of the ﬁrst quality, within two days ride of the
margin of the Ocean from Mobile toPensacola,over an excel
lent level road between these two places, are found situations
capable of giving all the giatiﬁcatlons expected from a resi
dence in the vicinity of the Ocean; amongst those the bay of
Perdido has arrested much attention, and has been announced
by rnany intelligent travellers and persons of taste, as one of
the most desirable on any continent explored; its scenery
productions and uncommon salubrity of climate, has caused
many to call it the Montpelier of -America. The constant
prevalence of the sea breeze,tempers the heat of summer so as
to make these situations very desirable, The case with which
southern fruits are obtained at all seasons, the ﬂavor of ﬁsh.
oysters, crabs, and lobsters, would court the residence of the
rnost voluptuous epicnres of our country. As to the valuable
0 productions of our country brought to perfection by common
day laborers; the proﬁts are not to be surpassed by the agris
culturalists of any country.
Another writer speaking of the l\Iobile district says: No _
country can have a more delightful climate. Though some
particular places may be considered rather lsickly, owing to
local causes,yet generally speaking, it is a healthy country.
If bilious complaints are more prevalent than in higher lati
tudes, still, consumptions, pleurisiés, rheumatisms, asthmas,
and the long catalogue of the diseases of cold climates, are
rgrely ever witnessed in the Mississippi and Mobile country,_
228 WESTERN GAQZETTEER; on,
ANIMALS.
Game is scarce; ybut deer, bear, wolves, tigers,* panthérs,
wild cats, foxes, ground hogs, and squirrels, are found in the
forests skirting the Mississippi. There is a small animal cal
ledthe “salamander,” of the size and form of the common
rat, the head and teeth like the squirrel, and the eye small,
like the mole, The hair is ﬁne and of a fox color. It burrows
in the ground, but horizontally. Where it enters the ground,
it throws up a small/hill about six inches high and eighteen
inches diameter. It is supposed to live upon the bark of time
root, and roams abroad only at night in search of food and
Water, which it sips from the dew on the grass; it is extremely
shy, and retreats to its hole‘ on the smallest alarm, something
like the Guinea pig. The jaws are very strong, the teeth
sharp, and the bite very severe. ‘They are to be found near
the gulf coast. The alligator inhabits the streams, south of
lat. 32; they are destructive to hogs, dogs, and other animals,
which venture into the water, or approach the margins of riv
ers, lakes and bayous.
' ‘When full grown, the alligator is about 15 feet long; the
scales upon the skin of the head and back are so hard that a
riﬂe ball will scarcely penetrate them. The female scratches
a hole in the sand or dry soil, where it is exposed to the heat
of the sun, where she deposit! and covers her eggs, which are 
hatched by its warmth. When the young is hatched it takes
care of, and provides for itself. The teeth of this animal are
‘short, strong and irregular, and the jaws remarkably strong.
 
' If they once get hold of their prey, they never utter it to
* Schultz relates that in traversing the streets of Natches, he noticed leopard
skins hanging at the doors of several stores, which he concluded had been import
ed; but happening to mention this circumstance to a number of gentlemen assem-_
bled at the hotel, who informed him, that they were animals killed in the country
--one within twelve miles of the city, the skin of which measured ﬁve feet three
inches in length, and four feet in breadth. They appear in everyrespmt like the
leopard of Africa, excepthaving a darker stripe along the back from the head to
the tail. They are called the spotted tiger in this country, and although not m:~
wrong yet of late years they are frequently met with.
 
' !Mren_A1~i'f’s DIRECTORY. - eae
e's'eape~: if large, it is carried into the water and drowned: if
small, it is devoured on the shore. When a deeror grown
hog is killed by them, it is suffered to ﬂoat in the water until
it becomes putrid, and is then eaten. They often bask on the
shore of on logs, where they sleep. On the approach of rainy‘
weather, they make a bellowing noise tesenibling the bull, or
rather like snoring in sleep, which may be heard at the dist-'
ance of half a mile. They seldom leave the banks of rivers
and deep ponds, from which they retreat to the water on the
approach of danger. When they are found at a distance.
from the water, they defend themselves to the last extremity;
ant! When wounded, they will hold a stick so fast between the
teeth at to be carried by it a considerable distance : the jaws
of the lion but little exceed those of the alligator in strength.
In many instances, knots of lightwood of the size ofa goose
egg, have been found in the stomach ; whether to aid the pow
er of digestion, or for what other purposes, is not known. It
disappears in cold weather in autumn, and returns in the
spring ; except in warm days, when it rises and basks in the
sun beams. ‘ It is believed that they have no regular winter
habitation, but burrow into the mud at the bottom of lakes,
ponds and.still water, where there is a portion of warmth pro
duced by .a mixture of mud and vegetable matter.
The Murena Siren is troublesome to rice planters. It
cuts holes through their dams in the night and'lets off the
water. ‘ The body is about two feet long, and in its form re-t
s'embles the eel. The skin is thin and tough, and covered
1vith_ ﬁne scales of a dark brown color. The mouth is small
and well furnished with sharp teeth. It has two short legs
Which come out near the head ; each furnished with four toes
and claws, which enables it to pass through mud and water
with great facility. It has three gills on each side, and when
they are opened, resemble ears. When the male and female
are separated, they make known their distresses by a noise not
unlike the howling of a young puppy, from which it is proba_
ble they they have‘ taken the vulgar name. They are said to
S30‘ WESTERN ‘GAZETTEER ; OR,
/live upon frogs, water lizards, and mud worms, and are remarv
kable for thelength of-their intestines. _
; The Goutfre is the resident of the pine barrens: it lives
Principally under ground, except whenit Wants food and wa
ter, and is said to live upon vegetables. 1 The shell is about
1.5 feet long, and 12 inches wide. It is remarkable for its
strength, being able to move without much diﬁcultyhpon the ground, with a man standing upon its back. ilt digs a hole in
the ground, the direction of which is a depressed angle of 7
about thirty degrees and ten feet deep. In the bottom, a nest
of young rattle-snakes is often found in the early part of the
summer. The goutfre generally remains some time at the
entrance of its cave, before it ventures abroad; and on the
appearance of danger retreats. It resembles the logger-head
turtle, and brings forth its young in the same way. It shields
itself from danger by closing up its shell, and is rarely sect!
any distancetrom its den,
THE RANGE.
The pine country, which is about one halt‘ of the state, will
probably forever remain an excellent range for hogs, cattle and
horses ; but in the northern or best part of the country, when
thickly settled, enclosed pastures may become necessary.
The cane gives milk and butter a line ﬂavor and uncommon
richness. Horses, which feed on it do well, if salted frequent
ly--otherwise it is apt to scour them, especially, if not bred in
the country; besides the reed cane, the native or buffalo
clover and the rye grass enrich the range. The rye grass, e
when full grown, is from two to three feet tall—the head and
heard resemble the real rye : the native clover has a larger
leaf, and grows more luxuriantly than the common white
clover, Which it closely resembles in every thing but size;
the leaves are about as large as a shilling piece, and the blQﬂ'r
son] as large as that of red clover.
EMIGRAN T’s DIRECTORY. £31
A CONVENTION,
Is to meet at the town of Washington on the ﬁrst Monday
of July 1817, for the purpose of forming a constitution and
state government ; the delegates are to be elected in the sev
eral counties, in the following proportion, viz:
FROM THE coomv or
Warren, . . . . . 2 Rep.
Claiborne, . . . . 4 '
Jefferson, . ._ . . . 4
Adams, . . . . ' . 8
Franklin, . .| . . . 2
Wilkinson, . . . . . 6
Amite, . . . . . 6
Pike,'; . _ . . . . 4
Lawrence, . . . . . 2
Marion, . . . . 2
Hancock, . . . . . 2, 2} Wayne, . . . . 2 I
Greene, . . . . ' . . 2
Jackson, . . . . - . 2
Total, 48
TOPOGRAPHICAL. '
The parallel of 35 deg. of north latitude, Which is the di
viding line between the state of Tennessee, and this state,
crossesthe Mississippi, a little below the mouth of ‘Volt riv
er; one mile below which is fort Pickering, where there was
formerly a small garrison : there are about ’a dozen houses ; the
bank, which is called the llourth Chickasaw Bluffs, is from 60 to
100 feet high, sloping in places, but perpendicular ‘at the
points. ‘The inhabitants raise corn and cotton, the soil is
good, and this bluff from its elevated and airy situation, may
282 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; OR,
~\\
become the site of a handsome town. The period of the ex-_
istence of the future city must necessarily be remote, since‘
the Chickasaws, own the country immediately in the rear of
the, fort, and will not willingly dispose of the soil; as they have
a considerable town within ﬁve miles of the river, in an eas
tern direction. This bluﬁ‘ has a front of ten ‘miles on the riv
er, part in Tennessee, and part in the newly erected state.
Between this and the mouth of the Yazoo, are only a few de
tached settlements; the greater part of the way wilderness ;
the view up this river is about ﬁve miles. The 34th deg.
of latitude which crosses the Mississippi a few miles above
White river, entering from the west, appears to be the bound
ary of the alligator region; they are rarely seen north of the
entrance of, the Arkansas. The forests, the foliage and dra
pery of the trees, begin here to-present a new and interesting
aspect, and Nature attires herself in habiliments of richer
hues—the articles of her toilette and wardrobe, here become
more brilliant and diversiﬁed. The laurel magnolia, the pride
of southern forests, the stately cypress, unkown to the middle
states, raise their lofty heads, with proud preeminence above
their humble neighbors. The cane and cotton greatly in
crease in size, and vegetation every where acknowledges the
genial inﬂuence of a milder sun, as well as the boundless
fertility of the soil. The trees are curiously ornamented
and festooned with the Spanish beard, waving to the winds,
and the earth covered with impervious and wide-spreading
canebrakes. I
Ten miles below the mouth of Yazoo river, are the Wal
nut hills: the situation is pleasant, the land high, waving -and
fertile. Here are ﬁne cotton plantations, and the ruins of
Fort M‘Henry. Twenty-ﬁve miles below the Walnut hills,
is the settlement of Palmyra, settled by New Englanders;
and twenty-seven miles below this is Big Black river. There
are several settlements ,-on this river, extending forty mile:
up; -the inhabitants are subject to bilious complaints, owing
to the inundation: caused by the back current of the Missis
EMIGRANT-’s DIRECTORY. 233
sippi setting up twenty miles. Two miles further down is the
Grand Gulf, which excites great terror in the breasts of inex
' perienced boatmen, but is little regarded by old navigators;
it is nothing more than a large eddy, into which, if a boat be
drawn, it is very diﬁcult to regain the currentof the river.
Ten miles below is the mouth of bayou Pierre; the settle
ments bordering on this stream are rendered unhealthy by the
Mississippi’s daulming up its waters in times of ﬂoods. The
traveller here ﬁnds himself in the proper region of the paro
quets-indeed the woods appear alive with birds of various
sorts. Pigeons at certain seasons are seen in darkening clouds;
and wildturkies in frequent ﬂocks. iVater fowls are numer
ous in winter. About thirty miles upthis stream, by its wind
ings, is port Gibson, the chief town of Claiborne county; it'its'
a pretty thriving place, and contains about sixty houses; it
has an academy under good regulation; the country is hilly,
with rich plantations. Two miles below the mouth ofbnyou'
Pierre, is Bruinsburg, a hamlet of four or ﬁve houses. The
next object worthy of the traveller’s notice, is Cole’s creek;
this is a handsome, transparent sa'rtd_v bottomed stream, except‘
when disturbed by heavy rains, when it swells to a frightful
torrent; impassable, at times for several days. Fifteen miles
from the river it divides into the North and South Forks.
Between these branches‘ is the town of Greenville, the capital‘
of Jefferson county. It is very handsomely situated on a dry
sandy plain, on what is called the middle branch of Cole’s
creek, and consists of one wide straight street, half a mile
long, and intersected by two cross ones; the number ofbuild
ings is about 65 ; the surrounding country richand Well cul
tivated; roads bad, and travelling often interrupted by the
swelling of the several branches of Cole’s creek. It has a
_ court house, church, post-oﬂice, several stores and taverns.
‘Vater of a good quality is produced by digging about thirty
feet. A few miles S. \V. of Greenville is‘ the little village of
Uniontown, of half a dozen houses. A few miles further in
the direction of Natchez, is the village of Sulzerstewn, of [if
G s
234 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on‘,
teen or twenty houses. The country continues hilly, plan)’
tations large, and the produce chieﬂy cotton. Ten miles
below Cole’s creek, is Fairchild’s creek, a handsome stream;
subject to Sudtlen swells, and heading near Washington. Ten
miles further brings us to Nate/lea’, which is situated on
the east bank of the Mississippi, about 300 miles above New
Orleans, in lat. 31 33; The greater part of the town stands
on a bluff upwards of 150 feet above the surface of the river;
the intercourse between the hill and the bottom is carried
on over a dug way, rendered tolerably easy by its ‘length.
The houses have an air of neatness though few are distinguish
ed for elegance or size: To enable the inhabitants to enjoy
the evening air,~ almost every house has a piazza and balcony.
There is a considerable inequality in the surface of the hill,
which prevents handsome streets, and extensive views through
the surrounding country; The soil is rich; and vegetation of
most kinds attains to unco'mtnon luxuriance ; the gardens are
ornamented with orange trees, ﬁgs, plums, peaches, and grape!
vines. The number of houses is about 300 ; the inhabitants
are distinguished for their wealth, luxury and hospitality;
this remark is only applicable to the merchants and rich plan
ters ; for there are great numbers of poor dissipated wretches;
of all nations, and of all colors. The greater part of the busi
ness is transacted on the bottom, where there is a large eddy
Which enables boats to land‘ with safety and convenience.
Two weekly newspapers are published, and learning begins to
receive attentioh. Cotton is the grand staple of the Natchez
settlement ; the income of the ﬁrst planters is princely; from
5000 to 30,000 dollars per annum; some have as many as
300 acres in a single ﬁeld, solely devoted to cotton ; they com
mence planting it about ' the middle of February; corn is
planted from March to July, according to the convenience of
the cultivator. .The sugar cane is sometimes plantedas high
up as Natc_hez,but_ not with the same success as is experien
ced at Baton Rouge. There is no doubt, however, but that
it will eventually succeed ; at least to a degree equal to the
if
I
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ' 235
'demand for home consumption. Labor is almost exclusively
performed by slaves. A good negro, from 20 to 30 years
of age, will command from 800 to 1200 dollars. A prime
slave will attend about three acres of cotton, which will yield
an annual nett proﬁt of from 230 to 260 dollars; the clear
proﬁt of the full grown male slaves will average about 200
dollars, after deducting the expence of food and clothing.
Sea vessels come up the Mississippi as far as Natchez; but
the voyage is tedious and of late years not often attempted;
The market of Natchez is well supplied with ﬁsh ; most of the
ﬂour and grain is purchased from the Kentucky boats. The
eountryfor the space ot‘~ 20 miles in the rear of this town is
settled; but not thickly, by reason of the extensiveness of
the plantations, which generally contain from 400 to 1000,
and upwards of acres. Natchez is much resorted to by the /
Choctaw Indians, Whose possessions are within less than one
day’; ride to the east. Great numbers of squaws, boys and
girls, are employed by the planters to assist in gathering the l /
cotton crop. > Land is very high in the settlements along the
Mississippi fr0n_1 Yazoo river to the line of demarcation; say
from $40 to 50 for whole farms. ' 
From Natchez to the old \_Vest Florida line the.surface and '\
scenery remains unchanged, excepting the sugar plantations,
which begin to show themselves below the Homochitto. The
ﬁrst stream you pass, after leaving Natchez, is Cathe'rine’s
creek, about 40 yards wide, and boatable several miles dur
; ing high water. About 20 miles up this creek is situated the
town of Washington, which contains about 150 houses ; it is
at present the seat of government, has a jail, court house,
several stores, and taverns. One mile below Catherine’s
creek, are the White Cliffs, composed of white clay, and
strongly resembling chalk. Twenty-seven miles further is
the entrance of Homochitto, a beautiful little river 60 yards
wide, having its branches interwoven with those of the Amite.
This river may at present he considered as the northern
boundary of the sugar region, though it will probably arrive
286 WESTERN GAZETTEEE; OR,
to perfection as far north is the Arkansas. Most kinds bi‘
tropical fruits ﬂourish here, such as the sweet orange, guinea
corn, Indian kail, pomegranate, ginger, &c. The country is
settled on both sides the Homochit-to, nearly to the Choctaw
boundary. Six miles below the Homochitto is Butfalo creek,
a deep, still stream, about 40 yards wide and 30 miles long.
Two miles below this creel: are Loftus Heights, about 150 feet
above the level of the Mississippi; Fort Adams is situated
on this bluﬂ‘, and is now going to decay. There is a small vil
lage of 20 housesnear the fort ; but villages and towns do not
appear to ﬂourish in a country so exclusively devoted to the
culture of sugar and cotton. Five miles below is the line of
demarcation, run by Andrew Ellicott in 1796, as the boun
dary between the United States and West Florida, but at
present the limit between the new state and Louisiana, from
the Mississippi to Pearl river; it was out out 40 feet wide,
but is at present ﬁlled with brushwood and small trees.' Pinch
neyville, a village of 30 or 40 houses is situated about ten
miles from the river, on a sloping plain in the centre of a rich
settlement, and about one mile and a half from the line. The
country is thinly settled along the line to the Amite, and in
deed through to the Mobile. The town of Mobile stands
on the head of the bay and west of the river of -the same
name; in lat. 30 12 north; regularly laid out, of ah oblong
ﬁgure. In consequence of the marshes to the north-west of
the town, the inhabitants are sometimes visited with fevers
and agues. There are many ﬁne brick houses; the whole
- number of buildings are about three hundred; there are about
twenty stores. It has greatly improved since the beginning
of l8l6,—-six new dry goods stores, one hardware store, and
several lumber houses have been recently established; in
short, improvements of all kinds are going on with spirit, and
‘ its foreign trade fastincreasing. The inhabitants principally
consist of French, Spaniards, and Americans; towards the
lower end of the town stands Fort Charlotte, taken by Gen.
‘Vilkinson in 1812 ; it is a regular built fortress, with commo
EMIGftANT’s DIRECTORY. 231
amt barracks. The trade ofMobile is already considerable;
the chief articles of export are lumber, pitch and tar, fur,
cotton, beef and pork, rice and corn. Ascending the Mobile
the ﬁrst place is St. Stephens, which stands on the west side
of the Tombigbee, 80 miles above Mobile, and at the head of
sloop navigation; it contains about 250 houses, a printing
Moe, academy, and ﬁfteen stores; and is a thriving healthy
place, advantageously situated for trade. The valley or rath
er alluviou of the Mobile, is from ﬁve to ten miles wide, and
is cut into numerous islands by the several branches of the
river and the bayous, leading from one channel to the other;
these islands are from ﬁve to thirty-ﬁve miles in length, and
from one to ﬁve in width ; the soil is of the best quality, but
subject to be overﬂowed in spring and fall; they are best
adapted to the growth of rice and indigo. The sugar lands
are extensive, and are found equal, if not superior‘ to
those of the Mississippi. 7
Eighty miles above St. Stephens is the entrance of the
Black ‘Warrior, a ﬁne stream from the east;_ this is the largest
above the conﬂuence of the Alabama—it holds out to adven
turers very superior advantagcs; because it is destined to
become the channel of communication, between the immense
fertile country on both sides of the Tennessee river, and the
several sea ports which will at no remote period embellish the
bays of Mobile and Perdido. The fact appears clearly estab
lished, that goods can be brought from Europe, New-York,
, or even New-Orleans, to Huntsville in Tennessee, by way of
the Mobile, Tombigbee and Black Warrior, in about half the
time and for less risk and expence than by any other route,
hitherto used or known.
From Mobile to the falls of the Black Vi/arrior, is about
500 miles by water; boats that do not draw more than three
feetof water can ascend it thus far at all sea'sons ;and the port
age from the falls to the Tennessee river is about 40 miles.
Mr. James O. Crumb, an enterprising merchant of Hunts—
Ville, Ibelieve was the ﬁrst to make the important discovery
I |\
233, WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
/
that European goods could reach the Tennessee river, from
Mobile in thirty days, when it would require, 100 days by
ascending the Mississippi, to arrive at the Muscle Shoals.
An extract from Mr. Cr-umb’s letter will explain the facility
with which he executed his enterprize.
“ I left home about the ﬁrst of September for Mobile, and
on my way engaged with captain Bacon to take charge of my
boat, &c. which I procured at Mobile, drawing about two
feet water when loaded; at St. Stephens the cargo was com
pleted of some articlesthat could not be purchased below.
I accompaniedthe boat about eight miles, to see her safe over
1VIegrois Shoals, a place said to be dangerous in passing over
loaded boats ; there \was at that time aﬂood in the river, and
we had little or no diﬂiculty in getting through. Captain Ba.-.
co-n states that he was 20 days coming from Mobile to the
falls of Black Warrior, including ﬁve or six days of delay.
The impediments in the rivers are triﬂing .to such a boat as
mine, which is about 35 feet in length. The cargo consist
ing of brown and II-Iavanna white sugars, coffee, rum, wine,
oranges and a few dry goods, arrived at the falls in good or
der: two waggou loads of sugar, wine, coffee and oranges I
brought to Huntsville; and it is remarkable that out of one
thousand oranges not more than half a dozen spoiled. In
eight days the waggons reached this place from the falls of
Black Warrior, over a road three ﬁfths of which is level and
the balance not much broken; not more than three hills oﬁr
consequence are recollected, and a four horse team can easily \_4
draw two thousand weight up either of them. There has
been very little labor bestowed in cutting cut the road, and
I discovered that by turning it'a little from its windings, it
could greatly be improved ;_ the distance I suppose from
Huntsville to the falls of the Black ‘Warrior is about 120 ~
miles. It is evident the distance can be much shortened by
straightening the road.”
From Thompson’s creek, near Fort Deposit, to the highest _
navigable point of the Black Warrior is about forty miles;
-. ..~__
r<iM1si'1ANT’s DIRECTORY. ‘ sea
the last stream at this point is between 40 and 50 yards wide,
and not easily forded at a common pitch of water, and the
current very gentle. There are shoals below, for the dist
'auce of about 30 miles, but it is not rough water for more than
four miles, and there, boats have no diﬁiculty when there is a
moderate swell in this river. A road could easily be made
along the portage, capable of admitting waggonscarrying 3000
weight, as the intervening country is a ﬁrm level valleyof ex
cellent white oak and poplar, land well watered and capable
of sustaining a numerous population. ltis thought that a ca
nal uniting the Tennessee and the Tombigbee could be con
structed without meeting very formidable obstacles.
Veryimportant cessions were obtained from the Chero
kees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws, by the commissioners Jack
son, Meriwether, Coﬁ'ee and Rhea, in September last; the
whole together, contain about 13,000 square miles, or 8,320,.
000 acres, of land of the first quality, and delightfully situated
on both banks of the Tennessee above and below the Muscle
Shoals ; on Duck, Elk river, Buffalo, Beech, Caney and Bear
creeks, Blackwarrior, Natarchucky,Tombigbee, Cahaba, &c.
Thousands of adventurers in the southern states, Kentucky,
and Tennessee, have their eyes upon this favorite tract; the
Muscle Shoals may be considered as the focus of emigration,
for two or three seasons, in the course of which, every lot will
unquestionably be settled or at least purchased.
There is_at this moment a population of upwards of 15,000 '
> ’ souls in Madison county ; which six years ago was a bowling
wilderness. The new purchases will admit of at least six new
counties, as large-, and fertile as Madison.
The Muscle Shoals are about 100. miles south of Nashville;
a town will, in the course of the present year, be laid out near
them ; there is a good bluﬁ'for atown, and a large convenient
spring, on the south side of the river, three miles below the
shoals; and four miles below the shoals on the north side of
the river there is a good bluff for a town; with a large good
spring, called Sweet Water ;' but which of these places will ' e
240 WES’!/‘EiRN GAZETTEER; on,
5
have the most impoitiint town, may‘ depend on circumstances ._ . . n . that have not yet occurred. _ p l_ ‘
Madison coiiniy is'abont,20 miles square, and is reported to have “ produced ten thousand baleswof cotton for market
last year; and ifthe report is true, that that county nearly
doubled any county of its size‘ in the United States, in the
production of cotton, and if the late purchase in the Mississip
pi territory on both sides of the Tennessee, is six times as
large as Madison county, and was in an equal state of cotton
cultivation, then the produce of both together would be
‘seventy thousand bales of cotton, which is as much as ismanu
factured at all the manufacturing establishments in the United
States of America; which quantity of cotton, with the other
produce of that country, would support an extensive and brisk
trade at a town or towns near the lower end of the Muscle
Shoals, where there would be a double demand for cotton‘;
one for the upper country trade, for the settlements in the
middle and upper‘ parts of the Ohio country, as weli as for the
settlements on the upper Mississippi and Missouri; the other
at New-Orleans for exportation.”
Mr. Crumb, whom I have quoted in a preceding page, and
who is well acquainted with the country from Huntsville to
Mobile, represents the cotton of the Tombigbee, Cahaba and
Alabama to "be of a most extraordinary size and luxuriance :
" I cannot describe the cotton ﬁelds unless I compare them
toa neglected peach orchard with branches projecting from _
bottom to top, with a stem about the size ofa man’s wrist,
from eight to ten, elevenand twelve feet high.” ~T’lt‘e cotton
of East Tennessee, not adegree and a half northbt"t‘he shoals,‘
rarely grows to more than four feet in‘ height,‘wi'th':al feeble stem of about an inch diameter. _ U V
The Muscle Shoals are‘ about seyen, miles in lenigith,-' and
three broad; and full of islands. In low water they are se
rious obstructions to the navigation ot‘~*thel'-river.-~~-Theile
scentis gradual but rapid; the various channels ‘will afford
‘convenient situations for an almost indeﬁnite number of mills or
I
I
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 241
r
other hydraulic establishments. A good boatable channel
could be easily opened through the shoals, for a triﬂing ex-'
pence, considering the importance of the object. Boats of
thirty tons burthen, ascend and descend without risk, when
there is a moderate swell in the river.
/
EXTENT OF NA VIGABLE WA TERS.
Miles.
Mississippi navigable, . , . . . . 572
Tennessee, . . . . . . . 250
Yazoo and branches, . . . . . . 270
Big Black river, . . _, p , . . 150 Homochitto, Amite, &c. . , . I . . i ‘f 170
Pearl and branches, . . , . . . 220
Pascagola and do. \ . , . . . . 250
B-ayous of bays St. Louis, Biloxi, Pines, &c. . . 100
Gulfcoast, . . . . . . . 120
Tornbigbee and western branches, . . . 600
Total 2902
NA VIGA BLE WA TERS,
(on THE A_nasama TERRITORL‘)
 
Miles.
‘ V Tombigbee and eastern branches, _,0 Tensaw, Mobile, Fish river, &c. i ' I J
Alabama and branches, including
Cahaba, Coosa, Tallapoosa, Kio- % . . 809
wee, &c. ' ’ - 
Perdido, Conecah, Escambia, Yel- 2
low-water, Choctaw and Pea 370
rivers, and Gulf coast, S
Ch-.itahouchee and western branches, . . - . 5.50
2/1.2!’)
H. h
‘ 242 WESTERN GAZETTEEB; QR,
'r'- 1 _ §'__._‘ ' 1 . w \ H‘ '. II t ' J1: 9 4'. . 1} {int lf\':}‘ ‘if ’ , ‘ ! . 2".‘
' " £'£jm!\lI!:)!=.x 'hlh I-H _ m1\-m'| ‘ ' f"»11:5 ‘ ' 1
Then; §s"o'n15y thiﬁee trib'es residbnt‘-Yin‘the Mestern ‘part of#
the la1e5Missivsippi Térrit0ry>;"‘tHe1'Chickasaws, Cherokees ‘
and (3h6etaw's~.'-' '“The”Ghickasaws have iibout 1800 warriors;
and 4000~lw,pnié||am| children‘;-they 6Wn séveral miﬂions of
acres of émllgnt kind,‘ betwéen 36 aIi(f'34 nobthi lat-. and the "
Tennesséé iaﬁd‘ Mfsiris'sip’pi‘ l‘i*'Vei‘s;* besidéb fémr resérvatibhé‘
frbﬁiﬂlé -‘toffﬂlii ﬁiiléé squavé i-1hes‘e IndiWn§Q1:iVe Hiways beem, thGFW£‘MiIffiéhGE‘of‘='QhB' IJ‘Inited*>Siate's,“’and‘ distinguished £061
tiiéit hospmmiy: H-“lsﬁniéliéfﬂ-£li'e‘ﬂliidkiéiawéhiefs possesé nu-“'
méé6aa nhgrhi slavéiiﬂiﬁd-‘1ﬁUﬂb9ll)ﬁ§s61|* éévﬁat ﬁuxidn‘_é8= camé? f
mid ‘hagkpi-i§q?he‘-ﬂdlbmt fami1y’swdmdmt o5:i1:Ia‘n€~,' Georige Clﬂbé&‘Ui§Qh%“'pP§'p!i€€or ofﬂie ﬁhryi When; t}l€f"!'dlid’?'ﬁ'bm'- X
N4i§IWiﬂé&iJ Nk%uBé£'w1e:qenlia‘!Benneséeé rivjé~‘;"i't is Mafth >
mhnnoeisulan Mm a':y'é'§a€;> um whakge’ is ﬁr£y'cems~a>n1»‘
fobtiiia‘ﬁ,'1ai11i§>6i‘é0&sllaY!i$raPn1aﬁ’£§nd‘ hors‘<§--Pthév travel-is M-= .
raid}? gt§‘at;ia§%1btheEbpa1me11¥w!ib*di§!lcend ﬂab =M~issh;sip%pP
t<f‘Ne0'¢-'Uﬁ%H’n%;"1'€tii¥uf‘byBI¥nd‘itb¥bugh?'tiIé" ctidmw‘ imdéi
/Chﬁkhgéﬁﬁﬁﬂthsmpaié a|ld§ai'utwhis1’e<rry.~' Colbarlih-&'a‘ﬁhé1 "
WW lﬁaigllimuvimhemqéhrbgiundnés ia(;sarid_'t&id$ his bit?
agéihélOtlﬁﬂ§f1iil%d£SH$t§§1ﬁ6i ptovisimm,1hn"1§es', f€i1;?ag‘b';&c"
fum‘i§hHd?tIi§ﬁi§1g‘fhHfW?§i,W(Vt1kéWéﬁﬁekﬁédmilitia, W55 '1-5,1i000\
dohailisig-'6?!1hdi‘§§7Ck3§:AlJv?§‘51*oiiﬂUi’1i{1Wi§li€¢ townsfv like
tlmiﬁ'bei'ghiid1¥;1sr¢ﬂé*uns'Ldzéﬁ8ly aiﬁvilizédi ' ~ f‘-'Y ' '
£!I‘lia‘*Ch'8t§3k9éB)§reiaﬁp0WBtfiil mﬂioh“; bwvhgfa>popuIatimi' ‘
ofPfM,‘60(lI86ﬂIb,95¥_u1?4i)(}0“W$i§rh9hKI“"?PHéy'atilfbwugﬁﬁ ex-5 ‘
tezﬂﬁvei ii{sdrh;t,‘1b!xieﬂy"dﬁ ahe "-*sc\11th' éide'of1mT'ebn'e@seé‘ '
ri¢eF;il5é‘€he1Uiht"§fih€JGh¥bkaswW* boisessféils, ébd‘ Extmidhig
froﬂMh@1hé:td§:Br3ﬁ€hHs~6l'~tE&iTonﬁiigbeélibébbve thé _HiWas
seB*€b§|$;IiiIf(!1§b0liﬁ ¢iS9fé!§‘i§§1@T[eITE8f'éna1i!?ﬁ‘ The 'M'l"owing "
exiriﬁcm,‘ lmhi £kew]m’n;~pf@Rmi1m:*h Maigs,-126114 M18 han
long?q§ésided&zv'th61ha1i(§ir"as‘ 1i|dii1>n<hgem,wirl best-‘i¥h‘:Stra'1;e="
thévklcha§acwiiand"j1|iénntliaiuitsziﬂ QBW -3%‘?-\' "- _, '-"-"W :@‘~li|¥:h'é3-3{e4%11®09,'lﬁhud aldej1‘sQ'rs“ ldlien (if the number of
the Cherokee nation, which amounted to 12,359. The num
1 EM[GRANT’s '1)rnEc"ro’ii,r’.‘ =" 24::
ber of males and females were nearly equal—they have. con
siderably increased since that period, so that including a colo
ny of Gherokees .that,.wenti >to.settle'1ou-the river Arkansas,
their number is about 14,500 -souls—.-th_(>se_‘..Luzht) emigrated
to "Arkansas, as well _as..;.those1 -on their: ancient grounds,
have made considerable advances , ill, acquiring the use—-.
ful-arts, particularly ;tn the !]ﬂl1Ufﬂ£1Hf€.lQf£0j|ZiOl1 and woolen
,cloth. They raise the c0tt0B» and thgdying their
yarns they are good weavers, and base at this timeeupsisrds-.i
of .500 -. looms: most of the leotns Safe M1561-b:Y>a3h8ltt$¢~lVﬂl\;: .
they have more than..500.plough$—etlti$,greatly',inci'eesed them~
tillage oftheir lands;they haverlargefastoqks 0f~hls_clr: “hue!
and horses, swine and some sheep.;.'the}r;l1avs:d0meSl36&ted
poultry in plenty 1;. and having now an abundsuce of the ne
cessaries of life, their population _pr0p9!‘.iiQn5~blY iﬂcteﬂﬁﬁis
By nieans of some schools, many of their; YDQBE people read
and write. -I A great part of themeu have asloptedourtmodese
of dress; and the females withoutexcept_iou_~dressr_.in;me2 hab.~~
its of the white people.‘ Some of them,,whoare,.srealthy,,,areﬁ§.
richly dressed. They are remarkably c.l,e_an and neatin, their
per-sons: this may be accounted for by,their universal PPﬂ9.~i*
ticeof bathing in their nmmrous transparent/sﬂreams. of wa-,1
ter which in almost every direction rlmtthronghcthsqin country.
Men, won and children practise bathing. Which undoubted-;_.
ly contributes to their health. "A.li.tJBl3.$'V:.ll13s'.ﬂIIf.l hl1i$_i_$9ftl§Il*
0Rgreat convenience, as no river ca_n;imped6githQil':,Way in '- V travelling. 1 When the females hathe,,they at-einever ‘expos
ed_: any improper conduct towards them Wonldhe hetd in de-»
testation, by alh 'Siuce..I have been ﬁrst" in that nation,‘ a 
. yomigwhitze man solicited the vhandnofxa young Cherokee wo—
m,an.,—.-1 She refused his offer, audobjected; as aprincipal rea
son,‘ that he was not clean-in lﬁs appearance, that he did
nqhes the Cherokees _do.-,y-bathsrlrimselftiuthe.rivers. Ablu- .--' '
tion with these people was formerly arel-igious rite. it is not:
IIQW Viﬂwﬂd by th¢Hit>it1: $hiS.,lig;hh; but“, is nearly -allied to a
moral ‘virtue. -' ' <.3.}.. '
244 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
“ I have not been an inattentive spectator 'ing~view~ing these
people in various situations ; in their forests, in their houses,
in their schools, and in their public councils. The progress
of their children in their schools has been as great as that of
any other children, in acquiring the knowledge of letters and
of ﬁgures. Nature has given them the ﬁnest forms; and can
we presume that God has Withheld from them correspondent
intellectual and mental powers of mind. No man who has
had public business to transact with them, can have a doubt
of the capacity of their minds. Their hospitality iutheir
houses is every where acknowledged; their bravery in the
ﬁeld is also acknowledged by those who acted with them in
the late war against the hostile Creeks. Ifa statuary should _
want models for the human ﬁgure, he will ﬁnd the most per
‘ feet amongst the southern Indian tribes south of the Ohio riv
er. About one half of the ﬂherolree nati=>n are of mixed
blood by iutermarriages with the white people. Many of
these are as white as any of our citizens. There are some
of the aboriginal Cher‘-okees, who have never used any par
ticular care to guard their faces from the action of the sun
who have good complexions. I havetrequently attended at
the schools for the instruction of the Indian children; seen
them by classes go through their exercises; On these occa
' sions I have seen tears of joy steal down the cheeks of be
nevolent men-—men who rejoice at the diffusion of knowledge
‘ amongst this long-Jost part ofthe humim race. The Cher-o~
5 kees universally believe in the being of God; they call him
the GreatSpirit; they mention him with reverence; with
_ them, his attributes are power and goodness. They never
profane the nameof God in their own language. They have
no series of words that they can combine to profane the name
‘ of God.
“The Choctaws are still more numerous than the Cherokees-,
their lands are situated between the Yazoo and Tombigbee,
and the parallels 34 and 3] north. They reside on the
Chickasaka, Yazco, Pascagola and Pearl rivers; they are
EMlGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 245
friendly to white travellers for whose accommodation, "hile '
sojourning in their nation, they have establisheda number
of public inns, which for neatness, accommodations and mod
eration of charges, actually excel many white taverns in the
northern states. A considerable part of their land; are piste
timbered; but much of it rich waving, hichorv and p~;:tar
land» Some of them have large farms, in a goodsstatv ;ot‘
culture, and many of them spend much of their timesiltogri-I
eultural improvements. Many years agoithey hadrtbtly-three
. towns and villages, centainingi 4,041 warriors, and 12,123
souls. Since that tiu1e.thsy have no_daubt;<‘ouiiderab.ly in
\. eroasedin~numbers.”,.‘ ~ 1
‘Km ' ' 1. .; . i" c‘1:vsI.~. .
‘POPULATION. ‘_
The white population of the proposed state’ amounted in
December, 1816, to 23,644 souls, dktrilsntod through the
several counties as follows, viz: \ r-~.=‘."s. . '- u. l ._ .-'1-M
Counties. -, lWhites- ., ,,,_5l§Yﬂ,~ ,1 .;._,_;Tutal.
Adams, . . . I,‘-A 3,6018-‘_ _ . ..5_1,9;,9.98
J Jeﬁ-'er.§°n’ ' i ‘* - ‘ '..2.!d4-§'-'t..Jo g!":°‘5.8J'-.'-... 4*‘:-O6
Clalbomei . lt'_,;?116 ‘ ‘ 111.; 34505
Wilkinson, . . _ ,. 3,2,1} L m?,275
0 I I
.,.iu 3 4
1
.Amit‘6, - 1 : ,,.~ '1 3)3§é..,=. ;':31,_‘l’§§ih~\ ; »a'§*p59
\ “Tarren, ~ - ; P .t --.199. =. --:_z,~§~8‘ . -..“.1*:.569
Fliiinklins w 1:. ‘P - 1 ' ,;..-331,191.; 1;. .2r?08 ,Mariou...\. - _..1.015...,..,;.r0l
Rik?’ . - : - ' .2107? ;Ji'.ii-54‘.)‘:': I 2-$618
-Hancock, 0" s .661»; .';3§t3:,,.1.1,00°
Iawrence, ~ ‘ ~' ».1s361~',.,,_-.;.41§7.. .-;.,..:_h7-84
Wayne, 1 . ' '. ' ' ' -‘.i)'t0' ': ’:.2!-084
.Total, 23,644 .,- =;_,20,54Z-.1 44,208
‘There are besides 191 free blacks, _'.the,,greatem .port) of
whom reside in Adams county. , H I , ,-.,,...,._,, T
 :,_ ? t.::~_“ at
NORTH-WESTERN Tsnnrronv,
Is situated between 41 50, and 49 N._lat. and 8 20 and 18
30 west longitude ; and bounded south the parallel of the ‘
south end of lake Michigan, (in N. lat. 41, 50) which divides
it from the lllinois Territory; west by the Mississippi river,
which separates it from the Missouri Territory; north by
the straits of St. Mary, lake Superior and a part of Upper
Canada; east by lakes Huron, Michigan, and Green bay.=ts
RIVERS.
The rivers of this territory have three dilferent directions;
a part run northwardly into lake Superior: others w:estWar(l
ly into the Mississippi; some eastwardly into lake Michigan
and the Illinois. V ‘ ' - '
The following streams water the eastern side of the territo
ry, and fall into the Illinois, lake Michigan, Greenl haf
. lake Huron. F-ox river which heads in the south-eastern corIi'erUiof the
1
territory, is noticed in page 22. ‘ '-‘ i_
Plein river, or Des Planes, enters the Illinois 55 miles south
of the Qhicagoportage. ( Acconling to Major Long, Topo
I
' rising in. the low lands’ l)ord¢:_‘riiig“upon the westpsiiie of lake
Michigan, a'i1d‘hiis'its‘geii}éral eourse iii 5 sou'th-we(sterl'y‘ iii-'
, ~ .' 4‘ ~ -Lu“ ,' '.‘ ., i ,~ ‘ . ' Nye‘- 1v rectmn. The valley of this TIVCI‘ has an ayera e mdth of
about one mile, and is teriiiiiiateil, on hoth skies,“ 1'
.'ll .: I 1'.-' 3. 1‘ 53 "I '31u‘.1~
'./8km:-lg] it hereafterbe r_Ol]DdUﬂl3('.,“IG lpellﬂ Of Greqmb 3' of the southern extremity of lake Michigmhen. acimrding tzyihf onn‘ aﬁeﬁ
the Michigan 'l‘errit_ory, as deﬁned hyMm.tha11il‘,qI!!it9rg witl‘ include the penin
sulas formed by parts of lakes Superior. Huron, and Michigan, Green and Noqmt
bays, and the river Maaistiqug ‘orerwbielithe Micliigae Teriitoriitl'jurisdiction
at present extends.
I
graphical Engineer in the U.'yS,"sel'r§'ice, it is a “ sinall stream 4
l
y ‘regular
 
-EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ' 247: '
banks, nearly parallel to each other, extending along the riv
er about thirty miles from the head of the Illinois. In ascend
ing this river, also, the banks or bluff? gradually decrease in
height, being, as before mentioned, about one hundred feet
high at the mouth, and only twenty or twenty-ﬁve at the dis tance of thirty mileslhigher up the river, where, instead of
maintaining their parallel direction, they form nearly right an
gles with the course of the river—that on the right taking an
easterly, and that on the left a north-westerly course; but
being gradually inﬂected from these courses, they form an
extensive curve, encircling a large tract of flat prairie, in no
part elevated more than twelve or fourteen’ feet above the 
common level of the water in this vicinity. The river
throughout the above mentioned distance has four or ﬁve short
rapids or ripples, that make their appearance only in times
of very low water. In every other part it has the appear
ance of being a chain of stagnant pools and small lakes, aﬂbrd
ing a sufﬁcient depth of water for boats of moderate draught Ascending theilllinois about 70 miles further, we arrive at
the mouth of t'he'Depage; this stream closely resembles the
Plein in the height of its bluffs, width of its valley, soil. and
"timber." 'It_takes its rise a few miles west of the Plein, ‘and
has":i ('::li:di'sé'iiearly parallel with it. ' s
“ Chicago river,” says Mr. Long, in his report to the act
ing Secretary of War, “is merely an arm of the lake dividing
itself into two branches at the distance of one mile inland
from its commun-ication‘wi>tli tlfe lake. The‘ north branch extends along the westerlyjisideiiof the laloe about 30 miles,i
and reeeives some few tributaries.’ The south branch has a)‘; 4 3 i i ‘_ , i '1 . " 
an extent of only ﬁve or six rmles, and receives no supphes
except from the small lake of the prairie above described.— '
The river and each of itsbranches, are of"various width's,'
from ﬁfteen to ﬁfty yards, and for two or three‘ miles inland,
have a suﬂicient depth‘ of ‘ water to admit vessels of almost
any burthen. The entrance into Lake Michigan, however, which is eighty yards vrviitle, is obstructed by‘ a sand-bar
4
-‘L’
24.: , WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
about seventy yards broad; upon the highest parts of Which
the water is usually no more than two feet deep. The dith
culty of removing this obstruction, would not be great.-—
Piers might be sunk on both sides of the entrance, and the
sand removed from between them. By this means, the river
would berendered a safe and commodious harbor . f0r_ship
ping : a convenience which is seldom to be met with on the
shores of Lake Michigan.
“ The water course, which is already opened between the
river Des Planes and. Chicago river, needs but little more
excavation to render it suﬁic-iently capacious for all the pur.
poses of a canal. It may be supplied with water at all times
of the year, by constructing a dam of moderate height across
the Des Planes, which would give the water of that river a
sutﬁcient elevation to supply a canal extending from one river
to the other. It would be necessary, also, to construct looks
at the extremities of the canal; that communicating with
Chicago river being calculated to elevate about six feet, and
that communicating with the Des Planes about four feet.
“ To render the Des Planes and Illinois navigable for small
boats and ﬂats, requiring but a small draught of water, nothing
more is necessary than the construction of sluices of a width \
sufﬁcient to admit the boa_ts to pass through them. This may
be effected by clearing away the loose stones from the bot
tom, and forming banks erected with stone, two or three feet
high, on each side of the sluice. There are but few places,
however, where works of this kind would be necessary: the
extent of the whole probably would not exceed two miles.-—
Thus a water communication between the lllinois and Lake
Michigan may be kept open at all times, suﬁicient to answer
all the purposes for which a canal will be wanted for many
years to come” '
Between Chicago and the entrance of GreenBay, the fol
lowing rivers empty into Lake Michigan from the west, in the
order named, viz. Tauahan, W’-akayah, Masquedon, Cedar,
Roaring, Milwakee, Saukie, Skabayagan, Maurice, and
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 249?
Iéourche. These streams have all an easterncourse, running
‘generally parallel with each other at the distance of from ten
to twenty miles, and heading ti-om thirty to sixty miles from
the lake. Roaring river, so called from a F‘ rumbling noise}
like distant thunder, which is heard every two or-tb.r_ee=days
during the warm season, occasioned, it is thought, by the vast
quantities of copper, which attract the electric ﬂuid to that
place.”*= The Indians, in consequence approach this river,
with religious awe, as the residence of the Great Spirit. The
banks of this river are high near its mouth,_ Where the earth
appears to have been rent asunder by some great concussion;
The lndians never eat the ﬁsh of this river, as they are of a
poisonous nature, the water being strongly impregnated with
copper.‘
Green bay is about 120 miles in length, and from six to
thirty wide, extending north and south parallel with lake
Michigan, at the distance of from twenty to forty miles, ac
cording to the indentions and projections of their shores.
It receives several rivers, the principal of which, are Fox
,7 .river, which interlocks with the Ouisconsin, and falls into the
‘ south end of the bay. Twenty miles north of the mouth 0?
! Fox river is asmall stream called Riviere Rouge. North of
this are Gaspard, and ll/lenomonie rivers; the last interlocks by
,1 a short' portage with the Rufus branch of the Chippawa, run ning into the lvlissisisippi atthe lower end of lake Pepin. San
dy riverifalls ii1to’N “ i1et’s'bay, by Which‘ name the north end
of Green bay is nltiialyttilesignated. , , ‘
Between the De‘toi1'l‘,'or entrance of the bay and Michili- '
mackinac, are the rivers Manistique and Mino Cockien: -the 1-'i \ first falls into lake Michigan thirty miles north of the month
of the bay; ‘it is_ a large river: it takes its rise from a large
lake, and nearly communicates with lake Superior; itsbanks 1
g are high: and sandy, and abound with pine timber. The Mi»
Ind Cocltien is also a large and deep stream, heads near lake
Su'p'e"i-ior and ﬂows into lake-Michigan about thirty-ﬁve miles
 
* Gen. Hull.“ _ ‘ s I I I
250 WESTERN GAZETTEER; oii,
south-west of Michilimaekinac. Between Michilimackinatﬁ
and the strait of St. Mary, the rivers Bonchitaouy and St.
Ignace empty into lake Huron.
The strait or river St. Mary connecting lakes Superior and
Huron, is about ﬁfty miles in length; and is divided into sev
eral channels, Which form a variety of islands; The largest
of which is St. Josephs, 75 miles in circumference. Nibish
island intervenes between St. Josephs and the western shore.
Sugar island is long and narrow, bending towards the north in
form of a crescent, and causing an enlargement of the waters
between it and the continental coast. Thi is called lake
George. Ships of great burthen' can approach to the sault or
rapides. The rivers Minaston, Miscoutinsaki and Great
Bouchitaouy falls into this strait from the south; the last in-'
terlocks with branches of the Manistique.
That part of the territory stretching along thesouthcrn
borders of lake Superior, is well watered by about thirty riv- V
ers; the principal of which, commencing at the east ehd of
the lake, are Grande Marais, Corn, Dead, Carp, Great and
Little Garlic, and Porcupine rivers, all of which fall in
east of the Great peninsula of Shagomig'on, which projects in
to the lake upwards of sixty miles; between this peninsula,
(which is 370 miles west of Sault de Marie) and the Fond du
Lac, are the rivers, Outonagori, Fair, Montreal, Bad, Burnt
wood, Goddard’s, and Strawberry rivers. The river St.
I
Y ' Louis, falls into West Bay, at Fond du Lac; it is large, and
navigable one hundred and ﬁfty miles, and heads near the
eastern head branches of the Mississippi. The North-‘Vest
Company have several trading houses established at its mouth
and on its banks towards its source.
A prodigious number of streams pay their tribute to the
Mississippi, from the east, between its source and Rocky
river, which discharges its waters in the lllinois Territory.
Le Croix and Deer rivers, the extent of whose navigation
is unknown, and whose branches are interwoven with those of
the St. Louis, enter the Mississippi below the forks of that
river.
\
I
I EMIGI-RAN-'1‘#s1D.IREG'J!0RY. .251
Meadow river, falls into the Mississippi three niiles below
the Falls of, Packagamau, (in N. lat. 46 20) -‘bears N. E.,and
is navigable for Indianc-anoes one hundred miles, winding
through prairies, with pine and spruce swamps in their rear.
Below this is Swan riv-er, bears east from the Mississippi,
and is navigablefor canoes ninetymiles, to Swan lake.
Sandy Lake river, is forty miles below Swan river; it is
large, but short, connecting the lake of the same name with
the Mississippi by a strait only six miles in length. This
lake is aboutftwenty-ﬁve miles in circumference, and receives
a number of small rivers, the most important of which is _Sa
vanna river, which by a portage of about four miles, commu
nicates with the river St. Louis, emptying into Lake Superi~
orat the Fond du Lac, and is the channel by which the N.
VV. Company convey their goods. '
Muddy river, twenty yards wide, falls into the Mississippi
about twenty miles below Sandy lake outlet. The next
stream is Red Cedar river, issuing from the lake of the same name, and is nearly equidistant between the river De Cor- I
beau from the west and Sandy Lake river. Between this
and the Falls of St. Anthony, are Shrub-Oak, Lake, Clear,
Elk, St. Francis, and Rum rivers, all emptying in from the
east. Clear river is a beautiful little stream of about eighty
yards in width, and heads in swamps and rice-lakes towards
Lake Superior. Bum river is about ﬁfty yards wide, and
heads in Le Mille Lac, which is thirty-ﬁve miles south of
__Lower Red Cedar lake. Indian canoes ascend quite to the
lake, around which is the best hunting ground for a space of‘
tseveralihundred miles-.
St.‘Croix river joins the.Mississippi several miles below
the falls of St. Anthony; it is 80 yards wide at its mouth, .
500 yards from which commences Lake St. Croix, two on
-three. miles wide, and thirty-six long. This river communi
cates with Burnt-wood river, ‘-‘by a portage of half a mile
only, and in its whole extent has not one full or rapid won-‘
thy of notice.”T This, with the milduess of its current and
 
1- Pike.
252 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
its other advantages, render it by far the most preferable com‘
munication which can be had with Lake Superior, from the
‘waters of the Mississippi.
Riviere de la Montaigne, and another small river, fall into'
the upper end of Lake Pepin,
Chippeway, or Sauteaux river, enters the Mississippi at 
“the lower end of Lake Pepin. It is a deep, wide, majestic
stream, interlocking with the Montreal, ﬂowing into Lake Su~
perior, and with the Menomonie running into Green Bay.
E Its branches are numerous; the most considerable of which
are Rufus, Vermillion, and Copper rivers. It divides into
the east and north branches about thirty miles from its con
’ ﬁuence with the Mississippi.
Between Lake Pepin and .the Ouisconsin. the Butfaloe,
Black, and -Prairie Le Croix rivers, enter the Mississippi
from the east and north-east. Black river is about two hund
red yards wide, heads near Fox river of Lake Michigan, and
‘pursues a course nearly parallel with the Guisconsin. ,
The Ouisconsinjoins the Mississippi at Prairie,Des Chiens,
- where it is about half a mile wide. It heads east of the
‘sources of Fox river, and is the grand channel of communi
cation betweeu Prairies Des Chiens and Michilimackinac.
Rocky river takes its source near Green Ba)/of Lake ‘Mi
chigan, more than 450 miles from its mouth, and is navigable‘
upwards of 300 miles. It ‘runs across the N. W. corner of
the Illinois Territory, and enters the Mississippi two hund
red and ten miles below Prairie Des Chiens, and three hund-_ red and ninety above St. Louis, I
The interior of this Territory, is watered by innumerable
small lakes and ponds’, from which issue the head branches of
7 all the principal rivers. These lakes generally abound with
/ ‘ folle avoine, water fowls and tish—each in such prodigious
/
. ,1 ‘ ' quantities, that the Indians are in a manner exempted from
: the contingence of famine,
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ' 253
SOIL, SURFACE, TIMBER.
The alluvial bottoms are as rich as those of Ohio and Mi
chigan, as is proved by the excellence of the corn crops at
Green Bay, Prairie Des Chiens, and even on the banks of
the Ontonagon, on the southern shore of Lake Superior.
The uplands and prairies south of the parallel of St. Anthm
ny’s falls, are generally good, interspersed, however, with
tracts of wet land, rocky prairies, and shrub-oak ridges, and
extensivestrips of alight, sandy soil, only suitable for the
culture of barley and the smaller grains. High, bald hills
present themselves, in places, along the banks of Rocky riv
er and the Ouisconsin.
Lieut. Pike, in ascending to the source of the Mississippi,
found a gradual deterioration of soil and climate from the falls
of St. Anthony, as he proceeded northwardly. The pine,
or ﬁr region, may be said to commence at the falls; “ but
there are some exceptions, where you meet with - small bot
toms of oak, ash, maple, and lynn :” the woods, however, are
full of elk, deer and bu_ﬁ'aloe, as far up an the river De Cor
beau, (in lat. 45 50.) From thence to Pine river, the shores
of the Mississippi in general “ presented a dreary prospect of
high, barren knobs, covered with dead and fallen pine timber.
To this there were some exceptionsot‘ ridges of yellow and
pitch pine; also some small bottoms of lynn, elm, oak, and
ash. The adjacent country is\(at least two-thirds) covered
with small lakes, some of which are three miles in circumfer
ence. This renders the communication impassable in sum
mer, except with small bark canoes.”1- Above Pine river,
he saw but few situations ﬁt for cultivation, game scarce, and
the country a succession of pine and hemlock ridges, with
here and there a prairie, and small bottoms of elm, beech and
basswood. Finally, from Leech Lake, upwards, to the ex
treme sources of the Mississippi, “ the whole fate of the
A 1‘ Pike.
 
I
up .
254 WESTERN GAZETTEEB; -OR,
country has the appearance of an impenetrable morass or
boundless savanna.”
‘ Within a circle of country, of less, perhaps, than ﬁfty
miles diameter, rise the sources of three immense rivers, viz.
-the Mississippi, the St. Lawrence, and Red river of Hudson
bay--all running in different directions, and discharging their
watersinte three distinct seas. This circumstance clearly
.proves this-tract, wet and-swampy as it is, to be the most
elevated land on the continent of North America. The riv,
-er St. Louis of Lake Superior, may be considered as the
head branch of the St. Lawrence.
The dividing ridges, between the Mississippi and Lake Su
.perior, Which in some maps are erroneously represented as
mountains, arechieﬂy covered with forests of pine, spruce,
and hemlock, giving to the country a cold and dreary aspect,
Towards the shores of Lake Superior, the country improves
in fertility and appearance, and affords, in places,.rich bottom
and npland—-whose forests, in time, will no doubt resound
with the noise and bustle of a “ Yankee” colony.
From the Fond du Lac to Point Shagomigon, the banks
of the lake are in general of strong clay, mixed with ‘stones,
which render the navigation irksome and dangerous. FromL 3 this point, or rather peninsula, to the outlet of the lake, the
shore is almost one continued straight line of sandy beach, in
terspersed with rocky preeipicesof limestone, from twenty
.to an hundred feet high, without a single bay, and but few
good harbors: timber, oak, sugar-maple, pine-fuplands of a
sandy soil— bottoms rich. 
The country on the southern shore of the strait St. Marie,
Will admit of extensive settlements ; the easternmost channel,
called Mjscoutinsaki, has a rapid, Well adapted for mill-seats.
The lands on the southern shore of the river of the
same name, are excellent; prairies on itsmargin, and at
-a short distance back are groves of sugar-maple, in which the
Chippeway Indians have numerous sugar-camps. From the
the Sault de St. Marie, to this river, is almost one continued '
, meadow.
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 255
. contain.
The North W'est Conrpany’s factory, is at the foot of the
rapids on the British side of the strait. The whole establish
ment consists of store-houses, a saw-mill, which supplies lum
ber for all their posts on Lake Superior, a batteau-yard, stock
ade and garden. Nine miles above, at Pine Point, is a dock
yard for constructing vessels, where reside a ship-carpenter
and several artiﬁcers. At the factory there is a canal, with a
lock at its lower entrance, and a causeway for dragging up
thebatteaux and canoes, and a good road for the transporta~
tion of merchandize. ‘
FISH.
.An‘abundance of white-ﬁsh, are at all times to be found
on the rapids. Henry, who spent several winters at the
Sault, subsisted almost wholly upon them.
“ The method of taking them is this : each canoe carries
two men, one of whom steers with a paddle, and the other is
provided with a pole, ten feet in length, and at the end of
Which is aﬂixed a scoop-net. The steersman sets the canoe
from the eddy of one rock to that of another; while the tish- ;
erman, in the prow, who sees, through the pellucid element,
the prey of which he is in pursuit, dips his net, and some-i
times brings up, at every succeeding dip, as many as it can
live hundred in two hours.” He caught ﬁve hundred, with
his own hands, in the course of a ‘few days, weighing from
four to six pounds, and of a very superior ﬂavor.
various species, but particularly white-ﬁsh, crowd up to the
foot of the rapids in such amazing shoals that many thou
sands of inhabitants could be supplied throughout the year.
In the river Ontonagan, at the rapids, three leagues from the
lake, where he wintered in 1765, he atﬁrms that sturgeon are
so abundant, that a month’s subsistence for a regiment, couid
have been taken in a few hours. “Tith the assistance of his
Fish of l
' i
-_--._
.¢
._
.
The ﬁsh are often crowded together in the water ’
-in great numbers ; and a skilful ﬁsherman, in autumn, will take
/
256 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
men, he soon caught two thousand trout and white-ﬁsh, the‘
former averaging about ﬁfty pounds each.
The three great lakes,‘ Superior, Huron, Michigan, and
Green Bay, in short all their tributary rivers, afford bound‘
less supplies of sturgeon, carp, trout, black bass, &c.
> MINERALS.‘
Dubuque’s lead-mines, situated between the Ouisconsid
and Rocky rivers, and approaching to within ﬁve or six miles
of the Mississippi, are between twenty-seven and twenty
eight leagues long, and from one to three broad. Mr. Du‘
buque’s claim to these mines is supposed to be spurious, in
which case they become the property of the United States.
At present they yield from 20 to 40,000 pounds of lead a
year; and are deemed equally inexhaustible as those of the
Maremeg, near St. Genevieve.
Very specious accounts have been published, respecting»
the abundance of copper ore, to be found in various parts of
this Territory. Carver states, that he discovered sever'ali
mines of virgin copper, on both sides of the St. Croix, which
was as pure as that found in any other country. This wri
ter was of the opinion that this mineral would become an im
portant article of commerce ; “as the metal which costs no
thing on the spot, and requires but little expence to get it on '
board, could be conveyed in boats and ships to Quebec.-—
The cheapness and ease with which any quantity of it may
be procured, will make up for the length of way that is ne
cessary to transportit, before it reaches the sea coast; and
enable the proprietors to send it to foreign markets on as good»
terms as it can be exported from other countries.” .
Alexander Henry, Esq. in speaking of the Ontonagrm-,
states, that he found that river “ chieﬂy remarkable for the
abundance of virgin copper, which is on its banks and in its
neighborhood. The copper presented itself to the eye in
masses of various dimensions. The Indians showed him one
\
';aMleRiN'r"¢ DIRECTORY. an
twenty pounds weight. They were used to manufacture
this metal iptp and bracelets for ‘themselves. In the
p perfect state in which they foiled it, it required nothing but
to be beat into shape.” Upnna second visit to the mouth 
of that river, he -took the opportunity of going ten miles up
its bank: with Indian guides, where he discovered a mass of ‘
eopperof the weight, according to his estimate, of no less
than ﬁve tons- Such Was its malleable state that with an axe '
he was able to cut off a portion weighing an hundred pounds.
On viewing the surrounding sut-face, he conjectured that the
mass, at some period or other,-had rolled from side of a
lofty hill which rises at its back. Upon the island of Nani~
bojou, between -Point Mamance and Michicopotem upon the
north-eastern coast, our adventurer found several pieces of
virgin copper, of which many were remarkable for their form,
--some resembling the leaves of vegetables, and others ani
mals. Their Weight was from an ounce to three pounds.
Capt. Norburg, a Russian gentleman, acquainted with met
als, and holding a commission in the British service, was em‘
ployed by a company of adventurers, to explore the borders
of Lake Superior, in quest of copper-mines. He examined
the coast of Nanibojou, and found several veins of copper
and lead. He erected an air furnace at Point aux Pins, and
ascertained that the lead ore contained silver inthe propor
tion of forty ounces to a ton; but the copper-ore in very
small priiportion indeed. Near Point aux Iroquois on the
south side of the lake, 15 miles from the Sault St. Marie,
he discovered a shod of eight pounds weight—of a blue col
or and semi-transparent This he carried to England, where
it produced in the proportion of sixty pounds of silver to a
hundred weight of ore. It was reposited in the British Mua
seum.
The agents of the Company, among whom were Henry
and Norburg, repaired to the Ontonagon, where besides the
detached masses of copper, formerly mentioned, they saw
much of the same metal bedded in stone. They builta
Kk
/1
ass \vEsTEaN e'AzE'1“TE1‘<>R; 63',
house, and commenced operations. In digging, they found
frequent masses of ‘copper, some of ‘ which were of three' pounds weight. A lgreencolored water issued from the hill;
Which tinged iron of a copper color.* 
Mackeniie observes, that he should not be surprised to’
hear of the Americans employing people to work the copper‘
mines. “Indeed,” he adds, '“ it might be well worthy the
attention of the British subjects to work the mines on the‘
north coast, though they are not supposed to be so rich as
those on the south.”
Near the mouth of Roaring river‘, pieces of copper have’
been found, Weighing from‘ seven to twenty-ﬁve pounds: and
on Middle Island, near the Western ooastof Lake Michigan,
and not far distant from the above river, are found great quan
tities ofpure coppersl" _
If it really be true that copper ore exists on the shores of
Lake Superior, to the extent stated by Carver, Henry,
hlackenzie, &.c. the fact insures the future commercial con
sequence of this territory. I must confess that I was scep
tical omit I consulted a highly valued correspondent,~ when
the following answer in a manner dissipated my doubts :-—
“ The existence of the virgin copper is beyond doubt. My
late friend, Gen. Pike; who was incapable of aught of -fraud or
ins"incerity, assured me he had been on the spot. Gen. ‘Vil
lrinsou, not knowing of Pike’s information, gave nie the desk
cription of the position,~andAever'y particular, corresponding
with Gen. Pike's account. I know that a company is about
to be formedat this moment, [November 7, 1816,] the object
of which, is to work these mines.”
Iron ore, copperas, limestone and allum, are found along‘
the shore of lakes Huron and Superior ;' and lead abounds on
the Depage.
* See Travels and Adventures in Canada and the Indian 'l‘erritories, &¢'.
..1 Gen. Hull, to the Rev. Jedidiah Morse.
*EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY, ‘I ‘ 269
GREEN BAY, rox RIVER, 0UIscoNsi1\i. ' ' '
As the route from Michilimackinac to Prairie Des Chiens,
hy way of‘Green 'Bay', Fox river, and the Ouisconsin; is
much frequented by American and British traders, and as it
. is yearly becoining more important, I will devote a few pages~
to a description of the navigation,‘ and the country through
Which it passes. The distance between Michilimaclrinac.-'
and the French settlement is about 175 miles. The western
coast of ‘Lake Michigan, from Michilimackinac to the en
trance of Green Bay, alfords several good harbors, such ‘as
the islands of St. Hehns, Epouvette, Mino Cockien river,
Souchoir rock, and the Manistiqne. The entrance into
Green Bay, will admit vessels of 200 tons burthen. The‘
best harbors on the traverse of the bay, are the Petite De-.
troit, and isle Roche ; the last inaccessible to allwinds: Stur-'
, geon Bay and the mouth of Rouge river-I-nevertheless, the
voyage is dangerous in boisterous weather, as the coast is in
several plaees lined with ro_c_k_s. The navigation of the bay
is safe and easy, for large vessels, ‘ " " ‘7
Fox river falls into its south western extremity. It is about
400 yards wide, with three fathoms water at its mouth, and
navigable one hundred and sixty miles, to the portg.ge.—_y
Half a mile from its mouth, commences a French settlement,
extending the distance of ﬁve miles on both sides of the riv
er, occupied by forty French families, who emigrated from
Canada and France in the year 1720, They have small
farms, andraise corn, wheat, peas, potatoes, horses, cows,
hogs, &c. Before the late war, this settlement was well
stocked with cattle and horses; some of the inhabitants hav
ing from 140 to 150 head of cattle. By frequent intermar-,
riages with the Indians, and along residence among them, ~
nine-tenths of their women are of Indian origin. They are
said to be ‘modestly diﬂident, and preserve a tolerable share
of the ease and courteousness of. French poli_teness_;_ thei-3;,
I
'1 r» t
l l i
260 WESTERN GAZETTEEII; DB,
costume very grotesque, wearing printed calico short-gowns,
atroud petticoats and mocasins. The inhabitants have been
frequently oppressed by the Indians, particularly since the an
commencement of the late War.
A fort, under the direction of Capt. Gratiot-, is erected
-on the ruins of the old French fort Le Bay ;‘ it is a stockade
with strong pickets, a bastion at each angle, with a‘ piece of;
on each. It is situated about one mile front the
mouth of the river, on the left bank, arid commands it com
ptetely, The eonntry between the Fox and Menomonie riv
era, is inviting to settlers: the soil is good, the climate‘ ntuclr
milder than at Michilimackiuac, as the trees are clothed with
verdure at least one month earlier. Jfhe -sturgeon, trout,
’ White-ﬁsh, and base, of the bay, rivers and creeks, are equal
in ﬂavor and delicacy‘ to any in America, and can be taken‘,
with ease, in almost any quantity. The soil? on both sides otf
Fox river, is very tine, and the wheat ﬁelds and gardens give
it the appearance of a rich and fertile country. The tint»
ber is oak, walnut, sugar-maple", poplar, elm, honey-loeust,and-' '
pine, The shores of the bay and rivers, are agreeably divas
siﬁed with prairies, islets of woqdland, and thick threats. The
inhabitants hm ahiays been remarkably healthy-and the
U. S. soldiers in garrison, are even said to enjoy‘ a better
share of ‘health than the troops ‘at: Michiiimackinac. The
banks of Folk river continue low for two 617 three miles up,
When they gradualty rise eighty or an hundred feet-above the
water, from whence commence forests‘ of oak, pine, liic‘lio'ry
and maple. The shores‘ of this river upwards, t0"VVi_imeba
go lake, is saidto be of the same nature; to which cause,
ahdthé prevalence of the south-west wind in summer, may
be attributed the healthiness of the country. There are
several‘ villages of Fols Avoines, Sauteamr and POttaWatt~a
mies‘,'on the islands and shores of Green Bay; “man Men-"
omonie village of fifteen houses, is established about a mile
up For river, where a great number of Saute-am‘: and Ot
towas assemble in spring and fall. Nine miles t"urther up, it
mmrouanrs IHRECTOBY. ~zEr
aimther Meuomouie or Fol: Avoine vﬂlaggi M act]! it 4.
the Kakalhi portage. This pot-tage it about ohe u1ilc“bng,:
the ground even and rocky; the fall about text feet; whieh
obstructs the navigation for nine miles, there‘ being an almost
continued rapid to the fall of Gmsd‘ Kenmtiie, where there I
is shit of ﬁve feet; it little above this the river opens into
ﬂwiunebago or Puant lake, at the dist'auee- of thirty in'iles.
This lake is teatsagues brig, and mm two to ﬁve wide.* At t
its entrance, is the ﬁrst Winnebago village or ten or twelve
lodges. About midtvay st‘ the lake, is a his Avoine town
of ﬁfty or sixty wairtots; and near the head of the lake is
another Winnebago village, of ﬁfteen or twenty houses. At
the southwest corner of the lake, the Crocodile rim enters
from the directiouof Rocky t’lV‘er,’with which it eomtnuiii-'
‘ cates With the interval of two or three portages. The land
bordering on the lake, is very fertile, ahouiidiug with grapes,
plums, and other fruits which grow spontaneously. The Win
uébagoes raise great quantities of corn, beans, pumpkins, ‘
iquashes, &c. The lake swarms with ﬁsh, and ducks;-geese,"‘/*"’
and-teal. Fox river falls into the lake about twelve miles
from the outlet of the lake, and is here 100 yards wide. Six mileti higher, is a small Winnebago Village, and a lake about ~"‘“ '
ten miles long; about three miles above this lake, the river
De Loup joins Fox river. The banks of the river are here.
diversiﬁed with woods and prairies; “ any quantities of hay
may be made, and is as ﬁne a country for raising stock as any
in the same latitude through all A.merica.*’T From the riv
et De Ldup to Lake Puckway, is about eight? miles; here
is another Winnebago Villhge of eight or ten lodges. ‘This?
lake is nine miles long. Twelve miles further up, is Lac du
Bqeut’, Which is fourleaguesiu length, and full offollé ttv0i’ne,'
audthwls1iu' stiring ﬁnd autumh. Ten miles‘ above Lac do
a \ Btﬁrxf, the river l'etk'S illto tivo nearly equal bramhes ; but is
so chotaked With wild rice; as to be almost impassable. Thirty
 
" Carver says, ﬁfteen miles long, and ii; wide.
1“ DMsson- ‘
'0
0 7'
262 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
miles above the forks, is Lac vVaseux, whichis. a .pert'ect
meadow. of wild rice. From this lake to the portage, is ﬁﬁ
teen miles; the river becomes more and more serpentine,
and is so choaked with wild rice, as almost to prevent the,
use of oars. At the portage, it is only ﬁve yards wide, ex-.
cept where it expands into small lakes and-rice ponds, and so '
crooked that in navigating it ﬁve miles, you only approximate’
the portage one quarter of a mile. "The length of the port
age is two miles in ordinary seasons, but is much reduced by
heavy rains; and it is stated by Gen. Pike that loaded boats
have passed over when the waters are high. “Near one.
half of the way between the rivers, is a morass, overgrown.
with a kind of long grass, the rest of it a plain, with some few ,
oak and pine trees growing thereon.”T
In wet seasons the portage road is yery bad—the soil be
ing of a swanipy nature, there is for _nearly_ half way a kind
of natural canal, which is sometimes used; a canal between
the two rivers could be easily opened. The Fox and Ouis Vconsin, rise from the same height, this manner,
 
 
The ground, at the head of Fox river, is often inundated
by the Ouisconsin, so as to form one great lake at the head
of the two rivers. This portage is about 350 miles east of
the Falls of St. Anthony. There are two or three French
families established at the portage. Goods are transported
for 33 cents per hundred weight--a canoe $5, and a boat $8,
paid in goods at an enormous proﬁt. It is said that governs '
ment have it in contemplation to establish a military post at
or near the Portage.
 
1 Carver.
.nM1GnAN'1rs DIRECTORY. gas‘
7The Ouisconsin is about 100 yards wide at the portage, '
and ﬂows with a smooth but strong current; in a low stage
of water, the navigation is obstructed with sandbars: ‘Its
-‘water is remarkably transparent, and the bottom sandyfthe
distance from the Portage to Prairie Des Chiens, is about
240 miles. Its banks are pleasant and fertile, skirted by high
lﬂlg at Lb; distance of ten or ﬁfteen miles. The Saukies
‘(or Bacs) and Ottigaumies formerly resided on its shores, in
several large and well built towns. The great Saukie village,
about one day’s travel below the Portage, contained, in 1767,
ninety houses, each large enough for several families, built of
hewn planks neatly jointed. The streets were /regular and
spacious, their ﬁelds and gardens Well laid out, in which were cultivated large vquantities of Indian corn, beans, melons,
Squashes, &c. The lands near these towns are of the ﬁrst
quality; the valley of the Ouisconsin is from two to ten miles
in width, and covered in places with valuable groves of white
pine. The bills or mountains cover an extensive tract, the
soil of which is generally poor, and the timber a stiuted growth
of oak and hickory; stones mostly calcareous. Lead mines
exist on the south side; the most important one, is near the Detour de Pin. * i
The Fox and Ouisconsin rivers, is the route through which
the traders of Michilimackinac convey their goods for the
trade of the Mississippi, from St. Louis to the river De Cor
beau, as Well as all the tributary streams between those limits.
" Prairie Des Chiens, is situated on the east bank of the
Ouisconsin, about a mile above its junction with the Missis
sippi. There are about sixty houses, principally in two
's'tre'ets, (Front and First streets) though some are scattered
along the bottoms for the distance of four or five miles ; the
ordinary population amounts to about 400 souls, except in
spring and autumn, when the assemblage of white traders
 
l * The mountains to the muth of the Ouisconsin were examined by Carver, and 7
found to abound in lead ore—aud so plentiful was lead, in the great Saukie ton u,
about forty miles below the portage, that he saw large quantities of it lying about
the streets.
\
/VI
/
‘-0
n 3
264 WE$TERN GAZETTEEB; ﬂit
f doubles this number, besides. several hundred Indians
inhabitants are chieﬂy French; a great part ‘if whom
l
The
have a
‘ mixture of Indianblood in l.h8ir veins. The village isbound
ed by high, baldyhills, the bottom one mile and a halt‘
wide. . The United States have erected 1; atmnz fort here.
The mouth of the Oniscensin, is in lab 4323
4.1
EXTENT OF NA V-IG’-ABLE WA TERS.
“ .2“ ;J\“
- . Miles. 
Coast ot’ lake Michigan," .- . - . 280
East and west coast of Green bay, 285
Coast of lake Huron, . ' . 50
Strait of St. Mary, '. .- . 55
Coast of lake Superior from its } 800
outlet to the Grand Portage, , ' ' \
Plein and Depage, . . . '. . 200
Chicago, Wakayah, Masquedonﬁ / ' Milwakie, Saukie,' &c. all eu- | . .
tering the lake between Chi- . . 400
cago and the mouth of Green F . . bay.1 V J '
Fox river, Crocodile and De Loup, 250
Menomenie, Rouge, Gaspard, .
and Sandy running into g . 350
Green bay, . .
Manistique and Mino Omzkien, . - 150
St. Ignace and Little Bouchitaouy, . 120
Great Bouchitaouy and Minaston, . . 140
Rivers ﬂowing into lake Superior, American side, 1500
Mississippi, from the Red Ce- . . '
dar lake to the Illinois bonn-I g . 1000
(lary, (inlet. 4] 50.)
Trlbutanes of the Mississippi,} ‘ 550
above the falls of St. Anthony,
Chippewa, Buffalo, Guisconsin, &c. . 1300
Part of Rocky river, and branches . 570
Interior Lakes, ' 150
 
Tot 3]) 8,106
salesmen, aisaesaas. ts
INDIANS.
_.1 The Menomenies; (Fols Avoines) and the Winnébagbes are
the only nations who reside exclusively in this territory : the
' _ ﬁrst have eight or ten villages; which are situated on the Me
inemonie river, ﬁfteen miles froni Green bay ;) on Fox river :‘?§'H'lfr'it'§hiouth at the kakalin and Grand Kehomic portages,
on Winnebago lake, behind the But de Mort, and near Les
Milles Lacs [Thousand Lakes.) This tribe is reduced td
about 250 warriors; they are brave and much, respected by
their neighbors, and are permitted by the aim and the can»
pewas to hunt on the Mississippi and lake Superior. They
' are remarkably handsome; have ﬁne eyes and an animated
_ delivery; their language has no resemblance to that of any of
‘ their neighbors, and is very diﬂicult to be learned. Their
temporary lodges, of whitih they have vast numbers, are in
the form of an ellipsis, thirty er forty feet long and ﬁfteen or
Sixteen wide, covered with rushes plaited into mats, and ca
pable of sheltering sixty people from the storm.
The Winnebagoes or Puants of the French, reside on the
Qui.sconsin,- Rocky river, Fox river and Green bay, and have
nine villages, situated as follows 2 two on Green bay, one on
an island in lake Michigan, two on Winnebago lake,‘ one six
miles above that lake, one on, lake Plickway, one at the por.t- _
age of the Ouisconsin, and two on Rocky river. They cart raise about 300 warriors. ‘Y
The remnant of the Ottig'aumies reside between the Ouis-‘
izonsin and Rocky rivers. The Chippewas or Sauteaux, in
habiting the southern shores of lake Supetior, head branches
of the Chippewa, and other streams running into the Missis
sippi, are estimated at 1000 wartiors. Parts of the Kicka
poo, Pottawattamie and Ottawa tribes reside in the eastern
part of this territory near the shores of lake Michigan. The
' ﬁioux claim a considerable tract of country on the east side i
' of the Mississippi, above Prairie des Chieni.
L l \
ass WESTERN GAZETTEER; on’, .
_
/
/
ANTIQUITIES;
A little below lake Pepin, on the ‘ eat bank of the Missisa
sippi, are the remains of an ancient fortiﬁcation; the walls are
about four feet high, extending nearly a_ mile, and suﬂiciently ,: "'
capacious to cover 5000 men; its form is circular and its ﬂagks f reach to the river; the angles are distinguishable anrddlashtloiik-‘J \
ed with perfect regularity: the plain is extensive and no~ris'
ing ground within cannon shot distance to command it.—~
Mounds of considerable height are to be seen on the banks
of the Menemonie and Gaspard rivers.
'
CARVEES PURCHASE. "
The territory‘ claimed by the heirs of the late Capt. Jona
than Carver, includes about 8,000,000 acres, and has the fol
lowing boundaries,‘ viz: “ Beginning at the falls of St. Antho
ny on the east bank of the Mississippi, rnnning southeast as
far as the south end of lake Pepin, wherethe Chippeway riv-;
er joins the Mississippi, and from thence eastward ﬁve days
travel, accounting twenty English miles per day, and from
thence north six days travel, accounting twenty English miles
per day; and from thence again to the falls of St. Anthony,
on a direct straight line.” _ ’ .
I _ This territory is watered by the Chippewa river and its
4 numerous branches, by the riviere de la Montaigne, and St.
I , Croix rivers, besides several smaller streams. Carver is the
I _ only traveller, who has traversed the interior of this tract.—' 
The country adjoining the Chippewa river, as far up as the
falls, which are about sixty miles from its mouth, is very level
and almost without any timber; and on its banks lie ﬁne
meadows ;--where, as our traveller informs us, larger droves
of buffaloes and elks were feeding than hehad observed in
any other parts of his travels; above the falls he found the
l
i. - _ country very uneven and rugged, and closely wooded with
'
.
l l
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. _ 267
~\\p‘ine, beach, maple andbirch. At the heads of the Chippe.
wa and St. Croix rivers, he saw “exceeding ﬁne sturgeon.”
“ The country around St. Anthony’s Falls is extremely beau
tiful. ‘It is notan uninterrupted plain where the eye ﬁnds
no relief, but composed of many gentle ascents, which in the
‘ Bummer are covered with the ﬁnest verdure, and ‘interspersed
_ i_;thlitlg,groves', that give a pleasing variety to the pros
liect. Towards the heads of the river St..1Croix, rice grows
in great plenty, and there is abundance ofcoppe,r.” . i
Carver mentions that the northwest wind is much less pow
Brful in the interior of this territory, than in the Atlantic
states, and adduces as an argument in support of his position,
the fact that the wild rice (pats) attains to perfection in this
region, while it scarcely ripens in lake Erie,and is not found
east of that lake. (
There is a cave of great magnitude on the eastern hank of
the Mississippi, about thirtymiles below the falls of St. An
thony, which was visited by Carver in his tour through the
northwestern regions. The Indians term it Wu‘-Icon-teebe,.
that is the Dwelling of the Great Spirit._ “ The entrance into
it~‘is about ten feet wide, the height of it ﬁve feet. The
arch within is near ﬁfteen feet high and about thirty feet
broad. The bottom of it consists of ﬁne clear sand. [About '
twenty feet from the entrance begins a lake, the water of
which is transparent, and extends to an unsearchable distance
.—for the darkness ofthe cave prevents all attempts to acquire
a knowledge of it.” A pebble thrown into this subterrane
an lake produces an “astonishing and horrible noise ;” Iq
dian hieroglyphics are visible on the walls._
FOLLE .4 VOINE,
This productive and highly valuable aquatic plant (avena
fatua) is found in all the lakes, rivers and bays of this territo- .
_ry. The Fols Avoines call it Dfenomen, and living almost
ﬁntirely upon it, the French gave them the name of Fols
ass WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
~.,__,
 
 
Avoines, or wild rice eaters. It grows in Water of from fouin,/_/’
to seven feet depth; but always rejects a hard sandy bottom,
A meadow of wild rice strongly resembles an inundated cane-é
brake; the plants extend from four to eight feet above the
surface of the water—-and are often so thick that they wholly
Prevent the progress of canine: and boats; they are about the:.
size of the red cane in Tennessee, full of joints, and_'of;j_th_ef_, color and texture ‘ of bullrushes; the stalks above water Van/cf
the branches, Which bear the grain, resemble oats. The
Indians in order to-prevent the, geese and ducks from devour- 1-ét
J . i \ -. '-.
ing the whole crop, sometimes run their canoes into the
‘_ midst 05 it, while in the milky state, and tie the sitallrs just 
below the heads, into- large bunches, in which state it re-_
mains three or four weelis, until perfectly ripe.‘ ’When the
heads become ripe, they pass through it with their canoes lin
ed with blankets, and bending the st'alk_s or branchespver the
sides, beat off the grain with sticks'—;-and such is the abun
dance of the harvest, that an expert Indian or squaw will soon
till a canoe. After it is gathered, it is dried and put into skins
for future use.~ It is singular that this plant has never been
tbund south of the Illinois, nor east of Sandusky bay; but is
found north nearly to Hudson bay. The rivers and lakes of
this territory alone, no doubt, annually produce several mill;
ions of bushels ; and in time it may become an important arti-_
cle of commerce and agriculture. Some think that it might
1be successfully planted in the Atlantic rivers. The duck
‘ has become singularly expert in plucking her t_'ood from this
plant; being unable to reach the highest branches, she presses
her bréast against the stall; and with a_ violent eﬂbrt of her
feet causes it to yield to her strength, which it readily does
by reason of its slender ﬁbrous roots—having forced the top
of the stalk into the water, she keeps it under her body until
she has ﬁnished her repast. It is equally nutritious and palat
able as the common rice.
‘I, _t._ _..
OHIO,
i"":"'ii't‘i1ated between 38 30 an_d]2 N. lat. and 3 32, and 7
43__W.lengitude; bounded north by the divisional line he‘
v tween the United States and Upper Canada (passing through
.,; _, the middle of Lake Erie) and Michigan Territory; west by
I Indiana, from which it is separated by a meridian line running
from the mouth of the Big Miami to the parallel of the
>
.
southern end of Lake Michigan ; south and southeast by the
river Ohio, which separates it from Kentucky and Virginia;
east by Pennsylvania, from which it is separated by a meridi
an line running from the mouth of Little Beaver creek to the
northern boundary line of the United States in Lake Erie;
containing, according to Mr. Drake, an area of 40,000 quare
miles, or 25,000,000 of acres, including water. Its length,
from north to sout_h,.is 228 miles-.-mean breadth, about 200.
' f ~ RIVERS.
The rivers of this state, run north into Lake Erie, and
south into the Ohio.
The Ohio washes the south-eastern frontier of the state~
for the distance of 509 miles.
The Great Miami waters a large and interesting portion
' of the state. It is 200 yards wide at its mouth, rises between
40 and 41 N. latitude, and interlocks with the Massissinway
branches of the Wabash, the St. Marys and Auglaize branches ‘
of the Miami-of-the-Lakes, and the Scioto. Its current is
generally brisk, but unbroken by rapids. The wide and fer
tile valley through which it ﬂows, is sometimes subject topar
tial inundation. Its chief tributaries on the west, are Lora-..
270 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
¢
mie’s creek, which empties into it 130 miles above its em}
bouchure; Stillwater, entering it about 50 miles below, and
Whitewater, which it receives within 7 miles of the Ohio.-—_
The ﬁrst of these is navigable for batteaux near 30 miles. On
the east, Madriver is the only tributary deserving the name
of river. It rises in the prairies north of the Indian bound- ,
ary line, as established by the treaty of Greenville, and a tow miles east of Gen. Hull‘s road to Detroit. It is bohhﬁdbiﬂ
some of the ﬁnest lands in the state ; has a brisk current,
pure water, and alfords numerous mill-seats. It joins the
Big Miami a short distance above Dayton, and nearly oppo
site the month of Stillwater. About 100 miles from its inouth,
are rapids, where the descent -in a short distance is said to be‘E
200 feet.* ' a
The Little Miami heads south of the sources of Mad ‘river,’
and west of those of Paint creek, a considerable branch of
the Sciota; from the cast it receives the East Fork, Todd’s1
Fork, and Caesar-‘s and Massie’s creeks; it meanders through
an extensive valley, and abounds with valuable mill-seats. It
enters the Ohio seven miles above Cincinnati, and in high’
water is ]50yards wide—-its course is nearly parallel with
the Big Miami, being no where more than twenty miles dis
tant. The intervening country is watered by Mill creek,
which empties into the Ohio, two miles below Cincinnati.
Between the Little Miami and the Scioto, a distance of
126 miles by the courses of the Ohio, are the following large
creeks, from 20 to 50 yards wide and from 20 to 50 miles in .
length, viz. Big Indian, 14 miles above Cincinnati; White
Oak, Straight, Eagle, Bullskin, Brush, and Turkey creeks;
the last is four miles below the Scioto.
 
' The British hireling traveller. Ashe, has the following wonderful description
of this river, which by the magic powers of his pen, he causes to flow out of lake
Huron !! “ Mad river is remarkable for the fine quality of the water and the
great purity of the stream. It received its name in consequence of its perpetual
impeluosity, it being the only river in the Western country which does not subside‘
in the summer and fall of the year. All the other rivers owe their great periodi
cal volume to the etfusion of ice and mountain snows, whereas, the Mad‘ river
issues out of lake Hu-nm, which affords it an equal supply‘ without variation or_
end. I; abounds with ﬁsh, and is so transparent, that they are driven with great
f3¢llll}‘ into nets and snares; and are besides, often speared."
.
_ _ ,..m h 1-4-1‘
EM'IGRAN'Fs‘ nmncr-oar. an
, i‘_ The Sciolo joins the Ohio in N. lat. 38, 34, 28, heads near
hue sources of the Sandusky, between the navigable branches
of which there is ashort and conveniet portage of only four
miles. It is navigable‘ for large keel boats to Columbus, near-'
+ ly 200 miles fromits mouth, and for canoes almost to its head.
Its principal branches are Paint creek, which enters from the
‘ !west\ four miles below Chillicothe ;" Darby’s creek; from
'ZfITr?€ii§t”S‘EIt, Walnut, Allum, and Whetstone forks. ‘
The Great Hoclchocking waters the country between the
Scioto and the Mukingum-it enters the Ohio 150 miles
above the Scioto, and is navigable to Athens, forty miles from
its mouth for large keel boats. Six miles above Athens are
rapids which prevent the ascent of boats.
The Muslpingum beads near the sources of the Cayahoga
of Lake Erie,‘ and enters the Ohio immediately below Ma
rietta. It is 250 yards wide at its mouth, and navigable for
large keels to the Three Legs, and from thence for small boats
to within a few miles of the Cayahoga. It has several large
brauches','such as Licking, Tuscarawa, Whitewoman, and
Watomika, which will be more particularly noticed here
after. "'
Several large creeks Water that part of the state lying be
tween the Muskingum and the Pennsylvania boundary line;
such as Will’s creek, which falls into the Muskingum;
‘ Pawpaw, Little Muskingum, Wheeling, Capteena, Stoney,
and Sunﬁsh creeks, which fall into the Ohio.
The following streams water the northern portion of the
state, and pay their tribute to Lake Erie: The largest and most westerly stream, is the llfiami-qf-the I
Lakes, sometimes called the Maumee, or Maurice. It is
formed by the junction of the St. Marys and Little "St. J 0
sephs. ‘
' This river is 105 miles in length, and isnavigable for bat
teaux and -perogues, throughout its whole extent, in all sea
sons, and for vessels of sixty tons burthen as far as the rapids
nearly opposite Fort Meigs, eighteen miles from the lake.-—
  
212 WESTERN asnnrrntiﬁ; bit \
These rapids oppose no very serious obstacles to the naviga-'
tion. The Wolf rapids are ten miles highe!‘ Up. At th€
several rapids, a portion of the stream could easily be divert-I
ed into races tbr the supply of water works; The rapids of
the Miatni, near the Fort, alford ﬁne situations for ﬁshing, as
the river at certain seasons is alive with ﬁsh of various sorts‘
They are otten killed with sticks and stones, and caught yithll
the hands. The course of this river is north-east’;'it§"Baiﬁ%\‘“
are regular-—bigh, but ‘not abrupt-sloping gradually to the 1
- hater’: edge, and covered with aheautiful luxuriant verdllre.
The channel of the river from the rapids, to within three
iniles of the bay, is composed of limestone rock, formed in-'
to regular strata by parallel ﬁssures, Which sink perpendicu~ '
larly into the rock, and run transversely across the riveh—1
The face of the bank, for ten or twelve feet above the water‘
is also composed of solid rock, and from its appearance it is
evident that the current has worn the channel many feet
deeper than it was in former ages.
The St. Josephs heads in Indiana, and is navigable about
ﬁfty miles. The St. Marys in wet seasons is navigable for‘
perogues, to old Fort St. Marys, about 150 lniles from its
conﬂuence with the St. Josephs, by the course of the river.
It is very crooked, and the land in its margins generally of
a good quality. lts head branches include three creeks which
unite near Fort St. Marys. The Auglaise heads ten or
twelve miles northeast of the source of St. Marys, and after
passing by Wappaukenata, Tawa town, and several other In
dian villages, falls into the Miami-of-the-lakes at Fort Win
chester, ﬁﬂy miles below Fort Wayne.
. The Toussctint river, which enters the lake twenty milesf
east of the Miami, is little more than an arni of the lake‘
Winding through the prairies and forming a vast number of
impassable sloughs; its extreme head is not more than ten’
or twelve miles from the the lake, although at its mouth it is
100 yards Wide; its current is lazy and choaked with wild
rice, pond lilies and grass. It is covered at certain periods
with geese and ducks, and abounds with otters and musltratm
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. are
Portage river is an inconsiderable stream, heading in ﬂat
swampy lands, two miles southof Hull’s road from Urbanna
to Fort Meigs. It is navigable almost to its head, as the cur
rent is sluggish and the water‘ deep. It is 140 yards wide,
tbr siii or seven miles from the lake, and affords a'safe and ea
sy harbor for boats of two tons bnrthen. Great numbers of
J ,qlut:ks and geese frequent its water in autumn. The land
along its borders for several miles is rich and easily cleared.
The Sdndu3ky has its source in the same plain with the
Principal branch of the Scioto river, and Winding its course
through a rich, ﬂat country, in a north-eastern direction,
‘passing the posts of Upper Sandusky, several Indian villages
and Fort Stephenson, falls into the Bay of the same name;
two miles east of the mouth of Portage, or Carrying river,
‘ across the neck, but forty-seven by the coast of the Great
Peninsula formed by Portage river, Lake Erie, and Sandnsky
Bay. It receives in'its course several large creeks ; and is
, navigabie almost to its head. Its banks for twelve or ﬁfteen
lniles up, are low, and lined with wet prairies. Pipe and
Cold creeks, fall into the bay a few miles east of the Sandus
ky river. These streams water ‘a ﬁne tract of country,
have brisk currents, pure water, and frequent sites for mills;
the last issues from a large, durable springﬂrith suliicient waf
tor to turn a grist-mill immediately at its source.
The Huron falls into the lake eleven miles east of Sandm
ky bay. It is about ﬁfty yards witie at its mouth, and navi~
‘ gable about eighteen miles, to the forks. It has numerous
head branches, which watera fertile and healthy district.
‘Ten miles further east, is the Vermillion, similar in course,
size, extent, and other general features, to the Huron.
Blank river empties into the lake twelve miles east of the
Vermillion, which it closely resembles in its course and mag
nitude.
Rock‘-_1/-River ﬂows into the lake eighteen miles further east.
Itis more rapid than any of the‘ neighboring streams, has
higher banks, and is considerably larger than the three last.
i . ..s ll: ‘
..=- ~__
214 WESTERN GAZETTEER; 03,
named rivers. It has numerous forks, and waters a rich and’
thriving settlement. ,
Seven miles east of Black river, is the Ca}/ahoga, the
largest stream entering Lake Erie east of the Sandusky.
Its course is soutlreast—current brisk, banks high and ro
mantic. It heads in a large swamp, in which also rises _
the Tuscarawa branch of the Muskingum, ' ..
Chagrin river runs nearly parallel with the Cayﬂmga, _)
enters the lake twenty miles east of Cleveland. It is about
forty miles long, rapid, abounding in mill-seats, and subject
to sudden swells. '
Ten miles east of the Chagrin, is Grand river, a ﬁne bold
stream, which rises near Warren, and interlocks with branch
es of the Chagrin, Cayahoga, and Tuscarawa. Its course is
circuitous, current rapid, banks elevated, and often precipit
ous, Water pure and wholesome, and well calculated for by
draulic uses. It is not navigable : there are several mill-dams
across its stream-oe within half a mile of the lake.
The Ashtibula interlocks with the Big Beaver of the
Ohio, and falls into Lake Erie 26 miles east of Grand river.
Its ‘banks are high, and its stream too brisk to admit of easy
navigation; course, north-west and north. The Conneaut enters the lake ten miles east of the Ashti- I
hula. It heads in the state of Ohio, near the eastern branch
es of the Ashtibula, and enters Lake Erie in Pennsylvania,
about two miles east of the boundary line between the two
states. Its waters are remarkably clear and healthful. It is
not navigable, but affords a great many ﬁne mill-seats.
SURFACE, sow.
That portion of the state which lies between the Pennsyl
vania line and the Muskingum river, bordering on the Ohio
river, and extending northwardly for the distance of ﬁfsy
miles, has an uneven surface, rising in places into high hills
and snbsiding into deep vallies; some of them terminate in
3
\
/
--r M -1:, :.,s._4 ~m!'?‘
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 275
elevated peaks, and aﬁbrd prospects bounded only by the
powers of vision. Yet most of these bills have a deep, rich
soil, and are capable of being cultivated to their summits.
- The country along the Ohio, from the Muskingum to the
Big Miami, continues broken; but the hills gradually dimin
ish _in size as we proceed westwardly. The bottoms of the
Ohio are of very unequal width. The bases of some of the
hills approach close to the river, while others recede to the
distance of two and three miles. There are usually three
bottoms rising one above the other, like the glacis of a fortiﬁ
cation. The river bottoms bear a heavy growth of beech,
sugan maple, buckeye, elm, honey locust, black walnut, hack
berry, sycamore, and ash, with an underwood of pawpaw,
spicewood, dogwood, plum trees, crab apple, and grape vines. The hills vare covered with oak, chesnut, hickory, sugar ma
ple, poplar, sassafras, black ash, and black locust. In the
western counties, and in the north-western and northern por
tions of the state, there is a leveller surface, and a moister
soil, interspersed however with tracts of dry prairie, and for
ests of a sandy or gravelly soil. The north-western corner
of the state, contains a considerable district of level, rich
land, too wet and swampy to admit of healthy‘ settlements:
the soil is a black, loose, friable loam, or a vegetable mould,
watered by sluggish and dark colored streams.
co UNTfES.
In describing this state by counties, I have preferred the
geographical to the alphabetical order. I shall therefore com
mence with Hamilton, the oldest settled county in the state:
those counties which have not many wild or unsettled lands
to invite the attention of emigrants, willbe brieﬂy noticed.
.\_-u’
276 WESTERN GAZETTEER; 0R,
'Little Miami, Mill, Deer, Taylor’s and Dryfork creeks.
3 '5 4 . -0
/
HAMILTON ooU2vrY.
This county is situated in the south-western corner ofthe
state; has the Ohio river south, Clermont county east, Butler
north, and Indiana west. It is about 30 miles long and @20
wide, and is watered by the Ohio, \Vhitewater,“Great arid
hasa hilly surface. in the vicinity of the large streams; in
other parts level or gently waving. The vallies are broad
and rich, and generally cultivated. The price of unimproved .
lands, is from 10 to 25*dollars—cultWated farms near Cincin
nati, from 30 to 70. Mills are numerous on Mill creek, and
the Little Miami. There are few wild lands, and those
of a second quality. This is _the most populous county in
the State.
Thetraces of an ancient population, and strong military
positions, are found along the banks of the Miami, from its
I - confluence with the Ohio to the limits of Butler county.
Cincinnati is the chief town, which from its present import
ance and certainty of future grandeur, deserves a minute.
description.
Newtown, Reading, Montgomery, Springﬁeld, Colerain, Hair-.
rison, Crosby, and Cleves, V
Cincinnati--At present the largest town in the State of
Ohio. is situated on the north bank of the Ohio river,directly
opposite the mouth of kicking, a considerable river of Ken
tucky, and in north latitude 39, 6, 30, west from Washington
city 7, 24, 45. lt is nearly under the meridians of Lexing
ton and Detroit; and nearly parallel with St. Louis, Vincennes
and Baltimore. Its distance (by land) from Pittsburgh is 300
miles--by water 5,24 ; from Detroit,‘275;_ from Baltimore 400;
_ Lexington 8.5, Chillicothe 84, Louisville 105, New-Orleans
(by water) 1736. It is built upon two plains of unequal ele
vation; the ﬁrst called the bottom, extends from the mouth of
Deer to that 0fMill c‘reek,_ with a medium width of 800 feet
It '
There are, besides, the villages of Columbia,
PM
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 277
and about seventy feet above low water mark. The western
or lower end of this bank is the lowest, and in the highest
floods subject to inundation. The secondis called the hill,
about ﬁfty feet higher than the ﬁrst; its medium width. is one
mile, bounded on the north by the adjoining hills. ' The
streets most of them 66 feet wide, and intersect each other at
right angles. There are no alleys nor diagonal streets. The
blocks or squares are mostly divided into eight lots, 99 by
198 feet. There are 81 out-lots, of four acres each. The.
streets which intersect the river, are nine in number, their,
course is north 44 deg. west. The ﬁrst, or uppermost, c-all~
ed Broadway, strikes the river about sixty feet below ther
steam grist-mill; the names of the others are Sycamore, Mi-.
ami, Walnut, Vine, Race, Elm, Plum_ and Western streets.
The names of the cross streets are W'ater street, Front, Sec
ond, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Northern. The town .
plat covers one entire and two fractional sections, and was ori
ginally surveyed by the patentee, John Cleeves Symmes,
excepting the reservation around old Fort \Vashington, which
now constitutes a part of the town. The number of public ;
buildings and dwelling-houses, in July, 1815, was 1100 ;
the population was at the same time estimated at 6000. I
visited this town in June last, and from the number of houses
then erecting, or about to be commenced, and the great inﬂux
of emigrants, the number of buildings are probably augment
ed to thirteen hundred, and the inhabitants to eight thousand.
About thirty of the houses are of stone, 300 of brick, and the
remainder of wood. Most of them,are handsomely painted,
which gives to the town an air of neatness. The public
‘ buildings are spacious and elegant. ' The ﬁrst court house_
was 42 by 54, and 84 feet high, but was unfortunately burnt
down during the late war. The new court house is a stately
ediﬁce, and stands near the intersection of Main and Court
Streets; and is 56 by 66, with ﬁre proof apartments, for the I
different county otﬁces. -The‘, Baptist church in Sixth street
is a neat brick building, forty by ﬁfty-ﬁve feet, ﬁnished with
‘,
I
278 WES'1‘ERN GAZETTEER ; OB,
taste. The Presbyterian church is also of brick, 68 by 851
its aspect is low and heavy. The Methodist church is only
one story high, but capacious. The Friends’ meeting house
is a temporary wooden building. The Lancastrian seminary,
in the rear of the Presbyterian church, is an extensive brick
building of a novel construction; it is composed of two paral
lel wings, 88 feet deep, 30 wide, and 30 feet distant from each
other, connected near the front by apartments for staircases,
out of Which arises a dome-capped peristyle, designed for an
observatory. One wing of this ediﬁce is designed for male
and the other for female children. When completed, the
whole building can receive 1100 scholars. In less than two
weeks after the institution was opened upwards of 400 chil
dren were admitted. It is afact honorable to the liberality of
the people of Cincinnati and its vicinity, that upwards of
twelve thousand dollars were subiscribed towards defraying '
the expences of the building. There are three brick market
houses; the largest is upwards of 300 feet long. The Cin
cinnati Manufacturing Company have extensive stores above
the mouth of Mill creek; the largest, an irregular building, is
150 feet in length, and from two to four stories high. The
Steam Mill, ﬁnished in 1814, reﬂects honor upon the enter
prising genius of the west. It is literally founded upon a
rock; for it rests upon a horizontal bed of limestone, upon
the beach of the river. In high water, it is completely insu
lated, and rises majestically from the bosom of the ﬂood with
the strength and ﬁrmness of a rock in the ocean. At its
base, it is 62 by 87 feet; its walls are here ten feet thick.
The height of this stupendous pile is 110 feet; the number
of stories, nine, two of which are above the eaves. To the
height of forty feet, the walls are drawn in, and gradually’
diminish in thickness——above they are perpendicular. In its
construction, it swallowed up “ 6620 perches of stone, 90,000
brick, '1 4,000 bushels of lime, and 81,200 cubic feet of tim
sh-. Its weight‘ is estimated at 15,655 tons.’’* This mill
-B_- 0-‘.
1‘ See Picture of Cincinnati, page 138.
4 W 1 ill .\ -- 1
_EMIGRAN'I% DI-RECTOBY. 212
was built under the direction of William Green, an ingenious
stonecutten The model was furnished by George Evans,
one of the proprietors: the building cost 120,000 dollars. The machinery is on the plan of I Oliver Evans, and driven
by an engine of seventy horse power. When in complete
operation, it will grind 700 barrels of ﬂour a week. The
Steam Saw~Mill, erected on the bank of the river below the
town, is a wooden building, 36 by 70 feet, and three atorie§ high. The engine, which possesses I twenty horse power,
drives four saws in separate gates: the product of the whole
is about 800 feet an hour. The logs are chieﬂy brought in
rafts to the mill, and hauled up the bank by power from the
engine. There is a_ cotton and woollen factory, which car:
ries 3,300 spindles forlcotton, and about 400 woollen. Be
sides this, there are four cotton spinning establishments,
which together contain about 1500 spindles. A yvoollen man
ufactory, calculated to yield sixty yards of broadcloth per,
day, went into operation in the winter of 1815. Wool card
in and cloth dressing, are performed in several places. _ Ca
- bles and cordage are produced for exportation, from two ex‘
teusive rope walks. White and red lead, free from alloy, is
manufactured, suﬁicient for the supply of the whole state-—
the quantity is six tons per week. There are two glass fac
tories, which produce window glass hollow ware and white
ﬁintglass. A beautiful white sand, is found near the mouth
of the Scioto. Clay, for crucibles, is brought from Dela
ware ;. but might be procured in the state of Ohio. I have
, leen abed, in every particular corresponding with the Delay
Vwaae clay; white and tenacious, when moist, but perfectly
-impalpable, When dried and pulverized. A foundery for iron
castings has been recently established. The mechanical arts,
in all their various branches, are carried on to an extent and
’ perfection scarcely credible, considering the youthfulness of
Cincinnati, and the surrounding settlements. Nor are the
' ﬁne arts neglected. Painting and engraving ‘are executed
with elegance. The inhabitants have a taste for music.
296 WESTERN GAZETTEER; or, ‘
I I
There are at present two weekly newspapers published: thd
oldest paper is called the“ Western Spy/,” and the other “ Cin-'
cinnati Gazette, and Liberty Hall ,-” each issue about 1500
papers a week. Several respectable books have been printed.
Spirits and cordials are" distilled for domestic use; beer, por
ter and ale, are made in great quantities, and of good quality,
has well for exportation as home consumption. forty thou
oﬁantl bushels of barley were consumed last year. The ex
ports of Cincinhati, consist of ﬂour, chin, beef, pork, butter,
lard,bacon; whiskey, peach brandy, beer and porter; pot
and pearl ashes; cheese, soap, candles ; hats, hemp, spun yarn ;‘
saddles; riﬂes‘; cherry and black ash boards; staves 'and
scantling; cabinet ~furniture and chairs. East-Indian and
European goods, are imported from Baltimore and Philadel
~ phia, by the way of Pittsburgh.‘ Lead is procured from St.‘
Louis. Ruin, sugar, molasses and some dry ' goods, are rel
deived in keels and steam boats from "N. Orleans. Salt’ is
easily obtained’ from the Kenhaway salt works.” Coal,of which
vast quantities are consumed, is brought down the Ohio from
Pittsburgh and Wheeling, in flat bottomed boats. White
Pine boards andshin'gles, are brought in rafts from Hamilton,‘
on Aileghany; ' and afford, by the abundance of the supply,
great facilities to building. There are three banking compa1
nies. “ The Miami Exporting‘ Company,” Was incorporated
in 1803, for forty years. Its" capital is 450,000 dollars; its
paper is in excellent Credit; its dividends have for several
years ﬂuctuated between ten and ﬁfteen per: cent. .“ The
Farmers’ and Mechanics’ Bank,” was incorporated in' V
1813, for ﬁve years; the capital prescribed by law, is two ,
hundred thousand dollars. lts dividends have varied from
8 to 14 per cent. ’ The “Bank of Cincinnati" .is uncharter-'
ed. Its shares are ﬁfty dollars. Eight thousand eight hund
red have been sold, to 34.5 persons. Its notes are in excel
lent credit, and its dividends good. '
The Cincinnati University, is a mere nominal institution. J At present it languishes in embryo. The public library
 
*' r'‘e ,,.\_... \__=_n\ , ~.
EMIG-RANT’s DIRECTORY. 281
contains upwards of eight thousand volumes, among which
are many valuable works, ,The “School of Literature and
the Arts,” is principally composed of young men, and prom
ises to become the nurse of genius and taste.
There is a land office for the sale of the U. S. lands. Nine
mails arrive every week. .
Seven public roads enter Cincinnati; the Columbia road
from the east; the Lebanon road from the northeast, the
Hamilton from‘ the northwest,and the Dayton from the north,
unite at the head of Main street. The North Bend and
Lawrenceburgh roads, enter the western side of the town.
The Columbia road, leading up the valley of the Ohio upon
a pleasant dry bottom, is the most used by parties of
pleasure. '
The price of town lots is high--and rentsdiﬂicult to ob
tain. The lots-in Main, First, and Second streets, are now
selling for more than $200 per foot, measuring on the front
line. Those possessing less local advantages are sold from 50
to I0. Out-lots and lands adjoining the town, bring from 500
to 1000 dollars per acre. Farms below /and above the
creeks, and beyond the range of hills on the north, will sell
for 50, 8t), and l0_0 dollars an acre, according to quality and
proximity to the town.
Cincinnati has four market days every week—two in the
morning, and two in the afternoon. Beef, mutton, pork,
venison, poultry, and fish, are plentifully supplied. Native
and cultivated fruits, can be easily procured.
Several small vineyards have been planted in the vicinity
of the town, which promise success. Grapes, either from‘
'Vevay or Newport, are often for sale in the markets during the proper season. I '
The remains of ancient works within the precincts of the
town, consisted of
1. A circular embankment 800 feet in diameter, 30*
feet broad at the base, and from 3 to 6 feet. high. lt is com
posed of loan]. There is no appearance of a ditch on either i N n
see WESTERN GAZETTEER; as,
side; on the east side‘ there is an opening 90 feet wide; dd
each side of this gatmzay, there is a broad elevation, or kind
of parapet; from one of these extends a very low wall to
the distance of 500‘ feet, where it terminates in a mound.—
Neat the other parapet, are two shapeless and insulated eleva
tions about six feet high.
2. Two circular earthen enclosures of greater extent, but
so defaced by time that it' was diﬁicult to ‘trace them. One
of these was on the bottoms, the other on the hill. V
3. A circular bank of 60 feet diameter, formed by throw
ing up the earth from the inside.
4. Two parallel convex banks, 760 feet long, and 46 feet l asunder for two thirds the distance, when they converge to
40, and are ﬁnally connected at each end. There appears _a
perfect mathematical exactitude in the construction of this
' ﬁgure. The direction of these Walls, is nearly east and west.
There is an opening to the south, 30 feet wide.
5. An excavatiorl 50 feet in diameter, and 12 feet deep.
Curiosity has not prompted an examination of its contents, to ascertain Whether it Was designed for alrvell, a cellar, or a
military defence.
6. Four mounds of unequal dimensions. The largest is
situated near the west end of the town‘, and is at present 27 feet high. I The late Gen. Wayne caused about 8 feet of its
summit to be cut otf for the purpose of stationing a centinel
» thereon. Its ﬁgure is elliptical; its ircnmference at the
bae, is 440 feet. From the depression of the earth’s sur
face around its foot, it was no doubt formed by scooping up
the soil—-which Was not the usual practice among the abori
gines. Five hundred feet from this, in a northern direction,
there is another, ten feet high, of a circular ﬁgure, and nearly
ﬂat on the top. Northeast of this, is another, of less diame
ter and height. The last and most important, is situated at __
the intersection of Third and Main streets, and is connected
with the circular embankment by the low bank before dés~
cribed. Its venerable antiquity has not been respected ;_ on’
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 283
ly a small part of it remains. When ﬁrst discovered, it was
120 feet long, 60 wide‘, 10 high, and of an oval form. The
order of the strata, was gravel, pebbles, loam, soilﬁl=
Columbia, is situated on a handsome plain, near the bank
of the Ohio, a little below the mouth of Little Miami--it con
tains thirty or forty houses, and is settled principally by farm—
ers. Newtoum, is situated on the Chillicothe road‘, two
miles east of the Little Miami. likvnigomery, is eighteen
north-west of Cincinnati, in the Lebanon road, and about
equidistant between Mill creek and Little Miami. Reading,
ties ten miles north ofCincinnati, near Mill creek. Springﬁeld,
lies on the Hamilton road, one mile south of Mill creek, and _
eleven miles north of Cincinnati. Cleves, is a very small
village, situated near the intersection of the Lawrenceburgh
and Brookville made, two miles north of Gen. Harrisonﬁ
seat, at the north bend of the Ohio, and near the Miami
river. Harrison, is situated on the left bank of White water,
seven miles from the North Bend of the Ohio. It has been
already described, (see page 120.) Ooleraitl, stands on the
left bank of the Great Miami‘, about twenty miles from its
mouth. Crosby, is situated directly opposite Colerain, on.
 
"' Thewthor of the “ Picture of Cincinaatiii’ has given the following catalogue
of articles taken from the above mound, at various times, viz: ‘-‘ l. A piece of
jasper, rock chrystal, granite and some other stones, cylindieal at-their eltremi-9
ties, and swelled in the middle, with an annular groove near one end. 2. A cir
Wlar piece of cauuel coal, with a large opening in the centre, as if for an axis and a deep groove in the circumference, suitable for a band; "has a number oib
small pertorations, disposed in four equidistant lines, which run fromthe circum
ference towards the centre. ‘3. A small article» of the same’ shape, with eight
lines of perforations, but composed of argillaceous earth, sell polished. 4. A
bone, ornamented with several carved lines. supposed to be hiernglyphical. 5. A
sculptural representation of the head and beak of a rapacious bird, perhaps an em
gie. ‘6, A |nass,.ot‘ lead ore, (gulena) lumps of which have been found in some
other tumuli. 7, A quantity ot isinglass, (mica qnembrn-n.acca') plates of which
have been discovered in and about other mounds. 8. A small ovate piece of sheet
copper with two perforations. 9. A larger oblong. piece, of. the same metal, with
longitudinal grooves and ridges. l0 A number of beads, or sections of small.
hollow cylinders, apparently of bone or shell. -The teeth of a carnivorous an
imal, p1‘0babty'those'ot" the bear. l2. Several large marine shells, belonging
perhaps to the genus buccirmm; cut in such a manner as to serve [on domestic uten
sils, andne-arly' converted into the state of chalk. l4..5everal copper articles,
each consisting of. two sets of- circular conc‘a'vo-convex plates; the interior one of
each set connected With the other by a hollow axis, aroundwhich had been wound
a quantity of lint: the whole-compassed with the bones of a man's hand. 1.5. Hu
man bones. These were of different sizes; sometimes enclosed in rude coffins of
stone, butoftener lying blended with the earth—.geuerally surrounded by a por-.
tion of ashes and charcoal.“ '
284 . WESTERN GAZETTEERQ on,
the right bank of the same river; all, ekcept the ﬁrst, new
and ﬂourishing villages.
BUTLER CO UNTY,
Lies north of Hamilton, south of Preble, east of Indiana,
and west of Warren, and is about 24 miles square. It is
watered by the Big Miami, which passes diagonally through
it from northeast to southwest, as also by several handsome
creeks, such as Dryfork, running into V\"hitewater; lndiau
creek, Four Mile creek, Seven Mile creek, Elk and Dick’s
creeks, running into the Big Miami. The soil of two-thirds
of this county is fertile; but there are tracts of poor land in
the southeast and northwest.
Hamilton, the seat of justice, is situated 25 miles north
east of Cincinnati, on the east bank of the Miami. Its site
is elevated and beautiful: it has about 75 buildings, princi
pally of wood; a, post-oﬂice, and a printing-ofﬁce issuing a
weekly newspaper entitled, the “ Mianzi Intelligencer.” In
1816, there were 2877 male inhabitants, over 21 years of age, in this county. ' i '.
Rossv-ille, situated on the bank of the Miami opposite
Hamilton, is a small place. 
Middletorvn, is situated on the east side of the Miami, two
miles from the river, and twelve miles above ‘Hamilton.
Oxford, stands near the northern conﬁnes of the county,
has few houses, but in time will probably become a respecta~
ble town—as a college is to be established in it, according
to the provisions of alaw passed in 1810. This seminary is 
‘endowed with an entire township of land, which has been
chieﬂy leased to settlers; the leases extend to 99 years, re
ncwable for ever.
Two miles below Hamilton, there is an extensive ancient
fortiﬁcation on the top of an elevated hill; the walls are two
or three feet high, and enclose 80 acres of land, being high
est where the ground is most favorable to an attack Three
V EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 285
fourths of its circumference are bordered by deep vallies;
the remainder lies across a level ridge, and here the lines are
triple.”* There are a few openings in the wall, one or two
piles of limestone, and a mound twenty feet in diameter at
the base and seven feet high, near it.
PREB LE COUNTY, ‘
o
Is bounded south by Butler, east by Montgomery, north
by Darke and west by Indiana, It is 24 miles long and 18
wide, and is watered by the head branches of Four and Seven
Mile creeks, Franklin creek, Bushy fork, Twin creek, and
‘small branches of the north fork of White water, all affording
excellent mill seats. The surface of this county is pretty
level, soil rich and highly productive; timber, poplar, ash, black walnut of great size, and some oak. I
Eaton, is the chief town; it is situated near the site of old
Fort St. Clair, on a beautiful plain, inclined to the south. and
watered by Seven Mile creek. It has about 35 houses, stone
jail, and post-oﬂice-—and is distant from Cincinnati about sixty
miles, in a northern direction. This county contains several
Valuable tracts of unsold United States’ lands.
DARKE COUNTY,
ls bounded south by Preble, east by Miami county, north
by Indian lands, and east by Indiana, being thirty miles
long and twenty-four wide, and is watered by Panther, Green
ville and Stillwater creeks, and by the Mississinway; sur~
face level, soil rich, but wet in places; barrens and and prai
ries abound in the north-western parts, timber principally
oak; but walnut, sugar maple, buckeye, &c. are common
on the bottoms, and large tracts of vacant land, belonging to the United States. The sites of old Forts J etfcrson, Recov- I
cry and Greenville, are in this county: the last has been ﬁxed
"" See Picture of Cincinnati, page 210.
 
‘sac wssvrssn sazsrrssaa on
on as the county seat; but at present it is ‘only a village of
cabins; the population is now rapidly augme_nting- V
MIAMI COUNTY,
Has Montgomery south, Champaign east, Indian lands
north, and Darke on the west. It is about thirty miles in
length, and twenty broad; and is abundantly watered by the
Big Miami, which divides it from north to south ;I by the
Southwest, or Stillwater branch, Panther and Greenville
creeks; Loramie’s creek, and Fawn, Lost, andHoney creeks; \ the surface is level, soil moist and rich. i
Troy/—the seat of justice for Miami county, I stands on
the west side of the Great Miami, twenty miles above Day
ton, and 72 north of Cincinnnati. It has a post-oﬁce and a
public library. Its site is a handsome plain, which, however,
terminates in swamps, about one mile. from the rearof the
town.
Washington, eight miles above Troy, and situated on the
same side of the river, on_ the site of an old Indian settlement.
It has a post-otlzice, and valuable mills and advantageous lionsfor other hydraulic establishments
I am indebted to John Johnston, Esq. Indian Agent, for
the following interesting description of this county.
PiqzuzeTonm, isa post town, situated on the west bank of‘
the Miami river of Ohio, in the county of Miami‘; and al-.
though not the seat of‘justice, is by far the placeF of the great;
est notoriety and importance within the county.‘ This is
owing to the beauty of its situation, being the site,of the old
national town of the Shawanoese Indians, who named it after
I
_l I
I one of their principal tribes, viz. the Piqua tribe. The fall;
 I I I in the river at the town, aﬁbrd many sites for water workis.--t . I
/ The Shawanoese were routed and driven from this place,
/ /If about the 1780, by the Kentuckians. It is 77. nules north I
/ from Cincinnati, about 80 miles west from Columbus, the per
manent seat of government of the state, 125 miles south oﬁ ~
EMIGRANT’s ISIRECTORY. 2'87
~ for: Meigs at Miami bay of Lake Erie, 3 miles baaw the
mouth of Loramie’s creek, the principal navigable stream of
the Miami, and which affords a navigation for keel boats‘, bat
teanx and perogues, within 12 miles of the Qt. Marys, which
with the St. Josephs, forms the Miami of the Lake at Fort
Wayne, and thence running a north course eiitefs Lake
Erie at Fort Meigs. Piqua town, is thirty mus; by and from
St. Marys, and the saine ‘ distance from Wapaghkanetta, at
the head of navigation on the Auglaize river. Another prin
cipal branch of the Miami-ohthe-Lakes, Which enters it at ‘Fort Deﬁance, ﬁfty milesiby land from tvapaghkanetta.‘ The
navigation of the Auglaiz‘e is not considered so safe as’that of
the St. Marys, but itis the shortest route of the trio, by ﬁve '
or six days, to the lake. Both routes are much used ﬂat
boats, keels and perogues, in tranporting the surplus produce
or the country to the different military establishments on the
lake. A canal to connect the waters of the Ohio, with those
of the lake, between the heads of Lor*amie’s creek, St. Mary’s
and the Auglaize, is quite practicable; and is anticipated at
no very distant period. It is probably no where else so prac
ticable within the limits of this state. Piqua has ﬁve mer
cantile stores, two taverns, a market house, cabinet maker,‘
several house carpenters, two blacksmiths, two boot and shoe
makers, two saddle and harness makers, two Windsor chair
makers, two house painters, one tannery, a grist and two saw
mills; two practising physicians, and one apothecary shop;
two taylors, two batters, a clock and watch maker, and, one
silversmith ; two wheel rights, one blue dyer, one carding ma
chine ; one Secedar meeting house in the town, and a Metho
dist tneeting house in the vicinity ; an association for manufac
turing and banking, with a capital of one hundred thousand
dollars, Was established in 1815. The Legislature 'not hav
ing thought proper to charter it, the association was dissolved.
The country around Piqua, is settled by emigrants, chieﬂy
from Pennsylvania, New-Jersey and Kentucky ;‘they are an ,
industrious, moral and religious people; and many of them
‘.288 ‘ WESTERN GAZETTEER; oit,
possessed of considerable wealth. Religious denominations
are Methodists, Presbyterians, Seceders, Baptists and New
lights. The country is healthyand fruitful, abounding with
springs of the purest water. The lands generally of the ﬁrst
quality. Timber—the different kinds of ash, the oak, Walnut,
hickory, beech, aple and sugar tree; cherry, buckeye,
honey locust, &c. _
All the unsold lands belong to the United States, and they.
are‘ to be purchased at the land otﬁce in Cincinnati, at two,
dollars per acre‘; one fourth of the purchase money to be
paid down at the time of entry or purchase, one fourth in two
years after, one fourth in three years, and one fourth in four
' years; and at the expiration of the ﬁfth year, if not paid out
for in in full, the land reverts to the U. S. and is oﬂbred at
public auction, and sold to the highest bidder. But such is
the force of public opinion, that none is found hardy enough
to come forward and bid against the original claimant. He,
in almost every instance, is permitted to re-enter his land, aind
in this wayultimately redeems it. By the act of congress,
there is in every township three sections, or 640 acres, re
served for future sales, and these are held at four dollars an
acre. A whole section, a half or a quarter, may be purchas-'
ed ; but the government will not dispose of a lesser quantity
than a quarter scctioh, or 160 acres. VVhen the land is paid‘
for, patents issue from the Department of State, signed by
the President, audreturned to the land oﬂice, where the
claimants will receive them, on paying the postage from the
‘ seat of government. These titles are of the best kind, en
tirely safe, and indisputable. In every township there is 0nd
section of public land set apart for the support of schools.~
No country can oﬁ’c'r greater inducements to the industrious,
enterpising emigrant, if we regard the Soil, the climate, the
low price of lands, the goodness of the title, and certai"n pros
pectof a market for the surplus produce ;' for the outlet to
the sea is both ways, viz. by the lakes and the Ohio. Im
proved landsells from 4 to 25_'dollars an acre. 7
p
"EMIGRAN'M 'DiRP;c"ronY. as
‘As in all -new countries,‘ manufactures are in their infancy, all
“the handicraft arts of the ﬁrst necessity are in use. T hefarmers
in a great degree mainufacture their own clothing. Sheep are
Ffound to answer well, and there are great numbers for a new
-country. Hall‘-blood and quarter Merinoes are ‘common. Great
-numbers of horned cattle and hogs are raised and drove to market.
The price of produce the ‘present year(l8l7) is as follows; corn
33 cents per buslﬂel, wheat 75 cents; buckwheat 87- 1-2 cents; voats 33 cents; pork, $4.50 per hundred; beef, $3.50; whiskey,
62 1-2 centsper gallon; 11 good milch cow $15 ; a good working
horse, $40; sheep, $3.50 each; butter 12 1-2 cents per lb.;
cheese, 12 L2; ﬂour for market, delivered at ‘St. Marys and
Wapaghkanetta, $6,130 per barrel. The prices of produce the
present year are higher than usual, the last season being very
unfavorable for crops of wheat, corn and grass. Corn is usually
purchased here in the fall for 25 cents, buckwheat and oats the
same, wheat 50 cents, pork and beef $2.50 to 3.
In the county of Miami there are no slaves, and very few
tree black,s.- Slavery in every shape is prohibited throughout
the state: and our laws interdict the residence of free blanks,
unless under very special circumstances. There is not any
prospect that the constitution of this state will ever _-be altered
.-so as to allow of slavery.
'1
The lands still occupied and owned by the Indians, within _
"the‘limits_ of this state, belong to the Wyandots, Sha-wanosese
and Ottowas.
There are many ancient fortiﬁcations inand about Piqua. The '
.present'ra,ce of Indians are entirely ignorant of the cause-or time
of theirerection. Some of these forts are of great extent, and
some of them so small thatthey do not enclose more than halt‘ an
acre. The excavations are all from the inside, and the entrance
> °into\lhem Tromthe north.‘ rl_‘he ditches ‘of some. of them, are at this time “six 't'e‘et,"hig*h above ‘the surface ofﬂthe ‘surrounding
'grounds;u-'s'oIne , them are constructed in masses ofygravel _a_’ni;l
‘stone, ‘where it‘yvo|ild‘have'r.b:ere;n‘entrénielydiﬂieultit ‘sat alto
gétssr"im‘p'm’eﬁssb1s toh-¢fst‘tié‘m without the lidot ir’on”to‘o'ls.
d1‘here' is} one on my fai'm,}wliich encloses about seventéen"a'cres';
‘it'is“of a‘ circular For‘n1,‘th_e‘ walls all round in part “bu_i_lt"o'l' stone. ‘The stbiie forithe purpose,'have'been shéisa from the ‘river; about
‘ 0 o
 
 
l/
3 t g i Z
i
l i
i l
5 i
‘sap _W_EST_ERN GA-ZT'l‘EElt; oh,
' l
E
600 yards distant. T-he trees on all these forts, are as large as
those in the surrounding forests; and hence the conjecture, that
the forts are not less than 400.years standing. I cannot ﬁnd-.that
any of them are to be found due north of this county; they can be
traced south and south-west, to the Floridas.
Emigrants approaching this country from New-York, or the
btates east of that, would save much labor and expense to land at
Fort Meigs or Lower Sandusky; from the foriner to proceed by
water up the Miami-of-the-lakes to Fort Deﬁance or Fort Wayne,
and ascend the Auglaize or St. Marys. If thei_r destination was
the new state of Indiana, from Fort Wayne they could pass it
portage of eight miles, haul their craft over, and descend me
Wabash to any given point below.
MOJVTG OMERI’ co UJl/‘TY.
u... .
Lies south of Miami,north of parts of Butler and Warren,east
of Preble and west of Green. It is I-twenty-fou'r miles tong and
‘twenty-two -wide. The great Miami runs through it from north to
-south, near its western boundary. The Stillwater branch; waters
the nort-h-west corner, for about fourteen miles, ‘on a direct line;
Mad river winds live or six miles through the eastern side of the
connty,be['oreentering the Miami,a little above Dayton. Besides
these there are Franklin, Bear and Wolf creeks from the ‘west,
and Holc’s-creek from the east; all entering the Great Miami,
The surface is uneven, consisting of rich hills and narrowvallies,
-except on the -large streams, where there arewidia andvaluable
bottoms, particularly on Mad river. The upland is heavily tint‘
lsered, and equal to any in the state. There yet remain valua
ble tracts of public lands to beentered. > , . I Ie. . ,. 0 ~ *
Dayton, is handsomely situated on the east bank of the.[§real;
’Miami,a little below the conﬂuence of the Mad river and Still
water, and is at pi-esent the seat of justice. ltwas planned and ‘
surveyed under the direction of General Wilkinson, in 1796,
whose title failed. The present proprietor is Daniel C. Cooper,
who has given eight lots forcounty purposes, schools and churches,
The public buildings are a court house, Methodist meeting house,
Presbyterian church, academy and library; a banlr -called the
 
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 291
’ _ “ Dayton Manufacturing Company,” with a capital of $100,000;
a post-oﬁice, and aprintinb-oftice, issuing a weekly newspaper, en
‘titled the “ Ohio Republican.” A bridge is about to be erected
over the mouth of Mad river. There are about 130 dwelling
houses, besides mechanics’ shops-—there are several grain and saw
mills near the town, at the mouth of Mad river, and on Wolf creek.
Dayton is the largest village ‘between the Miamis, except Cin
cinnati. . ‘ ’ ‘if’
Near the mouth of Hole’s creek, on a plain, are remains of an
cient works, of great extent. One of the embankments iricloses
about 160 acres, and the walls are in some parts nearly twelve
feet high. '
WARREN CO UNTY,
Is situated south of Montgomery and a part of Green, north of
parts of Hamilton and Clermont, west of Clinton, and east of But
ler. It is traversed by the Little Miami, from northwest to south
east; together with the numerous tributary creeks and rivers; the
largest of which are Todd’s and Cmsar’s creeks, running into the
‘Little Miami from the east; Turtle creek from the west, and
Dick’s and Clear creeks, ﬂowing into the Great Miami. The
surface of this county is happily waving, being no where too hilly
to admit, of convenient cultivation, or so level as to become wet
and marshy: its southernhalf has generally a thin soil, and oak
“timber; its northern, is equal in fertility to any land, in the state
—timbcred with poplar,‘ sugar maple, black walnut, bass wood,
' blue ash, &c.
Lebanon, the seat of justice, is situated nearly i-n the centre of
the county, on the post road, between Cincinnati and Chillicothe,
between two branches of Turtle creek, near t‘heir~junction. " It is
' four miles east of the Little Miami, and thirty ‘north-east of Cin- '
cinnali. Its situation is healthy. Excellent water is obtained, at’,
'the depth of twenty-ﬁve or thirty feet; building materials, clay,
lime, stone and wood, abundant. It has a court house, stone jail,
Baptist and Methodist meeting houses, school house, post-oltice,
printing-oﬁiizc, at which is printed a paper, called the “ Western
Sp‘y,”f a‘public library; a banking association, called the “ Le
292 WESTERN GAZETTEER ; oh,
banon Miami Banking Company,” with a capital limited to
250,000 dollars; besides several stores and mechanics’ shops. ‘
Franklin; another handsome village of this county, stands on
the east bank of the Great Miami, ten miles south-west of Leba
non, and 34 from Cincinnati. Timber and other building materi
als, are plentiful, and grist and saw mills are numerous in its vi
cinity. I t has a post-oﬁice, and about ﬁfty-tige families.
Waynesville, stands onlhe east bank of the Little Miami, ten,
miles north-east of Lebanon. It is inhabited and surrounded
principally by Friends or Quakers. It hats a‘post-oﬂice, a brick
n uieeting house, 80 by 40; brick school house, grist and saw mills ‘
convenient--situation healthy.
Six miles from. Lebanon, and above the month of Todd’s Fork,
are curious remains of aboriginal works. The form of one of the
forts is trapezodial; the walls are of earth, and generally eight or
ten feet high; but in one place where it crosses the brow of the
elevated hill on which it stands, it is eighteen feet high; the Lit
tle Miami lies to the‘ west, and deep ravines on the north, south
east and south; making it a position of great strength; it has nu
merous angles, retreating and salient, and generally acute. It
has 80 gateways. The area of the whole enclosure is nearly 100
acres. Two mounds are situated a few rods to the east, which are
about nine teethigh. They are not far apart and wallsextend
from them in opposite directions to the adjoining ravines. ‘ Traces
of several roads are yet Visible: two of them are sixteen feet
wide and elevated about three feet like our turnpikes.
CLERMONT COUNTY, Z ‘
I Is bounded south by the Ohio river, east by Adams and High
land counties, north by Clinton and Warren, and west by Hamil
ton. It is large and will probably be divided. It is watered on
the west by the Little Miami, which separates it for twelve or ﬁf
teenmiles from Hamilton ; by the East Fork of the Little ‘Miami,
Stone Lickand O’Bannon’s creeks; on_ the south, by the Ohio riv
er, for the distance of forty miles, and by ﬁfteen large creeks, emp
.tyi’ng-into the same river—-the. principal of which are Red Oak
creek, whiehnaters the north-east corner; Straight creek, White
‘EMI'GRANT’s DIRECTORY. 293
Oak creek, very large, heads in Highland county, Bullskin, Bear,
Big’ Indian, Little Indian, Crossand Muddy creeks. Its southern ‘
parts along the Ohio are hilly; the interior and northern parts
level.--The bottoms of the Ohio, in this county, are wide, rich
and heavily timbered. The prevailing timber oh the uplands
is oak.
WiUiamWe seat of justice, _is situated on the north
bank of the East Fork of the Little Miami, thirty miles east
north-east of Cincinnati, on the shortest road to Chillicothe. Itis
well supplied with water, for mills and domestic use. It has a
stone court house, post-otﬁce and two printing offices, which issue
two weekly newspapers, called the “ Political Censor,” and
“ Western American.”
Milfortl, stands on the east bank of the Little Miami, ten miles
from its month. In the vicinity of this village are to be seen the
remains of several ancient t'ortiﬁcations.”‘
Nwiltown, is situated on the bank of the Ohio, at the mouth of
Bear creek. Stanton, is situated at the mouth of Red Oak creek,
near the north-eastern corner of the county. Emigrants would
ﬁnd many advantageous situations for settlements in this county,
particularly on the Ohio bottoms.
Several new villages are commenced on the margin or the Ohio,
between Muddy and Eagle creeks.
CLINTON CO UNTY,
Is bounded south by Clermont and a part of Highland'coun—
ties; east by parts of Highland and Fayette; north by Green,
 
* The largest of these forts is situated on the top of the ﬁrst hill above
the conﬂuence of the East Fork with the, Miami. It consists ot a square
enclosure, three sides of which have each a single opening, and the fourth
two. From thisside there is a semicircular projt-ction,eovering nearly as
, much ground as the square itself. It has three openings, at unequal dis
tances. From the junction of these two ﬁgures on the west. there run two
parallel banks, which terminate at acireular wall, from which two others
are extended southwardly. These are divergent-, and between them, near
their termination, there are three hanks connected at the inner end. From
the north-east corner of the ﬁgure ﬁrst described, there are discernible for
two miles in the same direction, appearntices which indicate a road in
‘ former times. The ground at present is raised from one to two feet. high.
The width of this causeway appears to have varied from Q0 to 30 feet..—
, On the opposite sideof the Miami rivet‘, above Round-bottom, there are
similar works of considerable extent. Picture QfCt'1t0i'M'“1li.
294 WESTERN , GAZETTEER ; »_o'R;
v
and west by Warren. It is about twenty iniles long and ﬁfteen
wide, and is watered, principally, by branches of Paint creek,
running into the Scioto, and Todd’s Fork of the Little Miami.»
The surface of this county is generally level-in some parts
marshy; it contains muchgood land, the greater part in a state
of nature. \
Wilmington, the only village deserving menti_on,_is the seat of justice. It is nearly equidistant between, Ciiitsihnnati and Chilli
cothe, or about ﬁfty miles from each.
GREEN COUNTY, . , .. ..
Has Clinton south,_ Fayette and Madison east, Champaign and
IiIon_tgomery.west., It is about twenty-four miles squagz; and is
watered by the Little Miami, which runs in a transverse direc
tion through the county, from north-west to southeast; Mad river
waters the south-west corner. Caesar’s and _Massie’s creeks, tri
butaries of the Little Miami, from the east, water large portions
of the county. The western side of the county is watered by Su
gar, and Big and Little Beaver creeks.
The Great Falls of the Little Miami, are in this ‘county: in
the course of a mile the river is precipitated from several suc , _ _ . cessrve tables, winch produces a vast number of line null seats. 3.
The vallies are wide, rich and productive; the uplands general-.
ly of a second quality, with a proportion of oak barrens.
Xenia, the seat ofjustice, is situated nearly in the centre of the
cotmty, on Shawanmse creek. It is three miles east of the,Little
Miami, and ﬁfty-1ivenorth~east of Cincinnati. It has a brick court
house, an academy and church ; ‘a-post-oﬁice, and a printing-oﬂice
which emits a weekly paper, entitled the “ Ohio Vehicle.” The
situationis healthy.
CIIAMPAIGN COUNTY,
Lies north ‘of Green, west of Delaware, south of the Indian‘
lands, and east of Miami county.‘ The great Miami meanders
1 through its s'outh-western corner ; many of its numerous tributary
streams water its southern side. Mad river waters the interior
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ' ass
5
parts, or rather traverses it from its north-western to its south-east->
ern corner. The East Fork of Mad river irrigates an extensive
portion of the county lying between Mad river and Delaware
county. In addition to these are King’s and Nettle creeks, ‘and
numerous rivulets and runs. ‘No county in the state possesses
a greater number of durable streams, or ﬁner situations for Vmills.
Its name is a correct index to its surface ; it has extensive allu
vions or ch pat‘ tracts on the east side of Mad river: on the
West side are rich heavy timbered lands; barren and swampy
prairies are to be, found towards the eastern side. It is, however,
a large and-fertile county, and holds out great advantages to emi
grants.
7 Urbanna, the county seat, is situated on a- large and fertile prai- ~ .
Tie, two miles east of Mad river. Two permanent brooks floiv
through it, and well water is easily obtained. The number of
dwelling houses is upwards of 100, chieﬂy of wood. It has a posh
oﬁice, a printing-olﬁce, in Which is published a paper called the
“ Spirit of Liberty,” and a banking company. Fevers and argues
are annual visitants. ‘Timber, clay and quarries of sandy lime
stone are convenient. ‘
Springﬁeld is situated eleven miles south of Urbanna, on the
south side of the East Fork of Mad river; on the south it has a
copious and durable creek, with falls of thirty feet descent. A
woollen manufactory has been erected at these falls.
A few miles below Dayton, are mounds of great elevation. One,
situated on a prairie, half a, mile from the Franklin road, is said
to be upwards of 100 feet in height, and 286' feet diameter at the '
base. \The whole mound is covered with large forest trees.—~
From its summit one has an extensive view of the circumjaccnt
I ' . . country. There is no appearance of the earth havmg been taken
from the surrounding surface.
Notc—-The above described counties of Hamilton, Butler, Pre
ble, Darke, Miami, Montgomery, Warren, Clermont, Clinton,‘
Green and Champaign, are all watered by the Great and Little
Miamis; and which embrace adistrict about ninety miles i‘n_length, , '
and sixty broad. This is usually called the “llIiamiC\.ottt1tl'y.?’
o
296 WE-STERN GAZETTEER; on,
“ DELA WA RE COUNTY,
Has Madison and Pickaway south, Licking and Knox- coun
ties east, Indian lands north, and Champaign west. It is tine|y'
watered by the Scioto, the Whetstone Fork, Big-belly, Allum, and
Walnut creeks ; all large streams, which travel-se_th_§\county from
north to south, parallel with each other, at the distimce of from
four to ten miles apart. Soil and surface, well adapted to all the
purposes of cultivation. Improved lands are high, owing to the
faeilitywith which produce is transported to market. The chief
towns are Delaware, and Norton, on Whetstone, and New-Balti
more, on the Sciot<i—all new and thriving villages.
FRANKLIN CO UNTY,
Situated nearly in the centre of the state, has Pickaway south,
parts of Fairﬁeld and Licking east, Delaware north, -and Madison
west. It is ﬁnely watered by the Scioto, and Whetstone rivers,
Big belly creek and its two forks, Allum and Walnut creeks.-.
The surface of this county is gently waving, except along the
vallies of the streams; soil, similar to that of Delaware and Champaign. I
Columbus, the metropolis of the state, is situated on the east
bank of the Scioto, on an elevated prairie, of several hundred acres,
and of a soil equal in durability to any in the world. The length
of the town is one mile and forty rods, is parallel to the river hav
ing a straight line on the east; the course of the streets is north
12 deg. 30 min. west, their width 87 feet, alternately intersected
at every third lot, by an alley or a cross street, 37 and 33 feet
wide, and 24 in number; Broad street, (120 feet wide) which com
mences at the river, where a bridge is about to be erected, and
communicates at the eastern extremity of the town with the main
road leading to‘Newark, Zanesville and Pittsburgh." This road is
several miles entirely straight and not far from mathematically lev
el. Contiguous to Broad street on the north. High street on the
west, and State_street on the south, is the Public square, including
ten acres, the most beautiful and central spot in the town; on
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. ' 297‘
\
Which is erected and nearly completed, the state house, built of
brick, of suﬂicient magnitude and considerable elegance; and
the state oﬁices, all in one block, of one hundred feet in length.-—
The Penitentiary is situated in the south-west corner of the town. _
Thewhole nurither of buildings is upwards of 300. Some are‘
rude 'and"temporary, "but the greater part are elegant and commo
dious; nearlyé_2Q,0 which are dwelling houses-v There are‘ ‘—w
a
and a number of mechanics’ shops. There are two springs issuing
east of the town and discharging into the river; one on the north
about a dozen stores, six taverns, a post-oﬁice, two printing-oﬁices, V
and the other on the south, almost encircle the town. They are ‘ '
deemed capable of moving machinery suﬂicient for most manufac
tures or mills, a large part of the year. Situated, as this town is,
on a high airy plain, in the centre of ‘large and populous settle
ments, enjoying a safe and convenient navigation, and possessing
great political and local advantages, it cannot fail in time, to rival
the ﬁrst cities in the Western country. It was commenced in 1813.
The rise of lots has been rapid, almost without aparallel. Lots
nearest thepuhlic square, have sold for 2000 dollars, and no where
in the town for less than 200. Boats of ten tons burthen can as
cend to the townfor six months in the year: and in freshets ves~
sels of 200 tons, could descendpinto the Ohio. There is an abund
ance of timber, lit for ship building, in Franklin and Delaware
counties.
F1-anklinton, is situated on the west bank of the Scioto, oppo
site Columbus, and just below the Whetstone branch.’-lt contains '
about seventy houses—-and has been, in a manner, eclipsed by the
metropolis. ~ ‘ ,
Worthington, which is about equal in size to Eranklinton, is a
ﬂourishing village‘, situated on tliebank of Whetstone, 16 miles
above Columbus. > '
PICKA WA coUNTY,
Has Ross south, Fsirlield east, Franklin north, and parts of Ms
dison and Fayette west; the Scioto runs through this. county.-—
The other streams are Deer, and Darby’s creek-from the west, and
Lower Walnut fragttlte _¢_'as,t, all large and emptying into‘ the
,, P P {I .
I v
298 WESTERN GAZETTEER; on,
3
Scioto. The soil of this county is of the best quality. Pickaway,
plains which are about twelve miles long and three wide, is a prai
rie of inexhaustible fertility. Here are to be seen some of the
ﬁrst agricultural prospects in the state. The bottoms of the Scio
to are wide and of the ﬁrst quality. The towns are Ciroleville,
‘ Bloomﬁeld, Jefferson, Livingston and Westfall.
Circlepille, the seat of justice, is situated opp t’h__e_¥Pielsaway bot
tom, about half smile east of the Scioto. Its\si“te is two mounds of
earth, one circular, and the other square, Containing about twenty
!1_0l'es. The ﬁrst is enclosed by two circumvallations, whose per
pendicular height is about ﬁfteen feet above the adjoining ditch.
In the centre of the town is a small vacant circle. From this
focus the streets diverge in regular radii, intersecting the walls at
equal distances. The greater part of the buildings are within the
external circle. It contains about 250 buildings, a post-oﬂice,
court house of an octagonal form, and thirteq stores, &c. The
growth of this town has been rapid—it owes its existence to the
wealth of the surrounding plantations rather than to political
causes or commercial advantages
MADISON COUNTY, '
Has Fayette south, Franklin and Pickaway east, Delaware '
north, and Champaign and Green west. ‘It is Watered by the
vNorth Fork of Paint and Darby’s creek. The eastern parts ‘are
__broken, or moderately hilly; especially the dividing ridge be
tween the waters of Paint and Little Miami. Towards the western
parts, are prairies and barrens, but the greater part ﬁrst rate land.
It is pretty thickly settled, and has few unseated lands inviting to
settlers. _
New,-London is the chief town—it contains about 100 buildings.
FA YE TTE COUNTY,
~Has Highland and Scioto south,"‘RossandPickaway east, Madi
son north, and Green and Clinton west. It is watered by the
North and West Forks of Paint creek, and head branches of
C,:esar?s creek. In soil, surface, and general aspects, it closely
resembles Clinton, already described. Washington is the chief
town.
EMIGRA,NT’s inanoroar. em
HIGHLAND COUNTY,
T“' ' I
Has Adams south, Pike east, Ross, Glinton and,Fayette north,
and Clermont west. It is copiously watered by forks of Brush
and Paint creeks, and by small creeks and brooks running into
the East Fork of the Little Miami; its surface is generally hilly;
free from stagnan't~wilters or marshes, which insures health to the
inhabitants. It is thinly settled, and offers many eligible situations
to industrious emigrants.
‘
.
- :1, Mounds and old forts are to be seen in many parts of the chun
- ty. On the head branches of the East Fork of the Little Miami,
is an ancient work, different in ﬁgure to any hitherto discovered.
It consists of a square enclosure, with “ nine banks of long para
pets united at one end, exhibiting very exactly the ﬁgure of a gridiron. In this fort most of the gateways are guarded by straightk
or crescent-formed batteries.”
ADAMS CO UNTY,
l
Has‘the Ohio river south, Scioto county east, Highland county
north, and Clermont west. It is hilly and broken along the Ohio
-—is watered by Eagle, Brush and Isaac’s creeks, and by waters of
Paint and Little Miami. It has a hilly. and broken surface, rich,
deep soil, heavy forests of oak, hickory, sugar maple, black wal
nut, black elm and sycamore. Although a populous county, it.
has yet considerable bodies of unseated lands, belonging to indivi
duals, mostly non-residents. There is an abundant supply of iron
ore on Brush creek, upon which Gen. M’Arthur and a Mr. James
erected a furnace last autumn. It has several villages.
West- Union, the seat of justice, is situated on a branch of the
East Fork of the Little Miami, on the road leading from Lime
stone, in Kentucky, to Chillicothe. It has about 100 houses—a
court house, jail, printing-otlice and post-office, six stores, four inns,
and a great number of mechanics. The surrounding country is
rolling and perfectly healthy; no instance of billions fever and
ague has occurred; springs and mill seats abundant.- Wild lands
. worth from ﬁve to twenty dollars.
,\;
300 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
‘ 4
Manclustcr, stands on the bank of the Ohio, near the lover end
of Massie’s island, ﬁfteen miles above Maysville; it is pleasantly
situated, commands a view of the Ohio; butappears stationary;
it has about forty old houses.
Arlamsville, is situated just below the mouth of Brusli creek,
and eight miles above Manchester, which it resembles in appear
ance and size. Here are ﬁne bottoms, which contiut1§ wide for
twelve miles above and below the mouth of Bl‘ush"t:reek._
scroro COUNTY, " "
:Situated on both sides‘ of the river of the sanie name, has
the Ohio river south,Gallia east, Ross and Pike north, and‘
Adams west. It is watered by the Scioto and Ohio rivers,‘Little
Scioto river, Turkey, Pine, Stout’s, Twin’s and Scioto creeks. ,
The bottoms of the Ohio and Scioto, in this county, are wide,
and of the ﬁrst quality. The hills near the Ohio are covered
with white oak and hickory, and generally of a third quality, but
suitable to pasturage and wheat. Many unseated bottom tracts
could be purchased for six, eight, or-ten dollars, at a bargain.-
Turkey and Pine creeks abound with ﬁne sites for mills, which
' are but partially improved.
Portsmouth, the seat of justice, stands on a peninsula formed
by the conﬂuence of the Scioto with the Ohio. Its site is plea
sant, gently inclining to the south. It contains about 100 houses,
mostly new.
' Alexandria, is situated on the margin of the Ohio, two miles be
low Portsmouth, and immediately below the Scioto. It was form
erly the county seat, but was abandoned in consequence of an in
undation caused by an extraordinary rise of the Ohio. The wa
ter rose four feet above the level of the plain on which it is built. '
I measured the bank of the Ohio at this place last June, and found
it to be 70 feet above the surface of the water, which was then at
an ordinary height. There are ﬁfteen old buildings, and a tavern
well supported by the votaries of Bacchus. Indolence and dissi-.
pation characterize the inhabitants. They have a constant
supply of excellent ﬁsh. I saw a catfish caught at the mouth
of‘ Scioto, weighing seventyfour pounds. The bottoms for many’
miles above and below the mouth of Scioto, are from one to we
EMIGRANT’s' DIRECTORY. _ 301
tniles in width, and as rich as can ‘be desired. Mounds and walls
Ire numerous; a wall from four to seven feet high extends from
the Great to the Little Sciotor-a distance of seven miles.
PIKE COUNTY,
Lies on both sides of the Scioto river--has Scioto county south, I
Ross east and north, and Highland west. It is watered_by,the
Scioto and its tributary creeks and brooks; the surlace is consi
derably broken; timber, oak, hickory and maple; soil generally
poor, except on the bottoms.
Piketon, situated on tbeeast bank of the Scioto, is the county
seat. Mounds are numerous throughout the county.
ROSS COUNTY.
Is situated on both sides of the Scioto, which divides it about
equally. It has parts of Scioto andPike [counties south, Athens
and Gallia east, Fairﬁeld and'Pickaway north, and Fayette and
Highland West; and is watered by Paint creek on the west side
of the Scioto; Kenneconic and Salt creeks on the east, This is
a rich healthy county. The inhabitants are mostly wealthy, and
have elegant buildings, large and well improved farms; the' travel-'
ier on approaching a farm-house is ‘forcibly struck with the indi
cations of plenty, which are presented at every step; such‘ as im
tnense ﬁelds of grain, large stacks of wheat, cspacious corn cribs
well ﬁlled even in summer; numerous herds of stock, cattle, horses,
hogs, sheep, common and merino; yards swarming with poultry;
' and should he have occasion to enter the hospitable mansion, he
will there find the same proofs of abundance and perfect inde
pendence; every thing is on the scale of external Wealth; a plent
teous board, elegant and costly furniture, well dressed children
and servants. In short, ' " ’ ‘
“ A clean ﬁre'-side and ajomm,"
and what is better, a friendly welcome, without any of those sous
looks andsly watchings of the motion of your knife and-fork, often witnessed in the north. The above remarks applyto-<all the
rich counties of this state, as well as to those ofKentucky, Tenses
aee and Louisiana. ’ - 
302 WESTERN GAZE'I"l‘-EEB; OR,
‘\ Ch'illicvthe, the seat of justice, and formerly of the state go
1ernment, is situated on the west bank of the Scioto, (66 miles
from its mouth) on a beautiful and extensive plain. It is laid out
on a large scale, with a great number of out-lots attached to The plan is regular; the streets cross each other at right angles,
and every square is divided into four parts by lanes crossing each
other also at right angles; the streets are 66 feet wide, the alleys
'16; the lots contain tour acres each. It ‘contains about 500
buildings, and about 4000 inhabitants. It has several stately pub
lic buildings, four churches, several rope walks, about 40 dry good
stores, cotton and woollen factory, besides breweries, distilleries,
and tanneries. In short, it is a brisk and elegant town, in the cen
tre of fertile andpopulous settlements, and surrounded by a great
number of hamlsnme and tasty country seats. It has three print
ing otliccs, two issuing weekly ‘newspapers, the “~Frecdonian,”
and “Supporter,” and one for books; a post-ofﬁce and a land
office for the disposal of the public lands. Gentlemen of taste
would ﬁnd -Chillicothe an agreeable residence.
Bainbrirlge, is situated on a small branch of Paint creek on the
Maysville road, 38 miles north-east of West-Union, and 26 south
west of Chillicothe. It is surrounded by a well settled country—- '
it has about fifty houses——land in its vicinity worth 25 dollars an
acre. About a mile to the northward of this village, are some of
the best mills in the slate, belonging to Gen. Massie, who is besides
the proprietor of Bainbridge. Wild lands around this town are
too high to be advantageously purchased/for farming. It belongs
to the favorites of Plulus, who obtained it for a song, but now re
fuse to sell it, in parcels, unless at an exorbitant price. So much
for the blindness of legislation.
It has several other villages-pthe principal of which are Am
sterdam' and Adelphi.
The vallies of Paint and Scioto, and indeed many of the adja
cent hills abo_und with the vestiges of an immense ancient popula
tion; and perhaps, ‘the curious antiquary, can no where in the
western country ﬁnd a richer ﬁeld for his researches.
Ten miles West of Chillicothe, on one of the elevated and steep
ridges of Paint creek, are walls of stone, now in ruins, extending
along the brott of the hill, for nearly a mile and a half, and-enclor»
t
n-db-.-ea. MI J_____-2-la“
j EMIGRAN'1‘s DIRECTORY. 303
irig upwards of 100 acres. It was formed of undressed freestone,
and appears, from the quantity of stones, to have been twelve or
ﬁfteen feet high, and four or ﬁve thick; many of the stones bear
thc marks of tire. The wall bearsthe appearance of having been
shaken down by an earthquake. Mr. James Foster, of Chillicothe,
who particularly examined it, says, that“ within the area there
were about thirty furnaces--from some of which he took cinders
that resembled in every way those formed in blacksmith’s forges.
From some of them he got pieces of burnt untrrought clay, that
resembled pumice stone, but are of a pale blue color. Those lying
on the surface of the earth are covered with coats of‘ rusty mail,
which probably had lain there since the days of Lycurgas. The
ﬁrst is nearly circular, with ten passes or gateways placed at regu
lar distances, at one of which there is the appearance of a well or
spring, enclosed with a stone wall. Trees from three to live feet
in diameter, which were obviously preceded by a more gigantic
growth, if we may judge from the long traces left by those that
have mouldered into their native dust. No stones are to be found
within one mile of the walls. “ At the bottom ,ofthe hill, on the
south-west side, are the ruins of the tomri, or rather oily. The
cellars and the stone foundations of the houses still remain. The
streets are in regular squares. Near it _there is a large mound
perfectly level to the top. It was from all appearances the resi
dence of a warlike race.” The surrounding country abounds with
iron ore, and with excavations,’ which the inhabitants suppose to
have been formerly made in search of that mineral. I have my
self seen the ruins of several ancient stone buildings, in Ross and
Pickaway counties; one within a few miles of Chillicothe, near
the Maysville road, appeared, as measured by the eye, sixty feet
long by thirty wide; the stones were generally large and gagged,
without the least mark of the hammer, or any other iron tool. Six
large beech and sugar mapletrees were growing Within the enclo
sure. A mound thirty feet high, andperfectly conical was stand
ing on the site of Chillicothe for several years after the first white
settlements. It has lately beeflevelled with the earth, to make
room for s ﬁne brick house ; this-want of respect for aboriginal an
tiquities, is too often evinced by the people of the west. On a high
hill, on the opposite side of the Seioto, is another moundof equal _
magnitude. There are probably seven hundred similar ones in the
coonitinwf Athens, ,£tou~and Pickaway.
804' WESTERN GAZETTEER, on. ‘
‘ Y FAIRFIELD '00 UNTY.‘ .\
A large and wealthy interior county, bounded ‘on the Norlh by
Licking, east by Muskingum and Washington,'south by Athens
and Ross, and west by Pickaway and Franklin counties. ‘It is"
36 miles long by 30 broad; and contains 90(lsquare miles. It iii~
divided into the twenty following townships, n1mely,' Amanda;
Reading, Liberty, Madison, Jackson, Hopewell, Bern, Bloom,
Thorn, Hocking, Falls, Violet, Greenfield, Clear creek, Pleasant,
Walnut, Richland, Rush creek, Pike and Perry. The vil
lages regularly laid out and called towns, are, in addition to
J Lancaster, the county seat, the seven following, namely; Somer
set, Clinton, New-Lebanon, Jaeksonville, G-reencastle and Centre
ville. This county embraces perhaps the most elevated tract of
country, of similar extenfbetween the Muskingum and Scioto riv
ers. The land is therefore drier, and more peculiarly adapted to
the productiori of wheat and other kinds of grain than that of sore-'
tal adjacent counties. The principal streams are the head waters
of Hockhocking-river. The face of the country about Lancaster
in the central part of the county presents a peculiar aspect. The
land seems generallylevel: but abrupt, precipitous and coni form
piles of rocks, producing very little timber or herbage, are occasi
onally interspersed in a promiscuous manner, in every direction.‘
They are of divers altitudes and magnitudes. Some people might
perhaps conjecture themto have been works of art, did not their
numbers and magnitude preclude the idea. One of these called
Mount Pleasant, about one mile northerly from Lancaster, is very
remarkable. It is situated near a large prairie, and encompassed
by a large plain. The south-west front of this huge pile of rocks
is about 500 feet in perpendicular hei_gh' : the base isabout a mile
and a half in circumference; while the top is but about 30 by 100
yards across it. Ohio Gazetteer‘, page 50.
Lancaster, a ﬂourishing post two and seat of justice in this
county. It is handsomely situated in the Centre of the county,
in Hocking township, near the source of 'Hockhocking river,
on the road leading from Zanesville to Chillicothe.' It contains
- between 100 and 200 houses, and a population of 6 or 70.0 inhabi-\
tents. Here are likewise twelve mercantile stores, a handsome
1
‘ ».r
EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY. 305
brick court house and jail, a Methodist meeting house, a bank, as;
English and German printing-oflice, from which are published.
weekly newspapers in both languages, and a market house with a
market on Wednesdays and Saturdays. Variouskinds of mechani
cal business are likewise here industriously prosecuted. Distance,
28 miles south-easterly from Columbus, 36 south-westerly from
Zanesville, and 34 no;-th-easterly from Chillicothe. N. lat. 89 45,
W. loo. 5 35. Ibid, page 71*:
LICKING CO UNTY;
Has Fair-ﬁeld county south, Muskingum and Coshocton east,
Delaware and Franklin north, and ‘Madison west; and is watered
by Licking river and its two forks; Wakatomika and Walnut
creeks, all large and boatable.
Wherever we ﬁnd the traces of former population, as demon
strated by the existence of mounds, fortiﬁcations, and ruins of
buildings, we are sure to ﬁnd landof an excellent quality. This
county is fullof antiquities.""
Newark is a thriving little town situated in the forks of Lick
ing, on the road between Zanesville and Columbus. Granville is
A Those in the vicinity ot Newark “ cover, or rather pass over in dif
ferent directions, more than 1500 acres ofground, and appear to have had
an intended connection with, or approached to each other. The one
most remarkable for size is circular, and in, by actual measurement,
three-fourths ofa mile in circumference. It has but One gateway or en‘-Y
trance, which is ten rods wide; the wall from the bottom of the ditch is
from 18 to 85 feet. It is highest near the entrance, where each side termi~
states somewhat in the form of a hasin. The one most remarkable of
form, and rrrathematical regularity ot parts, lies about three-lounhs of at
mile north of the one ﬁrst mentioned. It is a regular octagon ; all the
sides being, by actual measurement, equal; the walls or lines being about
three feet high. At each angle, except one, is an opening or gateway, op
site to which, within, is a raised work of the same height of the wall :
a parallelogram whose length covers the entraure From the out angle
or opening, you pass between parallel walls, which are ten rods apart, in
to another circular work, the walls of which are about the same height of
the foregoing. The compass when set in the centre between the parallel
walls, and in direction with them, leads you directly to_ the only pars
where there has been a place for pa§singin and out of the curls: and this
place affords evidence of having been a. covered way, with towers, or
ground more elevated than the wall, on each side. The octagon and car
cle may contain each from twenty to thirty acres, and are near to where
a principal branch ot,Liclr'ing. river appears to have ﬂowed.
Qq
306 WESTERN GAZE'I"I‘EER; OR,
‘ ‘
also acoosideriable village. _ The surface, soil, timber and water
of this county, is inviting tosettlersg. It has had a rapid settle_
uient ;" and presents strong inducements-to emigrants.
-1’/Bf‘-'.“
A THENS 00 UN TY,
’""Has.Gallia‘south, Washington east, Washington and Fairﬁeld-,2
north, tea Ros‘s"\v‘est." It is watered by the Great Hockhocking,‘
inn its"branches;:‘by' Ratzoon, Federal, Shade, and Salt creeks, tininensewnuinber of‘brooks. Compared to such countiesas
‘Ross, Fﬁfriltlih, Pi‘c-lraway,“ and Licking, it may be said to be poor,
‘ irisoilland ir'nprovements.' The‘ southern parts, adjoining Gallia
cihuntyf consist of oak hills andpdeep narrow vallies. It is thinly
iriii_abite'd';"i-n many places it is from four to twenty miles between
_houses;~‘but'this is only true, as it respects the eastern po‘rtion.——
Gariie is abundant—-Such as bears, deer, foxes, racoons, &c. Wild Qtuikieszare inore numerous in this than in any other part of the
sjfate|." ’TbP'range is rich, and will probably continue so for many
year§'th come. ‘ ‘
arid ernbankments are to be seen in every part of the
WI opened several; but found nothing except stone axes,
arrows, and bones: at the bottoms there was uniformly a stratum of ashes intermixed with coals, brands andifragmentsof‘ calbined
bones. Almost every farm contains several mounds. '
Athens, is pleasantly situated on the east bank of the Great Hock
‘-hbcking. oh a peuinsulaformed by a considerable bend of that river,
r‘-237 mile‘s' above its conﬂuence with the Ohio, and nearly in the cen-‘
trtsfdf the College townsliips, reserved by congress in the grantto.
tir‘e<* Ohio company :for the endowment of a University. The
riairies of these townships are Athens and Alexander; the last lies
on thesonth side ofF<the river; they contain 46,080 acres. _) The
lands leased Y-.in~'sma‘ll farms ,othfrom;;l,00 to 160;ac'res~, to appti- ‘
I "-cittits “forever,*fupon terms '-never to be altered—the rent of each K
’1tr\'aetbeingi;;ttiei iatérest ‘of»ti1e.appraised yalue ofV the land in a state
“bf t1f5!’l'3's1l’t‘5".'*L ti“-5‘! ﬂtl t“"iH'I1"a $11 ‘Q81? 3‘? ,s1'‘ '34‘ J'~" ; . . ‘,5 _ _
V towtrl erase “aujei'sa=' rsgursr farm-is "elevated."’about 100 ‘_ féetaihoveithe‘tidttoirts'£“‘i'.t‘lit£'si$il?is sthrxfztth loani,-‘well, adapted,
‘ fot""g'z'Li‘dlt'n'sT' ‘Thtzte are"hﬂmt€i'dus spiﬁngs‘-'of inevér‘ failing excel
ue, _
‘;EMIGRAjNT’;s DIRECT-QRY. 307
lent whten The total nutnber ofbuildings is about 100. ":l“here
is en academyiin a veﬁryﬂourishing state under the instruction of
an able teacher, in which are /taught all the branches of a liberal
education; and A spacious new college is now building.‘ --[The pre
sent revenue of the university is about 2500 dollars; the education
of youth is to be gratuitous. ' r.
The greater partigf the college -lands vare very ‘fertile; ‘but some
. tracts are broken and of a thin soil. The settlements conrmenced Y .iue,1197, hand thmtown and county 'Athensl|aYtB;tl1;1:9Y$-idllltx-.1’ “
Jssuallythealthy. Many of the settlers are fl'Qm_Ne§§‘:1§'.t§ti,'lgn;(’1, who atlirm that sickness had rarely visited their t'hmi.lpi4es,1 “This
Bockltockirig is naﬁgable 6 miles above Athens for-batteaux-Q-P
The bottoni lands are better and more extensive than those of the
Muskingum. In front 01'. the town they ,aré ‘ntgse than‘-lon,e,Vmile
wide. ~ There are ﬁne quarries of theﬂygiciiirity the
"town. About two-thirds of the ~village_lot._s are lIess4;dVa,nd the i:é
sidue fast settling, _ '.l‘.he _upl_snds ,are tinibe\tre(l,_.)t§ith:’tshite;and
biack-oak, _hichory' an,d;:cltesn11t§,- occasionally intexsnersedﬂyyith
sugar-maple, ash and beech. The bottoms are covelregl ;tvgithgbucl_§‘
,PB-Wpa‘W, elm,f; blsck Walnut?‘ spice-wood tend honeyg-lg‘c7ust.—~
3 ‘ Qﬁishbinl considerahlggqltantities are tal‘;enifr9n)"the rivers,’ “Coal '
,-mines, chalybeate and s,‘1t_lphu_r“sQ§f,irtgs,, are sél1 -.,tq§\,vnshipgi,s _tYiilIOIIi;SQVt%I'Hl of ta2\cl‘:(d_l,',.'1x“1d.T . ' ' ‘ i “
' H‘ ‘''lA1'' \ Igipp m,
_'=A -_- ;1 .- Vt,‘ -, . .10 .(: , ‘ '?'‘'‘‘!‘q’ -230’ .
‘- 1‘ 1,'1\- ~3‘\\L
Is bounded south and east by the Ohio .ris;‘er, Athenszcpunqty
‘north; Lawrence and Jackson West. It is 'W\&ieIl8(|'rhy.< thgLﬂtle‘ '
Skzioto, Leading, Racoon, Indian Gnyan’do_t,, and Big‘ Stone creeks.
"Like Athén's','it'is'lm"ge ‘andhilly, and thinly settled. Itghss much
'.i§oo|""ia'nd, consisting of oak ridges, of a thin grawelly-_seil@ .i,';§hese
=’hills sklH'lhi¥‘0l§o ‘tli'Youghthe whole extent of ‘ Soiote,'-:ﬁalLi,,a,
' '?!lF'atltingt'ztti," and Belmont cotiin-ties; extending bask ‘;iQ.~t9I'.;;‘40
iniles ;7-they biécome moretlelevated as 'weaecend1the‘rivgn_;-gave:-. '
' theless, the soil becomes better waast of tyhishingu ,1.'$t|)(},‘as
high up as Stmbenville, it may be said tube rich. ThQ;bQUOKXlS
of the»0ltio are wide. AL‘-hese.;p;e§ bo¢3ljegtof1gpod_ l;tg‘tl\iip,;the in
htarior parts, I. on wliiclmtltq gripjaipal;part\ot1;tlge‘ti:nber¥,is pitch
‘gins, 1§ts1;3r;'5otty¢and‘st:_i\'tg1rt :'L‘1lt55,¢l"-_i;ndy Qt‘ 1wd- t56*T".I;§¢1,_l (E§EQQ{§E§ \
\
.302 ~~ ,wEs'rEat§ eizerrneel on,
by the-‘inhabitants; the soil is sandyﬁmixed in ‘places with and gravel; but it produces corn, wheat, oats and potatoes, at
abundantlyvas deeper soils. ' 1
Gallibpolis, is delightfully situated on the bank of the Ohio,
three miles below the Great Kenhaway. 'The bottom on which it
is built, is elevated fourteen feet above the'highest.rise, of the
liver. The soil is a rich, yellow clay, rendered mellow, like
loam, by a proportion of ﬁne sand. The streets are wide, ‘and
fun in parallels wi-th the river upwards of one mile and a quarter
in length. ' The high lands in the rear of the town, approach with
in halfa mile of the river. This town was settled by a colony of
500 French, in l790;,\but the‘ present number of inhabitants is‘?
considerably short of that number. There are‘about 76 houses,’
a court house, vchurch, and printing-oﬂiize; The ‘inltabit"an‘s' have‘ beautiful gardens. They make good wine, from a species ofnativé U
Vines, which were Tound oh the islands a sl1ort'(list'ance above the_
town, and which, since they have been domesticated, produce
grapes almost equal in size and ﬂavor to the muscadins of France.
Thereis a vineyard in the vicinity of thisplace, of six acres, which
is expected the present year to produce 1000 gallons of wine. "A
moundof ‘I8 or 20 rods in circumference is situated near the -aca
demy. Other remains of ancient works are visible both on the bottoms and neighbouring hills. I ' I ' ' *~'~-'
0' _"
1LAWRENCE COUNTY. , f
Bounded south by the Ohio river, west by Scioto county, north
by Jackson, and east: by Gallia. It is watered by Symmes’, and
Indian Guyandot creeks-‘-surface,pbrokcn ; soil, chieﬂy of an in.
ferior quality-—-timber, principally oak. This county wasrecent
ly laid oft‘,,and is not yet organized. ‘
JACKSON 00 UNTY.
Is bounded north by Ross and Athens, east by Athens and (}al-_
lie; south by Gallia and Scioto counties. It is 24 by 20 miles
in extent, comprizing 414 square miles. It was established in the
winter of 1816. Surface, hilly ; soil, generally of a second quali
‘ fy. Timber'—-oak, and hickory on the uplands, The Sciato-Salt
EMIGRAN'I"s DIRECTORY. 309
 
 
Works, which belong to the United States, and at which consider
able quatities of salt are made, are situated nearly in the centre of
this county, on the easternmost branch of Salt creek, 28 miles S.
E. of Chillicothe. It is expected that the seat of justice will be
near these works. The principal streams are the three forks of
' Salt creek and the head branches of Symmes’ creek.
WASFIING TON COUNTY,
Is bounded north by Muskingum, Guernsey and Monroe coun-‘
ties, southeast by the Ohio river--south and west by Athens and 
Fairlield. Itis 63 miles long from east to west, and from 12 to
31 in breadth, containing about I100 square miles. It is watered
by the Ohio and Muskingum rivers, Little Muskingum, Pawpaw,
Duck, Wolf, Miegs and Little Hockhocking creeks. A large pro- ’
portion of this county is hilly—soil poor, and timber chieﬂy oak.
The bottoms, however, of the Ohio and Muskingum and the large
creeks, are pretty extensive and of the ﬁrst quality. Marietta-—Is situated on the ﬁrst bank of the Ohio, immediately‘ I
_ above the entrance of the Muskingum. , Like most of the towns, on
that ﬁne river, its site and appearance is “pleasant.” Yet, hither
to, its growth has not kept pace with public expectation, nor real:
ized the sanguine anticipations and early predictions of its proprie
etors. It contains about 100 houses, exclusive of 35 or 40 on the
opposite bank of the Muskingum, where fort Harmer formerly stood
-it has besides, a court house, jail, market house, academy, two
churches, a bank, post-oﬂice, printing-oﬂice, two rope walks, steam
gristmill, sereral mercantile stores. and four well furnished inns. In
March 1816, a large Commercial and Exporting Company was
formed,since which the shipbuilding business has revived. The St,
Clair, a brig of 120 tons burden, was the ﬁrst sea-rigged yvessel,
ever launched from the banks of the Ohio. She was built by Com.
Preble in 1199. N. lat, 39,34. ’
Belpre, a beautiful Village, or rather settlement, extending seve~
pal miles alongtheohio river, commencing at the mouth of Con
gress creek and reaching to tlie'I3ittlt:' Hockliockitig, and up that
river several miles; this is _the'most populous part of the county.
Waterford, a post township on the Muskin'giirn river, 22 miles
“above Marietta. It is a handsome, rich settlement extending sew’
t 310 WESTERN GAZETTEER; DR,
1
‘ -tions are numerous in this .county.*
Ancient fortiﬁca
.v'.
eral miles along the fine bottoms of that river.
1
v\
I
-1
\
.1
,M_[{5KING UM COUNTY,
Boundednorth‘by Coshocton, east by Guerhsey, south by Wash-2 '
ington and Fairfield, and west by Fairfield andLicking counties.
It is wateredrhy the Muskingum and Lickin}; rivers, andby Coat,
Iionathan, Waltatomika, Salt and Wills’ creeks. It is large and
populous,-h‘a’ving an area of ‘ about ‘820 square miles, and a popu
no -\ .,_
 
' twenty-ﬁve to thirty-six fact in breadth at the base.
7 three openings, at equal distances, resembling three g=|.tewa.)'.-1,
it The largest sarunn near, by some called the town, contains forty
acres, encompassed by a wall ofearfh from six to ten feet high. and from
On each side are
The en
trances at the midttie are the largest, particularly that on the side next
the Muskinzum river. From this outlet are the remains ofa._c0vr.rtwu_y,
formed of two parallel walk of earth, 231 feet distant from each other,
measuring from centre to centre. The walls at the most. elevated part -on
the inside are 9.! feet in height, and 4% in breadth at the base, but on the
outside average only five feet high. This'form,< a passage of about 360
feet in length, leading by a gradual descent to the low grounds, where it
probably at the time of its construction reached the margin of the river.
its walls commence at 69 feet from the ramparts of the fort, and increase
in elrvationas the way descends towards the river; and the bottom is
crowned in the centre, in the manner of a well formed turnpike road.
Within the Walls oftlre fort, at the northwest corner, is an oblong, ele
vated square, 188 feet l0ng,.13'2 broad, and nine feet high; level on the
summit, and nearly perpendicular at the sides. At the centre‘ of each‘ of
the sides the earth is projected, fortning gradualascentsto the top, eqtiat-'
Sy regular, and about six feet in width. Near the south wall is another
elevated square, 150 feet by 120, and eight feet high; similar to thebther, \
1-Xcepting that instead of an ascent to go up on theside next the wait,
there is a hollow way ten feet wide leading twenty feet towards the centre,
and then rising with a gradual slope to the top. At the the south-eist
‘ corner is a. third elevated square 108 by 54 feet with ascents at the ends:
hut not so high nor perfect as the two others. Alittle to thesouthwest of
the centre of the fort is a. circular mound, about 80 feet in diameter ma
ﬁre in height; near which are four small excavatiou'aa.t equal distances,
and opposite each other. At the south-west corner of the fort is a semi
circular parapet-, crowned with a.;mound, which guards the opening in
the wall. 'I‘owa.rtls the south-eiwt is a smaller fort, containing twenty
acres, with rt gateway in the centre of each side and at each corner. These
openings are defended with circular mounds. On the outside of-the
smaller fort is a. mound, in form of a. sugar-loaf, of a magnitude and
height which strike the beholder with astonishment. Its base is aregntar
circle 115 feet in diameter; and its perpendicular altitude issid, feet».1t
is surrounded with a ditch four feet deep and ﬁfteen wide, and defended
by a parapet four feet high, through Which is an opening or gateway to’;
wards the fort 20 feet wide, ‘ , 
There are other walls, tnouii
“Lire, hut exhibiting equol1iroot'snf art anddesign.
'ds'ttn<f'excavations," less conspicithns and
‘. |HBﬂ‘i-§l"13Dllh ._
At -‘t tent!
EMIGRANT’s DIitECTORY.' 311‘
L’
lation of about 12,000 souls. Surface generally hill}7 ; the lovers
of romantic scenery will ﬁnd ample gratiﬁcation on the sharp, elev
V ated ridges between Salt and Will’s creeks, on the Wheeling road.
Extensive beds of stone coal are found in various parts of the coun-_
ty,-especially in the hills borderingthe Muskingum river.
. Zanesville, is situated on the eastbank of the Muskingum river,
opposite Putnam and themouth of Licking, 50 miles by land above
Marietta. It contains about 240‘, houses,vgenerallybsmallbut neat
and_well built. It has a court house, jail, market hou_se, methodist
meeting house, three glass factories, two banks, land oﬁice, nail fac
tory, 22 mercantile stores, paper mill, several oil mills, numerous
slaw and’ grain mills, post-office, book-bindery, two prirltingl-oﬂicrs,
in which are published the “ Muslcingmn Messenger” and ‘f Zanrs ville Express.” V I H V, i I I '
‘Opposite the town, the Muskingum fallsmsixl feet in lthelspace of ‘
afew rods, and Licking river forms a cascade at its entrance. ‘ A
c'a‘nal', is now opening around, the Muskingum rapids, through the
town,by an association called -the “. Zanesville Canal and Manu~
_ falcturing Company,” who intend to manhfacture iron in' allits va
rious branches, cotton, wool, hemp, ﬂax, paper, &c. ' - '-1:3"
“Putnam, is situated on the right bank of the Muskinguni, .di- ‘
rectlyﬁ opposite Zanesville. It has about SCY‘€_‘l]i'y‘:l]OI1S€S, ‘seven
stores, ‘and a cotton factory. These two towns are connected by '
t'?‘oi:‘hr_i(_lg‘es.' The upper bridge is so constructed. that oneymaf‘
61655 Licking or the Muskingum from or to either side of Lick
’_'5l“l3e country around these places, in every direction, is’ stét~'
t_1ed,.and'ger.\_erally uell cultivated. Coal abounds in the hills, and
ii ones‘ found .‘in‘§ittl‘{lt\1g‘\,r:‘ells_.‘ Four miles up ‘|Iiit:l;ipg, is__a rQ‘r_ge
and ftiirance,-,ext_ensively carried on by Dillon~& Son. -I -- '* 3 >
 
 .-to .1 '~ ' . ._;_rm~.;t_; _ MM r‘__ . , i I 'l . “KNOX '0ovzv 7 - 
~}.'r r I, -r - , G - ‘ H I . - ,
4 W35 ' - . 7,; 'y;1 , ,_M,H,_ J, ‘__‘m’ M x ‘ E 'j‘!Jf_' V
 
w ‘ 'Has‘I.icking.> ,south,‘Coshoct'on"eit'iit, ‘R,ihhland*‘ﬂhrﬂt*and _Dela—' > -iir§'WB5t- It ii Wilaisdlphr Abs ¥\tt»tte\r'omaii;=ibi€ai§§:h..ot lttré
Muskiogum, Owl creek, 'a.1tdibran'chés $_ci9to‘if' It
will rank among '1he'tI"<>Bt:t‘t:>’=t:'ila'e§ithtin$idh1lhe§.alatea is ]::'Ir:I_, r -, :
~ M°“'!t,.,V?T?'°"2 i?~.‘-1'.§.,tBal>P€.it!%_5i9¢.t t't;i§',s?‘tr",'téii(7iar§irIiriii;
I3; ., wr.~.t creasing in size _and:-ﬁmprovemehtsiti Wfiltealargvstitstrcams‘ arelaii ‘
boatable. '
312 ‘W11@T.ER.N,.GAZET'EEEBs..0B,
/ ,. 1. " -gr-3 ;, . .E_\p. ~iiu_t_|';'; ‘T - t
‘ /I, ‘. 3&1, __cosiio0Toiv QOWWY, I--:£
Clinton, is situated the nbrth side ofOwl creek, 2_tnilea N. WV.
of Mount Yernon ; it contains 37 houses and a post-oflice.“: Knox county hats a roonied institutioo_,ct\lled the‘,“Qnilf'CT'feck“ ‘
Bounded north by Wayne, east by '_1‘tisco_r'a\:vas,'soutlt kinguni, and ‘West by Kri6x 3:ou_nties'.' ‘It is about“3ti ntilesjdhtiiire.
The Muskingum river runs through the southeastern pat‘tv;'——"t‘lie
other streams are Wills’ creek and Vl[hitewoman’s river. Surface
generally uneven. It deservedly rankd‘. the best counties of
the state. The bottoms of Whitewoman’s and ,Tuscarawas are
wide and highly productive.' The npldndi he generalifheavy
timbered; an it: places, with :ti¢~ poplar-and bliick Walnut -asats i_‘nter's'p'er‘s'éd.i‘ -rt"sb%3uun§' was nfestosei coalfsnd ittsestsne: W-_
';"(.‘os~ltof,'ton,‘7the‘ seat at‘ j_u“s.t‘i‘:ce,'““is situated neari the‘;‘3‘drk_s_:ti’f lltlfusl{in‘§um,‘_'4t)_ 'miles'b§rlh'o‘t:Zanesville,' and ‘co-nt_ain,'s tibogut lio'u'se_s_a"nd‘4 stores‘; I I’ I" I’ " ' ' ' ' “' "P
 
 
t F‘ ' .3“ " ='1tti-"Jltl'-"‘ - ..
V .\;. . 3 sha 1;‘-' . '1§ijcH,i;fA;ND m K
5 Ha; i<1n;t>£'ssiittt; ftv£‘y§.e“te_¢a',' Huroniand ttreatqa north, and f6dt'A‘n' laddg ibﬁbatered Uylthe ‘head branches ﬁn,‘ sat m'1,‘t;rtt'..- 'stata._1t", ‘=-sea; §rt.;=k,-;s Mt-;’r;‘=.~,ir> uié
‘Muskirigti-m,i"ll(fiidil§;' cieejkf "'I"ts' name‘ t'?epresebts'r‘t'lieq'dii‘iiiity
of its"soil. die’ it"it'h"any"c3uhty "in‘the state in_’poiiii'oii_
fertility. It a"uew1ti‘n‘(r"'é0ui}>tss large bodies of rich unsettled ,
Iand§~1‘~i -~ ~ a. > *- . .5 m»» ":1: (1 . .~<» 1:; ea‘ 1;:-e 19‘; .2‘
ii‘ " ~ . * ‘'~ 2 - -9* .-- ‘ I‘ ‘ ‘t " ~2l‘- "fir"
‘ Mansjiyrd and Green are the laigest Wllages; they are new but
‘h'1_.v.' {H 5- k)I§t-0'-q {'1-it :5; Y .J:J 1-4! " -3 - -‘:.'\.,'\ ~'"-97'. .»."_ Illaltl . . W U * Fa‘ 1.: hrt.:to; ' Wt‘ ‘1
'§ "' 5" I'USCARA=WAS COUNTIT;zj@t\'t‘;.*. =: ...t'
"F" ; . -£1“ _ ,., P . 1 U, 0 2.]? ','t.l '
_
‘ H. ....\ ‘_~.
r-. . . , . ., ..
'Has Gneroseysonth, Harrison east, ‘Wayne andSta1'k north,
and Coshocton= west. nltviswatered by-xtbe Tuscarawas, Still~
water, Conotm, Sugar and SandyCreeh '
New-Philadelphia, the seat of justice for Tuscarawas county.
It is situated on the eastern branch of Muskingum river, on a
large, level, and beautiful plain, opposite the mouth of Sugar creek.
EMI'GRANT‘s DIRECTORY. 313
It contains the county buildings, five stores, and 47 dwelling
houses. Distance, 50 miles north-east from Zanesville, and 100
north-e'astwardly from Columbus. N. lat. 40 32, W. ion. 4 30.
Gﬁadenhutten, a post town, originally established by some Mo
ravian missionaries, on the eastern branch of the Muskingurn riv
er, eleven miles southerly from New-Philadelphia. H Schombrun, a Moravian missionarypsettlement, three miles be
low New-Philadelphia.
1:;
n
.. ' WAYNE COUNTY,
Is bounded south by Coshocton, east by Stark, north by Medi
na and part of Portage, and west by Richland. It was organized
in the year 1808, and is 30 miles long by 29 broad, containing
870 square miles. It is divided into the following townships:
Wooster, Springﬁeld, Mohiccan, Boughman, East Union, Paint,
Perry, Salt Creek, Prairie, Lake, Sugar Creek and Chester. The
principal streams are Killbuck, running nearly a south course, and
navigable up to Wooster, for boats of from 10 to 14 tons; Apple
creek, a tributary of Killbuck, avery good stream for mills; Su
gar creek,‘ near the south-east corner of the county, is likewise a
good stream for mills; Chippeway, in the N. E. and Mnhiecan
John creek, in the West side of the county, which is a very con
siderable stream in its diﬂ'erent ramiﬁcations in this county, and in
Richlnnd. The Lake Fork and Jerome’s Fork, are navigable for
boats of 10 or 12 tons, 18 miles above the south boundary of the
county.‘ The soil is generally excellent. The creek bottoms are
extensive and very fertile, producing immense crops of cor'n, when
properly cultivated. The upland is very productive in wheat,
rye, oats, corn, ﬂax. &c. The timber on the upland is very tall,
and generally composed ‘of white and black oak, walnut, cherry,
hickory, and some few chesnuts: the prevailing timber on the
bottoms and low lands is ash, elm, sycamore, sugar maple and soft
maple, togetherwith some beech, interspersed with a variety of
wild plums, crab apples, grape vines, buckeye, hazle, &c. The
prices of land vary according tosituatiou and natural and artiﬁcial
advantages, being from three to ﬁfty dollars an acre.
-11:
I’
 
 
314 WESTERN GAZETTEEH-;}qOR,
The principal towns in thiscounty are Wooster, Paintville and
Jerornesvilltﬂ ~=;:,- ...\~t.n \ JQ law.-'-1! '- au: .1 ' lh- ~‘-. on: *1-I
:Woarter, the seatof justice l'or'the*county,' commenced building
in 1811, and now contains 60 dwelling houses, together with seven
stores, four taverns, and a large and excellent brick banking-house,
for the German Bank of Wooster,a public land office, for the sale of the United States’ handle,k a public school house and a meeting
house for the Baptht Society. Ma-ny;gf;the buildings ,bejng,;bnilt
of brickhaire large ~auMlezant-i ‘lﬂtllie Wm 81¢ ﬁv-8 master R60§9lli,o§mP1°§’5,ﬂ&‘§¢l¥;'-lbitllilﬁ -enetb1.f0ur';'_h|wkemith;sh°Ps, W9
cabinet-._,_pnakers,; two ten »,y~ards,4,o,no. chair: niaker,vvone.e§u-vriagp
mwgkej-, three taylqrs, three slioe,lI.1=1l,k‘-‘rs, -two hatter’s shops and-ope
brewery. *'1‘here‘ie,,l,ikegwise in this town, one ordained clergyman,
at t_he>Baptist persuasion, one lawyer pa_znd two physicianmf The‘
feed from .Bit,tsburgh;to Mansﬁeld and Upper Sandusky, a,ndy-likb
Wise -that-from Erie totﬁolumbus pageeethrough this placve’,=.,,-J‘,he
road from Zanesyill‘e_to,,G;ranger and Cleveland passes.through;thji_
town, asﬁliltewise might be added the 1'Oad»fl'OHl the,§p~rmintiti_on oi,’
the',great\ Cun;henlaud road DOP_llI-WBS£€l1QL_,L0 Lower Sandu§l§y,'
dnd -t_lie.{u,},e1 to Perrylwjlle, at the1head,of-.§hip- navigati0u,,10n7the.
Miami-of-the-Lake, and onward to Detroit. Illepopulgtion con
sistszchielly of emigrantapfrom:Pennsylvania. tTher,e‘,are,( how
' ever, some from the state of New-York, and the eastemtgtgtes.-'—»
The population amounts to about 6500?‘ Its surplus produce is
consurued by the numerous emigrgnts, who are crowdinginto the
county. Ultimately; its commerce will ﬁnd its way to the shores of
Lake Erie, distant only 46 miles, ~:,,(; _=,?:,. Ju l|'_
Jeromesvillc—-A néviwillage m'1iJerome’s creek, nelfr the Indian
village, and fifteen milee weetigf Worcester. , , t t ,9
Jcromsstorviqan Indian villagiuand settlement, on the road from
Wooster to Mansﬁeld:-~ '41.? I ‘ tuuﬁna Q-t'rn12U»~ '11:. _ ‘:;1',a"li7I.li3illl€‘;A‘ "ne\¢-=%w_a on rhtﬂiliidl from Woosterl'to New
Philadelphia, nneenjgiléa-B.‘E. ol"tlié’ﬁr§& place. 1'~ -v~= :1»
lArtiﬁcial‘_moupde‘ofconéide1;phle'§§e"f§féund in mi; county.’ It
brick was found in 18116, in digging aceller in Wooateii under 1 ‘ -. ‘u; ». , 1‘ ‘5;",.‘H-‘L’ N‘ ,> 0- - " _
 
W1 .1 ( ,"H"’_{,"
* Letter than Wm B. Raymond, Item ‘,'A:’.>t3l_,1'§?_l6,-p
J EMi'G'RAN'I"s" DIRECTORY] 3-1'5
sm'm'p~ur wsrge oaik m»; and aboutifohr"1‘e'et below the sdrface
of the earth. It was of the size and appearance of‘a' cummdn \
bwiok. There were two< others foundin-that. cellar, that were leis
per§ect<i'ushape and cunsisteuce.-w-‘i (*5 as-.~ 1:0 ~-im 5' . 19'
-“Eb'0li-'..'1i)it-5'! ‘-1-Jlliilif -.l<,q£~ guy; 3 cs] S :)C .\ V1 0, WM’; ’£ﬁ_‘_‘
'v!sa M. vii 5'“? n ' " V '7” ‘R’ “ - F "n'1"',-'J‘.= *3-"'
'n§:~Wr; a rr 2 t>s£-3'. ~-4* 
3” H:!_B”HﬂrFi§bﬂ>hﬁd 'I‘tisdar?l't‘v?aiY‘£outh’,' Chhinibiﬁnh east‘, Portage
n"1¥itb;*'a'ﬁd*Way‘ﬁt¥ W€"sf.; -‘¢’Plit.“‘ Tuééﬁ}‘zﬁt‘ai‘lSﬁaﬁBIi’hf‘the Mtiski‘n
gm ﬁvai<"nms\i%m‘nom&o man 'te‘ﬂ!ii‘ély‘thrm1gh amenity; on
~we“wé9tem~side,-' aiid isllﬁavigablé ‘u‘s*hi,'gl1' up ‘mite cwmy'ex.
‘teud§>roﬁaeet1lsbats urwny burthbn.‘ 1-"Big ~sim'ay,-; w 1srg¢ crééli,
_f1iﬂ§*iiit@thé‘!}'1ist:aia\i‘as-'t!éi§t' t§é1saitthém§~buu'nda|y' bf me-emu:
,tyU‘ Nimnﬁsmn-wa * llwgemeeeié wtlicmqtxnmiira tBigl1Sand‘y on
thirh$fth side-,5-about 't‘oi§~mH€€ 't!r'ai}wsl iionﬂﬁéh’€é”ﬁith um Tus
iiiihwaéi-’§hd*is‘dhé>bF€thé’11€ilE#ﬂilh-Sttﬁhrﬁé 'ii1’the'?is‘t§t'e‘;'$vitli ii
tétilliéﬂawy? otW'itt‘er)ht‘~1ilt»1iinés"<§t‘1~the Wéir‘ to ilri‘v"e--watér'' ‘ works
(if my*’ueseiipﬁa‘n.-mxtiiatnqugtms amt mm ‘km miles
ﬁBiiH3liﬁtbd'§¥é~ih1Htbnsé ‘tmi‘tts"6t"'il-oh"0re o'f-a1‘Bﬁ'i§téiibr‘qiihlity‘. -'I1iie*builtlTttg‘~’(5t"t1't‘|irnaci§"ib='d6htiti ébntemptatiiwl '~“I'h\‘i'fe"tti'e Y-ii
the'n€ig'hhorh'ood' bf Clinton, 'a in'irdll$éi‘10f§?e’x“ctﬁl5éi{t'brldge§§‘i>tlI§
t1"rstfbf"‘impoH§Eée is it‘ibivbriagewuieprqmmuséariwaugmat,
atto|i‘t"~l‘e?’glit‘Qrliles Wéﬁf‘ bf‘ c*§méi1;“'m?a the title fr6ni'=i§endal; on me
rbziﬁ"ft6'th =’Z"an'tou tt1'V¥’otistt!'i'?-8 ItIt“»§351'<2 féé1llii1"‘l%i§g’t’l.l,'~‘erected oh
Btb’n%"}ii&§’h'BBitt 2YYTe%f‘in :ltl?igti1t'§‘<‘t¢'1!tie*'Piteat!“ iii-‘ importance is
over'T.Nitiiltsli'r’llen c'reél(P6tite’hiile‘1t§tit§ﬁ6€?Cen*iot!} 6501 feet iniasgth,
built on wooden piles; bésidesva'*‘1l1\:tml9‘ér bﬁﬂtlikﬁ“-bf le's‘éimp’ort
an'ceover the SCV€I’8i'bl:&l':0h€S§D|i'i_1hB§illliBhll|éD~GIB§‘k13$\§i?"¢R" 
Canton, the seat of j&%ﬁt%§<*i§' lleliaganieis; ~silﬂ&t?§tllYoiﬁ mute
vated plain, in 'the'.'.{orks 10$ iﬁhniqhlllmmtbnk-aJt8'H8ﬁhtd&'\b85
. \mevcr been ascertéined by actual obsérvathéuilshutkibgirig about
cleyep Engiiﬁhtmiles QQQ11h>2t't‘ta%:9°¥!’l1s%b°ves1a*i1’Qftttt%:¢qun!y. may be correctlxtelmstiet4ts¢.@t;'4Qedss.w5°.twiiin"21il!!,|¢ ‘tilde
and foqr_ degt'.r§Q,q|p|i;n.’ west l9ngitutl;e.Fft'om Washiriéton‘ git; ; and
 
 11"..“-”‘t.’> in §\i'_sI‘dis‘tautvfrom"S_tQubt:hh*ihi§i§6 noitl;1_-“\i,zest'X; i'oni"'I:i\ttsbur'gh
95 milcé west, frhiri Chliinihhs T80 :llQ(’)jl‘4'[h-t.’-3;!‘-A ".i‘he’FIii'st ‘Set-,
tlement in this county cpmmenced in the spring of 1806, since
which time lhﬁ emigrationliwéﬁnalled, if not surpassed any thing
316 WESTERN GAZETTEER',r'0R,
Q
eviiriwitnesseﬂmln any part ofrthe state.-< Agreeably to a census
fatten as ﬂié spring of'--'>]8q'15, thei white male inhabitants over 21
years ‘hf age-‘antobmedltoell 325, ‘which being multiplied by= 6, the
probable number for every’ white male over 21 years of age, which
is a moderate calculation, being mostly settled with young grow
ing families, wouldjgive 7950’; to which, add a' probable increase
for one year and eight months, say 1500, would give the present
population at~9450. In the town of Canton, there, are about eighty
dwelling housesand upwards of 500 inhabitants. Also, nine mer
cantile stores, (besides six-in other -parts of, the county) gone nail factory, one wool carding machine. an oil mill,» a fulling; mitt,
four tanneries, four taverns, three boot and shoemakers, four5,ta;n;
lors, two sarldlers; besides ‘a number of carpenters and,cabin_et
ymakers. About seven miles west of Canton, and adjoining the
beautiful village of Kendal, is ‘n woollen manufaetory establislted ,
by Thomas Roach, now in successful operation, on an extensive
scale, and manufacturing cloth of a superb quality.*
Kendal, a new and flourishing post town, seven miles west front
Canton, on the eastern side of the Tuscarawas creek. It contains
ﬁfty houses and four stores. Many rich farmers reside in its
Vicinity. J) ; t. .- 
Osnaburgh, a new village five miles east ofCanton, onithe road
leading to New-Lisbon. , ,,, l .> ;m0i
-2; 1-A’)G UERNSE Y..~C'O UN
> "ft ‘ 3 Has parts of Washington and Monroe south,ll3ellmoutpafulrvgiahjt .
of Harrisoneast, Tuscarawas norih, ar_1‘£l'iVIuski"n‘gnin west ; w_yater ed almost exclusively by Wills’ creek and its bradbhes. lsurface
broken, soil generally second quality. It is fdivided iiitlolnine
townships, viz: (‘-ambridge, 'Wills, Westland,u'Oxford, Seneca,
Madison, Buffalo, Wheeling and Richland. The bottoms of Wills‘ c‘reek are fertile and well cultivated. The Vchlture of foreign
grapes has been introduced into this county.
‘ inn-I ; Cambridge, the chief town and seat ofjustice, is situatedright bank of Wills’ creek, at the intersection ofitiie coadlleading
4...
EM 1 , ‘ _\ tn. *- ..~m‘ Qlii on .
* Letter of John P. Coulter,.of Canton, January, ‘ ; _
 
\
E.MlﬁR&'NT’S‘ 'DIREGT9LB’Y;::_ ‘:2 317
' Imam -Zmeavilieto Wheeliggi It ibaaﬁabmg ﬂ;;y.;vvhoMe!,E;me,m.
pm»-»tIoua:ato1es,: and _ at ppstvoﬂioe. _gWills’,_ gqogigill
aeats,‘at,litt1le this tom:-v. IA toll »iJridg9;_r1,1(,’u;y,a;di
hen bum‘ “T055 Wins, week, 91‘ mi-5 _P‘?°¢* = :31 15"-~m:!-=1'r:sdoxq
"?"'_ "I 6-3? ' "rinse qua-‘am :n.'"' -:.;i!e!1nI5~ -,-.3;~mrr. = ;E
‘ M8NR@E1C0£7*NT%h.-n-1 "7-'n»"1".r!i
M I ' » 1 ' ﬂﬁili xgre .w"mm hf .3-\ ' . 5) , -_;(-r 1o‘~
~. ' -Ha‘! -Widﬁngmnubmhgﬂthe“Y\0Ihiu\':i1ieneasti:Belmont~-north,
538‘ §&i§rn§éy‘wveetillblt-Iimilatehed fbyihfanghesiofzﬂuch, Mp“,
!Jittie!M|§§‘l1ii1g\|m,-Tslinﬁsh1and~(3apteense crecks,Mail‘runni1ig1intn
-iii? (3.IiiGJ ‘ Iufsuvfzice;-Boil; tiilnber and pmduetions; itroioselyiire
sen‘|M‘es"Belm0nt an(l‘>Gi1e'rnsey. Coalmines and.iromo_re hm
~Been discovered ou¥.Simﬁ’sh weeks: V ~ 52 *u" ;“ -Mme aw: -3:08
’5“1l?6’orIﬁ¢ld;" a‘ u'ew"‘qt{(\>’€‘i1;‘is>the"c0unt)* §eQt’."!t ié-éittﬁtedﬁiﬁ high
grp'u‘riri’,"f6 Centre i'<k'v@@v‘?Mii‘p,-'in a" ¢em'ra‘1Yp§¥i if 1h§'»e6mir§,'W@ar‘
:¢'é3‘~’n“i'é% iihnigthe diliéli-iver, 'and 35 miles’-'N: wwisr m‘ﬁéiz'9:€“
. - 1:‘? ‘:. _> ;n.. 1" .' 3'!‘ ':;‘ ," C‘:
r:.-;:;. :.'"v.' ..¢.:, ' _wu:"¢‘.
6315!-. ' 4;. .'.-ecu-Li S .~ .-.- ‘ »xasr; . .';r:,s.-;.:ns-D
wt'Has‘M'oin‘oe south, ¢'|‘s&»;oYih5 ‘river""e§St§"‘§-iafiiioﬁaiﬂ'B‘thY§éh}1
Guernsey west. It is watered by Indian Wheeling, 1Vl’M‘:5iY6h’s
and CaptEéna"c‘reeks. ’”Iit3i%°iﬁIIy\‘§id;§§¥6kee; 'exeé§tiBg‘th¢‘~bot
toms of the Ohio. Tin1beF—oak, hickory, sugar ma}S'le<',l?&c;">I.
St. Clairsville, the seat of justice for the above county, is situ afed on an elevated hill; Vb miiis Ehilimiuiiiiyt-fibm Zanesville, and
11 west of _\I)\(iieelin%. M'I“he _sju’;'t(‘1undinv' cpllntgy is broken, but
remejrkabli heai|l1_y'_.r ' Zfhis toivh '%8;i1:g_¥§?'ii$S§'vg|rd§¢r houses,
coma’ 1'0-u%.;',';ai|,‘4s§'s§ houses i'éi°;§hf>‘;%'=£ii%%%1iii>,'fa§ Fr"iends,"Me thoiiists, ahii‘‘iii*é§iifter'iar1s ;' a‘|"i1a"?i&i:l We pi-iuting-otﬁdés, 'ﬁftéi?n
Bti$i*e§, ;\ han‘I§;3in§: ahout ‘1sdf‘i5fr|f£ibi'f§b'1s?-""‘ ' H“ Ma '"”"‘° 6
_:::w-. R in --N All-2‘: ;:§i)i'ldiﬂ!"' :5 1 .eqfdanwoi
‘ ' v '1 ~ ' ,.,_ " Z?‘ I 1' alh ‘* .o erg/>1/Q‘! . 1-uidovﬂ hm v,Y;u.i:;-d ,‘.uL1!.i M
qgi :01 in 1!r=~ :"IR )i'vn'.
‘-'ir1u0o aid: Mei l)*)3:.1!\rn‘n' ,.~w; 1* » -M" ,Has Belmont south, ileﬂeyson east, partfsofCoiumbi51\“:1‘r;d'St,ai'\R as2§t;&\°£*r?&“*1'&scarawa;Wsse:- *B1?"¥s“::3ie£‘a;s*§1§§" s1i1~2‘\;si2'+’~E.nd
eaa2e‘m%%'_i@s of ih-é*~i°&§aa~;ewa§3 55¢--z*%s;&s 24;,-d b;a‘o1a§/mnéug
into the Ohio. ‘Its surface waving, and in most parts hilly: Tim
her-—oak, chesxiiit, “hf€k6i-yZ= With eon':&"s'u"gar‘ mtiiiie‘, Eeiiétfj; ‘arid
sw W'ESTERN G.AZF.'I‘iTEE'R'; on;
black walnut. This county is settled chieﬂy by emigrants am
Pennsylvania. 14: abounds.wi'th coal'mines,"‘h-eestone,-limestone,
and a,ﬁne,whitey:so§t, tenaciibugwlay, ﬁtfor 'lnat'it1l'actGiingtpﬁ15
poses.‘ ,;. ,;.:.'t'.. L;Q.‘< "' _1.tn':t;:t;e 1 : - grants?-.
» emits,-»1-Qsmall yttage mo haas§,ﬂt"ssiaistea~ one am, assures”
irest ts’fP<su-tits‘-en'wt1z>;' <'>n"ths'_Yzanssstilémssdt'!f‘Tha%6ttn%y”ti§s'
rah or ﬁve other villa‘g,es,"mnstl§' neii and‘*s'mall. “"“’ "ﬁnd: ‘C’ '
=2--2'2 1“ "-az.-2" "!.r.-»'<' :1?-.." u -no -159
' .t:~':ltr '1'.’-Hi‘ -; V-um -‘i
'-'= “I: '"~...“..t'.>”' .~if‘“-"2 . “R “ '-r “ Q -B K‘
Has a part of Belmont sd’dth, Ohm river east, Coldnthfdiia
north, and Harrison West. It is watered by Indian sl1bh‘,i‘i;aiitb,
‘Villa’ and Yellow creeks, all running into the Ohio. The surface
of this county is hrohen; but the soil is of an excellent quality, and
capable of producing wh_eat, com. rye, oats and ﬂax, ltis one of
the oldest settled ~co,ut1tics in the state. Theprincipaitownaare
Steubenville and M.otin1t»Pleasa;3t,,t.~~, <_, ,-,7 ~,_,;_ , -,;_,1 W {is
Stubsnvillti-i‘sI delightl'tmliy sitiititedioti the ﬁfst -and1'sec‘tJnd bainke
of-the 0liio’,'- ‘72Ztﬁiles by.'water belt9w?‘fPittsburgh;.- a'ud"’20 abode W‘heeIitig.‘ It is nevarlyas in-ge asPittsb"urgh-,"a'nd promises to ri-'
-val the first cities ’oNhe‘ue'st ; it contains about-460 house's, “i'na'-'
ny of them elegant ’anil'c'ostly. Its ‘gt"tvw'th,"fof the last four years
‘has been uncommonly rapid. I ,passed__ittiu-£305, and foundit-so
small as scarcely to be preserved in mcollectiontduring an absence
of eleven years. In appr,oaclting;thj§.tow;1_, in April 18116, by ,1!!!
ter, I was surprised to hear the 1nu,s;ic of .itsponderous steam db
gines, several miles belor.e.I;,bad ayieay the touu. It has about
40 mercantile stores, 6 tayet‘ns, postgoxﬁicemypghstorgxand printing
ollice, at which is publishetlithe :,‘ IV§;t,er;}jHegrgl _‘.’Ik-3;.mﬂ ~t_,,,r; SE3‘,
It has a tine'woollen maaiafacttoryrs thr=,:'mi§chinery.@o|‘»_qvhiohie
propelled by steam. ;v§i88m..pl!ft1Bt1tﬂli§i,t€]lf9iii.lCiI!g&ptB17€1'l0&8 snpes 
jior quality ; and in‘ qtIGni’iliE$‘ﬁtittél‘§ei.i!itlt1'Sl1’iﬁ(Ji(-Elli toiuwpplyl ten
of the surrounding CQHHli¢QJFA':SiB8!tttg(l‘iSt11mill*; Estonetcmtonjacé
tory, 'hre~wery;. distillery,‘ eoapiiﬁid cand-Ietfactory. srltsishnotrinrig‘
sincciots in this villager, 60 -‘by 180¢feet;‘éold’fer oue.~lumdredtdol
lars each ; many of them new command from '10 to 15,000 dol
‘lars each;
‘ Mount Pleasant, twelve miles north of Steubenville, has about
150 houses, 7 stores, 3 tawrns, 3 sadd!er’s, 3 hatter’e, 4 black
EMIGRAN T’s DIRECTORY. 3t.9'.
amith’s,*-t~rr,r‘iaver’s, Gzboot and shoesmaker?s,' 8 carpenter’s, 3'-‘tay
lor?s,;33cabinet maker’s, :1 baker’s, -1 apothecary’s, and 2 waggon‘
rnaker’.s.shops; 2tannerieo; 1-shop-t'or' making wool ‘carding ma
chines; 1 with a machine for spinning thread from ﬂax ; 1-nail
factory; 2~svool eartlingtmachiues. The public buildings are 2
meeting house belonging to the society of Friends, built of brick,
two stories high, 92 feet by 60; ahrick school house, 46 by 22
feet, and a brick market house, 32 by 16. Within the distance of
six miles from the town, are 9 merchant mills, 2grist mills, 12 saw
mills_,pav paper mill with 2 vats, a woollenfactory with 4 looms, and
2‘t'§iltng“iiiills.
\
COL UMBIANA COUNTY.
Has Jefferson and the Ohio river south, Pennsylvania east,
Trumbull and a part- of Portage north, and Stark west. It is wa
tered by Little Beaver and branches of Big Beaver river. This
county in surface, soil, extent and character of population, has a
strong resemblance to Jefferson. it is rich in agricultural pro
ducts, mills, coal mines, iron-ore and valuable timber. It contains
about fortyqgr-ist and saw mills ; severai extensive manufactoriesi
of cotton and woollen, a furnace and several forges.
< Fairjicld, is the seat of justice. There are eight or ten other
ﬁlhges, nearly new.
Noteé~The cottnties of Columhiana, Stark, Wayne and -Rich- 7
land arehottnded north by New‘ Connecticut, or the 41st degree
of latitude. Oh the south these counties are bounded by Jef
ferson, HArrison',“'I’t‘tscarawas, Coshocton and Knox; south of
these and north orthe Muskingum, are Belmont, Monroe, Guern
sey and parts of Muskingurn and Washington-between the Musk
ingum and the eastern branches of the Miami,_ or more properly
the Miami country, are Gallia, Athens, F airﬁeld, Licking, Frank
lin, Champaign, Pickawny, Ross, Pike; Scioto, Adams, Highland,
Clinton, Fayette and Delaware. The counties situated north of
Int. 41, are comprised w-ithin the tractsusually termed New Con
Mcticut, and the Fire Lands.
320 WESTERN, GAZETTEER; OB,
‘ v‘.")¢'-2 .I;':‘.:r|ﬂ"' ‘ " v~‘ﬂ","f~"f""‘°""‘ " ‘‘ ﬁi§;W)xbON§m1EQlIQQTi345<!9 an ‘.-::,-:i'-"
Is bounded by Lake-E1»i'e;0n_-%lyle no;th,,_by'-In(li'an lauds west, by
the parallel of N. lat. 41. éouth, andliy Pennhy'lvania east. Its
length is 120 lDi1€Ee8ﬂ(laFerage§‘jd4.h‘al®ul'45,,1and ils:~a;ea_-‘about
5349 squam milea qr1L4;000;D@00‘,,3cl,6s. {@iIt_»js, dividad imo SW21;
YiZ‘.=""' =. .::.’-;:.l !‘Bll'\' _{L‘ J-. ;. . *. Y .‘l‘.1_5 5 5.
~'.' ;-?.13.=:I:‘n 'nuWHnM @»>""' 1% (,1 L-;:i~? Mil‘ "“l';'l-of Til ‘, 3" M ;‘
-.~': nus '¢d-I)-,1-,.:a 15 bounded by Lake E?lé'Yl1%?§l‘f’i?§a1l?;:& “'1é3‘§-;'r';"'i'r5n§lau1|-"i%'<"l1’1"ﬁl'
and Pennsylvaniaeast.‘ J; is yvalsrgd lhq_ éalgihqla, and nu~ merous creeks. M l I ‘ " U x '
- ’l‘"‘ 1 lftl ~,I"—U-My 1‘ :"‘, i vi‘ '3‘! n‘ '
 
-£ie;';au1i,-"’ar<fz\s‘n*£abai@, ;1'(s‘m',(;r C3ll1|ﬁl§iana?‘lll§St?§l§[’§§li§}Y “baa, jillld Hél!‘5ll‘p0:f 'l'v':'1:l"ere'“('l"_l)_yl' "l)ral1é $5
of ‘tll€.'Bl;g“'Bé'§'w"éJj,‘ fulilllhg ‘lllll5:,llifl.{éﬁl.o|lll0; ‘arid GY§ﬁ%lvrll9§l-"5?
‘ix,-e Lak=e.;: 3.1’:-umr 11'“ \1 ‘T)Ml!l" ' '1‘-" "a . rnstuu “T;-'
W W,-.1‘ .nn Am-H‘ "M? ‘-12: .:12ﬁ"?~"w\'? ,.‘:‘:"Y;":\<.‘-"3"" Al’ "u »2s€u6':
r,-:32,-.m'ﬂ: m "1 ‘J: -.l‘a.~-it
H‘-I ,'flQlﬂBI9 10% V. '1? ru:;mu Ev.::~r~r 1* -:9 1'-lei--'.mr., vets» 1;;-*l$§‘D,9§§l|¢>9f'-§>'a'.k >8a\sW£#xnwx§@tvn€ IMWPQHQQ SW31: #1
Qe%uaamm,dv$§§$:9f M@¢i%;;,1,\!d ia wa;Qre§l~h)£;1Ha-Hliheéiqf 4% @3914!-Q» ﬁﬂl.138ﬂv.e%:xl*l‘!‘f§'§9'%V§?lFw an¢;Gr@§Aml.Qha§¥;'g;s;¥sfin1.
_ .-mxli _ . G-EAUGA COUNTY, ». ,~
I2-1:: .,,n',‘d.~.;:|l'ﬁ ~1iw =' ?=;4-7 '*§!'iB1'> :==w= "~ ' W"
Ha's -La’k6-Erie *m'm;h'g§\' C ey1al1d'g,zlY»- cduu ty-mast, ‘Portage south,
am’? Asbmbaléawasmsnﬂ _»'1§iWa€el'edP blyiﬂmndhnd Cl!ag1?‘m'\iiv'nm
5::-"1 ‘HEM ; MAG hm: mld 9)i<l'l! ,ba: ~r2m ,;:~‘~'!? mdluucur
-_'_¢jA) _.v11' 01 @lA1;dﬁH@;GuQ9¢G(QeUJvaglIi:d:)n!m0:§ ‘smug;
,: §JMv- bur: ;l'M';l1j-xlznid -gmlquq Jl3:sl(i ;l1‘u'.§F-.75 ,:'>':=§u ' wnml ..hoo w¥¢'e.m§&§;&{2L{€?@as$§*, .%%1nl',§éQ $93’.1.2 W M M A5 ‘8@l$&!>e.F€§l, mvgexlnwvgs-a»~2 w;§rs;,;
besules nurperous l:g|-§Yicree s. , , 1 ,~...»;oxn '1:,:,b_wg*1'§ 1: 0 ‘(pa ,a9m;lq K1: ‘(lama y.;::oi. ac boa M11‘ MEDINA COUNTY. AWE W W
*J~nI*'. ' J. "om ml) 01 R?nrrrl~{-:ua3'I '20 '-.-lb-i.“1fl£Z'i‘L'1&L+‘N ml1ni.',1TT.
-IB\sb0u&\.dB‘l. muﬂl,»by.' nﬂ."§n@f.Waynﬁ‘ =m(1.Ri¢l\lP.RS1>- W" by.»
Porlage, north by Cayahoga, and-west by Huron. It is watered
EMIGRANT’s~ DIRECTORY."if 321
by head branches of Cayahoga, Rocky a\nd,Black rivers, and the
extreme branches ofthd Muskingum. ‘W i‘ 41 ' * 
Pf ‘ HURONCO UNTY,
' ' "H. /' }u it Jul .It, 7‘ -‘9"t“‘s'it‘. $117
-“ Is bounded e0uth'by~=Richland’, or the parallehof N.*latt*4It
and Indian -lands; east by '-Medina~a‘ndi¥Cayahoga' counties, north‘
by Lake Erie, and ’west by Indian lands. It is large when properly se_t,tl_ed,.t9_ form th_ree_ additipnalwcounties; and is.
watered by ants) Venniliion, rivers: Pipe and Cold
e11'eelrs,,-,and_‘Sandusky Portage rivers, _ _ _ ha ,3
‘SURF./1t;*E,' ‘sou, TIMBER. _§'_f' ;_ _‘f';
The surface of this e;tens__iv'e_tract, is neither hilly nor cham
paign; but suﬁeiehtly undulating to give a qhiék‘ motion to the
afford facilities in removing_ the timber’ yfrotn the
eaﬂh, _,Al,l_the large streams have gullied for theniseives, deep
narrow v.allie_s, 'l_“he__,Asbta,bula'and Grand rij‘ers_,_,ﬂo‘tv,f0ttr_v0!i live llundredfeethbelorv the syurface or the ‘bordieringk ~l1ili:s',, _' fl‘l|§_
banks of the Chagrin, Cayahoga, and Rocky rivers, areiléss ‘ele
vated; and those 61' Ttlié streams viest of the‘-last‘ named river, gras
dually diminish ‘as’ ye proceed westwardly: For example, the
banks of Pipe creék‘, Sanihit§lry;"and Portage, 'are comparatively
kiwi tart“-‘ale c6u'ittr'y"We§t7‘ of Huron ﬁver, also approaches to
the 'i:llampai‘g‘h“‘t:ha1‘i'(:ter1" ‘-'Dhtl-wltbl€trae‘t has a northern inclin
ation. \. ‘_,‘‘|\‘‘)_e ' ;‘‘W H ‘ .
The timber of these tracisiconsist of oak—-white, black, red and
ydlow»;",ehesutit,‘£lm—~t8tiv Whittmgullslippery; linden. or bass
weuah-‘hiohgsy",) bkzlt ttttalltgt tillli bﬂﬂﬁht ,maplemugar and soft ;
cycumber tree, ash-—red,' white, blue and black; white pine, Spruce, hemlock, ltysr2lii;"h‘nYir§‘eit':he§htrt,'§s')'th_s’ltIore, “wild cherry, dog
wood, honey locttst, aspin, bla_ek_ poplpr,_birch—blaek and white ; ahi§r,' iiiieii ljlltizﬂi, ispicevdtrofoﬁ, sii'é5‘sll‘s§‘, Crab" apple,'i)iihtf,3'red ulatsstiyiter-titties,» |i‘oi-i1‘J'n"eaia at§ki';¢StStiol1‘ttie_e. - it ~ "
The soil is loam, sandy in places, deep, black tiééetable mould,
clay and gravel. ",/.",- , ~ ‘
From the western limits of Pennsylvania to the mouth of Rocky
river, is a strip of country, bordering on Lake Erie, about three
320 WEST-ERN, GAZETTEER ; QB,
Q».i~.~t'e''¢4r'-*»'w-4.>= -1i (‘U7-I‘>n".')m='.£i ~.-.*.- rum
is bounded by LaketE1';i,e-on'»tJhe‘no{rth,,byIndian lands west, by
the parallel of N. lat. 41,’ south, andby Pennsylvania east. Its
length is 120 milenmand ayeragéetioutynémand i_ts,-a-rea; about
5349. square miles ﬂD'L4,'0°.0gQ0°,,;ﬂGI§S- .:¢2It.;is. divided intnseven
Yb 5''‘ 1. ,-1.‘- 1:3 .Ut;th: _ {If -4.‘... i". X '3‘-Q5 udtl-i E-.
‘m,-; ,tm:t|;tn ’nnnIﬂohr o».-':§l t't.':u'1 '2': it, _ ';';.. .1 .-iii?
w‘: nus (Ii
Is bounded by Lake I'f;’|-;~’eY'ii20|€'3iii'_,"“iiie"ati:¢,;‘ii vt;§s't;;;:-'1i'ri'trtibu1l‘.‘s1d‘t“i’ﬁ:,'
and Pennsylvaniaeastta it is Jwatered the a;_\siytnhu_la, and nu merous creeks. M i M f \ “ Q '
\
. -I-gm -1 Ln‘ -,";U~!v- { _--~
 
I i.t.";'tat.ti;t;rf;tSt.tab;ii.t, hbith ar ¢;~"a.‘1'...a.‘i....;';-"'.\*.*.;:.t mar an Vania,‘ tidd‘"t§t§{‘0f"rtiitégtﬁcétibty.i‘-rt‘ is’:~ ivatieredibylbraticiiéd
of ttt'*s:g"B.at'st,‘ .»~.‘m=;;t-..*g'“ata’7tn§"'o1it0;"'.qd Gii\ln’ilvri'ét;i‘S_i
“Ere. Lake-=1 gm tum‘ 11'? -'.v':n.';t:1¢ '. ' ‘ "1? Y . w'»:t1,tc our
~ -1.1’? '..-tr. };'|~u" ='~-11' ‘~r:r .t:ao't~1'.r/7 .£‘»?7.;.’vl'."§'.' id‘-"Y4 estate-1
r1g-.m‘¥"- 0'-MBOR NT§Y;.s tin :w'..\l :-h.'?s
ed.’ /?i(]lﬂBZ'J nit , _' .’ -'L'ﬂ"d‘>'l b1f:f\!‘2"; as -3'». lair.-.':...'*. vttwb ‘;:1;»iss'aa§tlt.~‘9f,-ﬁtstk, §%1”“§#¥ne;-§¥ﬁ5h.~P£. Strnwtvuthnraqu ttii
Qesqss8tan51;.snt:9f _Ms¢iusmtd is wstsretiahxi-lafattshesttt 4%
13$/lliaaz t.BiEi§3§ve§et1‘l‘9§i§'§Yl?i§u snt*:.Gr@t;;ta»tt..t;hs§ri'g;tiaFIss
- ., - ‘GIEAIJGA COUNTY, .=}ﬂitZ
‘'”*‘€i.‘‘'ft 51* itan: ‘ I, ‘*1 iﬁw‘-It.“ .5l)ft11:F-- ~ “I s. :n“ "'
He's Lake Erie ntnrtthw Gay>atioi,;';ti1¢ cduntywiest, tlioaﬂge south,
and Asbmbntéawsmqsna tsmdetsw btyntsmrssa Chagiiirivrivnrr»
,'-t-M Hitlu '.)i‘n.'ld bus anhi _ati:lu ,€m; --ti:-n pay? mdmut>n‘
~|1s",tr .‘('l'l uh alnotnenxl ,*.nn'tg.'
.: fdittvi hm: 2i')BiU--Ii!)'lid-._1Bi 0 timid .tllv'*:‘8 Jenna ’ anmt Qt-on ~¥eis§..nPs*,2t-,t§saasn sntt';i°Z , .t%?..Et§a.e;*Pt°'i‘§ ¥%"1’.l.% . . mt W" J M@('*na-an 1a.m'ste¥st1. ta; $é§ts>'tP§.s't»¥1sL.1$?§. .Y..'%§§f5t.
b€S1(i€St1tttP€i'0t.tSISI‘§Y§X'G€ s. ,7 ' V ' .. ,~.L.-JOHt 'tt<.t~,_Y.‘}g‘}'i . o n 3'39 ,as9nlq nt vfpnse Jrgnot as how. writ‘
MEDINA COUNTY. We l?l18'(t-Qh‘. "“’r"’“‘ I ' " "°"‘ ‘NI! '” "'-""‘i"l‘t-1fI.ﬂ$>‘Tt in Mail naetasm still‘-101?!
.,IF\;b0un,d.ed, snutltﬁhyg pft'rts§,of.,,\ltl,ayne anti .Ri¢1.~tw§" gm by:
P01-tage, north by Caynhoga, and.we5[ by Humm ‘It is watered
 
 
EMIe~RANT'*s-'DIREQTURYF" am
by headhranches of Cayahoga, Rocky ‘and€_Black,rivers, and the
t c p: extreme branches of the Muskingum. ‘~" ~ ~ * 
,'-.}; J. -’ I \3,'.".5)~'lE2nl'n‘-"- '21,
1t '1; to ,1 We J»: .31 !-1 :'aIh§r;m ‘N:
"~=hbounded south-bymielllandg-=or the~pavalleliol‘ N.=latmst;i
and Indian-lands; easthyF-Medinttahdltcayahogdcounties, nortlﬁ
by Lake Erie, and ‘west by Indian lands. It is large When properly ‘settled, jg form three adtlitigunlqcounties; and is.
watered by Black: Vler-rnillion, l1u‘rl~ H655 riv-ei-s, l‘ipe and Cold
9-F“15§'»?“¥*1,.5‘~‘iid“s1FX “1*%1’-°"“§°>¥ivere . Q .-r ll
_§§‘i7RFA€’E; hS‘D1L,‘ TIMTBEIF. ., ~;
.." -‘ll’; iili.‘ "31?
The surface of ,§hisl.e1;tem1iv'e‘_trget, is neither hilly nor cham
paign; but suﬁeiel:tly'undulalin‘gto give a 'qiriék‘motion to the eessreeaeeéi=%f!°'¢l,,!%¢i!i%les‘ r@,'!§2vins.,1l1-e '*i'r.bs'v1,.fr9§:a.. the
$512“!-I ,1 large streams ‘hare \gullie9 foryythgmselyes, itleepg Iaerow vﬂése ,‘,‘l1w;\_s5»‘%‘1v?e,eed‘Give. "-‘W’ :.“<>-.‘YJ°‘ir»°%',~
ﬁve hundred feet below the surface of the bordering .lllll§?,‘.‘ g'_l‘lh1e‘,_
banks of the Chagrin, Cayahoga, and Rocky rivers, aréléss ‘elé~
vated; and those ofltliérélfréams n'{'est'_,ol ,t'h'e‘last‘ named river, gra‘ dually diminish lae we proceed weslwardly: For example, the
liinks‘of Pipe mar, Snnll"él§lty§“n'nd Portage, ‘are comparatively
loll‘? £537 " the c6uutry”Wé§f“ of ‘Huron liver, also approaches to
the"k:lhl|rrpaiQ‘l1:"'cl1ariarcl'e'1';'3 “5".Ehe"whole has a northern inclin
ation. >_ .p ,-P am ' ;VV\f R I _ '
The timber of these traclsl, consist of o\ak—-~‘white, black, red and
yellow; <ehesnlltﬁ,elm-rs§l.“ whitemgtll slippery ;~ I linden or bass
wqnd;-‘hidkg:y,)bh¢k walnut, and beach; ‘maple-mugar and soft;
cycumber tree, asll-—r'e(_lI,' fvhite, blue and black; white pine,
spruce, hemlock, l‘ﬁrZ\h;“hoi§e3ehei)ut,‘§§'y)&:lrnoré, ‘wild cherry, dog
wood, honex locrrst, aspin hla_cl<_ po_pl¥ar,l>)irch—-black aml white ; al('l§r,‘nr(\)'il‘§li ij:az|el, “spice wohﬁ, §ajas’aﬁ*a§, applé,7i§lllni,§ red
nr1'iii3;i,l'iy€“e"é<l'i1iéé-'r’réé;~ lii)“'t":'r‘-“t)e:i’lx‘1>' éiiil?&lloh‘ tree. ' 1 ‘N ' ’ "
The soil is loam, sandy in places, deep, bl'ii'<é:k' tiegietable mould,
clay and gravel. ",l\; V ‘ _
V From the western limits of Pennsylvania to the mouth of Rocky
river, is a strip of country, bordering on Lake Erie, about three
222 WESTERN'GA%ZETTEER‘;“0B,
. ,pi1e§\€j_ e,"'g‘"§iiL?i“iIt3{-dr‘ a‘:§kiit1§'$ﬁnll"grai7ell$* %6il;‘c5Wfed ~wrr‘b ~ fwo '6r"three7iii<‘:_ll“e'Fs” olfblacilahrrlulial; lid‘ '1i‘g1‘(Wtll r‘>'l"l|ickory‘,‘~é'he\i¢
1111'! mid Ba1<',‘M‘i‘-‘lb lilac]?-F‘w§fﬁu€1'§nd‘ 1>u:iél-"um: ‘This soil
proves peculiarly rzongegial to the grow'th of‘ wheat, corn, rye, oafs,’birlé"y‘3'ailLdl[rr”1'llLliGll not sdnﬂtural to grass, as the coﬂutry
i|?|ml!8ia*llel;y”‘7s‘“(l‘ltlll‘,il‘3wbiclr"~has'a lIl0iSl21“ and déeper soil; and
'wlli'?cl'1“li‘clt>‘tFe<l16l'li‘tlr:'d*>he:1'vy» grewthaot‘ épgar-'map1e,.bear_;h1,;2tu§
dﬂdﬁiliék 1wal'n'u~'t; fﬁhe beech and-_mmp1etcountry'
is preferl*é&‘l$yC‘\on*Q'ce0unt1Qx£"it1a greater-feﬁﬁlitgwmnd the
1rtx\meriée" 0% i§a§lirrGge'1m1dfmuaat&§w%'l The-plaqmnq am
 
 
are such as are izommon to“ lhefrrestérhleﬂmlries bf€New~Ymh and
I’.GQBSYlVBUi8;:KlIGS_lQG¢8$YBT81/HMWHID >th.@§Q.i§.l=¥l¢§»i',’; #11‘
-133?” ‘ms; '-glﬁti ~16; -».1m£.~ ‘U ‘¥§hI" \;r"n~_u; 1-: ~_ _ V6,, Mn N,
’-5 =1?-t= "--'>~-' ‘I/=I<‘~ {,‘3iG~‘EtOB0Gil@A'l-ﬁ5{t\'l' 'J‘)?Z3'l :t~r:~r -.. 1,
5',» "13;-fed, "-- ¢'§‘*!~m mun eqw xlf ‘*" ,r;.,_¢:1 ,- i U». I.-illhmrrlsrl 99 t eeeertlfﬁz Stat"!/§9’;,1i§;é. tlﬁﬁh"¢5"‘-'*.-‘.’t»!@?t~!‘-.‘i"'*,“"
emet ivrelaeesneﬂrtéhelakea-,l°9J!1t°r918%,?!‘ gre=“-}l»'§_°l€l!?,§=i
in oak and chesnnt land, reddish and friable; the beecl1mz}r|'<l
maple region, grey. 2. Gravel or sand, of unequal depths, aci:drtl
ing to the elgygtion or depression‘ of the surface; Wherever sand is found, itls tbitllvdairatelr1 niarki. tr. 3. Kshicblpré-lifreestone,
qqmpact slate, or blue clay. 4. Quicksand, where water is obtain ell,L wlixch 15 exl;‘e’flerl't’hptler ban‘8‘st6ne,"-and unpletisﬂnt tlnderblue
ila:s.'..".- ar 11 row‘) to almq m~‘¢r, ¢f_l‘ ni '~gr?'- ‘F:
l‘ ‘ vflrlzlylqklarl‘ll?sleil‘;‘p't"rl’l£~lnl1p‘tilﬁrlliI 6? thﬁéé eobnflés,‘ itife‘ Gfgrdétliﬁlplirtahbe
t/0;'!ll‘tJ2“'v1ll:]l'1lvi_l:)‘lV'li:ti1’l:S. _ 0C0h?’}§5?(§l1ﬁ5H“0llv we auu__1Mmm»aa¢'e-em’
PM ol"‘tlie" weitélnimrgat-eagvanar-haaismsi E1‘-'§e'¢%"Ro'cky
= '1: L13 2:‘ 201 ,.‘"us'luu ll‘ as al;z,ut 25 bloa :§'§Jli wrl a-ausl l“s.\'.\;rqtm
* Mr. Granger enumerates the following species, vii: Leather w6éI(Hﬁi J 1 V n uwi - aﬁeld r~_ lmz -nu; JIIIHRC V 'l€".;r1r,,l"§tl'-’i>'%.d,§ei'1<l'9’léd‘Z%*‘,§€t'ti“%‘gf§m..s;-h~t,*:yiai |el§mwml>l\li'§ZI 1g1_&,i>t:l.8,p|11}fest3f Imnrmzgnelrlémrnseg ,§iitA0n»'06d,:,D4?l;:.1¢miﬁi§ bb¢kbt$§
1|-53,-§~ gr _rrres .;-4 jeqblq, _crlrrp,nts _wb rtl ' '7 mil!’ ivy, i'i;0'uI;£3,il?%&llblfe%:lHi, 'eet,"1iiit:E'-ry ‘grew,-!r‘au' ew ' ~ “EGHWKWBDMM+MGfWM ' .1~Qp_t__, lgdigl bqlstrgyf, poke’: agginter_ cherry, Intlianfturgip oﬁake robin,
gen_tu1Il, g|nsen"g, Virgrﬁia "siS5'ke'ro'0t,"Sel‘le(?:i"‘snakli‘rd*ot; bﬁéklﬂower,
whrte hellebore, S0l0mpn’s seal, _mint, cat rnint, balm, pennyr0yal,_thorn :.‘p'pl;,, w'|l_(l_ll:]opsI,1 >Int(’llt.;ll berry, er-esses, pleurhy root, wild liiilgelrhor
_ _s a ,1" on m _2w_ anw49M¢im)Al’6'1'm seed; gqdinﬂ 5 H“ P”-"
-ndge berry, mullewy deadly». nihgwhﬂhnsknnk mbhdaqtwntegr-hoblhek,
clruta, cranberry, strewhmwy,‘ haarhomtl, elm M-gy(,Mw 51‘
row bend h$n‘ba.ne ground iv 1d "3 ., " )1 - ._ M hemp, ’(Urt1'ca u;hillo1t1itl.) Y’ go Md’ c°1“'‘'‘°’A’‘"“' 5‘. ,9"
 
 
 
.tEM.IaB\ANs?§tatRsssa1t¥-it as
x.~ El
river-‘.A!mmt gr-iII'g:to,5v;tr,l1asUseltiiek:s : when. hoped to tlsedepth
of .5200 she; are,._said;é_tp h1;i,t_"_h.‘ ‘Salt lIl8t'.l¢;‘ in ttlsambnll twelve,-witltaﬂttbeIi"s=.@.5"‘P£a‘£’.¢!!"l5,l?¢“‘F? and
alweimus springs are numerous, .,;!,..g, , .- 5 '-. "
1 -'Allum1ud- copperas are -found inn tbehigh-relate. bauksnf mé
llrge streams!‘ ‘* Iron-or.e,Hbog and@mok,;,is-abm/5iag|t,_.aqd,proves
tnthegeod. Gypsum, phrystalized and: g.re]g',;.itPl'9lhB!1.Q!H1!~e Caya
ltogetaud Sandusky riv‘é'rs. _ Limestone is t'wp,d big eygzry;
but is Imost‘-abundant sHuron,- on -they-prairielslbetweeu pﬂprou
eu<l’.tl‘saudusk'ysrivers. Malt$d0I9§3'?gTiQd'§iQnQ§ and whetstpnes,
are made in several parts oHhe Reserve. .1_\7,_,“‘., Q18 .
The road"from‘Erie to Cleveland continues, the greater part
of the way, on an alluvial ridge, of about the height and width
of a Well raised turnpike road. 'i,When closely examined, one is
ready to exclaim, “ this was once the margiu_of Lake Erie;
thisf otii11a‘r"t1si;‘_p‘t‘€ti'_rsised<t§yits tvsvss;”=*1rhts asarrst turn
- this cdnéisttltiti sttnaj-penbreéisnd shells’,"similtir' watose an the
f‘ch3~i!‘f:1ti]e>:iaké. .3J<:'_-:'tt lane ll8lblif*‘i P--1. It-uaath bu? tier. _
I ' ye. 15.‘.-pm lo ,tmssao in‘-t , , ugssg .u0i“-31. ever:
.,i bone to‘: vs iv ; ‘@sQ;t' J? sit to u.otse'_+- .\_-t';,. we roitsvala ad! or :35
-~:2i1-iris at :;t.m':; .4;-.1"; "...:1:.e.:i.>iu‘_§-') .1: .\(s";'. ;.n'd '10 mists jnnqm -, ~stH?arrsa»[tttsata!,.‘sista§t'&s1t aas?‘t§t¥HP11lls°1?t1t't. a‘a>‘i',t=.t",i?§‘,'
est village in thé northern parts of Ohio. It is situated pgar .4bsaMqavatssq,arsssh4.,qt'~,tlse aisaasetsttsn3l5ltigssses*1F§J?- it
:1ih§1F.H§S’PQPl.1l°l§ at any th§=Ji¢sE"¢,-- and llttssstiﬁrti ‘$588’ fﬂ§o!tfltlHl3'9F.-‘Z4 ‘t’iltt'4aa$!%,ateJt!°Ft'! !f'9'!':5nt9tl51!l°ll*t‘5 8" 395?:
Improved farms have been sold as high as 15 dollars, for aukeutire
'txF§t9ﬁ1‘ 't9IlJsat'A xiv .- ;'*~-"1' 3:22 _*'ot;"wt art’) -mm-).'n\,'1 1 "';'"‘.‘!r') -11“; ' aiZtle§3ss5ii'i§t§ia?tiié¢",Y..'.'é3§§ltt*iili3t“"tttéititﬁitifet instead _tvsaiag;fs¢m~saast~tstewet-na;.:sommiles~ssstsqMelt¢
=_w.en
 
 U,-'".>tt:',, ; ,e e
,;ttét3ti€&a3‘ittt§;stt1ittittattéii§*ra:ttéat‘*tt'ttit“
' ' mm idﬁwverdlﬁiwéﬂldlﬁlobhldlp W50_ itiifﬁéfstt‘iaiiittiitiilitii;itt€€,fsittttltit‘éi?ttsitIit’af!,t§;.t¥té‘itinttéd
urmrit :l£'(0't*{||rtaq msisd Jtdm Jm ,lniur -it1':'¢ a‘no:u0l0H Ia-'s(\t‘al_|en' -H-I ‘P '
s 'ragnrg hliw .100‘! \(sI‘Id|?i£§ ,\,>;l)a-».s.-m _‘.:'i-ml n-ailanl ,aqm1' llli‘II -‘)l:.'
‘"81 Mtph Grieger, Esq. ot‘lWatma;»is;olzs;~out§a‘wrhmp iiilltthﬁﬁ./Wll0
lsasi-ithrbwnﬁbtuohiiigln on thugpology ptistnia-someway:--s“. Altlullnﬂv’ be
-so .6 “"“ts'~,ve't‘§' wanna:-.Y Ailulose'~alMhetstrlrlstus.‘-quit aﬁunl st upon
a§&;q>5a'g',"'|,'g£‘;'§’Q;t)ig;,i1|-g',\!1".~r’r hing ya: imuma ,anmln~nl Jtrstl ~
I,tsW,it“t¢"‘l 1-Qi"t ‘ \ qu‘rn‘I 1
32.1 WESTERN GAZETT_EER;'~0R,
I
States, had. ﬁne, dairies; .'At(<8,Vl1.lISblq1'g!]I,.,. isv situated a few miln
south ,of,~,Harperslield_.; ~ There are..numerous mills ontbe Ash/we
bula. - Pine timber is found, in limited _-quantities, outhe Ashby.
hula: Grand * and Chagrin, rivers. Pine,'hoards<are exportodrtot
Canadalfrom Grand river. V _ n . _ W,-,8
‘pdyrtsville; is situated on‘ ‘the an bahk“'<it"' i3rancf'7rivei-‘,6 Milt‘ one mile from " the lake. It has iaboutlfprty houses;seve‘ra'li
ttﬁlls_and three"stores; '_"has‘a. hi’gh,"‘d"ry, s,andy'plain'iti\’};s:;:
. .< ,. '-<(“ -Hw 1'fear. ' 1 '1-‘H 3‘ ;
_', 2 "1 I 'L|_<i.\11 .ut;' ¢| ' *7 .' "P '_ ‘ ’ ad‘
Ravenna, the seat of ]llSi.l06 for Porta,_g,e,;-ts situated in the->cen;;.
tre of populous settlements; in its neighborhood, is an abundangm
of iron ore, which is very ricb—-a ton ;,and,a half of ore yields;
one ton of z'ro_n.
I n all!
‘Ii..J~'
Cleveland, is situated on the right bank ofthe Cayahoga,' hall“!
mile from Lake Erie. Its site is dry,‘ sandy and elevated W6
hundred feet above the level of the river and lake; nevetnis;
less, bilious fevers and agues, have frequently aiilicted the iniltt;
bitants. The cause is to be ascribed to the surf of_the lake”s"
choakiughp the river, and causing -a stagnation of its wateis,
.fo_r three miles upwards. There are about forty or any
houses. The view. of the lake is charming. The soil “ﬂit
three or four miles east and south is sandy. Timber--'*"-'oak and
hickory. Y .1 s ’
{
Hudson, is situated on the road leading from Cleveland tu_Cau ton,~near Tinker’s creek, running into the Cayabogml
'17:‘ '
Medina and Huron are now receiving a great number of emi-‘
grants. The ﬁrst is beautifully watered, large bm-derszof an-‘
improved lands; vast quantities of iron ore; a furnaceis new build ing; at if ‘J50 " great. ..'1,".*"be¥'-Qt mills-.....T.t=e 'ee'H’stW¢B" the
Cayallorga-‘and Rocky 'f,iv'e.r‘s,“pear the lake, is.p_o_or; .to,,the westmf
itoeky' river the aspect ﬂ'p('i!glt'1Et‘lilX1)Q)i;ti1¢‘§pil impr0W3s.veny much,
it _urilil we approach ‘Black r1iverﬂbe,tweep‘:whjoh and Vermillion tbﬁ
sstiié‘;-,;éué£a|1y bra second tuiality, eXc§,pt.on the lake sh,9r'§,;a_nd
generally toolow to suit nice judges of farming land. Up Vermillion
there is much poor white oak land, too wet to be healthy. , I con~
sider the mouth of Black and Vermillion rivers, to be unsuited to
. [GRANTS -;DlRIt}G§I'G'RFY.‘ 325
health. The banks of-these strearns tire low,~1lnd‘1'in sortie places’
marshy for some distamei upwards: “Frorn tlie"Vertnlll‘ion‘to ﬁll}
!'on, the country continues 'of'a""rYch ‘soil, bill t0G‘l6W‘, iiJ"m'any sitl
I1
/uationsrto-promise hetﬁllr. ' The 'bo't'toms of Huron‘ lrit'#e""provetl
sickly for eight or ten miles up, after whleliithelleiitlhtrylis -ihic0m
wlr “Mb!-. -,~1¥i"IPsav—.wsnr maple lmsemlvet Qststshssnuti
honey locus_t__an_d buekene, on bpttomk ﬁgsalgbriqyris 33,9
air, and so excellent lﬁ§,ﬂtlA£I ﬂl10$§dlIﬁl‘Q'l‘§S’.#1lt_,;§‘hﬂ5;Q;t‘§ﬂ§lY
become proverbial with the inhabitants, ‘residing near the mout§r~,of
the river,‘ to say, that “ the people living‘ above the forks have re ceived lenses araiéie"ii~=‘és."-'\‘ irhti §?tii’tés’&oii5ine‘n‘é'e t+ii|{i;.‘~’bn§
mile of Htrron, six or seven"mile*s"fror‘n the lli‘lcI'e, "a'nd'ex§te'i1(,l to
are"ttnaissaivttiéiL.ase'a,~'*iitt;r§p@rléti téi€tiF|£r,§é"a"i(1 mo: bodies
 
0.. of wood land. The country between Huron and Saluluslsy,' ‘d few
miles,_fr_o,ni l_al5e, pggmeql favoralgle to health; especially; on
Pipe and Cold creeks. ‘Framer Rip; creek to Croghansvilteisxsc
Il}7i_lFS,‘ﬁl_8 ﬁrst ‘hallfytol the my pgairieyyariegated with st-‘ripsand
islets, of:.4 wood land, and, small ponds ; the last, timber*eel:lantl, oahi
hiclgory, blsck Walnut, basswood.‘ -r. ~ “"3 qr t =.vnsn;1
, Craghgmsuillm-,,is situated mm leftsorwest1hanli“ot}théiSslldii‘é<
ls-y, near Fort=‘Stepbenson,:eighte€n mtlzis"frorn'iakeT1~3rie.‘-"litcon;
tains about 39 houses.‘ sF0l‘t-. Stephenson is situated ''on‘ théi"‘ti‘ést
bank gt‘,theuSandusky,~atAhéilidtmee=of‘2tlB’y:ird's1t'roih‘tlie rlilfli
where the second banks are about 50 feet high. Seve'h"'iili’l'cs
above the fort are themSenec:gra_nd=J)elf§1}y,arel§rqlj,a,rQ'llfh!g§§;;.,,Q‘he distance l'ronltlii’s'yJ I'_‘st_ 'to_’l\"(‘>‘r';t'1'1lIeA.iPN,, is ft;’tt;l;?,:§llj‘li§§5‘:llte.'q)g_§l‘R9,5
ses through the Black Swamp, tvﬂhicli is’ four miles wide. _v'_,'l‘he
country between mmmaﬁshers sieaawis :ai>f‘i1?&i‘l’Z§’{Eju1 smionmmgbgns soitls-ext&emelf'ri'ch; ‘: ‘ "\"“_;k ;‘_';""fiej'
nmsitieagsdbawltathr; bait“?-'£ai'-Eh "l“’s;éli(riilsi;jr,;"
mended unl<lin'g*.-‘ 9§lt_1ce'il‘lll1}" :i‘s1's‘f§,i“,’i_‘§; :';i;,;;',_ 1,3,7?” lmm59-ﬁg sssswssd oss%“ﬂ,t*piiii§{s ‘iiiqlzipeiégiiéq _>,i,';.,},p',~,,I,]~,,,~,,-%%;,¢€,u %-%IQf
mils‘ dll‘ils?€ll€,""‘llll' e1i'|8“é3é’el',“=i‘“n%v‘_'i9r’ ail,i,t1gstre_ali_)1,14,., Q 551,, . ,. mm .4 .. M-: , - "Q - 1.‘_=ﬁt,,l '..:,.~~t.: 1» ﬂlll5'~Illh7‘lb\1l hm brscabest a Pit e‘_r"m"iii[, sgtl oth5r,watsnna.¢ts9;
M ,'inr%6"lnd-Ue~.eréct‘ea.:'v pi imp u i _, 1 ~ . F
..:\\".,lI', 1:‘! ad .bnal'2-.rI.i'ts'i iOB*)EliIILSOIIIIlIZtIIl no '|(\l'{ll:';'i'm",,
- - ' .' till rl Y ;' *3 ‘int vol ,l1r-1.! Am ‘Hill!’ ‘Ruth m1 2| J‘l"\t'§(
mg { 83“ .’f1:'i°' -.v‘illit~" :t‘~' We 2l';- .' .‘ t1.'lI ’!.‘it"
.-, a--z-: "J 
326 WESTERN GAZETTEER,
\
‘J r I 7 r" _
r Y 7* I“), 6 " 1 The population at” this monleut is belieﬂd to amount to about ‘§91?,‘l°F?“l’- I ‘
POP ULA TION.
.'J“'Pu0'.- '1.‘ IL in-.‘ ML‘ .19" ~t<"l\ i-r3.'e:1»’l'§?.
Ew ‘ rutiynu , the-1_vhitBJ l.¢_inh.l?ii 8,0? _,2‘l,,y M; M ' , ‘ wi%z'11" the7’State!:;" Ohie?,in' :ye:§'l8’ldg. ébw-‘~1;.r-ﬁg P -::M- W .03; ~ ~ w - I '\ F" i *vwerai~lf.}
, V it‘
Tmeamw'a;_,'-inc‘-:*.H'= -nil new H tﬂﬂlta‘? A 2 .=~W-'>-taliﬁ‘ ' (J'oriQ_'i:lE‘s. ~‘
,_.?=-,‘ ' , ' 4, 7 1,. ,' , t W Qty ,('.: .,,‘:'|!$.- IT; 9Mo?€g6xﬁc1¥y’_ _wn'-er ,"f_,.,._2o&Y». .xn_1,% :2“. .' _,.v,_,t).",_ttnt g?
w1wie.,',»n:~ - a::w.: eh -gmxa - UJ S‘¢§éuy..\ ,»a:-.<-new;
Harrison E~,l -‘ fl-£58 ' D inﬁeld .|._ 5., 1.-' . Prchle, '“.' _-"Q 1067 ' §?cking,"Y-'-"_’."*' 5”]
Butler, -* 4 £877‘-t V ;r'ay'me,'_'- L.-1.1:.-m- -WIT
Knox , - - -, ,.~-' 85,0.-J’ , 3351110. ' ‘v-;(, <L-,:,,,\-,3 Picka,o'ay - ’ - “I" 1355 ' ' W 5"‘ ' v"“""’8";',?2%l
Stark, - ' - - 1535"»-" 1‘ﬂ‘iHI:gllll,llﬂ,'-"‘ri'-'¢:1' F,:et..$:“i“.1i0',Q
._t; ,._; B.l@‘tl'!,a‘l$11-.i,,._;-_“.: mfg gmqggé.
 
 
Franklin, -_ Al‘ .,_.- - 1351 llliuhson, - .Trumbull, “ - 1861 “ Geuuga, - - - 528 Jefferson, - - lqqéslimﬁt
Clermont, - - - 2458 _,Wa'shington,‘ ' 1., . 9 Wayne, - - = " 759’-' Qllotil-oi,-,* < *-‘W-4" Portage, - - )- ‘ 1-1581 ' R
Cayahoga, - - - A94 o_as . “-I - V-n L Ashtahnla, -‘ - - 639- -lHanilltBn',""H-"J"--"‘ w~§-igg
Clinton, - ,- - ' 9201- -‘-, nﬁnlqmbiwaueta-':.¢1f_>,nlvztie-131%‘,
 
 
M..tBHR§lM \{l'"-.-no
Athens - - - 792 F jlhampaign V -. -I L ‘ '1 Guernsey, - - '.'. "@9513 ' "P 1-1|"-on"\~ 1-‘171‘~u;lt'|.' .1}. Eu '
Green,‘ - - ~ 1i'.‘:_-1615-aw 2 vi; - '.- w,tlfn'-':_ ,»-11-‘la\9@0H ~
Aéam-8'" - . :7 ,t‘._l $988,111 ‘ , re lu:lI:;°‘t‘l‘luu§f’§15rl)5
no m: ‘H i M hm hm 5:»-'u_:: @:t'1‘
4| . _ wt; -1: - ,~‘\t;-. 2 e5. ,aui"
/ The follomngv statement shews theynurpber ol' fn of
l» Jﬂ
 
 ‘ . . . . ‘~~-‘-i ' ~,-.1: on ,/ age: and“ sexes, _W1thm the limits of t e stal§‘Rf.H(‘)h|o’, 1n 8 6.’ ~lo'-1' at ‘M Ui:'u3 mm; i‘e_.».:a A :i‘,*
Wyandots, on Samlnslry nver anrtitg yvetergt iv ‘,7Z“_,;Im_€;- _ kxgatissﬁpgi
' Sha.wamnse, on the head of the Auglaize river, and on the per waters 3
- ’ of the Miami of Ohio; principal village,Wﬁp§ﬂik0 }“2'Ttﬁile§3 ‘*
north otY»Piqua, - p - .- ' t--‘ to-{Q8 eili-"L r.\9i'.t3A9
Del-a,w;tn~e_s> in Ohio, on the head waters of the Snndpelryglz Mg '
Senecas, who reside between Upper and Lower_Sandusk at’ r ' " Seneca Town, - - ‘- ‘ '-" H ’ -I'M"; M
Senrede, Manse-ye, and Delawaree; ban the heiiﬁiteﬁbfthé bﬁmilqﬁbw 0m M and "el‘1l1,L"“§§? Towt 80 mile 1Y1-J%tﬂli)l§Tl.¢1'.1lb¢:;ian‘eai Hi en
Ottowm, who inhabit the south shores qt‘v,L3§)e;I‘i|,j/iq‘
' _Bay, near fort Meigs, and on the Auglaize 'nve'r—nmn re 11, ia‘tr'xi"'3
tiouary—-about - - , me ,?;.‘2€|‘KI1S1l)‘:-IQ? euorteuiw 450
1 -- -J R Bl,l0iVl(,L‘( ,.v.jt°“fI!d, -,3
' -at "M Moments iSl1l‘.';l e‘a1t,us=.e,l|.e~
eThis statement was furnished by .l.$IQ}1r§§,t_gn,§;‘15g5X9§f Péqgpk M Wat‘?
-n xi»
 
A
'.l.t."."»!‘1-'. 1‘
IS situated between 35 and 36 30 N. lat. bound[ed"nort.h Kdlitucky, west by the Mississippi river, soulhjliy the New Stami
[Mississippi] and Alabama Territory; East by North Carolina.
Therivers have all a“‘w.estern direction, ﬂowing into the,’ Tenaesi
Cumberland, and Mis;si_ss,ippi.t-—Tlre state is divided into West Tennessee, by the Cumberland mountains. ' ‘East Ten-:'
dhﬁiee is watered by thdﬂolston, Notachuclty, French Broad,
Tdlico, Richland-. Clinch, Big Emery; and Hiwasee rivers, alt
branches of the Tennessee. 1 West Tennessee is watered by,
Cumberland, Tennessee, Elk; Butfaloe, Duck, Swan, Wolf of Cum.~:
hfiland, Oby, Forked Deer, Obian, Hatchy, and Wolf of the?
Mississippi. . ~ ‘
-‘The Tennessee is one of the largest rivers in the western coun
tr-'y~'~'being nearly as long and as broad as the_Ohio, and navigable foréziarge boats, 1100 miles. .'~ It enters the Ohio 13 miles, below
mouth of Cumberland, -and 57 above that of the Ohio. Seve-1
ﬁler its tributaries are also large niivigable rivers, particularly
Holstou, Notachucky, Freuch Broad;=Tellico, Hiwassee, Clinch
and'Duck; all of which are from the south, except the two last.
The surface and soil of this state west of the Cumberland moun
tains, is nearly similar to the southern counties of Kentucky, and
the northeiu parts‘ of Mississippi, and the‘Alabama Territory.-—
The greater part of the country is broken, free front swarnps, imir
rehiarkably healthy. The fertile cotton landsproduce fo'res't‘trees
of anfgitraordiuaryigrowth. 3 Cane abounds in the vallies and on
the rich hills. Saltpetre, tobacco, cotton, hogs, and cattle, a'r'e-the
gﬁtnd-Staples.-' There‘is a large btidy"ol“i'i'ch“lnnd’:{belo’rigirig to the United "'states;"'tiétt”v'eé'n"Du1ct‘<‘ titer and ‘ the h'Mil5(;'l€n$.i‘{§1;}7lt;,
and south of the:{1?§nn6$see.aiv,er,,,tisJow.thq1Stmals, ex.te1nd=ing1to‘»
the Mississippi, aanaqown-= min ri’ve'ns"~ tliE"IYtBtIt'IY‘OP’IlIé"'XV'dTf—-;containirig about GQGhb,OU§ ot'_iéi§'i'?:§\1, fﬂiis part;oli,'ihe statearitfpgis
ﬁne iituatious for enterprising cinigrants. The \i'ill.8l'in'ﬂI8fly‘p“IlS,
isQ';_xcellent; the bottoms of Duck and Buffalo rivers, are very
valuable, free from stagnant Waters, and bearing thick cane brakes. There is a deficiency of ‘ Witter ‘on the‘ _lini'ést'on"e lands, in Ecorrec
328 WESTERN GAZETTEER; OR,
quence of the ﬁssures in the beds of the creeks, which causes tlie
water to sink and form subterranean streams, Which only show
themselves in the bottoms of the caves and sinks. Yet the soil‘i8
of the best quality,‘ and Well adapted tothe eotton culture. Iron
ore, freestone,‘ and caves abounding ‘With saltpetre. is fdtindiih
Various parts of the new cession. By far the greater part of Wéﬁt
Tennessee is admirably well watered-.' "I have travelled‘ extensive‘
ly in this state, and never saw 50‘ acres of swampy ground, ‘un
less at the conﬂuence of some of the large rivers, where the ‘newly
formed alluvion had not acquired the consistence of 'te1rajirma.-:;
Fevers are almost‘ unknown‘ to the inhabitants,'exce'pt on the boil
toms of the Cumberland; Tennessee‘ and Mississippi rivers. I
know of no country where diseases are so rare, or w'hei'e‘pll‘ysici'
ans have so little employ; children, rema;rkably.robust' and:héal
thy. - The olimatewproves congenial to northernconstitutionst»-9
About half a dozen lamiliesremovetl to this state./fro'm thelstateaof
New-Yror-k, nearly._- 30 years ago. Residing in -the same county
from which they migrz-ted. l have twice had occasion to v;isit‘tl1em',
in Overton county, near the junction of -Oby. and Wolf rivers.-H
The unprecede-ntedlheallhand increase of Simeon Bn4rbe1t’s'famiiy;;'
since”tl1ei:r>resideoce> in Tennessee. deserves tobe put on record.
He ‘left New-York with a wife ‘and eightnchilrlren, ﬁve girls ‘and
three >boysl:;>ln's ldaughters,rare'all. married: -.The.'eldestl1asf-ten
children, the second ‘ten, the third eleven, the fourth ten. and the
ﬁfthﬁve ,- the eldest son ten, the second seven, the third three ,
making a total of SIXTY-SI-X, all per_fcctlyformaI, and living in
May, 1816. _ They have enjoyed almost uninterrupted health.-—
Old Mr. Barbér has‘-six or seven great grandchildren, which makes
the increase from One family upwardsof 70 souls. Not a singlts deathoccurred in the ditferent branches of the family, until two of
the sons removed tolndiana, in 1816, whentwo of the children‘
died of the whooping cough. Mr. Barber is now 77 years of age,’
and hl8~l\‘ifG 74. I do not recollect having ever seen in the north
ern states, the heads of any single family, of so advanced an age,
possessing so great a degree of activity, bodily and mental vigor,‘ ~
or of so young and healthful appearance. Mr. B. thinks nothing
of walking ﬁfteen or twenty miles; and labors occasionally in his
ﬁelds. Noneof‘the other families which accompanied him, have
had the same rapid increase of numbers; but they have enjoyed
H
\
Y EMIGRANT’s DIRECTORY;
ﬁne health, and all concur in representing the country as healthy
beyond example. Indeed, from my own experience and observa
ﬁqn, I do not hesitate to pronounce the country between Cumber
land and Tennessee. rivers, as incompm-ably the most healthy of
,any,,paxt -of the western country, from the Great Lakes to the Gulf
05 MQXiQtL- Ierhaps thecountry south of Tennessee river--from
éheﬁrench Brand to the Mississippi, asifar south as the junctioﬂ‘
9lIthe,Black Waniodand Tombigbee rivers--might with’-justice
be included in the salubrious region. The southern halhof the
late-t-.Mississippi Territory, and Louisiana. are not generallyunv
favorable to health, but locally so. The same remark also applies
10 Ohio, I ndiana, and the Michigan, Illinois, North-Western, and
Missouri Territories. ~t .
‘ TheCumberland ‘Mountains run‘ through the state from north to
south,-and spurs or lateral branches extend west to the vicinity of
Nashville. Their summits between Wolf river (of Cumberland)
and the Big Emery, are dreary and precipitous, in places; and
bearfreqnent evidences of the action of water-s-even on the high
est peaks. As we approach the head branches of Wolf and Oby,
the soil becomes deep and fertile, even on the knobs and ridges
where the ascents and declivities are so steep as to render it im-.
practicable to travel on horseback. Upon these hills, or rather
small mountains, are found tulip, beech, and sugar maple treesof
the largest dimensions; little or no underW00d; abundance of gin
seng and various other. medicinal plants. Between the mountains‘.
are “ ewes’-’ of ten. ﬁfteen or twenty arches, similar to those in
Wayne county,(Kem) already described, with the best freestone
water, and covered with the largest trees and canebrakes. N6
situation can‘ be more lonesome and secluded than these gloomy re.
fl'8tli8&‘-tthen foundat the distance of ﬁfty or sixty miles from the
residence of a human being. I once had occasion to pass, alone,
[raga Clinch ‘-river to Nashvillc. a distance of nearly two hundred
milesmteaoss the mountains: the nature of the country rendered
it,-~.aecnssar7Ao the route on foot. For the convenience of
walem Luna obliged to cncamp several nights in these ahodes Of
dgsolstion amisilence; In-several instances, 1 was forcibly im
pressedﬂvith-thc power: oil solitude.> The air-~nay, all nature, ap
peared street-,-asoL,a_.sn_upd struck the ear; the very leaves were
#'»rqoin e mi tart! tn-K -V T-i
330 WESTERN GAZETTEER, &C.'
as motionless as icicles. In this awful stillness, the wolf’s dire
howl Would have been music to my ear. -L,
Caves, of great depth and extent, are found throughout the state;
in the Cumberland Mountain, on the summit of an elevated peak,
is one of unfathomable profundily-—-A stone thrown or dropt
into its frightful ‘oriﬁce, returns no sound. I once drank at a
subterranean’ brook, in Sullivan county, Which was large enough
to drive a mill, and as I judged, at least 40-0 feet beneath the sur
face of the earth.’
 
‘It This cave is on the summit of a high hill; within a few rods of its
month there is a. crater, golf, or rink, 400 feet deep, and about 800
yards wide at the top, gradually narrowing towards the bottom like a
funnel, but too steep to admit of voluntary descent. The descent into the
cave is caey—after which several spacious rooms are passed—u-hen we
come to a narrdw passuge—through Which one is obliged to creep, and
use great ‘caution to prevent the extinction of the torch, as there’ is a pretty
strong current of air constantly setting towards the mouth of the care :
beyond this passage, at the distance of twenty paces, commences a anh
cult descent of several hundred feet, which brings one within hearing of tho
murmurs of the brook; still 70 paces distant—-and to reach which,‘ with
out a broken neck, the utmost care is necessary. The bottoms and
stones of this brook are similar in every respect to common brooks in
mountainous countries. The water was cold arid perfectly agreeable to
the taste. I was told by the person who acted as a guide, that we 'could
_ see day light by ascending the stream a, few rods‘, which [found to be the
case. But the aperture which admitted the light, prevented our ingress
to the crater, being barely ruﬂicient to enable us to surivey the ‘huge and
frightful masses which projected from the sides, in luyiu chaotic pilcut
the bottom of the golf. H
' ' 'l'l
‘ Y ' ' . ‘ I
J i It I’ I 4 r
‘I r ., .t
I\
- , '5 '1, I 1| ‘ ol 0" 1‘ \
H ,-"U \ 3; I IL |.' ~ \ ' ~*"‘ "' Md’) ' I ‘
. , -:1 : I ,1 . . r ' t I
I .~ -.‘ 1' - , ,
q . . ‘tn if, I " ( st in: I ' V "
I; ‘,';r-- ‘ qr f__: 3' '1,“ -7 ~ , '- 5‘-_1 in
I\ II t, ‘ ‘Jill n‘ ,1 , , ' , I‘ . , ' _‘
I I _ {H1 \g*, ,- ' ,I '
‘ I '1 a » I
I,
l-L -- I ill.
Fm
AH’-ENDIXI,
‘ A
I ‘ r
SBETCHES OF SOME OF THEHV-VESTERN COUNTIES
O?‘ PENNSYLVANIA.
_ tlh‘ ' BEAVER COUNTY,
IS situated on both sides of the Ohio river and Big Beaver
creek, in the western part of Pennsylvania; it is bounded on the
west by Brook county of Virginia, and Col_umbiana county of-the
state of Ohio, by Mercer county on the north, Butler on the east,
and Alleghany county on the south-east; its length from north to
south on the west side is about thirty-six miles, in breadth eighteen
miles; divided into ﬁfteen townships, containing in the year 1810,
12,168 inhabitants; the _nurnberrnust be considerably increased
since. The climate and situation may be considered very favor;
able to health; the face of thecountry generally billy, interspersed
with tracts of excellentland, and others not so fertile, tho
ble for the production of good crops of well ﬁlled wheat; the bot
tom land produces corn in abundance. Unimproved laud sells at
t four dollars, improved -farms from to twelve dollars per acre;
the price of wheat previous to the late war, was-from sixty to sixty
seven cents per bushel; it is now from $1 to $1 25; rye, from 75
cts. to$l ; barley, $1 ; co_rn, 75 cents ; oats, 37 1-2 cents; beef,
5, and pork, from 6 to 7 dollars per cwt.; salt from $6 50 to $7 50
per barrel of 250 lbs. nett wt. The country is well situated for
commerce, having the Ohio river passing through the southern
part of the county, and the Big Beaver creek, which is navigable
tor Durham boats (except the falls) to several miles above Warren,
in Trumbull county, state of Ohio, intersecting the county from
north to south, till it empties into the Ohio river near Beaver
town.
Beaver-tonm contains between 50 and 60 dwelling houses, an
excellent brick court-house, a stone prison, a banking house, a
printing-oﬁice, and a new brick building for an academy. The
road from Pittsburgh to Detroit, and to places situate in the north
eastern part of the state of Ohio passes this way. There are in this
county two furnaces and one forge for making iron: one of the
furnaces is at Bassingheim, or Conoquenessing. a creek putting
into Big Beaver, on the east side; the other furnace, and the forge,
are at Brighton, on the falls of Big Beaver. Those tails are a
ugh suita- 
332 APPENDIX
oonrinuation cf“rnp‘dsf0r more lhan1,t=I‘o_lﬂ!bs atlny mwdl eel
crllated forgiving motion lo -machinery, -and rnureepiible ol'_ -greil
improvomenl.;-lmadrliiiom to the.al:ioveMhare- are erected on them
Aigriat-millu *4-.o,tm’t-nrills,";-'1lmip-J!ammer,:.l woollen inanufactory,
]_:t1_>iHI1il|,-ﬂlldill oottmepianingifaetory :~_tand- there yet remainiun-.
owlpiedrrituulionmand wﬂnr, euﬁicienofcr-many moreC'l‘.he chief
lg!/isles ref expm,»aee H6111-,' porierﬁbeer, tcastand bar-iron, sent.
down the river; those can-ied¢up ,to Pittsburgh, consist of grain,
beef-caiile, beer, lpner,~'.-pigiron, -oastinge, pol-ash, linseed-oil,
_ ollculclolh,-cotton yarn,.oountrylinnen,&c. The county abounds
iih~.iron'r ore-vtalone coalwrnd limeltone, .ﬂ)here arerhseveralvilv liﬁﬂtini tllewoutitma in mne tofwhishrt Grrurnpbutggh, J about ten
mjlgg north; 0ﬁ',B€a.VBD'§9..\VD',>.ii- atmcademy, wbere:the- languages
8lj#§8!lg!JL.€ It mayJIe,remarked, that all kinds of grain, common,
to,l_he.-olimgte, are genen,lly_qulliv,_a|led4'n; the county!‘ 55' ,-.,,- ,_
‘o-1,. -!"urv¥-1:11’: )1 . I.-E." >
,‘ira-t)i‘Q §!.iJ; "u -1 ' J12 , ’-‘~“""“ ' “"‘r‘1i't»yf*ii;éi;vé’f"‘ 1=W,by, i¢‘n‘i‘|'1g'a,"§i¢rth',i5{ér;w.
“Id =1 {be ‘ﬂatef.¢‘ri'; 01% j,__It; is watered b§.,th9,Bjg
Béaveréfrmﬁbeniqe §l1er!1P:'¢~ Neﬁlirmw W Sandy.’ creeﬁﬁz-. TIW is-""i“i‘=,!' swd land in ttlisrqltpt ,-,,-a. considerable pmgr, it ' Jud hQa|lh_,r.- ,~ , ‘i';l!¢,€¢I1‘5!¥ﬂ I \#l:l9‘,1*iI1£'1l%" s,11.'8tr1§
" _'.Ztf'4ét’Y1"I{rtr“b‘QtiiY'rt; .‘1"' '.. 1; iv 1’$J§( \
£Is“bdﬁ‘_bHe'Jf‘.'£}t ’Ai1hti'ong; hdfth by Venango, ‘West by
Bé&Ve'i“'€urtl stnil _ Hy ’A‘ilegl'1hny. ‘It is watered by Buifaloe creek
mnbitigﬁihtollhe _Alleghimy,'a'nd by Connoquenessing and its vari
ouslii-i‘a>tiches“r'ut1nIn;‘»tii1_t_o Big Beaver. The timber is principally oak;-‘ﬁldil light,bht prqducinglstrtnll grain and grass-‘—surface mo derately’ hilly. This' ‘cbuiity is ohieﬂyﬁremarkable for being the
raid?nce*qfth‘e giarnionists. _ ‘ ‘ -: '.:jt-L.-‘K,
-411"‘ ‘(",i,'.(:» ‘Mi "“ " ,- ‘ ' , ,_,,,, e ,H4.RAIONlE soclwrt. . V
‘1l'h163o'ciet’f‘i>|‘igi|"tate‘<i in ‘the 'dutch'y of‘:-Wurlemburigh, about!
so yealifs ago, aéd etﬁigrated frbm'that'cpu'mry to the United States
in mrequepce bf the‘ right’ are ihlb'l'erhicé of the Lutheran
chui*ch,"“ George Rﬂpp; [lib principal ‘leader ‘of the Society, ahd
levdrﬁl’I’o'llow‘era, arrived in Philadelphia in 1803. They‘ were
the-inexﬂyear Tbllowed‘ by the whole Society, who embarked at,’
Alﬁdlerdlrm. to the nuinber of 160 families. Rapp purchasai"
H5700 a'¢r€b of lhhd, in‘ this county. In February, 1805, a consti
" tuti0n‘w'a6'organized,' Whose principles were the Same as the ﬁrst
Apostolic church, (See Acts iv. 32.) "‘ And the'multitude ofthem
that believed, were of one heart, and of one soul: neither said any
 
‘I Letter ofA. Mentfenhall, Esq. of Beaver-town,March, 1817.
APPEN DIX. 333
of-them, that sught, of the things which he possessed was his own;
but they had all things common.” ‘ There is no such thing as indi
vidual property-—every thing belongs to the Society-—all labor is in
common. All the produce and provisions, are deposited in a large
brick store, and served out according to the wants of the different
members. During the winter of 1805, they erected 18 log houses,
18-by 24, and a largebarn. Ground to the amount of 150 acres,
was cleared for com, 40 for potatoes and 15 for meadow. A grist
and saw mill were erected, and a race way dug three-fourths of a 
mile long. Thirty additional houses were built in the autumn of
the same year. In 1806. 300 acres of land were cleared for corn,
58 for meadow; a public inn, several dwelling houses, a framed‘
barn, 100 feet long, and an oil mill were erected. The next year,
among other improvements, 400 acres were cleared; a brick store
house, saw mill and beer brewery were built. Every succeeding
year has added to their wealth and buildings. They have now
several capacious brick and framed barns-—a brick meeting house,
ware house, lulling. dying, grist and hemp mills-—carding ma
chines, spinriiog jennies, distilleries, &c. The annual quantity of
produce, consisting of wheat, rye. oats, barley and potatoes, ex_
ceeds 40,000 bushels, besides 5000 lbs. of ﬂax and hemp, 100
gallons of sweet oil, distilled from the white poppy, and the pro
duct of twelve acres of vineyard. This truly economical people
appropriate every foot of earth within, the limits of their little rc
public, to some object of utility. Hills which are too steep for
the plow or the drag, are planted with the vine. Their vineyard
is situated on the south side of a steep hill, and exhibits to the eye
a succession of benches. rising one, above the other, like the galle.~_.
ries of our churches—the front of each bench or ﬂat being. walled
up with stones, to prevent the sliding or caving of the earth.
They have about 3000 acres of ground cleared; have a large
stock of cattle, and about 1000 sheep; part of which. are mermo..__
Their cloth has obtained a high reputation. There are about 100
mechanics, who work for the country as well as the society. The
number of common laborers amounts to about 700 men, who will
readily dispose of a large job of work——a 100 acre ﬁeld is scarce
ly the labor of a day. Nothing can exceed their industry. Idle~
ness and intemperance are unknown among them. Food, clothing
and physio, are all received from the public stores. Their cos~
tnme is very plain; the women dress with no motive of conquest.
All are in rmjform-—a linsey or woollen jacket and petticoat, a
close black cap, with a patch of cotton or wool onthe crown, and
tied -under the chin, are their constantattire. The whole Societ
attends divine worship on Sunday. The venerable Rapp ﬁl
the pulpit. Every thing, in short, proceeds with the regularity of
clock work.
Their village is called Harmonic, after the society. It is situa~
ted on the right ‘bank of the Connoquenessing creek, which heads
near the Allegheny river, and runs into the Big Beaver, about 50
344 APPENDIX.
miles above its entrance into the ‘Ohio. Over -this creek they.
have a bridge 220 feet long.—-The creek aﬂbrds many facilities ftiif
water machinery. The surrounding country is excellent for past:
turage—but not ofthe ﬁrst quality for grain. , This interesting lit
tle eolonyhavc principally removed to the banks of -the Wabash,-"
below Vincennes, wherethey have commenced theculture oﬁthg
vine, and the manufacture of broad cloths from merino wooh .‘z'rI-1'1‘
lot. - ‘ ' mt ‘L:v;s.|.-\ I §r;1ui""
' ' LFENANGO COUN'i'Y," , ‘ c If
 
 
Butlér, east'ot"M_ercer, south of Crawford and west
of‘Ar“i“nsir)o‘ng." it is §¢ater’éd by Alleghany river, Freoch, Sugar,‘
Sandy, Oil, Mahoning and Toby’s creeks. Soil light and gravel
ly, except on the bottoms ;timber, oak, chesnut, beech, sugar ma
ple and ash. It is thinly settled, abouodiog with desolate planta
tions,"*"'where the fox looks out of the window, and the tall grass
waves to the ‘w'in<l.”~ ' -- I
_ Frtinltlin; the seat of justice, is situated partly on’ the right bar_rk_‘
of‘ Fren't:h‘creel(', and partly on 'the west side of the Alleghany riv-*
er; in thcir,jcor1'tlu'ence.;"' It contains about 40 houses; surrounding’
coh_ntry poor and broken ; but healthy. Eleven mile's _northe_est*
of F1-adklin,"are" the celebrated oil springs, whichrise from the bed‘
oi Oil_'cre'ek, ahQut'one mile from its entrance into the Alleghany
rlvé_r.' [Pile supply“ol‘ oil is inexhaustible; one can collect a gal
lorr in an hour or two. The place must have been much frequent
ed"in' former'ti'mes, asboth banks of the creek abound with exca
v?;lio‘ns, covering several acres, ‘made, no doubt by persons in search
0' "the"oi‘l. ” " 1 ‘" ’ ‘ ' .,—. Jul‘ ,ii‘» £,;.‘lt1‘:,J'-e t . '.;.uLil) “Ll '-M om_"_s -'1 ,' ' u ' ..‘.‘';,t.§ "-- !l'.l\, CRAVVFORD, COUNTY,‘-:.l \_ 'I'-. t
is about 50 miles square: bounded east by Warren, north by
Erie; and west by Mercer, and the Ohio state line; south by Ve
naugo. It is ﬁnely watered by.French creek, Cussawago, Little
Conncaut, Pymahoning, Mud and Sugar creeks, and branchesnof
Oil and Broken Straw creeks. Much, of this country, west of
French-creek, is rich beech and. maple land.--The southern part
oak timbered; sail light and poor for grain, except rye; grass
grows well; '1‘be_bottoms of French creek, between Mea;drr_ille
and Mud creek, are wide" and rich; timber, oak, -blaclnwalnui,
bass wood, some honey locust andsugnr maple.‘-' , East of Frenizh
creek, towards Warren, the timber is pine, oak, hemlock, maplem
soil poor, -surface broken,‘ and beautifully .wateeed. Above Mud
creek, the timber is beech, butternut, black walnut, sugar maple.
elm, with very little undenrood; soil black and deep, readily
yielding to the foot,- covered in places with nettles, -like the coun
try near the dividing ridge, between Colt’s Station and Le Bmuﬁ
There are already a considerable nurnber of people -from the east~
 
 
APPENDIX. 335
ernstates established in this county, who are much pleased with
the country. Wild land sells at from $3 to 10, according to situ
ation. in‘ _ t ' ;-1!-l ‘
Meadville, is situated on the eastside -of FTBEtCl1 creek, on-an
‘extensive plain or bottom, and contains about 120 houses. Its
growth has been slow, and the rise of property discouraging.
Town lots in centralsituations, area-emat-kably low, not ‘above four
hundred dollars for the most eligible. They were sold at auction
by the proprietor. Mr. Mead, at Pittshur h, in Dec. 1797, at the
average price of $40. It has several Stu es and ta‘verns,'an acad
emy, a college in prospective, arsenal, jail, court-house, post ollice, printing-oﬂice, at which is published a‘ 'ne\vspaper‘dritl'm?t'ga“iine. _ . A ~* ' ; t’ A . ERIE cOUiv7;‘I’-._‘:‘-I; I; I :1
,|..I'‘
Is bounded east by New-York, ‘north byllakc ;t‘.ri,e,’. ,,wcst,' by
Ohio and south by Crawford. It is beautifully W§léf8.(l.l)X,ﬁllC8,l}
or twenty handsome creeks, issuing from innumerable springs, and
ﬂowing into lake Erie; the largefst of which is .Twent_y Mi,le,'Six-_
teen Mile, Four Mile, Elk, Walnut, .and,, Corineaiit; besid ,
French creek flowing into the Alleghany ;, Le ,Boeuf,, Sugar an
Miles’ i:reeks—all running into French creek.,,..'l‘hjs ,county. is
about 55 miles long, and has an average width ‘Q,f,SiO ‘miles; it partly formed from the triangular tract cededby the United States
to Pennsylvania, containing 202,187 acres, which ,exlends from
the western boundary _of Ncw-York, along lake Erie',4_5 miles, be
ing 18 miles wide at its base, and terminating in a point 3,,mile$
east of the eastern limits of N'ew-Connecticut. No section of the
United States of equal extent is better supplied with mill seats and
facilities for the various kinds of hydraulic machinery; but which
at present are little improved. However, the spirit of improve
ment has commenced ; land has within the last four years nearly
quadrupled in value; and the settlements are fast ektending. From
the New-York state line to that of the state of Ohio," near Gons
neaut, to the distance of three miles from the lake, the soil .-is-a
sandy loam, intermixed in places with gravel and coveredwith
two or three inches of vegetable mould; timbencheshut, -(very
large) hickory, black walnut, oak, basswood, and some hemaloeln
This kind of land is much esteemed by Pennsylvanians ;:; being
highly favorable to grain and fruit; and in a manner exempt from
frost during the season of vegetation. This narrow strip is now
selling at from eight to sixteen dollars an acre,’ hy the farm. Jo
1813, few improved lots were valued at more than ﬁve-dollars an
acre ; and in 1798, the “ Population Company” of Pltilandelphin,
were making gratuitous grants of 200 acres to every actual settler,
throughout the Triangle : three miles from the lake the country
rises about 100 feet, and it is at the point of this elevation that the
beech and maple country commences, andcontinues so with little
variety of soil, timber and aspect, to the southern limits of the
I
ass ' APPENDIX.
county. The timber consists of sugar maple, beech, tulip, (whit;
wood) elm, bass wood, cucumber, white ash, butternut, iﬂi8l'Spe_l_'59
ed with some hemlock-_-all large and lofty. Springs of excrllent
water are numerous. The soil is adeep grey loam, easily plough~.
ed—producing ﬁne timothy and clover; the inhabitants conﬁne.
themselves to stock-raising and dairies; the forests have _very_ lit
tle undérwood-1-one will frequently meet with bodies _of land which the chief timber is sugar maple, say six or eight trees man
acreﬂivith scarcely a single‘ bush or shrub, _but covered \t’ith\g)
luxuriant and troublesoine growth of nettles, the genuine Urlictg Whillowi, ﬁvepr'six feet high, and almost impassable. ' H '
Erie, tmds"on the margin of a bay, formed by, two peninstilagg
' has aii"‘e'xcelle‘n't”ltarbor‘_ for lightshipping, and, contains about
100'h0tises_.’ It has a court house, jail, post-oﬂice, and a printingéj oﬂice, from _which‘is issued the “ Genius of the Lakes.” vIts sitgr,~
is a plain, and the banks of ‘the basin, or lake, is about 70 feet
high, very ‘steep. The largest peninsula, (Presqu‘ Isle) is seven
mileslong, and from half a mile_lo a mile and a half broad. _' it is
a perfect desert, or heap ‘of sand, thrown up by the surf of the lakeI __
covered with ponds, c1-apberry marshes, dwarf pines, and shrubby
Oaks.“ The little peninsula is'not uiore than half a mile ‘loitgi: it
considerable strearnof n'ever failing water, large enough to.d|-‘ive mill, enters" the "lake at theeast end of the town. V Etieis 9?
miles ‘S.-S. of'ButI'alo. 136 nearly _N. of Pittsburgh, and about
100"‘-E.’ ‘of Cleveland. Its trade is already considerable. :l‘bé_
The ship-yard is about two miles above the town. _ fI‘h'e oak‘“t’|r"n
ber‘forthe United States’ ships of war, was cut near the spot ; thii
mists‘-were hauled several miles. A_ turnpike, across ‘Qtbe, poi1'ag§
lB'n'1iles'long‘;e;tends‘from'Erie to lie Bce‘uf,creek.' If __‘ - Wain-fond."'star’ids' on the 'bank__ of, Le Bear ; eiesr,"san'set"_
miles sonth“of'Erie'; it contains ﬁfteenj or twenty houses, and id I
tiie'pntnt"o't' einbarkatinu fordescending French ‘creek iiitti MW: at-<>'~'i<>-t ' ~ 1 H,» =,s,»,.~._t, , . 1 ‘i r ---w2‘-~
, ;.,,§., ,. U ,--; VWARREN COUNTY, .< . - 
'1-nu .115 »'H_|~I‘-' H . ., ‘ ' .: is
Is bounded easband north,-by Cattaraugus and Chatauque coum
ties,(N- ,Y,-)orest by Crawford, and south by Venango. is large
enough when settled for three or four counties of -the usuat size ;
and is watered by the,Alleghany and Connewango rivers, Broken
Straw,..Gr,eat--am Little Oil creeks, besides. numerous other large
streams.~ running into the Alle,ahany from the -south; The north
ern hall of this county, watered by_ the head branches of Oil and
Broken Straw creeks and the Connewango, will admit of dense
settlements, as the land is uniformly good; similar to the bcech
and maple lands of Erie county and the Holland Purchase in New
York; and ahnunding with excellent springs, and meadows of
nettles; some small tracts of pine and hemlock; but two-thirds of
 
 
Ai’PENDi;X.-' 33'!
the county is covered with ash, beech, _s\ti1gta_1ﬁ \_tmple, and, locust,
with ‘little under-wood. The reniainder‘, a_hilnugh susceptible of
settlement and cultivation, is_ cliieﬁf valuable for the-almost ex_~ haustlessqlibantities of'pinie;tin|he'°G ' ”:_cotﬁ"ejaient mill-seats,
Which are to be found in great“ K 5 ‘p¥1"t'ili.liilQ streams, exp - '
Cpnnewango, which in deep‘ 1_-' , 1m‘iam:l'ljo"i the 155 sttite line to itsjunctiodlwitht ~ ‘ L'l3rtI)Eltqg'i' sq ,
is"tabout forty yards Wiiie’ land J ' I
 
 
 
 _J’Pf'e I a . H » aha . I .t>‘@g‘\am2\s¢Y@" ‘ . . .
low the mouth of C0nué}it,pH,o'5H_l, , 1 ﬁsh for. the space of owe ‘
niiles from its moutltiwlierén it"'fei' ‘s and becooiesgentle. >
are about twenty saw-mills established on its banks, ,all‘,activély“_-ém
ployed in slitting the iinmense whit'e{pineTok:ast§,!growin,g Snlong its
borders. Oil creek, nearly equal in size,‘ also aboundsiu mills
and pine tiinbcr. "This ci-e'e,li1_ente‘rs the: Allegheny about fort!
miles below Broken Straw; the intervening country, for the dis
tance of twenty miles from the Allegheny, is'broke.u,,,.0f i_a.,light
gravelly or_ clayey soil, 'stoney, and covered tgillrﬂﬁne, hemlock,
beech, b,ir'ch,,and some sugar ma le. ,' .There are at present very‘
few settlements‘, _excep_t along t e banks of the above named
streams; and these depend on the lumber business, rather than the
cultivation of the soil. The pines of the hills are uncommon-Q
1)! large, tall, and straight, suitable for sliinglesand masts. x...
Warren, the seat 0]? justice for the county, is situated on the,
right bank of the Allegliany river at thetentrance of the Centre’
wango. Its site is a , large dry plain, washed-1 on the south and
east by those rivers, and margined in-the near by very high hiilst
It_contains about twenty-ﬁve houses and a.saw u1'rll.. -,The Alle;
ghany is here 150 yards wide, and the _Connew,ango,,l00,., The
bottoms are narrow, but rich; soil of the Uplands ioarn.y_;, timber, near 'Wan-en, oak, chesnut andYl1ickory,* Therejs a safe and
easy harbor or eddy abreast the town, at which almost .al,lthp
boats and rafts, descending the Allegheny "from 0-lean, or the,Con
newango, from Chautauque lake, stop to procure refreshments and
relaxation. Provisions are usuaily scarce and exorbitantly high
in price. Nothing but enterprize is wanting to give this village a
respectable appearance and extensive trade. Wild lands through
out the county, from ~$31e7 ~8-an acre; and im_pt'oved‘fartns at a
Very small advance, say from $810 12 an acre. Deserted cabins
are frequently met with betweentwarren and Meadviller‘ About
' two miles north-east of ‘Warren,’-is a small insulated spur of the
Allegheny mountains, whose summit atfords a boundless view of
the surrounding country. From this elevated point, One surveys
. a circle of territory of 180 miles diameter. ‘
t . an ~|“nZIi" _‘ 0 "ring -ian.
" A scene so rude,,‘so Wild as this,
Yet so sublime in ybauenaes.-1,
Nderdid my watuvring footstcps press, V
‘Where's! I hap’d to roam." -" ‘ Ha
Uu
I it I " ‘ .1 1:‘
, ‘ti-in Lies;-south of allsahw./;
APPENDIX.
ﬂﬂj 1)"). \ .hu '5‘ J]-‘:'4‘~§', wj - .~, :, f:-, -\ \_'. '5-‘ 3'‘!
Mt‘ I"l'T‘ \ an; U 1.1‘ \ lb‘ h
‘ ‘p: 6.1.?! I. V...‘ ’‘(;.'n'_ -_ I - H :_-.i I _, Qjll"-‘£L‘ m Lies'east,p£1:;Builé'1"and noi_‘_t_h"6f Alleghany-—is"very large and
%,thiplFs,e;;le;i;.§1_nt;l ﬁatéred by the‘ Alleghany river,~Toby’s'"an!d
,tKiti;la,i¢1i,l1i;t!ta2 §i:e,el;s. . lft,'contaii1sfgreat'quantlties-of'iron ore,§and
“extensive-;f.a¥2¢9l§‘ttllsuflqﬁz ;~,.llm°5't mtmnlﬂiﬂous i ‘Oil; -ewmlly
.)poqr,1;<. ,-,‘Y.3(‘>_"_' M; Hm‘ ' ‘- -/ I )1 1 Wu s~:;t:'-v sidl‘
,\;.nit.K1'l4i!'!lt',ng7,I'-,llg mt of,,justii:e, is a‘ pleasant village of about:i0
338'
Tim .-'lr,~ ,~;,"'r:1f;':‘
. mI|0uses,,;Bit\1a,ted.>_on),the jleft bank of the Allegheny, thirtynnilias
—aboeen‘Bittahupgh3—~ 115 bottomsiare wide, and ﬁnely cultivated;
win therear acoai ll “U1-is gipthe height of 200 feet; It is here that the Allcghany-1 aiirjécvonielbrcarl; deep°and' inajesiic-1-_—the
prospect changes; we, lose sig_hl’"of the high barren hills, which
constantly present themselves Ifroni Corn'plariter’s village to Arm~ strong. .,Q-‘|,,,‘,,. “TIN “IE ) - t J I . ,
'.‘.|(-aha‘ .
I ‘l'm'l»ur'~l wt 1‘ _.n'L\"ur‘ 1 >. F K r I ' ""' "'“
ui ~21 :i as g'nivq.p CPUNTK '-i 4"
“ U: 1 Is bounded‘ii‘o‘rth“by'Butler, West‘ by Beaver, 5011“! by, Wash
‘ ington. east by Westmorelaiid. It is ﬁnely wateredby the Alle
ghany, Monongahela, and Ohio rivers. It is watered, west of the
Allegheny and Ohio river's‘f'by‘Séweekly, Pine, and Bull creeks,
all pure and wholesome streams. Plum and Sandy creeks, enter IJ §he,- Allegheny the east ;, and Chartier’s creek, falling into the 0hio',"abnut 6i1‘e"'rnile‘belnwr Tittsbhrgh./" . I -.1 1;; k
Pittsburgh.—This ci§ygis;s’it;nated,on the point of land formed
by the junction of the Alleghaziy and Monongahela rivers, and at
the head of the Ohio. It is a large and ﬂourishing place, possess
ing a greater number 'ﬂud3g-ietyl oi manufacturing establishments,
than any other inland town in America. It contains about 1000
‘\'.“lious‘es‘-;' bridges tare Xal;nnt;t9( e ,e|recte<lover the Alleghany and Llllilonongahela,-;rivers.-7,It,is,j H.',lat. 36 _43#32’l -miles‘ iiest of
-'-' "Philad‘etlphia,‘and',l.36 swthg ,‘I;$jake|Erié. The scenery of the
"" surrounding hills is.ncwb,an f .‘_,.',-JMI hills ‘which’ border the
7“ toxin. ane stoml Qlvlilh-a'b0!l _ ‘*6tippL}"ofl sitqhe coal. -Theprin
-/£6951 m_a,nufa¢,tu|gng,,ggta%li§hn1er1is'pre, asleiim grist’-mitt, steam
= ‘*'englne l'n'ctn'ry~, 591'! iag;-111])» tQ,;sVIhlCl|_ is _at'ta'clied'a uaiﬁietory,
" the ‘H!iDf!JiR{KiII l§1<.!M1)g'ici1'(; ti c"ani10n .[f'duii‘dé'ry",:*air furnace, . Uzcmt/Udiausl»k0oﬂQll:fBql'9);i68.,|ilYQ:p§iter ‘ésfthrée btietivetiesi &c.— ‘
Theie are.£pahia-prkrtiggv-Qfiig_é§;’iajnd= F ' 6' l5tioksforé!s;=‘ Awlolitplete .15 "*"@esoilipitiori1nf‘tl1i§ ingergatiggiggrgn LVip'I'1I¢I ‘ﬁll?! 1"rllti't|1et~"1 " Slit
..l:'i Jl .
.L‘.'lll‘)1;d -taut; if hue " : Hi»; -[:1 El .J01i,’\-.‘¢'-|‘{_,:) r ‘W'Y-"1')W1eHiMGwQNfZ:iltz4im¥V‘5 " "' ~
_3.l'_.);'Yhi,J‘.M bu) w::‘:~?v)~2“':'!"‘,‘ ‘ I J _(‘(|l5“Jﬂ 7- ma V ‘ 31:, j_au‘d ‘b‘a£t""6Feounty in '1Viratinia.~ Ihisa giggly; in ﬁqlttgtttie/df.f1;eaany;1atiat undulating country, abonnrlingt»in.c_g_ -uiines;|irYon{bi‘e', ﬁne
crops of grass and grain. ' ‘ ‘ ‘ “ ' """q -‘ r.-M
 
 
APPENDIX. ‘ -I 339
I-15.. ..
Washington, is situated on apleasant ridge, 26 miles southwest
of Pittsburgh. It has aboug pp_u1't housepjail, two
churches, several valuable manufactofi s,' 'a“prini'ing-oﬂice, and
post-oiﬁce. The United:5ta!.esf.g:eaL turnpike ‘road from Cum -berland to the weslexn ,count1'y,‘pas_se's (h'n;ugh_‘ti1is Pfs_ce.‘;vi§Y
'**-Cannonsburgh, lies‘,1‘,4,);niles'S. W.'of Piﬁtsburgh; 'si€|'1a\éll on vibe declivily of a.steep,j;ill, having Chaitieg’§éi?¥ﬁ Qfihiéfbolétbm.
This village was commenced in 1 797. by a'"M’r2 C‘~1'ih’noi1.‘~'*‘=l'\"1i<rw
Wzontains upwands-\ofl15,()Y<houses_. ‘lt, owes its rqspelfity, chieﬂyto i-i1!s"col'lege,~w11i,ch_is becoming r\espeetnblel1 ’ 'hé“'o"r_ig;ii1_ial§biii_li<ling,
‘wlesigiaed for a;co_llg_ge,vhas beg-nLsuﬂ'ercd _to gq“~to“d'eca ."->’-.l‘he 1-n¢m~=ediﬁce,' when; completed, will be‘ three? s‘t'b'i'i8sh"-41' 0-feet in
Pl-front; the wings ench, 7;0,,ip_Ir9|i$, qrixj ‘A0 in‘, ivid‘tli-"—ti\"e"centre 40 ﬁni front‘ by 60 back, “ A enmbinatibnj llf local “adv“ant\ages-'-ithe
estnieef religion and ‘morals-,—tl)e. ahlindé\x1ce_‘andTeh‘e‘af>|j£“ss of‘ pro
visions, in a fertile country-—-inexhaustible ﬁ1in'€§‘b‘F‘hdnl‘at‘la‘and;
and the quietness and salubrity of the village, combine in Tender
ing this a most eligible seat 'f0i-Ja litqgry ~§r\s{\'1_luti0n. The beneﬁts
of such an institution to the western country, giowing as it is in
..wéa1¢§,1 Pbptrlation and relinement,_a1§cincplguleblgiimmml A 'J“- II 2;; “.3. -_ _‘ F5, Q; .2,‘ H" I H I A ~ . .
‘H! ‘u Ta’?! I1] . l ;._’.‘.,| '.~- 1 I ‘
I _ ' ' ‘ I‘ '11‘ \' "1": 1--“-:h_\-|~..,,‘ iv" v v ; I-.- . .‘ =5’ , ' i , ,1. ° , ~ ‘ ,;(~||~;m F 1“ " “' " ' ~ ‘ ‘ <"#!==¥-'-'1‘w|~ -H-in l‘n"\‘(lu'|!*-%:"‘.;§
‘£20112 ./,‘\.<-‘r, H. F‘-' “Q; q- . . ‘ H ‘. ' " " " "'!‘-:'“iJ:r". 'l'I11z':-l‘--W5 ; ‘ -;d_g‘m,|§(_,-.:B; W-C W “ yang." vi” I | I n s ,mqlIg
~, -11' 74 lqﬂi) "a,,..: J
\~1' sxnwcnns or OM11 QRTHE ‘
"'“‘“ ‘U W-'<|‘~-I" It)"B‘-“VTRGFEN.IKA.<~ * 1-.;\~;N\\4.=mq
v-It-. ' ~‘K \' -' \ l.. .i.,. 0-aux 1-i‘)iiuﬁl-‘ﬁiI'?*V nus ‘rr|v|'-;"=4h-, ml: 1-pnoiwmf 345 mi
fa-ll‘? '1?“-1-l-I1 !\,"ui2m-oh has '*’.w!* i= *3 ll .oirk; ad: ln bnml -u.n‘|3‘"|\alZ:l$]?‘9 M‘--fI“"". M’ I mm ‘
,. s Uﬂlffﬁdmuu 1o.'Bs1“' B ' ,# _ Jdx i W ' ‘JUN mu-*1»: e-.-urn; 1 h "iF'£*. ."3n:~1-I l\1m1ni 'l‘)1ll(\ vm: ﬂﬁlll ' ‘M @r-'1‘»"'<h"~*”"‘ ‘ii "g'sn'd"“|?a ""w";;musssa Blﬂiiiiﬂmlﬁfwﬂﬁﬁby 1‘
..\' h.=~:Tl\l5 WOW-~€:E1
,m“h§ Q};ip)§iv§K,
§1Id"‘G§§lIby8Bd8‘Y_'¢l.\ﬁ.'Bll_1ltys _
_-;';R "W1 i lg Y ted b - e§l“l §lﬂi:i\il'$,"ll;lle’>l!‘1i'gnisQ(pf£,‘y;})(i¢-,9 is '::"U{‘l1'§:§;';:geF:)lllllZ):?‘?*l i"/s,l‘T?%’jmi0l‘l° 'l"°"l“§‘ml'lwb0ve
3; zemmlui, ',1j;;;1\)a§ e§iz&_m;;ive{§oi:qsns\s1quglumohm, , Thg qp ~:;‘lai€is;ane§i?¥l1é5-iiléll'»“"‘§l‘:*ilE§‘i: ‘anal P*f’?l“‘?l“g"‘me °'{°?’ °[;£"a"_1,
2-:I,;,g!!|1$,1‘],8x!'hl~’.,l|I'l1)‘_f{1ll§l{)€?5it nnxi wel_l_~a/(llip.ted_ tmfmn. -u.'.l"ll>l3M_l‘6 1s
' s/Lab abltP£l§¥Il&':'5!1v Y}? .’§§>)al_il1filIe Ml-S; ,%lnlP?emigI:§1n\a;m spm-ch
~,=¢iQi(Lg_glpasanl,,anJ_, ' ‘éSl‘d§§[lC€z"lV‘lll:ﬁlNl‘llMi::§vl.u8l|0l15ﬂlong
the Ohio~'r,i,'v'g¢eiE,’,iié£\ve§f; ‘§1'li5~5tQ_n“'v‘1\}1diW'hp¢}§lyg_q,Kf; _‘,‘.:.M , I
(Jharlcsion,I is“ [3leasa'nt'ly 'éi”(\'fat‘étl' on the‘ left?» bmnk- ;bhe O h10,
six miles below ,Stenb\enville and 17 above ll heelmg. It eon
tains nearly 200 ‘0'11il‘dings-‘—-'1en ”tl1‘BPVE Stores, court house, Jail,
church,extensiye.pottery, printing-ofﬁce and book-store. Buffa
|om-eek joins ghe ‘Ohio at me“ south endof the lown,~*.on which
. are 3 Dumb“ bf valnnble grist-Cmills.‘ This town is 50 nnles sou":
west of Pittsburgh, by hntl §;"‘l1Y '~v'sﬁ_:i‘,'%‘;>,2;‘-'
340 nrannrx._ , ~\
.-.‘ 1
W omo cormrr,
, . .. M.‘ , N _ Zia b<mn'z§¢a- mm by the cm ‘river, ntﬁth by B1-ooke,,east by
Green __hll'(1' Harrison,;an'd south by Wood county-'-water-ed by
Grave and -Fish creeks. This ‘county, like Brooke,‘ is hilly;
¥.as/rich,a1'i(l-éitensivepbottoliis, and large quantities; of unsettled
ands. , i ' . ‘ ' '
The bottoms of Gave creek contain‘-ihtéreéling vestiges of an
cient 'po uhition. On coming close to thia n'iuu‘nd, sayb the author
of the -iimsburgh Navigator, you are surprised ‘at its mountain’
like appearance, and the dar‘kness"’0ccasioned‘b‘y "the height of the
{reeks on its summit over those on the plain below. Its perpendicu
lar elevation is about 75 feet, ‘I30 :yards in circuml‘e'rence around
its base, and 40 on;its flat/on‘the t6Ti.' It appears to be a very
tjegular ‘circle, and fuﬂhs- in its rising an angle of about 80 degrees.
The centre of its top is sunk in perhaps four feet, forming a asin
of t_ha_t depth and about eight or ten feet over. its summit bears
an aged White oak of four feet in diameter, and its sides arerrichly
cla<Lwith a luxuriant growth of all the different kinds of trees of _
the forest, andof the same size and appearance. It standsdn an
extensive plain, having neither ditch nor rising ground near it, nor
can it be discovered where the eartlvof whichit is formed has been
taken [1-orh. ,,,Egs§of-the big mound, there 'are several small ones,
in the open andwnumber of fortiﬁcationsﬂrhose particular dim"31sious,_l' did not iake, ~ v.":¢~ u i|uzi,;,g,,,§e1n,i;.,un a; high bank-, peninsulated by the Ohioxiv}~
. e_r and Wheeling meek. -The buildings are chieﬂy on onestreet,
runhinvparallel along the b'anl;‘sof thé'i-lv'er,‘f0r thiee-fourths of c Q 1!"_milQ‘.‘fv,I;he,t0Wn contains mbriut 200*liouses, fou'rt‘een,‘etores,
com-téﬁQij$e,>jailzgchurch. two pqwrwroi étune'ware_,‘n8i| factory,
!l‘1a,l‘£,;‘l,'l1Qll5‘-§,¢\¥,Qp8 walk. and hbaNya‘EdI' ‘* When the Great Cum
. b,érlan§Jl,1‘o;_1d, which it i; supp0seti"wjll interéectl the Oliid at this
pl~ace"‘ig; complﬂ€di M’l!eeling*n1uIt"-iapidlyfihcrease in size and
eomqpﬁiﬁl irspogtgncear-,.<.; ‘ .1 ‘.~ I T u:'ill‘:()'Tl$ , ‘ﬁg id? “Wig; TQM.“ r. ‘ , ~u=;"-' ""‘ "‘\ J
;-_.,,.m\: ,;;m ‘rid RﬂlNDOLPH COUNTY1 V ,. ti‘ cgal aeiéon M535 \l$':w4.m:rz'x .u 
. diatantcerr
WM‘; 443 41'; r 
 
‘‘ espdﬁdentvhaatéoihmunichted '3 "sk_etchol‘ tlxi;§c0un
‘.1
pointed‘:-<xrtitst1e1tnb5f'€é’lig,iible route Yorfenligrants fro,mNew
England 5Q v_vhieh;iu\,'~ to“ cross the North River at Nigwburgh, the
Delaware at Easto'n,/the ‘Susquehannah at‘ Harrisburgh; ,-thence
through Carlisle, Shippensburgh, Chambersburgh, Green-Castle,
Hancock, Cumberland, Western-Port; thence o'ver the Alkghany
—'—c|-css Cheat river at G0ﬂ"s; thence to William Wamsley’s and
Daniel Barret, Esq’s. upon the Buchanan river, or from Wams
ley’s to Beverly, formerly called '1‘ygert’s valley-—haviug a brick
court house and jail, public oﬂicea, and several stores; it is laid
b .
 
lirrnliinlx. 341
out in half-acre lots, upon three parallel streets. Building lots
sell from 30 to 100 dollars. Beverly is handsomely situated, be
tween two branches, of the Valley river, and bids ‘fair to become a
place of considerable business; an association, called the New
England Company, owning large tracts of land upon the waters of
‘Valley and Buchanan rivers, are.~now rapidly settling‘ by l\' ew
Englarid people. A large appropriation of land is made by the
Company ﬁr the permanent support of moral and‘ religious in
st'ru'c'tion.‘ Schools and librariesnre now 0'ppened"‘i'n di'il'eren_t
parts of the county, having a missi0nat“y‘furnishetl1by the i>l'ani’p
shire Missionary Society in.Massschust~ttet. '-'l‘1i|e'Bnclt'an'an river
i§‘one hf the principal waters of the Monongahela,""u‘niting with
tile Alleghany from the north at Pittsbrn'gh, form the -Ohio. The
soil of Randolph is deep and rich, ~prodncing.t0 great‘perfe'c_tion
all‘ species of crops ‘that,can grow in New-Eng1a|td,"hn'd’ others
which ‘cannot grow north of Virginia. Fifty bushels of born to the
acre, is a moderate crop ;, other grain in proportion, 'Thc‘nsual
price of wheat, is from four sl|illin,<_vs~to one dollar; rye and corn,
two shillings anti sixpence to three shillings. Mechanics are much
wanted for the erection of mills, dwellings, &c. ‘The face of the
land is itndulating and hilly, furnishing excellent‘ mill-seats.
The water is pure, and the climate healthy. 'Tlie‘st1tna'|er's are
moderately cool, and winters very mild‘; having in ,spring‘andau~
tumn, together, at least three months the advantage"-'ol' New-'
England.’ The timber consists of oak, walnut, elm, sttg'ar,‘ash,
maple, bass-wood—pr_incipaily hardwood. The forestslurnish
rich pastures for cattle, stone coal, and salt liclts. Taxes are
light. Several planters fatten and-sell from sixty to hinety head
of cattle annually, which 8I‘E1,dI-'iV€tI across the Allegheny to
Richmond, Aleitandria, Washington and Baltimore, at the aver
age distance of about two ltuntlred miles, and always conunand
cash. , Roads are opening in various directions, and a state road
is about to be laid out from {Staunton to the‘ Ohio river, and ex
pected to pass through the Company’s land. The LittleKenha
way takes its rise and has boatable water upon the land, affording
an easy communication with the Ohio river near Marietta, thence
to New-Orleans, or up the Muskingum, with a few miles land car
riage, may enter the Cayahoga river, Lake-Erie, and 'the'nce to
the"Canada ’mark'et\s—,or by the projected canalef~1\"ew~York,
m ‘enter the North River._. These._ lands, when more general
ly:. notvn, ‘will probably ‘beconsidered equal to any 4_other'v'in‘
"IE ' :___\4_1) " V _ to‘. _-trs\;.J' "\
,-'§i~! ’ . !€’\°:': I-v' , ' ‘Urn ."_.‘}.\'“ W‘, [ff 1 9, )__hhU|V t - . Y
_- i ,,;'A 1- \ ' ! , \ 3 '.'”.v_\ ‘ Halli! 1‘aw:-"\ ; “ ‘I Q " ~.-, ,'=',-flq -U1 .n ;.».!'-u r t T __ I ~
~- ~v :. : ~- , V ,_. . ,V >- 3 L *’ _ , , ‘ ,_ sf ,‘ U qr’.-1;; _.’\1_‘_1 Y. l‘u_
p v -(R Q '~" -_t'.‘,-\ 0 a - ,‘ ‘ ‘ ; rm 11 -. » ' ,_ __,. mm _, _.,,_..,,
t -,n : ‘m.‘;-;.~n__. ' 4 _" p I - -t '> - 
, "
0
UN ‘ {if -cw \ , 34‘ AP£1;El\lI5‘IX. )
31)? Btli in 1:! dz; _'.,'_')|{” M; ,ruim.,'|’ “hi “>"u'm“ am ~" -'§~i,)A.- €§llli.'i,I|l) Mil‘ H” r’mj’H'' 5“
p R I E .l.".r- ~_1‘t_q:’..1.‘~-, ‘ = 'en-- 1111- =-as.-L:
seam {W$QM¥l-}'9§@§i$¥¥iP§§!§’31i§§.lh-"(WW5 ?’Z‘£§§§3 ‘-P.1“EH;ow snswavoliﬁl ‘-7-L-'35~3 mu n.B?;::m :E‘if;‘i.:zl;rIt; 5.‘: .~- ; ftﬂil ml} in wmn’: in em-1013 :Vt-hll='3
2-:2: h.;:‘r
Q ekeetit‘the ‘eastern pans ) 02 :P:li6|£k.l'W‘€Si)&O:&DlJ|iﬁQi,,_()i'! :' ‘Iienesee, "Ailegany, lafnd"Purchase,"‘ which eon '-’N5a§_iava;1tCattazaug;us,._-.apd #3 p tlilliileilio, ‘lx'sl:,t;I!‘0l)l¢li’t|1‘tp,,1h§-and ‘ M i i b ded
_¥'§id§lﬂl)ULIl‘f!h[x)01l9o°§°£1a§~.‘u as nsye mm 5 0119 _ ~1etisv:hyaI1taisiql§aqe;rnmingr::>'p;;li; frt‘:fil'r‘i\’;t,iig1Zenasyiv nl'a'st'ate'lil1e
i%L§Hak"b:-~9utmio00bning eqﬂn 'heijl‘_m1i_és an e even chains "l8h"gl‘§ ‘tiotthtrhy rm outgrew,‘ v,s.f;tt'I;.‘tiver Niag'ara,'-'htle'~E
~ﬂeqnalltliedrrihnalevef»Bre!qq’: ate‘ aahdlaputh by Pennsylvania. "Wis amiitlinolmiles;inJQqglh,,g§gith;ad’ a\'1‘é_fagé br‘e"adth"of mm
‘?>$9"Q'li&\s£n‘!Bimanutherg Bartggf thi9_’a_1"¢; ivatefeii by
the Alleghany and its tributaries, Osiiyliee; Oif,'Ish§u and Olean;
‘Wt ¥Wttli0y,aaIidn'Jt1kk§»tt;!;tBeli§, _; ,Conn‘ewan;;o river,‘ ’anit’tlr§"neh '~itIl$'iy'i“’§?ohbir5tt‘m\b1ll)tl';Ell1€il§ll'§5eél§i§- '.'Thé'waté'r'sjftdtit into
‘;33aic;él(_)ntaIioabpe‘ihe- G§BB§¢.e rtvt¢'=‘1f31t_r1<lK ‘All"en’B '¢I¢ei§"'$'1'i ‘Ni
‘ . . i\ii'er‘, T)6uawan<lsi,,]l/Iur,gl rerjs1 ;‘1$lé;ve_hf1Mile, ‘and’EllieUjl’s
‘ ‘°‘or‘i!éﬂsefintb Lake , Erie, , Butlaloz, Qdaquaga 'a_hatn,~'(saaaan) . {i{’(’3l‘hntihaiehie, Cattaraugus, Silvéi-{I _JC\tinadawa'v_,":ind-'C‘hat|ta'rique
' , r‘“'éfiee‘li§;'M 'Ehis trtietirwas'ptirchaseil,"}n; :1 791, from ihlé S &a“Ilili
- ;%5§§s~ ahﬁlthti iltaiénpi‘-Maasasli,1psetts,\hy,:thé lale‘lt"obér‘t’ 6i):i5¥of ‘lilniadsllptnag tor;ﬂies Ktbanrsix gents an ic'r'e-. "'I_It §iii8'l¢Iii'%‘$'¥l¥‘in
' ' 1hitci‘WnsIa'Ipsnllidinnnpitlen,squam, ,jn7 ‘l9'0',_ '1'|iiti'efr‘_‘(h'e"t.i’iﬁ5cliilt§' of _""‘J,0@ePh "I mi-‘RM »'£hm!s (in F3“ '."t*~*s¢.‘@ in‘ "W 8*
" frdmwt,-e5‘1o>t$'2s50' amwre ;.;tl;(!e,n" w;1&t1m fit préittht,
I

9,
 
 
-11 ' ' isﬁurir $4 to-Mr: ‘impnoved,;,lan,‘B.,; {Dill .2,',t0'§0,f"6i"Ii s. "i‘ll_e'dividing» ridge beia%€@_fl.til1§},WQi€_]§§;pf " '_ " ‘ V
_ fm-ms-a zigzag- coursergt,_ap’prgagel\ing_7io",I _'the Alleghany, and to’. within a few mil'e|ti.|' 'lhé l’ﬂré'ﬁlliifhiiiily.
f L-FOY iﬂﬁtance, the Gen'e.$6t¢ riven, Bhlifillor. ' 'iii*'l'l*l'g"qs: ﬂaﬂtmiiau‘
"iziutpie, creeks, head;within a short dist_ap_p§‘of1-'th'e"Behﬁ!yﬁitnia
""lih‘e ,3’-and theea'st.- lb:-anehnt lthe,,Cqr,1I1é'\‘ya_' "'iie'é&“\t‘il$ii1“" ”¥d*ﬂénbl Lake n=is;;.lne‘.w§tn~;;jb1-an gum - ,_hqun'ttiqne-t - e,.
5%; gvithinpiggmiltii 0% the'same lakei The surihi€e‘s'dirft'i|’76fthe
- V --rid lli$) ro , aees,r_pear__,the'_Aj " " ‘U Woumoaliitltd llllQ- ,Q)9rt,la,;i1_,'g?if(l, 81 N . "Bl{l'5Sl¢'6§;l‘iflli¢ ‘f'“ ﬁkil !§_elv'eletaaniimr&h~nI,the;rQa§i(%ea'ding'l:roiri‘ Cap’ ' ' to
6‘ ant: as! Thethnilthiprégpjgially a,_jep,pf' 'ey~l;i§;i1‘T,g ‘ ‘ “,1 in
Y _I9ost parts, beech, sugar-map‘-e, bassii ‘, ehr‘i,"'\fliite' _li‘“iith
‘*"1snzne"|iémlock,,but£eann!, and ,h_lac,knhei; 'y,, ,= Whitq»q 'E,y"t':h}éinut,
“arid ~hii'z|io\'y$ anotA'0uﬂ.dT_9n;til|e.shqrg 5;?‘ Like‘ fd_iith ii;t,‘_bu the
", ‘h:liil§s‘\if; 'I'tsnawanda -and’ £_i.eneqee,' ; pg, the-‘ _'w'ay'; :and‘Chautauque;' ye;-,f,9f , hautauque ,erée’k;.flie'iihbilés of
’ “’l‘Ake'Eﬁe abound -with beautifnlc iésnut groves,‘ ' A _i§ti“l)$ 8f"l-ieh,
springy, beech and sugar maple land, aboundixfg with tneadows of
APPEIEQIX. 343
the Urtica Whitlowi, runs through the whole extent of the Pur
chase from east to west, lying nearthe dividing ridge to the north;
and,"‘on~an average, about 20,mile_s wide., 7 _ p ' =_,
The southeastern corner otthe'pt1réhasei<'Yas ivéll Hlitlﬁt 153-119i
Alleghany county lying e‘s'stofthe trausitiipm is covered with ex
tensive groves of some of the ﬁnest white pine timber in Ameri
ca; and so advantageously situated, that the inhabitants can con l vey, it at their option to the Ohio ma‘rttst1‘byJt:tse2aMllaghanyf; to
Baltimore by the Tioga, Canisteo, ‘Conhoctengilanrlﬁusquehanna
rivers; by the Genesee river to Roc'hest'er,iand Canada ;- the white
pine region extends" from the Conls‘dcton’—'to‘the Wonnewango, or
rather to Oil creek in Pennsylvania. 3"1‘he‘supply~ef this valuable
building material is immense ;‘ perhaps’ 5003000 am-les—-of majes
tic, close set groves, of the t'irst"qtXality--'~ﬁ'ée frém croeksror knots.
Yet, when we, consider the extentef the rlemandi- and the,over
action and havoc which witi“follow'~casual good markets, a few
years, it is feared, will if suﬂicientto l6V8l-llIDSG£KiCHSiYﬁ£QI'BStS with the earth. "‘‘f »l'-»-‘ .ld.tr eh nnn ‘;n1:rt-=.‘=!l‘.I, .3.
Chautauqua Lake, within twenty miles ofitholwestern, extremity
of the tract, is 22 miles lo'ng, and*'t'rom ‘two~t0¢ai!t'.widao€{tltqri,(ling
north and south; at the, head of itil|ii!h-is'tlie‘i‘pleosaat,¢vill;ggeUot'
, Fredonia, which has a'good boat and’-iafthaviggstion _t-0,1 Pittshprglt
5 and New-Orleans; the"phrta1ge"i'rein ‘Fr-eiloai5a;4b !l@4l\'$:;El'le,-is
mine miles, over a goodjroadl f' ‘Chautaltiqum-’creek:,srshinhmhearls
-,-, tenor ﬁfteen miles southivest ot"Fﬁrdo‘uia,‘ and-cam‘ La.1;,p,,£|-ie
8l,Portland, is remarltable'{t’or'the inimensﬂdhptsliloﬂ itdlbetl; being
four or ﬁve hundred feet, elow the surfatie Iat'~fthe‘i c0histt% is
aygood stream for mills. ‘k fast of‘€ihautanqua»Lak1a-isix F<n;,\,eigl1t
miles, are the three Casdaga L't_tl(t?‘Q;lﬁ‘0m one t0%f5uelhIilqs.,,in,,qir
cumfet-ence, and disch'ar' ‘Qt ein"iv§aItersintoi1he>ea1st,tl1;a,p,;:,l;_,ot'
ﬁle Connewango 'riVei‘._ ' fa‘ ‘*""|hil'es'eaatYof théso: la§_;e§,,,.,i_sJ,he
I :4 Great Buﬂhlo Swamp, nine nlilleslbngi 1and-ibt¢d1Wj§ie,j-phvjgrrsly
the ruins of\an' ancieiit lake'£”:;The*;(ilorme@wango gpiegtgtlgrsﬂlazjly
through its whole, extent?’ ‘from nortlrto saith»; .{t|is§gogere5l,by
,_,,,.,hrambles, ﬂags, and alders',’w7ith a few islands 1nl'_.‘woor}l'gn,ql~, 10]; is
,very miry—-a'nd'in some places will4rsrnblé/bedaatlnaunefsifegt,for
several rods. The surounding couniPy,>o'n athsidaa, e:xgspt , ‘the
outlet, is high and fertile. ' ‘The Sen'ec'al'Indiu'n'sl ssiilfl Q»"I!;a'iﬁ“'
.a1a-M ' " ' ~ .:,'.-1':-MY,‘ ' r
"' ',_,,, Cattaraugus, called.by' the Indians‘ Ca¢m;j'1l8aku}ktg}h,,(§ljnk
' _ ingbanks) is an interesting “stream; 'about-3'tmilee')lm}g,1“yer-y
. crooked, having a brisk cut'rent,'numero'trs milhseatst h_;gl;y;pe.rpen
- diculafslate banks in places, an(l"wide -richbottoms for the that
' ten miles. ' 1
,_', 'The.-Indian tribes resident on this Purchase, consisttoti about
3500 Senecas, 350 Tuscaroras, 200- Ononrlagas and =75. Caypgas.
in the sale of the tract to Mr. Morris, they reserved t§wo;nt’,Sf_3l.'Va
="~'J:1 Mt:-1 w
tions on the Gent-see river‘, at Kenneadea, and Onfuula, about six / ’
miles square each; one 7 miles square on the 'I-‘onawamla, 7 miles
 
 
344 APPENDIX. .
It from Batavia; one 4 miles square, belonging to the Tuscaroraa.
' f near Lcwiston; one 10 miles square at the forks of Butfalo; one
 
.1 ,1
. 10 miles long and 4 wide on the Cattaraugus, commencing 4 miles‘
from lake Erie; one 20 miles long and 1 wide, lying on both Rides
of the Allegheny river, commencing 20 miles below Hamilton on
Alleghany, and being almost one continued for-e'st of lofty pines,
of great value; and sutlicient, if properly managed, torender the
whole Seneca tribe rich.
’ Bqﬂitlo, is delightfully situated near the northeastern margin of
Lake Erie, about two miles above its outlet, and on the great road
leading from Albany to Ohio. It is built on an inclined plaim
elevated about thirty feet above the surface of the lake.
situation atfords a most beautiful prospect of the lake, Niagara
river and the Canada shore.‘ The surrounding country is of a
rich soil; but the improvements are mostly/new and not Very ex
tensive. Butfalo was laid out for a village about nine years ago,
and was a place of considerable trﬁde at the commencement of the
late war. But in December, 1813, it was entirely destroyed by the
British; since that time its growth has been rapidly increasing. It
is now incorporated, and contains a bank, court house, jail, post
oﬂice, exchange otlice, custom-house, 17 stores for groceries and
dry goods; three druggist stores, two printing-oﬂices and a book
store; a market house, brewery and bakery; three blacksmiths,
three cabinet and chair shops; a hat factory and hat warehouse ;
one saddlery, one stone-cutter; three tailor’s shops; one tinnery ;
two silyersmiths; a Fire Company; a public library; a Presby
terian Sogjety, with an ordained minister and Moral Society._—
Application has been made for an Insurance Company, and mea
sures have been taken for the improvement of the harbor. The
whole number of buildings is nearly-200, and the number of inha
bitants about 1000. They are chieﬂy emigrants from ditferent
parts of this state, and from most of the eastern states. Many‘of
the buildings are of brick, from two to three stories high, and
make a very handsome appearance. The court house is of brick,
50 feet square, with a piazza in front, and when completed will be
the best building in this part of the country. The principal streets
run from north to south, from 66 to l00 feet wide; these are in
tersected by others of equal width.' Butfalo creek enters the
lake a few rods west of the village. Five miles from the -lake it
divides into three branches, which water a ﬁne body of land. Buf
falo possesses natural advantages for trade, equal, if not superior,
to any internal place in the United States; having at present a
ship navigation for 1000 miles West, through lakes Erie, Huron
and Michigan, and with little expense. in improving the naviga
tion at the entrance into Lake /Superior, may be extended to a
distance as much further to the west; and a boat navigation may
be easily opened from the south part of Lake Michigan, to com
municate with the Mississippi river. The navigation eastward,
The _
APPENDIX. I V 9;;
' t 40 miles'ea'st‘ot' Buﬂkltﬁ, 6ii‘thé‘ToBQIVﬁfi(i’QcYé£1§;'WV rs'i1w/"Qh’
'3
‘ the title bl‘ at? is u‘ ‘“M "hiit""T“ Y
*_‘Tlié Holliinii ‘Purchz1f_é‘é"tilso ‘oont‘£1in'é'sévfé’ra'l otiie1;iiili1i§iw—*isl1i""' . i \
villages, such Blzgck Rdck, lit the' tiutlet “ , 30 houses Manbh,'e.§fei‘,iat ‘tho Fztlislof N'iagQIra'-I Leii'i§t"r§‘, _ ,
Site Quer-nston ;‘ Bat§Wia, thé "sent 0'! jﬁétitiq £‘iI_éness'e%__' _‘¢i(1hI\l;ty§?if '
Ht xx; 3/‘. rt?"-t yA"lep’§_°"e¢l<, 1.8 mi1essomh.,ot_B.atayia'; ‘E1.’ﬂ,‘I‘1ii_tt'ci W: e an
Pomfreton Can-andaway 10“n1ilés‘wfést'\0f "
‘ ' ‘ I V a':# u , ~.*\-"\. 'ft'w»/. “M t‘ . ‘ 4?; H, , >_ 1I_i1ﬁ,_the seat 0f,Just|oe ft-,?>I'_:_(;lIE'il,llflVI1(1I1!-if fopnntlzémdiil Hm:-3 awkw
J t ,;'_a,'4,z'-.~ ' -;. ~ <v-Ikw-:-.,.-*-,' mil ';~'rit{$ t1&oqt!=it?mln'rJlq3
w '..a, _ '~ M_"- 1‘ ahwnitn ‘.-iI)$d‘;'&~
H1-’! » Iﬂ -.',.aJ~, ,.._ Q? ' -.0‘). ‘Lip’-F;'j 911; in“; I 5;“ _‘
.“
 
 
‘-165, '11:"? ii -, J " ‘ E512?-SKEwct1Es or Tt1E“ GB.E€AT. ‘ ‘
.». t, J _ P‘ v M‘ > Am ti; ‘Liz ﬁ}ﬂl{';\_ ti If?! _-Vkﬂ i
-~ '‘'a- - ‘ -“' i ‘R ‘1 .35‘ \ . ,‘{".:\tIm\l \B- "L ,‘:.li‘!t $1-“r ‘
- Y .‘ :9-~ - -1 -_ - 4 5 f>~n-;f.i1=\‘-'~"al!’ ;w:t..,i.1.:
- ¢ ~ ' LAKE 0N‘I'ARIO,~' 5 ' *;»‘->‘-"‘“~‘-=i~ ’ 3»‘ “ A--Y ' ' ‘ v - l\4}\' "Wm! '~f:J" §_',Zt'.'s »>‘v"‘
Isabout 200miles long and '70 wide. Its water is <leepycold,~
and transparent. It receives from the south. Black, OSWCgO,4IUd
Geuesee rivers; besitlwseveral largo orer-ks. Pumice stones“
have been found mrits. western shore: Volney lllillkS'lh8FitS ha-‘“
sin is the crater of an extinguishyd -voloanm The rhrér Niagara,
connecting the Lakes ()ntorin*>an‘!l‘-‘Erie, is 36 milks long, about
one mile wide, Var dee -and of trswii't ctnrent;~ _ Pi ' ' '~:t'i‘:t|""i'\'t.':H1'§' ' '3 -t <: "rt-“> v».
. »~ - .13. ‘,. H l‘ 3.0 ﬁlm ‘I.
Is a'boi'1t: 300 miltsnlong a1i<i"40' wide. Its tributaries from the
south enter in-“this order, *Bu'ttalo',‘ Q,uaquagagahaun, Cnttaran
gus, Conneaut, Ashtnbula, Grand river; Cayahoga. Rocky, Black,
Vermilliop, ‘Huron, Sandusky, P0rtage,¢To|1ssaints, Miami, Raii
sin. Little-‘Huron, Strait of Detroit. 'Froth<the northern shoré it
receives Bairbue,' Chénette, Grand, Loulre and ‘Aux'Ced|-es‘: The
anizhoriaze of thislakeis bad, as the botnim in most parts, consist! oismooth slaltepandllimestone rocks. The best and only harbors
for shipping oh the ‘southern $hore,i1re Erie basin,“ Sandlusky and "
Miami boys.‘ The British hmin a7 safe tmhm» Bl-"lWRiﬂQHJ-"-"A"1ChHin' of islands exteodtrom rsnmlilslty hay to-' ne'ar-'lVIrtl'dei1;' tho mint
important of which is Pitt'~ih-Bay, -wbére them is ad excellent hat:-‘_‘
bar for boats and shipping. = ' ‘ *
. l /i‘."\' ‘ {H3 ‘Y!’ E‘! .‘t
-fs~ situated‘ about equidistant between lakes Erie and Huron.
Ill form it nearly circular-~its banks low and level. It: depth,
Xx _ '- ~'.
-~ 346 APPENDIX?
‘ except near the shore, is invariably tmmty-onefeet. This I as
certained when on board the Lady Prevost, Capt. Turner, in Oct.
' 1813. The severe gates of ten or twelve days continuance, pre
Vented this Vessel from getting‘ out of the lake. She was obliged
frequently to change her moorings, and traversed the lake in
every direction; andsthe ignorance of Capt. T. and the pilot, ren
dered it necessary to take constant soundings, by which means it
was discovered that the bottom of the lake was a perfect plain,
composed of a deep stratum of white clay, rematkably tenacious,
and from which it required great force to disengage the anchor.
Nevertheless the water of the lake is transparent, when not dis
turbed by storms. The rivers which disembogue into this lake
are Ruskin, Thames, Bell, and Bear, which enter from the British
and Huron from the American side. Its islands are Isle Aux
Pesches, Thompson’s Island, Hay Island, Chanel, Eoarte, and
Horseifs Island. The British shore presents some beautiful set
tlements. The American coast is partially settled. /The sur
rounding country is fertile and perfectly ohampaign to the dis
tance of 30 miles in every direction. From the centre of the
lake in a clear day, one sees in the direction of Lake Michigan,
the elevated ridges of distant hills, which afford some relief to the
eye, from the immensity of the horizon.
LAKE HURON,
Is about 1100 miles in circumference, of a triangular form-—re
eeivingfrom the north-west the tributaries of Lake Superibr, and
from the south-east that of Lake Michigan. It has two deep bays
on its southern coast, Saganaum and Thunder hays; to the east,
Thunder and Matchadash. A chainof islands called the Manitou
alin, making a safe navigation for boats and canoes; between this,
the rivers from the east are Natasawaga, Sandy and Des Fran
cois, from Lake Nippising; from the north, Otassalon, Mississaki,
and Chaho; its waters are deep, transparent, and abound with ﬁsh. I r 1 I . LAKE MICHIGAN,
ls about 300 mileslong and 70 wide; a c'on'siderable part of its
eastern coast consists of light sand hills. It receives about 40 riv
ers most of which have already been described. Its southern extre
mity is supposed to be in 41 50 N. latitude. Its bays and rivers
afford valuable sturgeon ﬁsheries. It lies entirely within the Uni
ted States territory. ' The islands of this lake are mostly situated
towards its northern end.
LAKE SUPERIOR,
Is about 500 miles long and 1500 in circumference. ~Its-.9tttlt=
ern extremity is in 46, 46, north latitude. 1|
APPENDIX. - 347
~“La‘ke Superior is the largest and most magniﬁcent body of
'fresh water in the world; it is clear and pellucid, of great depth, ‘
and ahounding in a great variety of ﬁsh, which are the most ex
cellent of their kind. There are trouts of three kinds, weighing
from ﬁve to ﬁfty pounds, sturgeon, piclterel, pike, red and white
carp, black bass, herrings, &c. &c. and the last and best of all,
the Ticamang, or white ﬁsh, which weighs from four to sixteen
pounds, and is of a superior quality in these waters. This lake
may be denominated the grand reservoir of the river St. Law
rence, as no considerable rivers discharge themselws into it.-—
Theprincipal ones are, the St. Louis, the Mpignn. the P10, and
the Michipicoten. Indeed, the extent of country from which any
of them ﬂow, or take their course, in any direction, cannot admit
of it, in consequence of the ridge of land that separates them from
the rivers that empty themselves into Huds0n’s bay, the gulf of
Mexico, and the waters that fall into Lake Michigan. which after
wards become a pnrt_ot' the St. Lawrence. [Mackensia]
PUBLIC LANDS.
Copy of an estimate, furnished to the Senate in 1812, of the Public Lands
unsold, on the 30th Sept. 1811, in the state 9fOhio, and in the Michigan,
Indiana, Illinois, and Mississippi Territories. To tiscertain the quan
tity since acquired from the Indians, the quantities sold in the respect
ive territories, and the balance remaining unsold, will require much time
and labor.  
 
0' Which To which
.I mi STATE on TERRITORY,-~t _ tle has title hasfnt TOT“,  
H
Y, 1' ,'»€-Sct,1_ ' .
Stitte of Ohio, - - - (11)
Michigan Territory, - 7 (11
Indiana. and Illinois south of para 
lel of latitude passing by the south
ern extremity of lake Michigan(1;)
Territory west of lake Michigan 8;
north of said parallel,.,-W91,’ (ll
 
 
6,125,000 5,575,000 12,300,000 5,100,000 11,400,000 10,500,000
90,000,000 23,200,000 50,200,000
5,500,000 041,500,000 60,000,000
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
IMis5issippi'Territory, in (0) 5,900,000 49,100,000 55,000,000
' ‘ . , -~nn V = 15‘ '..._._.....__ _________._,._._.
£§%'¢- 1'1’/_‘.i‘,r!I?bl;“'1, 56,QQ5,000]tL3.775,000l 200,000,000 —_,___._.______ ___.___.____ _
1 "19
?#t*; 1, . (‘tl3uRer‘n'aining unsold at theLand Oﬂires of Marietta, (Jan.
ton, Steuhenville, Zanesville, Chillicothe and Cincinnati, 6,97A,"l”l9
Dedlrct part of Cincinnati in Indiana, - ~ - - 678,786
6,300,448
Estimated part~oi cession of Ottowas, &c. - - \ £95,000 . ____,.-__ 0,7é5,4t3
348 ~ AiP_PEN‘DI'X. “ f
I I
\ I 1
INDIAN CESSIONS AND ANNUITIES.
V TREATY OF GREENVILLE.
M AT‘ the treaty of Greenville, held August 3, 1795, the United
_States obtained all the lands to which the Indian title had not been
freviously extinguished, lying eastwardly and southwardly of 3
ine commencing at the mouth of the Cayahoga river, running up
the same to the portage between it and the Tuscarawas branch of
the _lVluskingum, down this river to old Fort Lawrence; thence
westwardly to the commencement of the portage between Lora~
mie’s creek and the St. Mary’s; theme a westwardly course to
Fort Recovery, on the Massissinway; thence south-westerly so
gs to intersect the Ohio river at the conﬂuence of Kentucky
river. The following sessioné were also obtained from the Indi
ans at the same treaty :—-,- ‘ '
1. One piece of land six miles square, at the mouth of Lora
mie’s creek. 2. T we miles square, at the head of St. Marys, near
--_-
 
_-
 
——_---_‘~ __-.-,._
-’(l>)‘Al'ter deductmg ‘£00,000 acres for private claims.
(0 Remaining unsold at the Land Oﬂires of Jelfersonrille, .
incennes, and part of Cincinnati, S. W.ot'tbrt Recovery, 4,730,771
 
-Add part ot'Cincinnnti district in Indiana, - - 1 673,786
Ceseions of Kaekawkias in August 1808, and Piankashaws
December 1805. - - - - - - - 11,300,000
Cessions ot‘Pottawattamies, Miamis, Weaws, Sic. of 1309, 3,200,000
no. of Sacs and Foxes, ot"Nov. 18%. - 7 \- 13,600,000
33,504, .-#57
Deduct for private claims, 500,000
--_
(II) Part of the cession ofthe Sans and Foxes. 33,004,557
(r) Very uncertain, dedmzting 88,000 acres for privateclaims
not ascertained.
Nowiz.--Tl1e pnhlic lamle remaining unsold and umeded, east of the
Mississippi, amount to aliont 200,300,000 of acres. 7
 
 
Acnes
In Ohio ahout - - - - - _ . ' '- . 19,300,000
Indiana, - - - - - -‘ ' ﬁf‘ '- 20,000,000
Michigan, - - - -‘ - ' - - _ 726,000,000
Illinois, - - " -. - ,~ .. H u .- I 50,000,000
NOI'th-\Vt‘Ftern. - ‘ - W-0.» _-‘ - .1 9 _-v 68,000,000
M=ircix~sippi and Alnlmma -,_. I - ~ ,- ‘- 34,000,000
Tennessee, -' - ‘ - _ -; . - -' 10,000,000 
, ht
 
‘ U I 7 Total, 200,300,000 ~' The pubhg: lands ;B:i)OlI'lSiIII'0“!‘RD(l tlu~Misspnri '1‘en'itory, are snppo~ M ¥° “""""“ m 4°°tQQ°t0Q° of acrwspm belief Which maybe emuid= ; :1
cred uninhabitallle. ‘ . ‘
APPENDIX... sis-7
Girtytolwn. 3. Six miles square, at the head of the navigable '
._ Waters of the Auglaize river. 4. Six miles square, at the conﬂu~
ence of the"AllgltiiZe and Miami rivers. 5. Six miles square, at
the junction of the St. Marys and St. Josephs. 6. Two miles
square, at the head of the little riv.er branch of the Wab-isll, eight
miles southwest of Fort Wayne. 7. Six miles square, at the Weaw
town, (0uitanon) on the Wabash. 8. Twelve miles square, on the
Miami near Fort Meigs.‘ 9. Six tniles square, at the mouth of the,
Miami-0t’-the-Lakes. 10. Six miles squme,»on Saudusky bay.
1]. Two miles square, at Croghansville near Sandttsky river. 12.
A tract six miles wide, extending from the river Rouge to Lake 1’
St. Clair.- 13. The island of Michilimackinac and the Isle De ,
Bois Blane. 14. Six miles square, on “the main to the north of ‘~ the island of Michilimackinac. 15. Six miles square, at the mouth , I "
of Chicago river. 16. Twelve miles square, at the mouth of the
Illinois. 17. Six miles square, at Peoria at the south end of Illi- l
nois lake. '
Annuities. ._In consideration by these cessions, the United
States agreed to deliver goods to the following amount, viz: To
the Wyandott, $1000; to the Delawares, $1000; to the Shawn
‘ucese, $1000; to the Miamis, $1000; to the Ottowas, $1000; ‘ .
to the Chippewas, $1000; to the Pottawattamies,.$l000; and to. __ __,
the/Kirkapoos, Weaws, Elk river, Piankashaws and Kickapoo ' '
tribes, $500 each. ‘ .
In 1805, at a treaty held at Fort Industry, the United States 3
obtained an extinction of Indian claims as far west as a meridian .
line intersecting the southern shore of Lake Eric, at a point 120 ,5 ' / 5
miles west of the Western boundary line of Pennsylvania, or six
miles west of Pipe creek, including the Fire Lamls, (now Huron
county.-Annuity, $1000, to the Wyandot, ’Munsee, Delaware,
and Seneca tribes.
~ In 1807, Gen. Hull obtained a relinquishment of the Indian ,ti- /'. 4
tle to the lands lying east of a line running due north, from the /
mouth of the Auglaize to the parallel of the outlet of Lake Huron, ‘
thence north-east to the White Rock, in that lake, except eight or
ten small reservations. For this cession the United States paid
$10,000, shortly after the ratiﬁcation of the treaty ;vi. 6. $3,333
to the Ottowas; $3,333 to the Ghippewas; $1,666’to the Wyan~ ‘
dots; $1,606 to the Pottawattomies, together with an aiznuity ‘ /
forever of $1000, to be apportioned on the above ratio among the ‘
aforesaid tribes. By the treaty of Brownstown, (Nov. 1808) with the Wyandots. _
' Chippewas,.()ttowas and Pottawatamies, Gen. Hull obtained the //
cession of a strip of land. extending from Fort Meigs to the Fire ‘ '
Lands, about 70 miles long and 1 wide, for the purpose of a road
and a line of settlements. ~
The extinction of Indian tilaims of the southern part of Indiana;
llasheen‘ etfected at various treaties. The annuities were 150 p
..-1 .
350
~ ‘fr APPENDIX.
'
./
I
/‘
bushels of salt to the Delawares and Shawanmse, dzc. $300'to the
Delawares, (for ﬁve years ;)‘$200 to the Piaukashaws, for 10
years; $600 (permanently) to the Miamis ; $250 to the Eel riv
, ers; $250 to the Weaws;$500 to the Pottawattamies, for ﬁve
‘ years. I \ Additi‘om1zl.-i-(Sept. 30, 1809)-'-$500 to the Miamis, 500 to the
Delawares, $250 to the Eel rivers, and $500 to the Pottawatta
mies; besides $200 paid down. ‘
In August, 1803, Gen. Harrison obtained from the Kaskaskia»
‘and Illinois, Indians, acession of-all their lands in the Illinois Ter
ritory, excepting one reservation of 350 acres, near Kaskaskia,
and another of 1280 acres to be» located at the option of ‘the Indi
ans. Annuity for the same, $1000; besides a donation of $300
for the erécti/on of a church; $500 for miscellaneous purposes;
‘and $100 an.nually for seven years, towards the support of a
priest. ‘ This was a tract about 200 miles long and 100 wide, ex
tending along the east bank of the Mississippi from the mouth of
the Illinois to that of the Ohio. - _
In December, 1805, the Piankashaws ceded all the lands lying
betireen the Wabash and the Kaskaskia purchase above described,
for which they receive a yearly annuity of $300.
In November, 1804, the Sacs and Foxes ceded to the United
States. all the lands within these boundaries :Beginning at a point
on the Missouri, opposite the‘ mouth of Gasconade river; thence
northwardly to the Jaustioni; down that river (thirty miles) to
the Mississippi; thence up the Mississippi to the mouth of the
Ouisconsin; up that river 36“milcs in a direct line; thence to
Sakagan Lake; thence down Fox river of the Illinois; thence
dovm the Illinois to the Mississippi and the point of beginning
supposed to cont-tin about 1/£000,000 acres‘: for which they re
ceivers permanent annnityj 01' $1000. ‘ '
In Noveniber, 1808, the Grea’t‘a|1'tl Little Osages ceded all tin}
\ /lands lying east of a‘line,>be,gin'ning at Fort Clark, on the Missouri,
ﬁre miles above Fire Prairie, and"run‘n_ing thence a"due south
course to the river Arkansas, arid down'th'é'same to the Mississip
pi; for which they received 100'0'do1la2s' down, and a permanent annuity of 500 dollars. ,“ ‘ ",'i““‘ “ " "‘ "
In September, 1805‘,Gcn.‘,.Z-.".\i.jPike obtained from the Sioux,
nine miles square as tlte\i-inoitthf. of the ‘St. Croix; and two strips
extending on both sides or the Mississippi, front the mouth of the
St. Peters to the Falls of St. Anthony-—containing altogether, 100,000 series: for wltieliilvire paid 2000 dollars. ‘ ‘ In Auj:ust,"1816, the ‘Ptittairattaniies add, Qttowas relihgnislled
about 6,000,000 acres of land at the south -etid of Lakbe Midhighn,
lying on the Kenkakee, (Theskaki) Chicago, and Milwal(e&,ji'v
ers ; for Which the ‘United States at-eto‘ pay therh a}ierinnifent' an
nuity of 1000» dollars in goods,'iit"ﬁrst'cost, withoutcharge for
transportation. ' ‘ ' >
O
APPENDIX.. 35;»,
, In 1786. the Chickasaws ceded an exterisive district on the south,
side of Tennessee, below the Muscle Shoals-—for which they re- _
ceived 20,000 dollars. By a late treaty, they have ceded lands
north of Tennessee, for which government paid them 4500 dollars,
and an annuity of 12,000 for ten successive years. ,
In 1805, the Cherokees ceded large tracts of lands, lying be“
tween Duck, Tennessee and Clinchrivers, for which they receiv
ed l4,000 dollars, and an annuity of 3000. In 1806 they ceded
additional tracts, on Duck and Elk rivers; for which the United \
States gave them 10,000 dollars. In-1316 they relinquished large .
i \
5
tracts; for which the‘.United States paid them 500 dollars, and an I
annuity of 600 dollars for ten years.
The‘ Clroctaws have relinquished lands, at diti‘crent times,.t'or ,
which they have been paid 60,500 d0llars‘—-with an annuity of 5
3,000 dollars in perpetuity, and 6,000 dollars for twenty suc- ,1
cessive years.
—-I!-u-_ \
DIRECTIONS“ TO EMIGRANTS.
-@n>
Gnnsrrrsnn, (Scipio, -Cayuga Carmty, N. Y._~) '
6 month 2,1817.
Thy question, “Whether a residence in Indiana will befavorable
to the health of Emigranlsfrom higher latitudes?” should be con
sidered in two points of view, though in strictness, it might be con
ﬁned to the effects of a Warmer climate on the constitution.
I am aware of the difficulty of ﬁnding two places which differ
in nothingbut in temperature; where the atmosphere is equally
dry, pure, elastic, heavy, electrical, and equal at all timesinits
currents. Without such agreement, comparisons must be imper-"
feet; but from a general review of the warmer parts of the tem
perate tzone,“, 1 know of no series of facts which should determine
that question id the negative. The most remarkable instances of
longevity on record, take their date from, countries further south
than the object of this enquiry; and though the limits of hu
man life have been abridged since -that day, I_ cannot discover
why we may not assign a _full average of health to those, paral
lels of latitude, ' I U 4 _ . V .. ‘
Clark mentions in his travels in,,Gre'ece, that an English F88
captain had been long_ in searchlof, a spot the most. exempt from
disease, wherehe might pass the remnant of life; and that after
/
352 ' APPENDIX.
having visited Various parts of the world with this object in view,
he ﬁxed on the Isle of Scio. That author adds, he was not dis
appointed; the south point of this island is in let. 38 14, and mak
ing allowance for the dilference of climate, We must pass far to the
south of Indiana to ﬁnd winters equally mild.
I notice these instances because many of our citizens appear to
have drawn their ideas of warm climates from the maritime parts
of the southern states. But the formation and climateof that
district is essentially ditferent from those of the same parallels
west of the mountains. There the distressing heats of the day 'are_
often protracted till towards midnight, and the degree is so eXl'ia
- ordinary as to prevent the refreshment of sleep, even to,.the lia-'
tive exhausted by fatigue; During this time on the opposite
side of the Allegheny, evening is attended by a refreshin,1.I_r cool
ness, and while I was in fndiana,though near midsummer, I pass
ed no night in which a blanket was not comfortable. " \
This coolness at evening appears to be peculiar to the country
north and west of the Allegh-any mountains. Cramer informs
that it extends sonthwardly to Mobile. Why should the cli
mate of Netv!'York be more healthy than that of Indiana? ‘It
is a fact well known to many, that in summer we have weather
as hot as in the West-Indies. This’heat has been snﬂicient to
produce fronrour marshes every form of fever‘ that has prevail
ed on our western waters. The mortality attending dysentery
in different parts of this state, appears to have been as great as
in any cases of that malady to the south; Typhus has ravag
ed our most airy situations, and in the northern parts of our
county, .epidemics have been uncommonlyvfatal. Emigrants suf
fering from rheumatism or consumption have much to hope from
that climate, and I know of no disease in that country to balance
this advantage.
There are now living in Vincennes, four Frenchmen who
were at the defeat of General Braddock, who have lived in that
place between ﬁfty and sixty years. There are also two French
women between eighty o_r ninety years old, and one person of
the name of Mills, lately died aged ll5 years. These instances
may show, that there is nothing peculiarly destructive to human
life'in that country, and it should be remembered that these have
not been selected from alarge city, but a frontier town of small
population.
I shall now pass to a more important view of the subject.
The ease and safely with which families can descend the Ohio,
has made that river the great thoroughfare of emigration to
the south-western states; and the loss of health. and often of
life, experienced by new comers, ought to be more frequently im
‘ puted to the injudicious manner of performing that navigation, than
to the unhealthiness of those countries.
APPENDIX. "353
' As'the messenger is waiting, my remarksmust be brief, but I
‘hope their importance will attract the notice of some of the thou
sands of our citizens who heedlessly press on to destruction.
‘ Descend the river in Autumn after the frosts have contmenced,
for bygthat time the offensive smell from the shores will have abated.
Use no river water without ﬁltering. This operation is expediti
ously performed in -a vessel like an upright churn with two bottoms;
These are\ three or four inches apart, and the upper, in which a.
number of small holes are bored, receives in the centre, a tube, one
inch in diameter, extending above the‘vessel and communicating
With the cavity between the bottoms. After spreading a cloth ﬁll
the upper part with well washed sand, and let the water (from a‘
vessel above) down through the tube. In a short time it will rise
through thesand divested of its impurities or sediment in sufficient
quantities for every culinary purpose. In a few days the appara
tus may need cleansing; as the ﬁlth will be chieﬂy below, a hole
opened in the lower bottom will allow it to pass otl‘. (See Melish’s
Travels, vol. I, page 158.) If the water has not an agreeable cool
ness, cider or strong beer should be mixed with it for drink, as the
warmth, without such stimulus will relax the tone of the stomach,
and predispose to disease.
Lay -in plenty of good wholesome provisions. Travellers should
never change their diet for the worse. The fatigues of mind and
body, in most cases, require that it should be for the better. To
live economically is to live comfortably. Any additional expense
in provisions would not go far in, paying a Doctor’s bill, without
taking into view loss of time, and of comfort, or the expenses of
nursing. V , ,
Go not in a vessel with abad roof. A crowded boat is an in
convenient place to dry wet clothes; and the damage sustained in
furniture would more than pay the expense of being comfortably
sheltered, without considering the probable loss of health. Bend
ing their boards over head, is not sufficient; I have seen none of
these roofs that would not admit a driving shower of rain.
If spirituous liquors are taken, let the quantity be cautiously re
gulated. Every excess debilitates the system, and to think of
escaping disease by keeping always “ full,” is desperate folly.—
When lever attacks such subjectsit is commonly fatal. Some men
who have travelled much, and who, have no moral or religious
scruples to dissuade them, totally abstain from spirits in unhealthy
situations. Eating rich wholesome food guards the stomach much
better from infection, nor Would I omit in the list of such articles,
well cured ham and strong cotfee._ “ " ' '
If the weather become warm, guard Well against the smell of
biige water-.~ But if you must descend in the spring, go early.-—
Avoid all delay, and remember you are fleeing for your lives. I
have seen the havoc, and I believed not till then. Nail boards
Yr
354 APPENDI-X1‘
over head to keep off the heat of the roof, for sometimes it will re
mind you of an oven.
On landing, you ought ﬁrst to secure yourselves from the in
clemency of the weather. ‘Water from brooks should be ﬁltered—
but depend not on these during summer. If springs are not con
venient, dig wells; it is much cheaper to do this than to be sick.
Much of the sickness of new countries proceeds from bad water.
Let nothing tempt to ﬁsh in warm Weather immediately on chang
ing your climate. The eﬂluvia of the shares is poison. To get
wet and lie out all night is little short of madness. But fresh ﬁsh
are unwholesome, unless it be for a slight change of diet. We
know of no country that has been healthy where the inhabitants
live on fresh ﬁsh. But it you must have them, buy them :'any
price is cheaper than health. Ifyou must tish, do it in the day
time, and be comfortably sheltered at night. Be also cautious of
using much fresh meat from the woods.
If you feel indisposed, wait not till you are down sick, but take
medicine without delay. If the stomach be foul, which is the‘ case
at the commencement of all fevers, take an emetic and then brace
up with bark. If this is too bad, take pearl-ash dissolved in wa
ter, half a gill, not too strong, three times a day, fasting. What
ever may be the offending cause, (except the case be mecham'cal,)
it will in some measure neutralize it. though there may be cases
in which it will be insutﬁcient. I have seen no medicine quicker
in its operation, and on myself the most distressing symptoms were
relieved in halt‘ an hour. Since that it has been tried with equal
success by others. In dysentery it has been considered a speciﬁc,
and probably no medicine will better merit that character; for we
know of no'case of this disease where relief was not obtained by
the use of it. It may be procured at Vincennes, and probably
at Cincinnati, but it is scarce and dear in the western country.
Keep away from the ﬂats on the rivers, and let not the fertility
of the soil induce you to cultivate it, until you are naturalized to
the climate; or more properly recovered from all the fatigues ab
tending emigration, for it is necessary that the mind should be com
posed as well asthe body. Land of aninferior quality in a high,
airy situation will yield greater real proﬁts.
Let me caution the emigrant on one point more and I have done.
The water in the Ohio country, as in this (which is only a'conti
nuation of it) is in many places strongly impregnated by lime.
The effects of this on children just weaned, have often proved
fatal by inducing dirrahoe, which soon exhausts the patient, and
no medicine can give relief while the occasional cause is not re
moved. This is easily done by refusing water, and giving cows’
milk. If the disease is far advanced, paragoric may be necessary
to abate the irritability. I ﬁrst discovered the beneﬁt of this
treatment on one of my children, who seemed wasting to a skele
ton, and have witnessed much of its good effects since.
APPENDIX. 355
I have sketched these in great haste. Many of these ideas will
probably soon appear in my Journal,* which I am now preparing
for the press. .3 >
Very respectfully, thy friend,
_ _ DAVID THOMAS.
S. R. Bnowu, Auburn.
,. Emigrants who prefer the southern parts of Ohio, Indiana, Teu
nessee and Missis‘sippi,"andg who remove from the northern parts of
New-York, Vermont, New-Hampshire, Province oi Maine, &c.
would do well to embark at Hamilton, on the Alleghany river,
I where they ought to arrive about the _20th of March, in order to
descend the river the ﬁrst freshets. Boats are easily procured on
the spot, of various' sizes: the navigation of the Alleghany is easy
and safe; only two or three ‘accidents have happened since the
settlement-of the country. Those who intend settling near the
banks of _the Ohio, or Mississippi, would do well to descend on
rafts of white pine boards, which, if properly constructed, are as
safe and more convenient for a family, than a common boat.-—
Boards of an excellent qualitycan be purchased at Hamilton for
75 cents per 100 fo0t—if. not wanted for building, by the emi
grant, they will command a ready sale at all the villages and
towns between Pittsburgh and Louisville. Provisions are scarce
and extravagantly high at Olean Point; consequently travellers
and families ought to .lay in a stock in the rich and populous coun
ties of Cayuga and Ontario. It would be ruinous for families to
embark as late as the ﬁrst of May. ' v
The road from Geneva to Hamilton is good in winter, horrible
in April, tolerable in summer. The distance from Hamilton to
Pittsburgh, by Water is 300 miles.
. _ Distances.
Kllbuck’s Eddy, - - - - . 20
Jamison’s Indian town, ' - ' - .-_ 10
Cold Spring (Indian vlllage,) - - - 6 - 4
Cornplanters, - . - . - 10
Hoop’s mills, _ - . - - - ‘ 16
\Vomen, - - - - . - 4 \
Broken Straw, .- ' - _ . . _ 7
Oil Creek, - - - ' - _ . 40
 
* Mr. Thomas has recently visited many parts otthe western co1_lnt|'y,
and surveyed it with the eye of a philo.~opher. His Journal, wluch_ is
nearly prepared for the lIl't‘S$', will, no doubt, afford a rich geographical
treat.
~ >" Sky Prairies(Indian '1‘avern,) ‘ - 
356 APPENDIX.
Distances.’
Franklin, - - - . - . 10
Sandy Creek, - - - . . .. 10
Scrub Grass, - - - . . . 8
Montgomery Falls, - - .. - . 7
Patter-s0n’s Falls, - - - - .. 7
Toby’s creek from the east, - ~ ‘ - - 10
Catﬁsh Falls, - - - . . . 11
Redbank creek from the east, - - - 7
Mahoning creek, - - . . . 7
‘Sl0an’e Ferry, - - - - - .. 14
Nich0lson’s Falls, - _ ' - - . 7‘
Kittauuing, - - - - . .' 7 '
Freeport, west sid @ - _ - . 4
Plumb creek, - - - - _ . 13
Pittsburgh, - ~ a - - - 12
I M ' 189
The distance from P1't‘tsbu1‘gh\ to the mouth qfthe Ohio, by water;
is 1188 miles. .
Hamiltnn’s island, (below Pittsburgh,)‘ - - 3
Big Beaver creek, .- - - - - 29
Beavertown, - - - - - - 30
Georgetown, - - - - - - 42
Willis’s Creek, - - - - , - - 71
Steubenville, - - - . - - . 73
Charlestown, - - ¢ - - - 79
Warren, -_ - - - - _ 31
Little Grave creek, - - - - .. 107
- Little Muskillgum river, - - - . 163
Marietta, . - .. _ _ _ 172
Vienna, - - - . . - _ 179
Bl:mnerl1asset's island - - - - - 19]
Letart’s rapids, - - - . - - 245
Point Pleasant, 9 - - - - ~ 233
Great Sandy, - _ - . _ _ _ 341
Little Sandy, - - - - - - 364
Alexanrlria, - - - - - . 393
- Salt Lick creek - - - - - . 413
Maysville, - - - _ . - 453
I Augusta, - -- _ - . _ 479
Cincinnati, - - - - . - 424
VPVRJH ~ - - - - - , 466
Great Miami, - - - - . . 551
.KP_nlllCliy river, - - - - - . 627
Louisville, - - - - - . . 705
Bule river, - - - - . . ,, 752
Green river, - - - - , '- 925
APPENDIX. 3'57
Y -K1-‘=4 4
Wabash, - - - - , - - 1022
Saline, - - - - - . 1052
Cumberland river, - - - - - 1118
Tennessee, - - - - - - 1131
Fort Massac, - - - - - - 1142
Month of the Ohio river, - - - - I 188
ADDITIONS AND CORRECTIONS.
Pace l0-—From Flint river to the Georgia line, I do not re
collect seeing any land whatever, ﬁt for cultivation. It is low,
ﬂat, excessively poor, and badly watered, abounding in cypress
ponds, bay galls and saw palmetto ﬂatts, ﬁt only for the present
occupants, goutfres, salamanders and bull snakes.—Barnett, U.
S. Com.
PAGE 16-From more recent information from Madison county,
it appears that the present population exceeds 15,000 souls. Great
numbers of intruders have established themselves on the public
lands, on both sides of the Tennessee river. > Mr. Barnett, who
was lately employed by government to survey a part of the new
cessions, states that “ where water was scarce, it was not uncom
mon to see from four to eight families encamped at one sprin"..”
He supposes that 300 families of this description cultivated patch
es of corn last season, in a single valley south of Tennessee river,
other parts were quite populous. Strife already prevails in some
parts, as to the right of occupancy; The greater part are in des
titute circumstances, having expended their all in reaching the
promised land.
PAGE l8—-The Theakaki is latterly written Kmkalrce; “ it rises
in a ﬂat marshy country in the neighborhood of the St. ‘Josephs of
the Lake, and runs a meandering course westwardly, passing the
southern extremity of Lake Michigan, at the distance of 20 or 30
miles from it. Near the head of this river is a small creek, put
ting into the St. Josephs, through which boatshave sometimes pass
ed, in time of high Water, from the St. Josephs to the Kenkakee.”
. PAGE 23-—The paragraph describing the valley of the Illinois
was extracted from the “ Description of the Western Country,”
by an officer of the U. S. army. This writer appears to have
drawn a too highly colored picture of the bottoms of the Illinois.
Major Long, topographical engineer, speaks less favorably of the
country.
“ The valley of the Illinois varies in its width from three to ten '
miles-—is generally ﬂat and marshy, and for the most part subject
to inundations when the river has no more than a medial height.
In some parts of it, however, prairies and bottoms of considerable
extent are to be met with, elevated much above high water mark.
In ascending the river the bluffs gradually decrease in height;
358 " APPENDIX.
being about 150 feet high at the mouth, and about 100 at the head
of the river. Included in the blutfs are strata of lime-stone, slate
and coal, which occasionally make their appearance along the sur
face of the declivities.”
Pace 43-—1ndiana—According to Gen. Harrison, “the ﬁnest
country in all_the western world, is that which is bounded eastward
ly by the counties of Wayne, Franklin‘, and part of Dearborn,
Switzerland and Jetferson; westward by the tract called the New
Purchase; and extending northwardly some small distance be
yond the VVabash; this tract containing perhaps, 10 millions of
acres, is principally the property of the Miamis : part of it of the
Miamis and Delawares. It‘ includes all the head waters of the
White river; the branches of the Wabash which fall in from the
south or south-east; that part of it which the Delawares occupy is
the finest indeed from their towns to the Wabash, andon the W1
bash is also good; having the ﬁnest mill streams, and land of the
ﬁrst quality; well timbered, and intermixed with small rich prai
ries. . The streams are very small until you get pretty high up
the Wabash; as one branch of the White river runs parallel with,
and so near to the Wabash, that the streams must necessarily be
short. The Kentucky militia say, that in approaching Ouitanan,
near White river, they'passed through the ﬁnest country they
had ever seen; north of the Wabash, the land is not so good 1:17‘
the rivers.
Pace 40--In describing White river, no notice was taken of the
Eel river branch, which joins the North Fork from the west, about
20 miles above the entrance of ‘the Teakettle Fork, and waters
the eastern part of Harrison’s Purchase. There is another river
of this name, entering the Wabash above Tippecanoe. There is
no such river as “ Pomme,” tributary to the Wabash. On some maps
it is writtr.11, “ Dela Panse”—on others “ Calemut.” There are
three streams running into the Wabash, called “ Pctlite,” or Lit
tie Rivers.
 
C/fRVER’s PURCHASE.
The following additional information was'received from Mr.
BENJAMIN Gonron, just as the printing of this volume was closing,
and, as it may be of some service, to those who may have an in
terest in the tract of territory to which it relates, the'Publishcr,
with that view. gives it a place here.
In the second Edinburgh edition of Carver-’s Travels is parti
cularly described the reasosns why and wherefore the Naudorvessies
ofthe plains, freely and voluntarily gave the said grant, wliich
was for effecting a treaty of peace between the said Naudowcssies
and the Chippeway nation, who were then coming in great num
l)6IS_ to destroy them, by which means they were pacified, with
difliculty, and turned back and left them. As he by this mean?
APPENDIX. 359
t-escued them from certain des-tmction—they, having a grateful
sense thereof, freely and voluntarily made him a present of the fol
lowing tract of land--as described in his Deed, which stands re- 1
corded in the said second Edinburgh Edition, as follows :
“ 'l‘o Jonathan Carver, a chief under the most'mighty and po
tent George the third, king of the English and other nations, the
fame of whose courageous warriors have reached our ears, and has
been more fully told 'us by our good Brother Jonathan aforesaid,
whom we rejoice to see come among us and bring us good news
from his country-—WE, CHIEFS OF THE NAUDOWESSIES
who have hereto set our Seals, do by these presents, for ourselves
and heirs forever, in return for the many presents and other good
services done by the said Jonathan to ourselves and allies, give,
grant and convey to him, the said Jonathan, and to his heirs and
assigns, forever, the whole of a certain tract or territory of land,
bounded as follows, viz: From the Falls of St. Anthony, running
on the east bank of the Mississippi, nearly south-east, as' far as the
south end of Lake Pepin, where the Chippetray river joins the
Mississippi; and from thence eastward ﬁve days travel, account
ing twenty English miles per day; and from thence north, six
days travel, accounting twenty English miles per day; and from
thence again to the Falls of St. Anthony, on a direct strait linc.——
WE no for ourselves, heirs and assigns forever, give unto the said
Jonathan, his heirs and assigns forever, all the said lands, with all
the trees, rocks and rivers therein, reserving for ourselves and
heirs th'e sole liberty of hunting and fishing on land not planted or .
improved by the said Jonathan, his heirs and assigns, to which we
have ailixed our respective seals, at the Great Cave, May the 1st,
one thousand seven hundred and sixty-seven.
“ HAWNOPAWJATIN, his X mark.
“ OTOHTONGOOMLISHEW, his X mark.”
The above particulars were carefully taken from the aforesaid
second Edinburgh edition of Carver’s Travels, by Benjamin Gor- '
ton, of Troy, state of New-York, in the year 1795, when he made
a purchase of some of the lands from the heirs, and had the perusal
of the aforesaid book, belonging to Mary Carver, widow of the
said Jonathan, deceased.
It was about that time asserted, that Captain Carver went to
England, and that he had a daughter in that country whom he call
ed his only heir; and that when he died, in England, he left this
girl all his title to this land, and that the papers were left in the
care of one Dr. Letsom, who is since dead, as we are told: That
there has been aplea made that this girl is the only heir, and of
course that the title of those heirs must fail; but this is impossible.
as his widow was living in Deerfield, Massachusetts, not long
since, certainly in the year l795; therefore, all those pleas are
vain: That there was such a deed made to the said Carver, as be
360 APPENDIX 
fore described,‘ no one will pretend to doubt, and that he went to‘
England to obtain a grant from the crown is also certain. Whether
he ever did obtain such grant from the king of Great-Britain, we
have never been able to learn. If it is the case, the title is un
questionably as good as any patent lands under the crown, before
our revolutionary war. If it is not the case, the Indian title is
undoubtedly good, and the deed will be found recorded in Wakon
tebe Cave, or the Great Cave before mentioned; below the Falls
of St. Anthony, which the Naudouwessies of the Plains will con
ﬁrm, if any person appears to take possession as the true and law
ful heirs of Jonathan Carver, to which the government of the
United States will probably have no objection, as the Indian tit
tle must, at all events, be extinguished, and the heirs of Carver
can have ‘no greater plea of title, until they prove a title from the
crown, which may be known by searching the English records,
between the year 1767, and the American revolutionary war.
which may easily be done. 