Clark to Jonathan Clark, April 14, 1771.  Eagle Nest—April 14th 1771. Dear Brother This is to let you know that I am well and hope this will find you so I intend to go home next Saturday and hope that you will be here as I shant have another opportunity until June If I should not Come Send me word as soon as posible how the Lawsuit went. I am ever your faithfull Brother &c G. R. Clark

John B. Roy to Jonathan Clark, November 22, 1772.  Winchester. DR Sir Mr Foster being acomeing to your Court gives me an opportunity of informing you of your Father, Mr Sutton, Mr Dejarnett & myself being got this far on our Return after a long & Tiresome Journey, thro the Hilleyest Countrey that I ever saw, your Brother Geo & James Higgins we left keeping house about 130 miles below Pittsburg on a Bottom of fine land on the Ohio, which would be Valuable were it not for it being so Surrounded with mountains surpassing any thing you ever saw, have great favr to ask of you to gett & bring about a Quart or two of Blue Grass seed with you for me at Xmas at which time your Father Expects to see you & also desires youl bring him about a Gallon of Timothy seed Please Call as you come by on Dr Sir Yr most sincere obd' SeJonathon B: Roy Excuse Writeing in a Hurry  Mr Jonathan Clark, p favr Mr Foster Clark to Jonathan Clark, January 9, 1773.  Ohio River Grave Creek Township January 9ih 1773. Dear Brother I embrace y opportunity by Mr Jarrot to let you know that I am in good health hoping that this find you in the same as to health I am setled on my land with great plenty of provisions, and drive on pretty well as to clearing hoping by the spring to get a full Crop I know nothing more worth acquainting you with but that this Cuntry Setels very fast (and Corn is in some parts a 7/6 Pr Bushel but I have got great plenty) the people is a setling as low as the Siotho River 366 Below Fort Pitt land Rais almost as Dear here as below I had an offer of a very considerable sum for my place I get a good deal of cash by surveying on this River pray write to me by the first opportunity after the receipt of this nothing more but your affectionate Brother, G. R. Clark 

Clark to Jonathan Clark, December 18, 1774. Dear Brother I learn by Cap" Marshal that you intend being hear tomorrow or next Day. I am sorry that I cannot wait to see you as I am not well and want to get down for fear of geting ill before I Reach home I would have Calld to see you but was so unwell that I was afraid of making any stay, by the way I would write more but I expect to see you so soon that I need not be perticular in writing this. From your loving Brother G. R. Clark   

Clark to Samuel Brown, June 17, 1798. Dear Sir Your letter of last month honored by Mr. Thurston, was handed me by that gentleman. The matter contained in it and in the inclosed papers was new to me. I felt hurt that Mr. Jefferson should be attacked with so much virulence on account of an error of which I know he was not the author. Except a few mistakes in names of persons, places, etc., the story of Logan, as related by Mr. Jefferson, is substantially true. I was of the first and last of the active officers who bore the weight of that war; and on perusing some old papers of that date, I find some memoirs. But independent of them, I have a perfect recollection of every transaction relating to Logan's story. The conduct of Cresap I am perfectly acquainted with. He was not the author of that murder, but a family by the name of Greathouse through some transaction that happened under the command of Capt. Cresap a few days previous to the murder of Logan's family gave him sufficient ground to suppose that it was Cresap that had done the injury. To enable you fully to understand the subject of your inquiries, I shall relate the incidents that gave rise to Logan's suspicion and will enable Mr. Jefferson to do justice to himself and the Cresap family by being made fully acquainted with facts. This country was explored in 1773. A resolution was formed to make a settlement the spring following, and the mouth of the Little Kenaway  was appointed the place of general rendezvous in order to descend the river from thence in a body. Early in the spring the Indians had done some mischief. Reports from their towns were alarming which deterred many. About eighty or ninety men only set out at the appointed rendezvous where we lay some days. A small party of hunters that lay about ten miles below us, were fired upon by the Indians, whom the hunters beat back and returned to camp. This and many other circumstances led us to believe that the Indians were determined on war. The whole party was enrolled and determined to execute their project of forming a settlement in Kentucky, as we had every necessary store that could be thought of. An Indian town called Horsehead Bottom on the Sciota and near its mouth, lay nearly in our way. The determination was to cross the country and surprise it. Who was to command was the question. There were but few among us that had experience in Indian warfare and they were such as we did not choose to be commanded by. We knew of Capt. Cresap being on the river about fifteen miles above us with some hands settling a plantation; and that he had concluded to follow us to Kentucky as soon as he had fixed there his people. We also knew that he had been experienced in a former war. He was proposed; and it was unanimously agreed to send for him to command the party. Messengers were despatched and in half an hour returned with Cresap. He had heard of our resolution by some of his hunters that had fallen in with ours, and had set out to come to us. We now thought our army, as we called it, complete, and the destruction of the Indians sure. A council was called and to our astonishment, our intended commander-in-chief was the person that dissauded us from the enterprise. He said, that appearances were very suspicious, but there was no certainty of a war. That if we made the attempt proposed, he had no doubt of our success but a war would at any rate be the result, and that we should be blamed for it, and perhaps justly. But if we were determined to proceed, he would lay aside all considerations, send to his camp for his people and share our fortunes. He was then asked what he would advise. His answer was that we should return to Wheeling, as a convenient post, to hear what was going forward. That a few weeks would determine. As it was early in the spring, if we found the Indians were not disposed for war, we should have full time to return and make our establishment in Kentucky. This was adopted, and in two hours the whole were under way. As we ascended the river we met Kill-buck, an Indian chief with a small party. We had a long conference with him, but received but little satisfaction as to the disposition of the Indians. It was observed that Cresap did not come to this conference, but kept on the opposite side of the river. He said he was afraid to trust himself with the Indians. That Kill-buck had frequently attempted to way-lay his father to kill him— that if he crossed the river, perhaps, his fortitude might fail him and he might put Kill-buck to death. On our arrival at Wheeling (the country being pretty well settled thereabouts) the whole of the inhabitants appeared to be alarmed. They flocked to our camp from every direction and all we could say would not keep them from under our wings. We offered to cover their neighborhood with scouts, until further information, if they would return to their plantations, but nothing would avail. By this time we had got to be a formidable party. All the hunters, men without families, etc., in that quarter had joined our party. Our arrival at Wheeling was soon known at Pittsburg. The whole of that country, at that time, being under the jurisdiction of Virginia, Dr. Connolly had been appointed by Dunmore, Capt. Commandant of the district which was called Waugusta . He, learning of us sent a message addressed to the party letting us know that a war was to be apprehended and requesting that we would keep our position for a few days, as messages had been sent to the Indians, and a few days would determine the doubt. The answer he got was that we had no inclination to quit our quarters for sometime. That during our stay we should be careful that the enemy should not harass the neighborhood that we lay in. But before this answer could reach Pittsburg, he sent a second express, addressed to Capt. Cresap, as the most influential man among us, informing him that the message had returned from the Indians that war was inevitable, and begging him to use his influence with the party to get them to cover the country by scouts until the inhabitants could fortify themselves. The reception of this letter was the epoch of open hostilities with the Indians. A new post was planted, a council was called and the letter read by Cresap. All the Indian traders being summoned on so important an occasion, action was had and war declared in the most solemn manner; and the same evening two scalps were brought into camp. The next day some canoes of Indians were discovered on the river keeping the advantage of the island to cover themselves from our view. They were chased fifteen miles down the river and driven ashore. A battle ensued, a few were wounded on both sides, one Indian only taken prisoner. On examining their canoes, we found a considerable quantity of ammunition and other warlike stores. On our return to camp, a resolution was adopted to march the next day and attack Logan's camp on the Ohio about thirty miles above us. We did march about five miles and then halted to take some refreshment. Here the impropriety of executing the projected enterprise was argued. The conversation was brought forward by Cresap himself. It was generally agreed that those Indians had no hostile intentions as they were hunting, and their party was composed of men, women and children with all their stuff with them. This we knew as I myself and others present had been in the camp about four weeks past on our descending the river from Pittsburg. In short, every person seemed to detest the resolution we had set out with. We returned in the evening, decamped and took the road to Redstone. It was two days after this that Logan's family were killed and from the manner in which it was done, it was viewed as a horrid murder. From Logan hearing of Cresap being at the head of the party on the river, it is no wonder that he supposed he had a hand in the destruction of his family. Since the reception of your letter, I have procured the "Notes on Virginia." They are now before me. The act was more barbarous than related by Mr. Jefferson. Those Indians used to visit and return visits with the neighboring whites on the opposite side of the river. They were on a visit to a family by the name of Greathouse at the time they were murdered by them and their associates. The war now raged in all its savage fury, until the fall, when a treaty of peace was held at Camp Charlotte, within four miles of Chillicothe, the Indian capital on the Ohio. Logan did not appear. I was acquainted with him and wished to know the reason. The answer was "that he was like a mad dog, his bristles were up and were not quite fallen, but the good talk now going forward might allay them." Logan's speech to Dunmore now came forward, as related by Mr. Jefferson. It was thought to be clever although the army knew it to be wrong as to Cresap. But it only produced a laugh in camp. I saw it displeased Capt. Cresap and told him "that he must be a very great man, that the Indians palmed everything that happened on his shoulders." He smiled and said that he had an inclination to tomahawk Greathouse for the murder. What I have here related is fact I was intimate with Cresap. Logan I was better acquainted with, at that time, than any other Indian in the Western country. I was perfectly acquainted with the conduct cf both parties. Logan was author of the speech, as altered by Mr. Jefferson, and Cresap's conduct was as I have related it. I am yours, etc, G. R. Clark. Clark to Jonathan Clark, April 1, 1775.  Stewards Crossings, Aprl 1" 1775. Dear Brother I take this opportunity to acquaint you that I found all things according to my expectation on my arivall hear this leave me quite well hoping that it will find you in the same state of health. I have ingaged as a Deputy Surveyor under Capn Hancock Lee for to lay out Lands on the Kentuck for the Ohio Company at y* rate of 80 L pr year and the privilegde of Taking what Lands I want. I hope that you will spare no Money nor pains to get that patent for me as soon as possible as it will be of the greatest importance to me I hope that you will write to our Friends and let know that I am well and Intention This for you Affectionate Brother George R. Clark. Pray Sir get yc patent for my Land before June if you posibly Can as delays is dangerus As before, G. R. C.  

Clark to Jonathan Clark, July 6, 1775.  Lees Town Kentucke. Dear Brother I Embrace this opportunity by Cap" E Taylor to send you this small epistle. I am in a flow of spirits at this time but it has , This was the Ohio Company, formed in 1748, which succeeded in obtaining agrant of land west of the mountains. It was prevented from carrying out its plans by the outbreak of the French and Indian War and the dilatory measures of the British ministry.not been the Case long, for I have had nothing but a series of Misfortunes this four Month past too tedious to mention, but I hope to get the Better of them yet—a richer and more Beautifull Cuntry than this I believe has never been seen in America yet—C Henderson is hear and Claims all the Cuntry below Kentucke If his Claim should be good, land may be got Reasonable Enough and as good as any in the World, my Father talkd of seeing this Land in august I shall not advise him whether to come or not but I am Convinced that if he once sees the Cuntry he never will rest untill he gets in it to live I am Ingrosing all y* Land I possibly Can expecting him. We have laid out a Town seventy Miles up the Kentucke whare I intend to live and I dont doubt but their will be fifty familyes living in it by Christmas I hope that you will write to me by the first oppertunity leting me know how you all are and what news as I expect you will have frequent oppertunities This from your affectionate Brother G. R. Clark P S My Compliments to Mr and Mrs Cambell let Johney see this as wrote to himself. As before, GRC.

Clark to Jonathan Clark, February 26, 1776.  To Capc Jonathan Clark Woodstock Pr favr of Majr Helvinstone. Petition from the Inhabitants of Kentucky, June 15, 1776.  To the Honorable the Convention of Virginia. The humble petition of the inhabitants of Kentucke (or Louisa) River, on the western parts of Fincastle County. Humbly sheweth, that many of your petitioners became adventurers in this part of the Colony in the year 1774, in order to provide a subsistence for themselves and their posterity, but were soon obliged by our savage enemy to abandon their enterprize. And in the year following, after the country had been discovered and explored, many more became adventurers, some of whom claimed lands by virtue of warrants, granted by Lord Dunmore, agreeable to the Royal Proclamation in the year 1763, and others by pre-occupancy, agreeably to the entry laws of Virginia. And in the meantime a company of men from North Carolina purchased, or pretended to purchase, from the Cherokee Indians, all that tract of land from the southern most waters of Cumberland River to the banks of Louisa or Kentucke river, including also the lands on which inhabitants live in Powell's Valley. By virtue of which purchase they stile themselves the true and absolute proprietors of the New Independent Province (as they call Transylvania) they are endeavoring to erect, and in consequence of their usurped authority, officers both civil and military are appointed, writs of election issued, Assemblies convened, a land office opened, conveyances made, lands sold at an exhorbitant price, and a system of policy introduced which does not at all harmonize with that lately adopted by the United Colonies; but on the contrary, for aught yet appears, this fertile country will afford a safe asylum to those whose principles are inimical to American Freedom. But your petitioners have the greatest reason to question the validity of those men's purchase, being well informed that the Cherokees never extended their claims north of Cumberland River, nor would warrant any lands on the other side. Besides, it is now well known, that the Indians of the Six Nations claimed & ceded those very lands to the Crown of Great Britain at a treaty held at Fort Stanwix in November, 1768. We, therefore, are not willing to obey those, or the authority they have assumed, or indeed, to acknowledge any power or prerogative which is not derived from the Convention of Virginia, whose subjects we desire to be considered. Virginia, we conceive, can claim this country with the greatest justice and propriety; it is within the limits of their charter; they fought and bled for it, and had it not been for the memorable battle at the Great Kanaway, those vast regions had yet continued inaccessible. Nor can we conceive how it is practicable for those men who stile themselves absolute proprietors to settle this country at so great a distance from all the Colonies, and in the neighborhood of some enemy Indians. But should our infant settlement become the object of your deliberations, and be taken under your protection and direction, unto whom we justly conceive that we belong, every obstacle would be removed, population increase, and of consequence a barrier to the interior parts of Virginia from the Indians. A new source of wealth would then be opened, as trade and navigation under the auspices of Virginia would flourish in this western world. And therefore, willing to acquit our conscience, and not entail slavery upon our posterity by submitting to the pretentions and impositions of the pretended Proprietors, we the inhabitants of the north and the south sides of Kentucke river, having assembled together after preparatory notice on the eighth day of June, 1776, and continued to poll till the 15th of the said instant, in order to elect two gentlemen to serve for us in Convention, and by a majority have chosen Captain John Gabriel Jones and Captain George Rogers Clark, and hope your Honorable the Convention will receive them as our delegates from this the western parts of Fincastle county. And as we sincerely concur in the measures established by the Continental Congress & Colony of Virginia; and willing to the utmost of our abilities to support the present laudable cause by raising our quota of men, and bear a proportionable share of the expense that will necessarily accrue in the support of our common liberty. And that good order may be observed, we proceeded to elect a Committee consisting of twenty-one members, as is already done in West Augusta, and which precedent we rely upon to justify our proceedings to the world; for without law or authority, vice here could take its full scope, having no laws to restrain, or power to control. Upon the whole, we cheerfully submit to the authority and jurisdiction of this House, not doubting but you will take us under your protection, and give us such directions by our representatives as you, in your great wisdom, may think best. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, &c. Signed by order of the inhabitants, Abraham Hite Jr., Clerk. Harrodsburg, June the 15ih, 1776.
To the Honorable the Convention of Virginia. The humble petition of the committee of West Fincastle, of the Colony of Virginia, being on the north and south sides of the River Kentucke (or Louisa). Present, John Gabriel Jones, Esq Chairman, John Bowman, John Cowen, William Bennet, Joseph Bowman, John Crittenden, Isaac Hite, George Rogers Clark, Silas Harlan, Hugh McGary, Andrew McConnell, James Harrod, William McConnell, and John Maxwell, gent". The inhabitants of this frontier part of Virginia, who are equally desirous of contributing to the utmost of their power to the support of the present laudable cause of American Freedom, and willing to convince and to prove to the world, that tho' they live so remote from the seat of Government, that they feel in the most sensible manner for their suffering brethren, and that they most ardently desire to be looked upon as a part of this Colony, notwithstanding the base proceedings of a detestable, wicked and corrupt Ministry, to prevent any more counties to be laid off, without the inhabitants would be so pusillanimous as to give up their right of appointing proper persons to represent them (in Assembly) or in Convention: And as we further conceive, that as the Proclamation of his Majesty for not settling on the western parts of this Colony, is not founded upon law, it cannot have any force, and if we submit to that Proclamation, and continue not to lay off new counties on the frontiers that they may send representatives to the Convention, it is leaving an opening to the wicked and diabolical designs of the Ministry, as then this immense and fertile country would afford an assylum to those whose principles are inimical to American Liberty. And if new counties are not laid off, as Fincastle County now reaches and already settled upwards of three hundred miles from East to west, it is impossible that two delegates can be sufficient to represent such a respectable body of people, or that such a number of inhabitants should be bound to obey without being heard; and as those very people would most cheerfully co-operate in every measure tending to the public peace and American Freedom, they have delegated two gentlemen, who were chosen by the free voice of the people, and which election was held for eight days at Harrodsburg (on the western waters of Fincastle or Kentucke) after the preparatory notice of five weeks IS given to the inhabitants; and on the poll being closed, Capt. John Gabriel Jones and Captain George Rogers Clark having the majority, were chosen; and not doubting the acceptance of them as our representatives by the Honorable the Convention, to serve in that capacity, as we conceive the precedent established in West Augusta will justify our proceedings. And we cannot but observe how impolitic it would be to suffer such a respectable body of prime riflemen to remain even in a state of neutrality, when at this time a certain set of men from North Carolina, stiling themselves Proprietors, & claiming an absolute right to these very lands, taking upon themselves the Legislative authority, commissioning officers both civil and military, having also opened a Land Office, Surveyors General & deputies appointed and act, conveyances made, and land sold at an exhorbitant price, with many other unconstitutional practices, tending to disturb the minds of those who are well-disposed to the wholesome Government of Virginia, and creating factions and divisions amongst ourselves, as we have not hitherto been represented in Convention. And as at this time ^/'of general danger, we cannot take too much precaution to prevent the inroads of the savages, & prevent the effusion of innocent blood, we, the Committee, after receiving a message from the chiefs of the Delawares who are now settled near the mouth of the Waubash, informing us that a treaty was to be held at O'Post by the English and Kickapoo Indians, and that they would attend to know the purport of the same, and if their brothers, the Long Knives would send a man they could rely on, they would, on their return, inform him of the same, as they were apprehensive the Kickapoos would strike their brothers, the Long Knives. Therefore, we thought it most prudent, and shall send immediately a certain James Harrod and Garret Pendergrass to converse with them on the same. And as it is the request of the inhabitants that we should point out a number of men capable and most acquainted with the laws of this Colony to act as civil Magistrates, a list of the same we have enclosed; and for other matters relative to this country, we conceive that Captain Jones and Captain Clark, our delegates, will be able to inform the Honorable the Convention, not doubting but they will listen to our just petitions, and take us under their jurisdiction. And your petitioners as in duty bound, &c. Signed by order of the Committee Jonathon Gab Jones, Chairman. Harrodsburg June 20th 1776. Abraham Hite, Junr Clerk. 

John Clark to Jonathan Clark, August 12, 1776. Yours of the second of July last, which adds greatly to my satisfaction to hear that you are well, and all your men, hoping that these lines will find you all lin the same, as to health, Honour and success in War, and a speedy and Happy Reconciliation to us Americans. I am afraid that we have some Disaffective men, in this County seeking their own private Interest, before the publick good, and those very men that was chose to act for the people of this County, the Magazine is by order of the Committee broak up, and each man's proportionable part delivered to them, which is now selling at most Extortionate prices, Twenty, Sixteen & Fifteen Shillings per pound. I have your part with me, which I purpose keepeing till I have Orders from you what to do with it. Each mans part was seven pounds, and a Quarter of Powder and two Lbs of Led, the Gentlemen that you payed the thirty shillings for, has got his part and I understand has sold almost the whole, at sixteen Shillings per pound. I did not know whether he had Repayed you the money or I should have strived to have prevented his selling. thought best to say nothing about it as I was not possitive. Should you have an oppertunity of writing as I hope you will, Let me know whether he Repayed your money and if not, what I shall do in Regart to his selling such powder, &c. as it is general thought among the generality of the people, that he Intends to Repay me the Thirty Shillings,after the sale of the sd powder, as he asserted before the Committee, that he had payed thirty Shillings toward the purchaseing of said powder, and also told his Creditors, that he would settle with them, after the sale of his powder: there is a few of our Gentlemen Committeemen that purposes Letting their powder & lay by them, till the County is supplied with powder & by the Hon Convention, but these are only a few that opposed the Division, I Left my Fathers this Day week and Left them all Verry well and Likewise all friends in them parts; Brother George is Down at Caroline, on his way to Williamsburg, but by Reason of the Conventions adjurning, themselves, he is oblidge to pospone his Journey till their next setting. I have great Reason to believe that you may expect him at your Station before he returns home, they were not then the least Dread or apprehention of the Shawnees and other Indians, near the Cantuck Breaking out. But sence he Left the Cantuck by Cap' Joseph Bowman and other from them Back Countries we have certain intellegence that the Nations are Joined, and are Killing, scalping, and Driveing our people from their plantations, in a surprising manner. My Brother wants me to go to the Cantuck with him. says that if I was to go. I might with his Interest, get the Clerks place of that Country, which will be Sallery Sufficient to make me a Compleat Fortune, but as I could not know till the next Court, whether I take this office any longer than this year, as I intend to agree with Major Marshall, whether I shall take it longer or not, but not upon the Conditions that I have this year, without I swear in as D. C. which I expect will not be the Case (as I wrote you before) I understood Mr John Marshall was comeing up to take it. if so I intend after a while to go and settle upon the Cantuck. but am at present in my Room (in perfect health which I had the Happiness to enjoy sence I wrote you my Last) where I intend to strive to Instruct myself to the utmost of my abilities in every particular that may be of service. I wrote to you by your sergeant Mr Harding in regard to your Corn, wheet &c. but for fear it may miscarry I think it not Imprudent also to write to you in this and Let you know that I have never received your Corn nor Wheat, the Wheat, the man Denies that Wm. Flill & Grafton had any at his house, and the Corn I sent for and Could not get, but I believe he had sold it all, I also wrote you in sd Letters that I had sent you three pair of Stocking, two pr of Shoes, two Quier of paper, Silk for a Jacket, Drill for a pr of Breeches, and Sagathy for Jacket or Breeches, with silk Buttons &c. and I also had a Box of Wafers provided but Licu' Hite, not being a man of his word, was neglected, and if he should be admitted into your Ridgement, I would beg you to avoid him for he has not shown that Friendly act, for you, as he pretended, as to the particulars of Mr Hite Conduct while up recruiting, is very scandalous to my knowledge, which is too tedious for me to relate, and as you may Expect Mr Isaac Hite & some other Gentlemen down soon to see the regiment and by him you will have Lieu' Hites proceedings, or perhaps before, one thing my friends told me he said, had not I have known the man Carecter, would have gave me great uneasiness, which was, that you get Drunk every Day and neglect your Business. My Respects to Colonal Muhlenberg let him know that his Family is well, his wife has his share of the powder, and Intends keeking  it till orders from him what to do with it, and also my Respects to the Gentlemen my acquaintances, letting them know that their Family and Friends is all well so shall Conclude with remaining Yr ever Loveing and Affe Brother John Clark NB Excuse bad writing for opportunities is so very sudden that I am obleedge to write very Fast or not at all I saw Mr Gwathmeys at my Fathers and he and his Family was well not one of your Deserters taken up as yet and I believe never will. 

Journal of the Exectuive Council, August 23, 1776. Mr. George Rogers Clark having represented to this Board the defenseless state of the Inhabitants of Kentucky, and having on their behalf requested that a quantity of ammunition, may be supplied them. Resolved that five hundred pounds of Gunpowder be forthwith sent to Pittsburg, and delivered to the Commanding officer at that Station, to be safely kept and delivered to Mr. Clarke for the use of the Inhabitants of Kentucky. And it is ordered that five hundred pounds of Gunpowder be delivered the said Mr. Clarke by the Keeper of the publick Magazine. 

Petition by John Gabriel Jones and George Rogers Clark, October, 1776.  To the Honourable the Speaker & Gentlemen of the House op Delegates The petition of John Gabriel Jones and George Rodgers Clark on behalf of the Inhabitants of the County of Kentuck humbly sheath that the last Service that lies in their power prior to the return of your Petitioners to their Constituents which will be tomorrow, is to acquaint this Honourable House of their Defenceless State, and imploreing their immediate Protection by sending such Forces as they think necessary. And they cannot but Observe how much it is to the Interest of Virginia to prevent the Inhabitants from abandoning that settlement and how necessary and advantageous it will be to the publick in Case of an Indian War, an event much to be Feared, with the Kiccapoos, Picts, and other Nations of Indians lying West of the River Ohio, as their Situation is so contagious to those Nations that the Seat of War may be carried thither, and thus Secure the Frontiers Effectually at once, Add to this that in this Service they can save the Public at least one-half of what an Army must Cost to be levied any where else on the Frontier Counties, or any part of America. Perfectly satisfied they have done all that laid in their Power, and happy would they be could they have done more for their Constituents, therefore Submitting their Case to this Honourable House no ways doubting but they in their great Wisdom and goodness will immediately send Aid to their Relief, and your Petitioners &c. Friday Oct 1776

Clark's Diary, December 25, 1776 to March 30, 1778. Memorandum for Geo R Clark from Decr 25th 1776. Harrodsburgh, Dec 25, 1776. George R. Clark 

December 1776 
25 Ten Men going to the Ohio for Powder met on the Waters of Licking Creek by Indians & defeated Jonathon G. Jones, Joseph Rogers, Wm Graden & Josiah Dixon were killed. 
29 a large party of Indians attacked McClellans Fort, and wounded Jonathon McClellan Cha" White Rob' Todd & Edw** Worthington the first mortally 
30 Cha" White died of his Wound. January 1777 6 Jonathon McClellan died of his Wound 30 moved to Harrodsburgh from McClellans Fort 

February Nothing Remarkable done

March 5 Militia of the County embodied. 
6 Thomas Shores & Wm Ray killed at the Shawnese Spring 
7 The Indians attempted to cut off from the Fort a small party of our Men a Skirmish ensued we had 4 Men wounded and some Cattle killed we killed and scalped one Indn and wounded several 
8 Brought in Corn from the diff' Cribs until the 18th day 
9 Express sent to the settlement 10 Ebenezer Corn & company arrived from Capt Linn on the Mississippi 18 A small party of Indians killed & scalped Hugh Wilson about 1-2 Mile from the Fort near Night & escaped 
19 Archibald McNeal died of his Wounds received 7'h Inst. A large party of Inda attacked the Straglers about the Fort killed and scalped Garret Pendergrest killed or took prisoner Peter Flin. 
March 7th Indians killed one man at Boonsborough & wounded one 

April 8 Stoner arrived with News from the settlement 
16 Doran Brown & company arrd from Cumberland River 
19 Jonathon Todd and Richd Calloway elected Burgesses Jas. Berry married to Widow Wilson. 
20 Ben. Linn & Sam Moore sent express to the Illinois 
24th. 40 or 50 Indians attacked Boonsborough killed and scalped Dan Goodman wounded Capt. Boone Capt. Todd Mr Hite & M Stoner Indians 'tis thought sustained much damage 
29 Indians attacked the Fort killed Ensign M'Connell 

May 6 Indians discovered placing themselves near the Fort a few shot exchanged no harm done 
12 Jonathon Cowan & Squire Boone arrived from the Settlement 
18 M'Garry & Haggin sent expresses to fort Pitt 
23 Jonathon Todd & company set off for the Settlement 
23 A large party of Indians attacked Boonsborough Forts kept a warm Fire until 11 O clock at Night began it the next Morning & kept a Warm Fire until Midnight attempting several Times to burn the Fort 3 of our men were wounded not mortally The Enemy suffered considerably 
26 A party went out to hunt Indians one wounded Squire Boone & escaped 30 Indians attacked Logans Fort killed & scalped W™ Hudson wounded Burr Harrison & Jonathon Kennedy 

June 5 Harrod & Elliott went to meet Col. Bowman & company Glen & Laird arrd from Cumbd Dan Lyons who parted with them on Green River we suppose was killed going into Logans Fort Jonathon Peters & Elisha Bathy we expect were killed coming home from Cumbd 
13 Burr Harrison died of his Wounds rcc'1 the 30th of May 
22 Ben. Linn & Sam Moore an-1 from Illenois Barney Stagncr senr killed & beheaded -1 Mile from the Fort a few Guns fired at Boons 

July 9 Lieut Linn married, great Merriment 
11 Harrod returned 
29 Express retd from Pittsburg 

August 1 Col Bowman arrived at Boonsborough 
5 Surrounded 10 or 12 Indians near the Fort killed 3 and wounded others The plunder took was sold for upwards of £70 
11 Jonathon Higgins died of a lingering Disorder 25 Ambrose Grayson killed near Logans Fort & wounded 2 others Ind" Escapd 
26 Col Bowman and company arrived at Logans Fort 

September 2 Col. Bowman & company an-d at this place. Court held &c 
8 27 Men set off for the Sett 
9 Indians discovd a shot exchd nothing done 
11 37 Men went to Jos Bowman for Corn while shelling they were fired on a Skirmish ensued Ind" drew off leaving 2 dead on the spot & much Blood Eli Gerrard was killed on the Spot & 6 others Wounded 
12 Dan Bryan died of his Wounds recieved yesterday 
17 Express sent to the settlement Mrs Saunders died 
23d Express resive from Boons and say that on the 13'h Captn Smith arive their with 48 Men 150 more on the March for this also with an Account that General Washington had defeated. How Joyfull News if true. 
26 brought in a load of Corn Frost in the Morning 
29th Bough a horse price £12 Swaped with J Shelp Boot £10 Dr to 18 lb of Powder 22 Lead Note of Abm Chaplin against Pogue 3.. 6.. 0 
30th Intended to start for Settlement. Horses lost 
October Wednesday 1st Start for the Setment 22 Men got to Logans 20 Miles 
2 Capt. Montgomery Arrive at Logans with 38 Men and say that Cap' Watkins would be in in a day or two 
3 Started on our journey Cap" Pawlin & Company likewise 76 in all beside Woman & Children & took 4 Beefs from Whitleys of Gasses Camped at Pettits—16 Miles 
4 Rain in the Morning Camped on Skags Creik 18 Mls 
5 Early start spies Kild a Buffaloe Camped 1/2 Mile from the Hazle patch 8 miles Cross Rockcastle R 20 M all safe 
6 Early start. Camped on Lawrell River Marched 14 Miles Killed a Beef 
7 waited for Scags the Hunter he not coming to us kild a few Dear 
8 Scags Came to us went back for his skins 
9 lost our Beefs Started March 3 M crost Laurel R. Camped on ye Bank 10 Early Start Camped on Richland Creek 17 miles whare we met Captn Charles Gwatkin on his March to Boons with 50 Men 2 families scarce of proven
11 March'd to Cumberland ford 18 M" Kild two Buffaloes Indians about us 
12 Crossed the R & C Mountain Incamp in powels Valley 4 M" from the Gap in the whole 19 Miles 
13 late start got to Martins 18 Ms 
14 left Captn Pawlin March 15 M. 
15 Crossed Powels R Marched 20 M Camped on ye South Side of Powel Mt. 
16 got to the Rhye Cove 9 Miles. 
17 to Blackamores 6 Miles 
18 parted with the Company lodgd mores Fort 20 Miles 
19 Lodged at Cap' Kinkeads 22 Ms 
20 Crosed Clinch M' Met Mr Maulding heard from my friends lodgd at Col° Cambells 24 Miles 
21 Lodged at Jasper Kindsers got my Horse shod on the way 6/ a pair Breakfast and feed 1/3 22 Miles
22 Clowdy Morning no rain lodged at Sawyears Expences 1/3 28 Miles 
23 falling in Company with Cap'™ Cambell an agreable Companion we traveled 33 M" Lodged at Cooks poor fair Exp" 6/6 
24 Sold my Gun to Mr Love 15£ swaped Horse with J Love gave £7.. 10 Boot Lodged at Mr Neelies 25 Ms. 
25 Received a Letter from Cap' Bowman informing me that he had an order of Council to Carry Salt pans to Kentucky & other provn Lodged at Botetour 25 M" 412 Miles from Harrodsburgh 
26 Rain staid at Lockharts tavern 
27 Rain Expences £1. .4. .0 
28 Rain Start after Breakfast Rain slowly all day Lodged at Bartleys Expences 4/ 25 M" 
29 parted with my Companion Cap° Gamble Lodged at J. M'Clungs 5/ 28 Miles
30 Crosed the Blue Ridge Loged at Blacks at y foot of M' 5/ 33 M" 
31 Bought a pair of shoes in Charlottsville 32/ lodged at thorps 7/ 35M" 15 miles from Charlotte 

Saturday Nov. 1 
1 I got to My Fathers about 10 Oclock at night all well 2/ 55 Miles in the whole 620 ms from Harrodsburgh 
2 3/ Staid at my Fathers 
3 Started for Williamsburgh lodged at Mr Gwathmeys' 40 ms. 
4 Lodged at Warrens 11/6 29M 
5 got to Williamsburgh loded at Andersonshad a Confirmatn of Burgoins Surd 4/24 ms. 
6 Bought a ticket in the state lottery £3 Number 10.693 first Class 
7 went to the Auditors laid before them the Kentuck Ac" they refused to settle them without the consent of the Councill 
8 got orders from the C C for the auditors to settle them 
9 Sunday went to church 
10 Pased the accounts with the Auditors except my own which they refuse to allow without the consent of the Councill 
11 
18 Setled with the Auditors drew the Money of the treasurer C726. Bought a piece of Cloth for a Jackote Price £4.. 15 Buttons & Morehair 3/ 
19 left Williamsburgh after Breakfast Expencies £9.. 18 lodged a Warrens 
20 got to Mr Guythmeys Exp. 13/ 
21 Staid at D° 
22 Came to my Fathers 

December Monday 1
6 Started from my Fathers to Williamburgh Lodge at Mr Gwathmeys expinces 3/ 
7 Tarried at D° 
8 Lodged at Cartwrights 
9 Snowed and raind all day 
10 Got to Williamsburgh bought 2 shirts and a Book £5 Proposed an Expedition against F. C to the Governor and councill which they afterwards agreed to I continue here until the 2 

2 day of Jany 78 Receivd ordors to Carry out the Exped'n agains F. C oppoint W. B smith Majr he is to Raise 200 Men and meet me at Kentuck last of March 
3 advance to Majr smith 150 £ for sd purpose Received 1.200 £ Publick Money for the use of sd Expedition taken in partnership by his Excellency P. Henry in taking a Body of Land 
4 Started from W,nburgh expinces £21.10.11 lodged at Kingw C house 
5 lodged at Mr Guythmeys Exps 13/ 
6 Got to my Fathers 
9 paid Mr Rogers 18 Dollars for powder & Lead of Joseph Rogers 
Friday 16 left my Father Lodged at Fredericksburg Expencees 20/4 
17 lodged at Kenners 
18/0 18 found my old Friend L Helms at Mr Floyds 
20 went to his Brothers oppointed him to raise a company and paid him his Wages for past service 
21 lodged at Ashbeys Expences 6/ 
22 Lodged at Co Thrustons 
23 Lodged at Isack Bowmans apointed J Bowman Captn Isack Lieu' to raise a company for my Ridgement spent the day at Stoverstown lodged at Mr Hites in Company with Co Mcdonald and the Doctor expences 7/6 
24 lodged at Col. Hites 
25 Dined in Winchester &c 8/6 lodged at Co McDonalds 
26 Dined in Win. Shoeing my Horse and other Expencies 30/ lodgd Brinkers 
27 Lodged at Rises Expences 10/ 
28 Lodged at Runnaldsens 10/ 
29th Lodged at Tittles agread with John Lindsey to Raise men for Kentucky 4/ 
30 lodged at Parker's sent 6/10 authority to Joseph Wilkerson to Raise a Company 
31 lodgd at Linches 12/ 

Feby 1st lodged at Redstone Fort 
2 Lodged at Captn W Harrods oppoint him to raise a company 
3 Lodged at Mr Mores oppointed Sam More Lieu' under Capn Harrod also Benjn Linn to raise a Company 
4 Sent Captn Wm Harrod 4 Dollars 
7 Hired a horse of H Tomson 
10 Got to fort Pitt Expences 30/ 
12 Authorised J Bayley to enlist men for my detachment Promis from Gen Hand to furnish me with 
17 left fort Pitt expences 6.. 0.. 0 
18 appointed Jonathon Maxfield Company 
March 5th appointed A. Chaplin to raise a Compy gave a tract of Land for a gun appointed Captn W Hughton to Raise a Company Expencies at pittsberg untill the 23d March 7lbs..0..0 D° Returning to Redston £2. .0. .0 to Blanket £5.. 10.0 to 6 yd" Linnen 30 Dollars to 3J yds D° 10 Dollars oppointed a rendisvous of Captn Harrods Company at John Swans the 30 
29th Receiv a Letter from Majr Smith informing me that he had four Companies Rais for Kentucky on Holston 
30th Attended the rendesvous sent a company to Whelin for Boats Expencies £4

Council of War and Courts Martial, April 26-July 10,1777.  At a Court Martial held at Harrodsburg April 26 1777 Upon Complaint made against James OFin for quitting his arms & not duly attending his post when placed as a Centennial. Ordered that he be fined the sum of 5s to be levied according to Law. G R Clark 
Upon Complaint made against Samuel Hunter for sleeping on his post Ordered that he be fined the sum  shillings  according to Law. G R Clark 
At a Council of War held at Harrodsburg, April 29.  The President produced a Letter signed by Capt. Benjamin Logan desiring that the small Forces might be speedily collected from the three Stations that we might give the Enemy a repulse & recover  the Plunder and desired the opinion of the Council concerning it which was as follows (to wit) That as we suppose the Enemys Number in the Country was very great & a Battle would be extremely hazardous & Probably endanger the Loss of the Country upon which his Letter was rejected 
At a Court Martial held at Harrodsburg July the 5th Pres Majr Clark Lieut Linn Lieut Helm & Ensn Todd Upon a Complaint made against Thomas Denton John Isaacs and James O'Fin for not attending the Guard Ordered that they be fined each of them the sum of 5s G R Clark 
At a Court Martial held at Harrodsburg July 10th 1777  pres as above. Upon Complaint made against Li.  he be fined the sum of 20s. G R Clark 
At a Court Martial of all the Officers of the County. Pres' Geo R Clark Dan Boone Ja" Harrod Jonathon Todd. Ordered that any person called into service by the Invasion Law as is the case with all now in this County in case the leave the Service be looked upon as deserters the Commanding officer is desired to advertise all such throughout the Colony as deserters in the most public manner G R Clark Presd 
At a Council held at Harrodsburgh ordered that Sergeant Grier  the Country as soon as possible 

Clark to Patrick Henry, 1777.  Sir— According to promise I haste to give you a description of the town of Kuskuskies, and my plan for taking of it. It is situated 30 leagues above the mouth of the Ohio, on a river of its own name, five miles from its mouth and two miles east of the Mississippi. On the west side of the Mississippi 3 miles from Kuskuskies is the village of Mozier  belonging to the Spaniards. The town of Kuskuskies contains about one hundred families of French and English and carry on an extensive trade with the Indians; and they have a considerable number of negroes that bear arms and are chiefly employed in managing their farms that lay around the town, and send a considerable quantity of flour and other commodities to New Orleans. The houses are framed and very good, with a small but elegant stone fort situated  the centre of the town. The Mississippi is undermining a part of Fort Chartress; the garrison was removed to this place, which greatly added to its wealth; but on the commencement of the present war, the troops  called off to re-inforce Detroit, which is about three hundred miles from it—leaving the fort and all its stores in care of one Roseblack  as comd' of the place, with instructions to influence as many Indians as possible to invade the Colonies; and to supply Detroit with provisions, a considerable quantity of which goes by the way of the Waubash R., and have but a short land carriage to the waters of the Miami.  In June last I sent two young men there: They  seemed to be under no apprehension of danger from the Americans. The fort, which stands a small distance below the town is built of stockading about ten feet high, with blockhouses at each corner, with several pieces of cannon mounted— 10,000 lbs powder, ball and all other necessary stores without  guard or a single soldier. Roseblock who acted as Governor, by large presents engaged the Waubash Indians to invade the frontiers of Kentucky; was daily treating with other Nations, giving large presents and offering them great rewards for scalps. The principal inhabitants are entirely against the American cause, and look on us as notorious rebels that ought to be subdued at any rate; but I dont doubt but after being acquainted with the cause they would become good friends to it. The remote situation of this town on the back of several of the Western Nations; their being well supplied with goods on the Mississippi, enables them to carry to furnish the different Nations with goods and by presents will keep up a strict friendship with the Indians; and undoubtedly will keep all the Nations that lay under their influence at war with us during the present contest, without they are induced to submission; they will be able to interrupt any communication that we should want to hold up and down the Mississippi, without a strong guard; having plenty of swivels they might, and I dont doubt but would keep armed boats for the purpose of taking our property. On the contrary, if it was in our possession it would distress the garrison at Detroit for provisions, it would fling the command of the two great rivers into our hands, which would enable us to get supplies of goods from the Spaniards, and to carry on a trade with the Indians them might perhaps with such small presents keep them our friends. I have always thought the town of Kuskuskies to be a place worthy of our attention, and have been at some pains to make myself acquainted with its force, situation and strength. I cant suppose that they could at any  raise more than six  hundred armed men, the chief of them  distance, so that they  more than  An expedition against  seeing one would be attended with so little expense. The men might be easily raised with little inconvenience Boats and canoes with about forty days provisions would  them: they might in a few days run down the river with certainty  Waubash, when they would only have about five to march to the town with very little danger of being discovered until almost within sight, where they might go in the night; if they got wind  make no resistance: if  and were able to beat us in the field, they could by no means defend themselves for if they flew to the fort, they would loose possession of the town, where their provisions lay, and would sooner surrender than to try to beat us out of it with the cannon from the post, as  would be sensible that should  it before we left it, which would reduce them to the certainty of leaving the country or starving with their families, as they could get nothing to eat. Was I to undertake an expedition of this sort, and had authority from Government to raise my own men, and fit myself out without  I should make no doubt of being in  by April next. I am sensible that the case stands thus—that  either take the town of Kuskuskies, or in less than a twelve month send an army against the Indians on Wabash, which will cost ten times as much, and not be of half the service.

Order of Council, January 2, 1778. Present, His Excellency, John Page, Dudley Digges, John Blair, Nathaniel Harrison and David Jameson, Esquires. The Governor informed the Council that he had had some conversation with several Gentlemen who were well acquainted with the Western Frontiers of Virginia, & the situation of the post at Kaskasky held by the British King's Forces, where there are many pieces of cannon, & military stores to a considerable amount; & that he was informed the place was at present held by a very weak garrison, which induced him to believe that an expedition against it might be carried on with success, but that he wished the advice of the Council on the occasion. Whereupon they advised his Excellency to set on foot the exjxxlition against Kaskasky with as little delay & as much secrecy as possible, & for the purpose to issue his warrant upon the Treasurer for twelve hundred pounds payable to Col. George Rogers Clark, who is willing to undertake the service, he giving bond & security faithfully to account for the same. And the Council further advised the Governor to draw up proper instructions for Colonel Clark. His Excellency having prepared the instructions accordingly, the same were read,  approved of ...

Secret Instructions to Clark.  Virginia, SS. In Council Willaimsburg January 2, 1778. Lieut Colonel George Rogers Clark, You are to proceed with all convenient Speed to raise Seven Companies of Soldiers to consist of fifty men each officered in the usual manner & armed most properly for the Enterprize & with this Force attack the British post at Kaskasky. It is conjectured that there are many pieces of Cannon & military Stores to considerable Amount at that place, the taking & preservation of which would be a valuable acquisition to the State. If you are so fortunate therefore as to succeed in your Expectation, you will take every possible Measure to secure the Artillery & Stores & whatever may advantage the State. For the Transportation of the Troops, provisions &c down the Ohio, you are to apply to the Commanding officer at Fort Pitt for Boats, &, during the whole Transaction you are to take especial Care to keep the true Destination of your Force secret. Its Success depends upon this. Orders are therefore given to CaptB Smith to secure the two men from Kaskasky. Similar conduct will be proper in similar cases. It is earnestly desired that you show Humanity to such British Subjects and other persons as fall in your hands. If the white Inhabitants at that post & the neighbourhood will give undoubted Evidence of their attachment to this State (for it is certain they live within its Limits) by taking the Test prescribed by Law & by every other way & means in their power, Let them be treated as fellow Citizens & their persons & property duly secured. Assistance & protection against all Enemies whatever shall be afforded them & the Commonwealth of Virginia is pledged to accomplish it. But if these people will not accede to these reasonable Demands, they must feel the miseries of War, under the direction of that Humanity that has hitherly distinguished Americans, & which it is expected you will ever consider as the Rule of your Conduct & from which you are in no Instance to depart. The Corps you are to command are to receive the pay & allowance of Militia & to act under the Laws & Regulations of this State now in Force as Militia. The Inhabitants at this Post will be informed by you that in case they accede to the offers of becoming Citizens of this Commonwealth a proper Garrison will be maintained among them & every Attention bestowed to render their Commerce beneficial, the fairest prospects being opened to the Dominions of both France & Spain. It is in Contemplation to establish a post near the Mouth of Ohio. Cannon will be wanted to fortify it. Part of those at Kaskasky will be easily brought thither or otherwise secured as circumstances will make necessary. You are to apply to General Hand for powder & Lead necessary for this Expedition. If he can't Supply it the person who has that which Cap' Lynn bro, from Orleans can. Lead was sent to Hampshire by my Orders & that may be deliver'd you. Wishing you Success. I am Sir your hble Serv' P. Henry  

Public Instructions to Clark, January 2, 1778.  Lieutenant Col° George Rogers Clark, You are to proceed without Loss of Time to inlist Seven Companies of Men officered in the usual Manner to act as Militia under your Orders They are to proceed to Kentucky & there to obey such orders & Directions as you shall give them for three Months after their arrival at that place, but to receive pay &c. in case they remain on Duty a longer Time. You are empowered to raise these Men in any County in the Commonwealth and the County Lieutenants respectively are requested to give you all possible assistance in that Business. Given under my Hand at Wm*burg January 2d 1778 P. Henry 

Patrick Henry to Edward Hand, January 2, 1778.  Williamsburgh, Jan. 2d 1778. Sir— I was favored with your two last letters which shall have my attention. I have to request that you will please to furnish Major G. R. Clark with boats sufficient for conveying seven companys of militia on an expedition of great consequence. Besides the immediate advantages arising from the success of it, the consequential benefits will be many. A good understanding with  Orleans is a desirable object. And I must entreat you, Sir, to give Major Clark every assistance which he may want. The boats I hope will not long be wanted; & the use of them, & every other thing furnished by you will be amply compensated by the Major's success, which I beg leave to assure you I am most anxiously concerned for. I refer you to that gentleman for an explanation of the errand on which he goes. It is needless to inform you how necessary it is that the whole affair should be kept impenetrably secret. I have the honor to be, Sir, Yr obedient hble. Serv' P. Henry. P. S. I should have consulted you on the expedition, but time would not permit. I direct the Major to get his powder & lead from your quarter. Please to let him have what is necessary. P. H.  

Wythe, Mason and Jefferson to Clark, January 3, 1778. Williamsburg Janry 3d 1778. Sir, As some Indian Tribes to the westward of the Missisippi have lately without any provocation massacred many of the Inhabitants of the Frontiers of this Commonwealth in the most cruel & barbarous Manner & it is intended to revenge the Injury & punish the Aggressors by carrying the War into their own Country. We congratulate You upon Your Appointment to conduct so important an Enterprise in which we most heartily wish you Success and we have no Doubt but some further Reward in Lands in the Country will be given to the Volunteers who shall engage in this Service in addition to the usual pay if they are so fortunate to Succeed, We think it just & reasonable that each Volunteer entering as a common Soldier in this Expedition, should be allowed three hundred Acres of Land & the Officers in the usual proportion, out of the Lands which may be conquered in the Country now in the possession of the said Indians, so as not to interfere with the Claims of any friendly Indians, or of any people willing to become Subjects of this Commonwealth; and for this we think You may safely confide in the Justice & Generosity of the Virginia Assembly. We are Sir Yr most Hble Servants G. Wythe. G Mason, Th Jefferson To George Rogers Clark Esq 

Patrick Henry to Clark, January 15, 1778. Willamsburg Jan. 15th 1778 Sir, Col° David Rogers is to go to New Orleans on the Business of Trade I mention'd to you, & I have opened the secret Nature of your Expedition to him as it was necessary for his safety.1 I wish I had known of his being acquainted with all the places you are going to. He is intimately acquainted in all that Country having been often times through every place there & can give you valuable Intelligence & Advice. I wish you to avail yourself of his Counsel & proceed as you find the Interest of your Country directs when you get to the place you are going to. What I have in View is that your Operations should not be confin'd to the Fort & the Settlement at the place mention'd in your secret Instructions, but that you proceed to the Enemy's Settlements above or across, as you may find it proper. Col° Rogers will be in Danger as he comes up the River Homewards unless he can fall in with your party & return with them. If you should return before he does, leave a Company of 50 men under a good Officer somewhere down Ohio or wherever the Col° shall direct to escort him Home with his Cargo. This is a Matter of Consequence & I hope will not fail as the Danger otherwise about the lower parts of Ohio will be great I am Sir Yr mo. hble Servant P. Henry  

Patrick Henry to Clark, January 24, 1778.  Wmsburgh January 24th 1778 Sir, Being just now informed that you had given a Commission, with recruiting Instructions to some Person as low down as the County of Amelia, to enlist men for the Service which you are appointed to command, I am under a necessity of expressing my Concern at your Conduct, well knowing that men inhabiting that part of the Country are by no means proper to be employed in the Expedition which you are to direct; indeed you must certainly remember that you inform'd Me, that you expected to get Men enough to complcat the seven Companies partly in Kentuck & partly within the Carolina Line, and that if you shou'd fail in your Expectation, any Deficiency cou'd easily be made up in the frontier Counties in the neighbourhood of Fort Pitt; the South Branch & the Frontiers: I must therefore desire You to pursue your first Intentions, for by inlisting any men in the lower Counties, You will not only procure improper Persons, but you may also throw those Counties into great Confusion respecting the Act of Assembly passed this Session for recruiting the Continental Army. The men you enlist will not be exempted from the Draught. I am Sir Yr hummble Serv' P. Henry 

William Bailey Smith to Clark, March 7, 1778.  Holston River 7th March 1778 Dear Colo. It has never bin in my power to inform you of my proceedings Since I left Williamsburg till now this day I fitted of A Company of forty four men to Kentucky under the Command of Cap' Thomas Dillard all of which are well fixd. Young harty fellows— three Companies moore I Expect to be ready to March from this the Twentieth of this Instant provisions in this Quarter is Very Scarce and I Expect to sink more than three hundred pounds in fitting them off Corne from Seven and sixpenc to too doller pr bushel and bacon Seven pound ten a hundred—and scarce to be had—you may Depend on my being as industerous as in my power lies—a few days ago there Came an Express from kentuckey here and informed me of Cap Daniel Boone with Twenty Eight men being taken prisonners from the Salt licks on licking Creek without Sheding one drop of blood. This is all the news I have to Inform you of part of which I am sorry for The barerre of this to you is a Soldier in Dillards Company. I hope Sir you will provide him a Gun as he is without. I have nothing more to inform you of at this Time in hopes you will Excuse me for not Complying with your orders sooner as it was not in my power before I am Dear Sir Yours for Ever god bless you WM Bailey Smith To Col° Geokg R. Clark

Clark to Captain William Harrod, March 15, 1778. March 15ih 1778 Dr Cap™ As the time is drawing nigh that we should start for Kentucky I think it best that we should as soon as possible get our provition Boats at Whelin up the Monongehaly in order to take in our Flour I have Instructed the different Recruiting officers to send some of their men to whelin for that purpose and hope that you will get as many of your Company to go as you can. Mr Richd Brashear takes charge of the party. I propose that those that go on this Comd Shall be subject to no other duty untill they get to Kentucky My Dr Sr you know the necessity of bringing two or three Boats up. I hope that you will get as many as you can to go I intended to have come by your house from Court but our common interest called me another way I am Sir your Hbl Serv' Geo. R. Clark N B I shall go amediately to Pittsburgh & shant Return under Eight Days. G R C  

Edward Hand to David Shepherd, March 22, 1778.  Fort Pitt, 22d March, 1778. Sir Please to deliver three of the Continental boats at Wheeling to the party of  Col. Clark shall send to receive them, and order provision and ammunition sufficient to bring them to this place. I have ordered Lt. Berry to come up at the same time; besides the stores before called for, send by him all the powder except 200 lbs. to the left at Fort Henry. I am, sir, yr. hblc. sen.-' Edwd Hand. Col. David Shepherd.

William Bailey Smith to Clark, March 29, 1778.  Holston River 29'h March 1778 Dear Col° I wrote you from this quarter to Fort Pitt, informing you I should be out at Kentuckey by the 20  day of April but Sir I am under the necessaty of informing you it is out of my power to meet you according to the Time I appointed You must no Sir I have faild in gethering my troops According to Expectation I had all the Suckcess in the world before the draught Came on, and the Arival of Squire Boone in this quarter which informd the Inhabitant of Daniel Boone with 27 Men being taken prisonners from the Salt Springs on licking creek These infurnal reports has turnd back too  Companies of Men that was on ther March through the Mountains and I must of cours wate here till I Recruite others. The county Lieuts. in this quarter gives me but small incouridgment tho I dont in the least dispair that I shall make my Companies Compleat after wating here some time. I have officers now in the differant states that are yousing there utmost indeavour in that business and you may rely on my doing every thing for you in my power in this business. I have but one Company Yet marched which are Stationd at Boonsborough, Commanded by Col. John Donalson from pittsylvanie and Col. Dillard as first Lieutenant thirty Moore are now on there march, and the rest I am deturmd to have gethered before I leave this if possable. I have nothing Moore to say on this scoore, &c. but if you have not retired to Dranings Lick I would give it as my opinion you had better make the place of Randavous at the big bone lick where I am informd there will be a garrison arected, as soon as Col° Bowman Can get out, which will be as Convenient to me as if we meet at Dranings lick, be it as it will Sir, I hope you will send letters to Boonsborough as Soone as you arive as I may know where to march to on my arival in that quarter, Col° Bowman I Expect will send and Express to as soone as he gits out I am Dear Col° Yours for Ever god bless you WM Bailey Smith 

Clark to Edward Hand, March 30, 1778.  Muddy Creek, March 30th 1778 Dr General: I am much obliged to you for sending my Letters to me. as for your opening them, it is a matter of no importance. The hostilities committed in this part of the Country stopt the party that I had ordered to Wheling for the Boats, as their presence was amediately nessessary in the neighberhood. I have fited of a party to-Day which I hope will answer the purpose intended. The Indians have made three different attacks on Dunkard Creek, which is entirely evacuated. I am, Sir your hble Serv' G. R. Clark 

Clark to William Harrod, April 12, 1778.  Ap 12th 1778 D* Cap™ I have this Day heard of our Boats coming up the River they left Wheling last tuesday. I also hear that the compani that I expected a Cross the Mountains is now on their march out so that I hope that we shall shortly be able to imbark for Kentucky as this is the Day that your Company was to imbody, I thought it necessary to get this inteligence to you as quick as possible as the men might not be uneasy. I should be glad that you would gather the remainder of your Company (that is not on Comd to Wheling) and keep them imbodied and ready to March at the shortest warning as we shall start as soon as possible, as you are on the frontier your company will be a guard to the Inhabitants while you stay, (what goods belonging to you & Company that is to go down may be got ready to be put on board) Lieut J. Swan I expect will furnish Rations for the Company while they lay their, which I shall pay him for, one of my Brothers came up the other day with some Accts from the Governor to me, desireing me to be expeditious as possible as he is apprehensive that the Ind* will shortly make a brake on the Frontiers and our being on our station he expects will draw their attention towards us untill the army can be got ready to march into the Indian Cunv I have sent you part of the late Laws of Virginia in which you will see part of the Invation Act and the authority of an Officer on duty. I am Sr your Hbl Serv' G R Clark  

Clark to Edward Hand, April 17, 1778. Redstone, April 17'h 1778. Sir As I found by express from Majr Smith that my recruiters on Holston River had been more successful than I expected in raising four companies & receiving intelligence of two companies more now on their march from Winchester, I shall not attempt to recruit any more men in this department, as I believe I shall have my full quota; but shall prepare to set out on the intended expedition as soon as possible. I shall order what recruits I have west of the Monongehaly to repair to Wheeling immediately, where they may probably be of service, & shall stay here myself until the arrival of the troops I expect across the M,n I should be glad to know by an answer to this letter whether I am to receive my provision at this place or at Pittsburgh. If at Redstone, I hope, Sir, that you will send an order for the receipt of it. I suppose it would at any rate be of service to take the boats that I have here, loaded to Pittsburgh. I should be glad to receive the powder &c. at this post. The provision boats that you were to send down, I expect may be ready at any time if you send them under my convoy, I shall take pleasure in doing that or any other piece of service that lays in my power. Be pleased to send me a few lines by the bearer Mr. Linn who will wait on you with this letter. I am, Sir, your hblc Servt, G. R. Clark 

Edward Hand to Clark, April 22, 1778.  Dr Sir, I have been this day favoured by the receipt of your letter of the 17th and Inclose you an order for a quantity of pork to be delivered you by Mr. John Evans, cant say whether the quantity will exceed or fall short of your compt but will regulate that on your arrival here, the provision is in great danger where it now is therefore wish it away. but have no other means of doing it at present but thro' you--which will I hope apologize for the trouble given you every other article you want will be furnished here. I am Dr Sir, Your Obedient Honorable Servant, Edward Hand.

John Campbell to Clark, June 8, 1778.  Pittsburgh, June 8th 1778. Gentlemen— As the Opportunitys from the Seat of War and Congress into your Country is so very seldom & the late Accounts from Europe are so interesting I can not refrain from communicating them to you tho I am necessitated to be concise the bounds of a letter not admiting of any thing more. The 26th of May last we Celebrated the Joyfull News her*. with the Discharge of Thirteen Pieces of Canon and a Tripple discharge of Musquetry. On or about Christmas Eve last Two Treatys were concluded between the Plenipotentiary of the United States of America & The French King whereby the French King cedes all North America & the Bermudas Islands to the United States of America and declares their Independence will Trade with them and protect thenTrade. The Americans are under no restrictions whatever except they shall not return to their Dependence On Great Brittain these matters are made known to the British Court by the French Embassador the Consequence is that Brittain has recalled her Ambassador from France and Ordered him Home. Therefore We daylay expect to hear of War being Declared between the two powers and consequently we must assist France. Lord North has moved for Conciliatory Methods with America and two Acts of Parliment are passed, one suspending several Acts of Parliment or rather explaining the right of Taxation in America & the other Appointing Commissioners to Treat with the Americans both of which according to the way they are now understood by us will be rejected with the Comtempt they deserve. General How is said to be on the Wing from Philadelphia and I hope to have the pleasure of informing you soon that there is not a British Soldier except Prisoners on any part of the Continent of America. Mr Wells is just waiting he can inform you of some of the particulars of these glad Tidings to whom I must refer you & am Your Hum Serv' John Campbell.  Col. George Rogers Clark In His Absence to the Inhabitans of Kentucky. 

Edward Abbott to Sir Guy Carleton, June 8, 1778.  Detroit June the 8th 1778. Sir, I have enclosed your Excellency the declaration of Moris* Monbeun which yesterday came to my hands from St. Vincenne: Your Excellency will plainly perceive the employing Indians on the Rebel frontiers has been of great hurt to the cause, for many hundreds would have put themselves under His Majesty's protection was there a possibility; that not being the case, these poor unhappy people are forced to take up arms against their Sovereign, or be pillaged & left to starve; cruel alternative. This is too shocking a subject to dwell upon; Your Excellency's known humanity will certainly put a stop if possible to such proceedings, as it is not people in arms that Indians will ever daringly attack, but the poor inoffensive families who fly to the deserts to be out of trouble, & who are inhumanly butchered sparing neither women or children. It may be said it is necessary to employ Indians to prevent their serving our enemies, I will be bold to say their keeping a neutrality will be equally (if not more) serviceable to us, as their going to war, for the reason I have already gave. & surely the presents they receive will prevent their acting against us. I have the honor to be Your Excellency's most obedient Humble servant Edwd Abbott. His Excellency Sir Guy Carleton Quebec.  Gen Abbot of June the 8eh receivedjuly 7th Enclosing a declaration of Moris' Monbreun 

Gabriel Cerre to Clark, July 11, 1778.  Sir, I was extremely chagrined that I was not at home at the time of your arrival at Kaskaskia. I would have had the honor of giving you proofs of my entire submission to my superiors: but since my profession is that of a merchant and I am, consequently, obliged to travel to the different posts of this country to make a living for my family, my unlucky star, or to speak more correctly, the annual habit I have of commencing my journeys at that time, caused my misfortune. According to public rumor my enemies, jealous of the efforts I make to obtain a comfortable mediocrity, have profited by my absence, to blacken me and destroy me in the opinion of persons to whom I have not the honor of being known. I am well persuaded that, when my past and future conduct are once known to you, you will render me the justice that is due to every good and submissive subject. I fear that in the first moment the false reports of my enemies may cause injury to my fortune, the only object of their hatred, besides having in my hands the affairs of the deceased M. Viviat to arrange with several persons of Kaskaskia and who require my presence. I venture to solicit you, sir, to have the goodness to rant me a passport to return home in order that I may be able to clear myself of the accusations that have been made to you against me, and attend to the affairs that call me there. It is the favor that the most submissive subject hopes from you; and he has the honor of being with the most profound respect, sir, your very humble and very obedient servant Cerre St. Genevieve 11"' July 1778. Monsieur Ge Clark.

Clark to the Inhabitants of Vincennes, July , 1778. George Rogers Clark, Colonel Commandant of the troops of Virginia at the Falls of the Ohio and at the Illinois, etc., Address to the inhabitants of the Post of Vincennes. The inhabitants of the different British posts from Detroit to this post, having on account of their commerce and position great influence over the various savage nations, have been considered as persons fitted to support the tyrannies which have been practiced by the British ministry from the commencement of the present contest. The Secretary of State for America has ordered Governor Hamilton at Detroit to intermingle all the young men with the different nations of savages, to commission officers to conduct them, to furnish them all necessary supplies, and to do everything which depends on him to excite them to assassinate the inhabitants of the frontiers of the United States of America; which orders have been put into execution at a council held with the different savage nations at Detroit the 17th to the 24th day of the month of June, 1777. The murders and assassinations of women and children and the depredations and ravages, which have been committed, cry for vengeance with a loud voice. Since the United States has now gained the advantage over their British enemies, and their plenipotentiaries have now made and concluded treaties of commerce and alliance with the kingdom of France and other powerful nations of Europe, His Excellency the Governor of Virginia has ordered me to reduce the different posts to the west of the Miami with a company of troops under my command, in order to prevent longer responsibility for innocent blood. According to these orders I have taken possession of this fort and the munitions of this country; and I have caused to be published a proclamation offering assistance and protection to all the inhabitants against all their enemies and promising to treat them as the citizens of the Republic of Virginia (in the limits of which they are) and to protect their persons and property, if it is necessary, for the surety of which the faith of the government is pledged; provided the people give certain proofs of their attachment to the states by taking the oath of fidelity in such cases required, as prescribed by the law, and by all other means which shall be possible for them, to which offers they have voluntarily acceded. I have been charmed to learn from a letter written by Governor Abbott to M. Rocheblave that you are in general attached to the cause of America. In consequence of which I invite you all to accept offers hereafter mentioned, and to enjoy all their privileges. If you accede to this offer, you will proceed to the nomination of a commandant by choice or election, who shall raise a company and take possession of the fort and of all the munitions of the king in the name of the United States of America for the Republic of Virginia and continue to defend the same until further orders. The person thus nominated shall have the rank of captain and shall have the commission as soon as possible, and he shall draw for rations and pay for himself and his company from the time they shall take the fort, etc., into their possession. If it is necessary, fortifications shall be made, which will be also paid for by the state. I have the honor of being with much consideration, sirs, your very humble and obedient servant, G. R. Clark. 

Clark to Jean B. Laffont, July 14, 1778. Fort Clark 14 July 1778 Sir, Having the good fortune to find two men like Mr. Gibault and yourself to carry and to present my address to the inhabitants of Post Vincennes I do not doubt that they will become good citizens and friends of the states. Please disabuse them as much as it is possible to do, and in case they accept the propositions made to them, you will assure them that proper attention will be paid to rendering their commerce beneficial and advantageous; but in case those people will not accede to offers so reasonable as those which I make them, they may expect to feel the miseries of a war under the direction of the humanity which has so far distinguished the Americans. If they become citizens you will cause them to elect a commander from among themselves, raise a company, take possession of the fort and the munitions of the King, and defend the inhabitants till a greater force can be sent there. (My address will serve as a commission.) The inhabitants will furnish victuals for the garrison which will be paid for. The inhabitants and merchants will trade with the savages as customarily, but it is necessary that their influence tend toward peace, as by their influence they will be able to save much innocent blood on both sides. You will act in concert with the priest, who I hope will prepare the inhabitants to grant you your demands. If it is necessary to grant presents to the savages, you will have the kindness to furnish what shall be necessary provided that it shall not exceed the sum of 200 piastres. I am Sir, respectfully your very humble and very obedient servant G. R. Clark. 

Clark to Oliver Pollock, July 18, 1778.  Kaskaskia July 18 1778 Dear Sir I was ordered by the Executive Power of the Commonwealth of Virginia, to Attack the British Illinois and in case I succeeded to continue with a strong Garrison, I have succeeded agreeable to my wishes. & am Necessiated to draw Bills on the State and have reason to believe they will be accepted by you the answering of which will be acknowledged, by his Excel? the Governor of Virginia. I happy to find the Inhabitants of this Country Unanimous in their Sentiments in favor of the American Cause, as for news Inquire of Monsr Crusatt who promises to forward this Letter to you. I am Dear Sir Your Humble Servant (Signed) G R Clark &c &c Mn Pollock New Orleans 

Oath of Inhabitants of Vincennes, July 20, 1778. You make oath on the Holy Evangel of Almighty God to renounce all fidelity to George the Third, King of Britain, and to his successors, and to be faithful and true subjects of the Republic of Virginia as a free and independent state; and I swear that I will not do or cause anything or matter to be done which can be prejudicial to the liberty or independence of the said people, as prescribed by Congress, and that I will inform some one of the judges of the country of the said state of all treasons and conspiracies which shall come to my knowledge against the said state or some other of the United States of America: In faith of which we have signed. At Post Vincennes, July 20, 1778. Long live the Congress. Baullou, F Delisle, Jean Bapte Cadin, Alecsis Laplente, Piere Kerais, michel Brouilest, fr. Bosseron, Jacques Lacroix, Huberdeau, Endres Languedoc, Chine, Jean Baptiste michiet, N. Perrot, Jausep Tougat ... 

Perrault to Clark, July 23, 1778. Sir, I take the liberty of writing you on the subject of a note that I gave to the order of M. de Rocheblave, December 16 last, for the sum of eight hundred and sixteen livres ten sols in peltry on which my dear father has paid on an order which the said gentleman has drawn in favor of Mr. Pratte, May 13, 1778, the sum of seven hundred livres in peltry as you may see by the documents that I remit to Mr. Thomas Brady. Besides there is still a deduction amounting to sixty-five livres in peltry agreed upon with M. de Rocheblave for the bones which were in the pork that I bought of him. Notifying his havK given his note to Mr. Rocheblave for 816. livres 10 Sols in Peltery—discharged in part by his father on an order of Sr Rocheblave & requesting Govr Clark to take notice of it &c  1 dare hope, sir, that by reason of your equity you will certainly endorse these sums on the aforesaid note, and give some one your orders to receive the remaining fifty-one livres ten sols. I have the honor of being with respect, sir, your very humble and very obedient servant H. Perkault.  At St. Louis the 23 July 1778. To Colonel Clark, Commandant at Kaskaskia.  

Colonel Clark, Commandant at Kaskaskia. Sir, I received the letter you did me the honor to write and am infinitely obliged for the favor that you accord us and I hope that you will never be in a situation to repent concerning your new subjects. Be persuaded that I shall do all that is in my power to maintain union in the state. I beg you if you do me the honor of writing me in the future to write to me in French since I have no one who is capable of interpreting for me. I have nothing new to inform you of that is worthy of your attention. The gentleman who carries this to you will tell you what is occurring. I beg you to believe me with all possible respect, Your humble and obedient servant Cesirre At Cahokia, July 23, 1778.  Mr. George Rogers Clark, Commander in Chief of the Illinois for the United States of America at Kaskaskia. 

Clark to Certain Traders, July 24, 1778. Kaskaskias, July 24, 1778. Gentlemen, I received this morning your letters complaining of one another; and I am sorry to find that there are difficulties occasioned by the commercial interests of different persons among the savages so hurtful to the peace and tranquility of our country. I hope, sirs, that you will take it into consideration, that it is the duty of each one of us to suppress the insults of one's savages toward others so that the desire for profit may not occasion a division among us. As free people we have the right to carry on a legitimate traffic without being subject to the insults of a fellow citizen, but not equal rights over the possessions or goods of others  consent. I have learned that the boat of Mons  was on the Mississippi after having traded. If  as a trespass against Monsieur McCarty he is obliged to answer for his conduct. Monsieur McCarty will return the booty of Monsieur Gagne\ but in order to settle the affair or the dispute amicably, Cap' Cesirre will name one person to act with him in the name of the republic, and each of the disputants will select two persons to terminate their disputes by arbitration. A copy of their decisions will be sent me for approval and if I approve it that will be final. I am, sirs, your humble servant, (Signed) G. R. Clark. I certify the translation of the above to be just and correct according to the intention of that written in English by Mr. G. R. Clark Commandant of the Illinois etc. etc. etc. Hansen

Clark to Oliver Pollock, August 6, 1778.  Kakaskias August 6th 1778 Sir I sent you a Letter sometime ago, by Mr Crusatt wherein I mentioned my necessity for drawing Bills on you for answering my present Demands, as I had not Money with me Mr Beausoleil was with me the other day and informed me he was employ'd by you to bring up a large Assortment of Goods to Pancore,1 and believes that they are for the States, and as I am in want of Goods for the Winter he advised me to furnish myself out of these Goods, but I shall defer it untill I know your sentiments, the Goods that I have been Necessiated to purchase have been at a most Extravagant Price and a great loss to the Soldiery: by Mr Fagott you will receive this Letter he has no Instructions from his Owner to bring me any quantity of Goods that I should require to this place in his Boat. I hope that you will send me an Assortment of Five thousand Dollars worth of Goods most Suitable for Soldiers and Indians as my situation obliges me to give them small presents. I will make you Immediate remittances in Bills. I am in great want of Ammunition for this and other Garrisons in the Illinois Country I have three Kaskaskias Koho. & Fort Vincennes I should be glad that you would send me four thousand Pounds of Powder Either by Mr. Faggott or some Person as I dont doubt but oppertunities will offer Mr Faggotts receipt and this letter shall be your sufficient security. No news worth relating but what you have heard by the Gentlemen already arrived Except Fort Vincennes Acceeding to us a particular account Mr Fagott will give you which Gentleman I beg leave to accommend to you as a Young Man worthy of notice I am Your Humble Serv (Signed) G R Clarke Oliver Pollock Esqr New Orleans. 

Clark to the Chief of the Winnebago, August 22, 1778.  By George Rogers Clark Esquire Collonel and Commandant of the Eastern Illinois and its Dependancies &ca &c &ca Whereas Chourarchon Chief of the Puans and his Nation Living at the Rock River have entered into Alliance and Freindship with the United States of America and Promised to be true and faithful Subjects to the same. In Consequence whereof I have given him this writing as a remembrance that he and his said Nation are to treat all the Subjects of the said States of America with Friendship and receive all those they may meet with, as their Brothers, Given Under my hand and Seal at Fort Bowman in the Illinois this 22nd Aug' 1778.1 G R Clarke  Colonel Clerke's Certificate to a chief of the Puan Dated at fort Bowman Illinois Country 22d August 1778 Rec'd in Lt. Gov. Sinclair's Letter of the 29th May. 

James Willing to Clark, August 22, 1778.  Sir This will be handed you by Lieu' Robert George & Lieu' Richard Harrison to whom I have given the Command of a Party of Continental Troops to pass thro' the Spanish Country unto the Kaskaskias where I understand you have the Honor to Command, and there join you untill further Orders from Congress or Gen Hand, unless they receive Instructions &c to proceed with the States Goods which are now lodged at the Spanish Posts for the use of the Army; Our Agent no doubt has wrote you fully by this Oppy and I take the liberty of inclosing you some News Papers, I shall give you the necessary News by Monsieur LeChance and am.2 Sir Your very hble Serv' Jas Willing Cap' in the States Service CoL Roger Clark  To Colonel John  Roger Clark Commanding the Continental Forces At Kaskasias Clark's Proclamation to the Fox Indians, August 28, 1778.3  By George Rogers Clark Esqr Collonel in the Virginia Troops and Commandant of the Eastern Illinois and Its Dependancies &a&a Whereas Kinaytounak Chief of the Renard Nation of Indians has Entered into alliance and Freindship with the United States of America and Promised to be a True and faithfull Subject thereto— In Consideration of which I do give him this as a Remembrance that he and his Nation are to treat all the subjects of the said States with Freindship and receive them at all times as their Brothers. Given Under my hand and Seal at Fort Bowman in Kahos this 28'h day of Aug' 1778. G R Clark.  Commission given by the Rebels to the Chief of the Foxes, sent by Gautier to Major De Peyster, Received with his letter of the 13th of May. 

James Willing to Clark, September 1, 1778.  New Orleans 1st September 1778 Sir Since writing the above I received yours of the 24th July and now beg leave to congratulate you upon your success in the Illinois and am happy to find that you have taken caution by the News you received of the Revolt of the Natchez People, this was an unlucky circumstance to me and to the States, altho' it has given me an Opp? of knowing my Friends from my Enemies. I have to acquaint you that a least 2/3 of the Inhabitants are yet Friends to our Cause and will when ever our Troops arrive receive them but on this I hope they'll not confide as I may be deceived therefore advise whoever the General or Officer commands to be well guarded against them. I am pleased to hear of the Indians coming in to make peace, beware of them they are a Treacherous People and when you least expect will fall on you. I am well acquainted with the Kaskaskia Gentry they are damn'd Rogues as well as their ancient Leader RocheBlave God send him a sight of Williamsburgh, Gov r Henry won't be displeased to see one of these Hair Buyers I was very near taking the great Henry Stuart he unluckily made his Escape in his Shirt and flue for Mercy across a Rivulet into the Spanish Fort and there claimed Protection which happy for him was granted. Annex'd you have Copy of a Letter I wrote by Lieu' Robert George who I sent off to you with my Party consisting of about 60 Men and they will either stay with you or proceed immediately according as they may receive Instructions from Gen Hand or Congress with the State Goods. News their none but St Augustine is taken and a French Warr inevitable. I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you shortly either at the Illinois or at Natchez. With respect to the cloathing of your Men &c this Winter there is Goods at the Illinois but how far your Commission or Instructions will Indemnify you to dispose of them I am unacquainted all that I know about them is that they were to go to the Main Army I am Sir with respect Your most humble Servant Jas Willing Captn P. S. Please to forward the Inclosed letter pr first Safe Conveyance to Brig. G. Hand at Fort Pitt or wherever he may be & youll oblige yrs JW Colonel R. Clark Command* at Kaskaskias in the Illinois Country  On publick Service To Colonel Roger Clark Commanding at Kaskaskias Illinois Sir The Bearer of this will deliver you a Trunk of Merchandize markd I. C. which I beg youll take care of and forward the same to Brig11 G. Hand by the first safe opportunity and youll oblige Your friend &c Jas Willing Captn 

Clark to Governor Henry, September 16, 1778.  Kaskaskia, Eastern Illinois, Sept. 16, 1778 Dear Sir: Lately arrived from New Orleans despatches from the Governor General to Mr Leabau,1 Lieut. Governor, residing at St. Louis, which brought a packet for the Commercial Committee & Congress, with instructions to send it by express, except it could be given into the hands of an officer belonging to the States. A few days ago I received these letters from Mr Leabau, who requested that I would send them immediately as he says they are of importance and require expedition. Having a fit person, I have despatched him with orders to make no delay until he arrives at Williamsburg. This express answers my purpose very well as an opportunity of informing you what has passed in the country since my last letters to you by Capt. Montgomery, which I hope you have received. Mr Leabau requested of me that I would by letter present his compliments to you. This gentleman interests himself much in favor of the States,—more so than I could have expected. He has offered me all the force that he could raise, in case of an attack by Indians from Detroit, as there is now no danger from any other quarter. Gen Hamilton of Detroit has of late been at great pains and expense to get a body of Indians to retake the Illinois, but above half the Indians that he had at his command have treated with me, and I believe the rest are very willing to be quiet, except those towards Fort Pitt. In short, his officers among them have bad success, as I often hear from them, having spies in the same towns. I think I shall keep his Excellency out of the possession of it this year. As for the next, you are the best judge. I am, Sir, your humble serv', G. R. Clark His Excellency Patrick Henry. 

John Bowman to Clark, October 14, 1778.  Harrodsburg October 14'h 1778. Dear Sir This day I Rcccved yours by Wm Miers and with dificulty I shall furnish him with a Horse to Ride to the Settlement on. The Indians have Pushed us hard this Summer, I shall onley Begin at the 7th of Sep' when three Hundred and thirty Indians with 8 French Men Came to Boonesburg Rased a flag and Called for Cap' Boone who had Lately Come from them, and offred Terms of Peace to the Boonesburgh People. Hearing that the Indians Gladly Treted with you at the Illinois, gave them Reason to think that the Indians were Sincear; two days being taken up in this manner till the Became Quite fimeleyer  with one another; but finding theBoonesburgPeople would not turn out,and having Col° Calloway Majr Smith, Cap' Boone Cap' Buchanan, and their Subolterns Eight in Number, in the Lick where the had their Table, (you know the distance about 80 yards) the Indians Getting up, Blackfish made a long Speach, then gave the word go, Instantly a Signal Gun fired, the Indians fastned on the eight men to take them off, the white People began to dispute the Matter, tho unarmd, and Broke Loose from the Indians though there were two and three Indians to one White Man, In Runing the above Distance upw of 200 Guns fired from Each Side and yet Every man Escaped But Squire Boone, who was Badley wounded though not Mortally and he got Safe to the fort. On this a hot Ingagement Insued for nine days and nights constant fire without any Intermission, No more damage was Done however But one killed, and two wounded The Indians then Dispersed to the Defrent  forts where they Still Remain in greate numbers and way Laying our Hunters. General McIntosh who commands the Armey Intended against Detroyt, I under stand Receved Instructions to Strike the Indians and not meddle with Detroit, For other nothern news I Refer you to the Gazettes I heare with Sind you. The Indians have Done More Damige in the Interier Settlements this summer than ever was Done in one season before—absolute neadesessity  obliges me to send Capt. Harrod for Salt, that we may be able to Lay up a sufficiant Quantity of Provision for the Next Summer. I hope you will send us one hundred Bushels for that Purpose, Send me an accompt of the same and I will send you the Money by Cap' Muntgomery in the spring, Your Complyance in this matter will Inable us to keepe our ground; if not we shall be oblig*1, to brake up for the want of Provision, for Neadesessity will Brake through Stone walls. I was obliged to promis 6/ pr day to Every man that Returns with Cap' harrod that I sent. I Beg this as a favour to let Every Man of them have the Value of forty Dolers in goods as May best sute them and I will Pay it with the above I am Dear Sir your Humlc Serv' Jonathon Bowman. N B Pray forward the News Papers to My Brother after your Loocking over them JB We have ben Reinforced from Washington County with Eighty Men but thir time is near out Before the Come this Lenth So the Return Imediately agane. 

Joseph Bowman to Clark, October 30, 1778.  Cahokia October 30th 1778 Dear Col° Inclosed you Receive two Letters from Denow which I made free to open, In order to Compair them and another from the said person to a Certain Gentleman together, which treated upon one subject, but at a great Advearance. In your letters I find you are still Incouraged about Receiveing your Horses whearin it mentions of their only waiting upon one Nation of Indians, whome they had sent for other ways they wood have Returnd by this time with the Horses—in the other Gentlemans Letter they say that they have yet five Horses besides the six they have sent, and Desires that the will purchace six or seven Hogheads of Taffee more with the Greatist saifty; as the Expence they have already against State amounts to fifteen Hundred Livers. I have sent you by Cap'n Winston a half moon of silver which I got out of the Continantle store, which seamd to have been Provided for officers, I have taken one for my self & some more yet Remaining, if they are wanting they can be had at any time, I Likewise got five for Indians but made Lite and not so compleat; their has been Some Indians of the sack Nation here, which I dispatcht a few days ago with them caime one cheif and another of the Iwaya Nation which had never been in, their complyance has not satisfyed me with a Regard to peace, as they confessd to me that their principal cheifs whear gone to Montreall to fight against the big Knife, I sent them off and gave A Kag of Rum and told them to go and hold a counsel with their Nation, and give them choice which side to Join, with Drinking their Health with the Rum. My Compliments to the Gentn Officers, Includeing Mr Camron I am Dr Sr your most Obd friend & hble Sar Jos Bowman  G. R. Clark Col° Commander in Cheif of the Islenois Country Kuskuskia pr Captn Wintston.  Majr. Bowman Ocl 30th 1778 

Governor Henry to the Virginia Delegates in Congress, November 16, 1778. Williamsburg, Nov 16th 1778. Gentlemen: The Executive power of this State having been impressed with a strong apprehension of incursions on their frontier settlements from the savages situated about the Illinois, and supposing the danger would be greatly obviated by an enterprise against the English posts and possessions in that country, which were well known to inspire the savages with their bloody purposes against us sent a detachment of militia, consisting of one hundred and seventy or eighty men, commanded by Col. George Rogers Clark on that service some time last spring. By despatches which I have just received from Col. Clark it appears that his success has equalled the most sanguine expectations.2 He has not only reduced Fort Chartres and its dependencies, but has struck such a terror into the Indian tribes between that settlement & the Lakes that no less than five of them, viz: the Puans, Sacks, Renards, Powtowautanies, & Miamies, who had received the hatchet from the English emissaries, have submitted to our arms all their English presents, and bound themselves by treaties and promises to be peaceable in future. The Great Blackbird, a Chippewa Chief, has also sent a belt of peace to Col. Clark, influenced, he supposes, by the dread of Detroit's being reduced by the American arms. This latter place according to Col. Clarks representation, is at present defended by so inconsiderable a garrison & so scanty furnished with provision for which they must be still more distressed by the loss of supplies from the Illinois, that it might be reduced by any number of men above five hundred. The Governor of that place Mr Hamilton, was exerting himself to engage the savages to assist him in retaking the places that had fallen into our hands; but the favorable impressions made on the Indians in general in that quarter, the influence of the French on them, and the reinforcement of their militia Col. Clark expected, flattered him that there was little danger to be' apprehended. Included in the dispatches is a letter from Captn Helm, who commands a party posted by Col. Clark at St. Vincents. According to this information, the Wabash and Upper Indians, consisting of the Piankeshaws, Tawaws, Peorias, Delawares, Pekakishaws, Masketans, and some of the Shawanese chiefs, had also given up all their tokens of attachment to our enemies, and pledged their fidelity to the United States. Capt. Helm adds, that he was on the point of setting out with the assistance of part of the inhabitants of St. Vincents and some of the principal Wabash chiefs with a view to retake a quantity of merchandize seized by the English from Detroit, belonging to the people at St. Vincents, & on its way to them. The Captain speaks with confidence of success in this enterprise, and extends his hopes even to the destruction of Detroit, if joined on his way by the expected number of Indians & volunteers. My reason for troubling Congress with these particulars is, that they may avail themselves of the light they throw on the state of things in the Western country. If the party under Col. Clark can co-operate in any respect with the measures Congress are pursuing, or have in view, I shall with pleasure give him the necessary orders. In order to improve and secure the advantages gained by Col. Clark, I propose to support him with a re-inforcement of militia. But this will depend on the pleasure of the Assembly, to whose consideration the measure is submitted. The French inhabitants have mainfested great zeal and attachment to our cause, and insist on garrisons remaining with them under Col. Clark. This I am induced to agree to, because the safety of our own frontiers, as well as that of these people, demands a compliance with the request. Were it possible to secure the St. Lawrence, and prevent the English attempts up that river by seizing some post on it, peace with the Indians would seem to me to be secured. With great regard, &c. P. Henry Honble VA Delegates. 

Resolution of Virginia House of Delegates, November 23, 1778. In the House of Delegates Monday the 23d Nov. 1778 Whereas authentic Information has been received that Lieutenant Colonel George Rogers Clarke, with a Body of Virginia Militia, has reduced the British Posts in the western part of this Commonwealth on the River Mississippi; and it's Branches, whereby great advantage may accrue to the common cause of America, as well as to this Commonwealth in particular Resolved that the Thanks of this House are Justly due to the said Colonel Clarke and the brave Officers & Men under his command, for their extraordinary resolution and perseverance, in so hazardous an enterprize and for the important services thereby rendered their Country Test E. Randolph C. h. d.  Col° George Rogers Clarke Mississippi. Col. Harrison Speaker H. D. Novr 24ih 1780  From Benj. Harrison Speaker of House of Delgates enclosing resolu" to Col. Geo. Clarke Dated Nov. 24th 1778 
Benjamin Harrison to Clark, November 24, 1778.  Williamsburg Nov 24th 1778 Sir I have it on command from the Home of Delegates to forward to you the inclosed Resolutions. I do assure you Sir it gives me the highest satisfaction to be the instrument of conveying this public testimony of the just sense your Country entertains of the very important Services you have render'd it. You'l please to take the proper method of communicating the Resolutions to the intrepid officers and Soldiers who have so nobly assisted you in the glorious enterprise I have the Honor to be your most obedient and very Humble Servant Benjn Harrison Speaker H. D. 

Governor Henry to Clark, December 12, 1778.  Williamsburg Decr 12th 1778 Dear Sir. I refer you to my public Letters for every thing I had to say on public Business. The Land Office is not opened as yet, so that nothing could be done for you towards securing the Land you wanted. But as soon as there is an Oppertunity I shall not forget you. In the mean Time I am very desirous to get two of the best Stallions that possibly be found at the Ilinois. I hear the Horses are fine. I beg it as a particular Favor of you to get two of the best that that place, the Spanish Settlements or the Indians can furnish. I would not have you to value the cost of the Horses, or the Expence of sending them in. pray get the finest according to the within mem° of the true Blood, & get good Men to bring them to New Castle Town in Hanover, & give them handsome Wages to secure their taking Pains to bring them safe, & have particular Care of the Horses, for I am vastly anxious to get the finest Horses of the true Spanish Blood, that is in all your Country or the adjacent. Perhaps you cannot get fine ones imediately; I wish you in that case to send any Distance to get the best & I will pay the Expence. be it what it will. The Spanish Comandant may perhaps assist you in getting them. please to apply to him, & if possible get me the Two Horses & send them as good oppertunity by good men shall happen. I wish you also to get for me upon receipt of this Eight of the best Mares you can purchase. I don't desire you to be particular in their Blood so much as that of the Horses. I want the Spanish Blood, & the Mares to be large as you can get. & not old. Don't loose a moment in agreeing for the Mares, for vast Numbers of people are about to go out after them from here, & will soon pick them all up & raise the price very high. I hear they are now cheap, & if they are risen, pray don't fail to buy them & send them to Col° Wm Christians, by some good men coming in. I shall send the money by Cap' Montgomery, & you may give the People my Word they shall be paid when the Cap' arrives. I have no Doubt you can execute what I request without interfering with the public Business. I send herewith a Letter to the Spanish comandant which please deliver in person, & perhaps you can then ask about the Horses & get his Direction & assistance in procuring them. I know not how much Money to send, for I suppose Mares are risen in price, but purchase them & the Ballance if any I shall send as soon as I know how much it is. I should like very much to receive one of the Stallions Time enough to cover next Spring. I beg you to try to accomplish it. Perhaps you may send both by that Time, but if you can't do that, let them be sent by the most carefull people as soon as they are procured. I expect the Mares immediately, because they need not be picked with the Care to be used in finding out the finest Horses. Again pray purchase the Mares immediately upon receipt of this, & don't wait a Moment for them, as you do for the Horses but buy the Mares imediately & send them by carefull people. I shall depend upon them.1 Heartily wishing you every  I remain Dear Sir Yr mo. hble Sen.-1 Col° Clark P. Henry  Col° George Rogers Clark at Illinois by Express Wm Myers. 

Patrick Henry to Clark, December 12, 1778.  Mem° I would Have the Horses & Mares Governor Henry Orders from the Illinois & Countrys Adjacent as follows, Viz13— Of the best & most pure Spanish Breed, Blood Bays, About 5 or 6 yrs Old, & that Have Cover'd none, or, but few Mares, as large as possible, fine Delicate Heads, long Necks, Ears small & prick'd, & near at Ends, Deep Shoulders & Chest, large Arms, Well Legg'd, Upright pasterns, & as Clear of Long Hair as May be, in Moving to go near before, Bodys good, Loins Round & Very Wide, between diff' Turnings of the Hair, Out Hock'd, & Haunches to be as straight as possible, & go Wide behind. It Stans on small Blazes, wth Either Hind foot white, so much the better. The OutLines above, will give some Feint Idea of a fine Horse, or Mare, But there is something so striking, & inexpressibly Beautiful, in a Fine Horse, that must Catch the Eye of every Beholder, This in a great Measure, is impossible to Describe, However, Would premise, that the parts w°h Constitute Beauty, Constitute Strength, & the Beautiful Horse, is Always good. On certain Information, that there are Excellent Horses at Illinois, Cascaskey, Quappa's, & many others places in those Countrys, it is requested in the most Earnest Manner, that Col° Clarke send the Most Skilful person, Or, Persons, to Search those Countrys Diligently, for two as above, W* Having provided, to forward them, to NewCastle, Hanover County, in the State of Virginia. As the Governour's Well Satisfy'd Col° Clarke will incur no Unnecessary Expence, On this Material Occasion, so He would allow those concern'd besides the first cost of the Horses, £200 for Searching for, & producing them at New Castle as soon as possible, seeing They Will be Wanted, to Cover a Number of fine Mares, the Insuing Season. (Could Col° Clarke send two Mares, by the same Convey™, it Would be Very Obliging; In case of xxxxxxxxxxx But the principal attention will be paid to the Two Stall" for whom, every Recompence in Reason will be made, for Using Expedition, & being Well Chosen, but Surely the whole Six may be Sent. The profits on those that bring them, being Considerable, & sufficient to ingage their Utmost Care & Attention in Every Respect.) This mem° will direct Col° Clarke as to the Stallions. The Mares are to be sent to Col Christian & to be bo' quick as possible after receiving my Letter. P. H. 

Instructions to Clark from the Virginia Council, December 12,1778.  To Colonel George Rogers Clarke Commander in Chief of the Virginia Troops in the County of Illinois. You are to retain the Command of the Troops now at the several posts in the Country of Illinois and on the Wabash which fall within the Limits of the County now erected & called Illinois County which troops marchd out with & have been embodied by you. You are also to take the Command of five other Companies raised under the Act of Assembly which I send herewith, & which if compleated as I hope they will Speedily, will have orders to join you without Loss of Time & are likewise to be under your command. With your whole force you are to protect the Inhabitants of the Country & as occasions may serve, annoy the Enemy. It is thought that the Indian Nation may be overawed & inclined to peace with us by the Adoption of proper Measures with you. Or if that can not be effected, that such of them as send out Parties towards our Frontiers on this side of Ohio may be chastised by Detachments from your Quarter. For this purpose it will behove you to watch their Motions, & to consider, that one great Advantage expected from your Situation, is to prevent the Indians from warring on this side of Ohio. In order more effectually to prevent this, you are to establish such posts in different parts of the Country as you judge best for your Troops to occupy. I consider your further Successes as depending upon the goodwill & friendship of the Frenchmen & Indians who inhabit your part of the Commonwealth. With their concurrence, great Things may be accomplished. But their Animosity, will spoil the fair prospect which your past Successes have opened. You will therefore spare no pains to conciliate the Affections of the French & Indians. Let them see & feel the Advantages of being fellowcitizens & free men. Guard most carefully against every Infringement of their property, particularly with Respect to Land, as our Enemies have alarmed them as to that Strict & even severe Discipline with your soldiers may be essential to preserve from Injury those whom they were sent to protect and conciliate. This is a great & capital Matter, & I confide that you will never lose sight of it or suffer your Troops to injure any person without feeling the punishment due to the offence. The Honor and Interest of the State are deeply concerned in this & the attachment of the French & Indians depends upon a due observance of it. John Todd Esquire being appointed County Lieutenant according to Law during pleasure, with ample powers chiefly confined to the Civil Department, will have Directions to act in concert with you wherever it can be done. On your part, you will omit no opportunity to give him the necessary Cooperation of the Troops where the Case necessarily requires it. Much will depend upon the mutual Assistances you may occasionally afford each other in your respective Departments. And I trust that a sincere Cordiality will subsist between you. The contrary will prove highly detrimental. Some measures will be fallen on for carrying on a Trade to supply Goods for the Inhabitants of your County. You will afford the Agents such aid or protection from Time to Time as affairs require and your Circumstances will permit. I send you herewith some Copies of the Act of Government & Bill of Rights, together with the french Alliance. These will serve to show our new friends, the Ground upon which they are to stand & the Support to be expected from their Countrymen of France. Equal Liberty & Happiness are the objects, to a participation of which we invite them. Upon a fair presumption that the people about Detroit have Similar Inclinations with those at Illinois & Wabash, I think it possible, that they may be brought to expell their British Masters & become fellow Citizens of a free State. I recommend this to your Serious Consideration, and to consult with some confidential persons on the Subject, perhaps Mr. Gibault the Priest (to whom this Country owes many Thanks for his Zeal & Services) may promote this affair. But I refer it to you to select the proper persons to advise with & to act as occasion offers. But you are to push at any favorable Occurrences which Fortune may present to you. For our peace & Safety are not secure while the Enemy are so near as Detroit. I wish you to testify to all the Subjects of Spain upon every occasion, the high Regard, and sincere friendship of this Commonwealth towards them. And I hope it will soon be manifest that mutual Advantages will derive from the Neighbourhood of the Virginians and the Subjects of his Catholic Majesty. I must observe to you, that your Situation is critical. For detached from the Body of your Country, placed among French Spaniards & Indian Nations strangers to our people, anxiously watching your actions & Behaviour, & ready to receive Impressions favourable, or not so, of our Commonwealth & its Government, which Impressions will be hard to remove & wil produce lasting good or ill Effects to your Country; These Considerations will make you cautious & Circumspect. I feel the Delicacy & Difficulty of your Situation, but I doubt not your virtue will accomplich the arduous Work With Honour to yourself and advantage to the Commonwealth. The Advice & Assistance of good discreet men will be highly necessary. For at the Distance of your County, I can not be consulted. General Discretionary powers therefore are given you to act for the best in all Cases where these Instructions are silent, & the Law has made no provision. I desire Your particular attention to Mrs. Rocheblare and her Children, and that you suffer them to want for nothing. Let Mr. Rocheblare's property which was taken be restored to his Lady so far as it can be done. You have the Sum of Sixty pounds sent for her use, in case you can't find her husbands Effects to restore. Prudence requires that provisions be laid in to subsist the Troops you have & those to be expected to arrive with you. Colonel Bowman has contracted to deliver 35,000 lb Bear Bacon at Kentucky, but Bread must be had at Illinois. You will provide it if possible before the arrival of the Troops, or the necessity to buy it becomes general known, as perhaps Advantages may be taken by raising the price. Lay up also a good Stock of powder & Lead. There is a Cargoe of Goods at a Spanish post near you belonging either to the Continent or this State. Rather than let your Troops be naked, you are to take a supply for them out of these Goods. But this is not to be done but in Case of absolute Necessity. Let an exact account be kept of what is used & let me receive it. In your Negotiations or Treatys with the Indians, you will be assisted by Mr. Todd. Let the Treatys be confined to the Subject of Amity & peace with our people, and not to touch the Subjects of Lands. You may accept of any Services they offer, for Expelling the English from Detroit or elsewhere. In case you find presents to the savages necessary, make them sparingly as possible, letting them know our Stock of Goods is small at present, but by means of our Trade with the french & other Nations we expect plenty of Goods before it is long. Lieutenant Colonel Montgomery will convey to you ten thousand pounds for payment of the Troops & for other Matters requiring Money. In the Distribution of the Money you will be careful to keep exact accounts from time to time & take Security where it is proper. Adjourned 'till Monday 10 o'Clock. Signed Thomas Walker Nathl Harrison James Madison Bolling Stark 

Instructions to John Montgomery from the Virginia Council, December 12, 1778.  December. 12, 1778. You are forthwith to put on Foot the recruiting of men to reinforce Col° Clarke at the Ilinois and to push it on with all possible expedition, As soon as the number of one hundred can be collected let them be sent on under the proper Officers & join Colonel Clarke. If you think that number too small to go in safety add to it til you Judge the number large enough to resist the attacks that may be expected from the Indians. You will cause the proper vessels for transporting the Troops down the Cherokee River to be built & ready before they are wanted Let no time be lost in doing that. Mr James Buchanan you must direct to lay in the provision necessary. You will get powder & flint from Col° Flemings and Lead from the Mines sufficient for the use of the parties on the march. Blank Commissions for the Officers of five Companies are delivered you to be fill'd up as the numbers of men they recruit shall intitle them as to date and Rank. If any Officer who is intrusted to recruit shall fail to inlist and produce his quota in a reasonable time Such as the exigance & pressing necessity to releive & secure the Ilinois Country do require in that case the Officer so failing is to give up the men he has inlisted together with his recruiting instructions to you, or to such other person as you may appoint to Succeed him, And if the person you appoint to Succeed him fails in due time to inlist and produce the quota for which he undertakes to recruit, you are to make a new appointment, til every quota is full or so near full as to be fit to march. You are to take especial care to appoint men proper to be Officers and as this matter from the necessity of the Case is intrusted to you an improper appointment will reflect great dishonor upon you. As soon as the state of Affairs in the recruiting business will permit you are to go to the Ilinois Country and join Col° Clarke. I need not tell you how necessary the greatest possible dispatch is to the good of the service in which you are engaged Our party at Ilinois may be lost together with the present favorable disposition of the French & Indians there unless every moment is improved for their preservation & no future oppertunity if the present is lost can ever be expected so favorable to the interest of the Commonwealth. I therefore urge it on you to exert yourself to the utmost to lose not a moment to forward the great work you have in hand & to conquer every difficulty in your way arising from an inclement season, great distances, want of many necessaries, opposition from enemies & others I cant enumerate, but must confide in your virtue to guard against and surmount. Cap' Isaac Shelby it is desired may purchase the boats but if he cant do it you must get some other person You receive 10000 £ Cash for Col: Clarke's Corps which you are to deliver him except 200 £ for Captain Shelby to build the boats & what other incidental expences happen necessarily on your way which are to come out of that Sum. I am &c. A. Blair C C. 

Instructions from Governor Patrick Henry to John Todd, December 12, 1778.  Wmsburg Deer 12th 1778 To John Todd Esqr By virtue of the Act of General Assembly which establishes the County of Illinois, you are appointed County Lieutenant or Commandant there. And for .... of your conduct I refer you to the law. The grand objects which are disclosed to the view of your Countrymen will prove beneficial or otherwise according to the Virtue and Abilities of those who are called to direct the Affairs of that remote Country. The present crisis rendered so favourable by the good disposition of the French and Indians may be improved to great purposes: But if unhappily it should be lost, a return of the same attachments to us may never happen. Considering therefore that early prejudices are so hard to wear out you will take care to cultivate and conciliate the affections of the French and Indians. Although great reliance is placed on your prudence in managing the people you are to reside among; yet considering you as unacquainted in some degree with their genius usuages and manners as well as the geography of the Country I recommend it to you to consult and advise with the most intelligent and upright persons who may fall in your way. You are to give particular attention to Col Clarke and his corps to whom the State has great obligations. You are to co-operate with him in any military undertaking when necessary and to give the military every aid which the circumstances of the people will admit of. The Inhabitants of Illinois must not expect settled peace and safety while their and our Enemies have footing at Detroit and can interrupt or stop the Trade of the Mississippi. If the English have not the strength or courage to come to war against us themselves, their practice has been and will be to hire the Savages to commit murder and depredations. Illinois must expect to pay in these a large price for her Freedom, unless the English can be expelled from Detroit The means of effecting this will not perhaps be found in your or Col Clarkes power. But the French inhabiting the neighbourhood of that place, it is presumed may be brought to see it done with indifference or perhaps join in the enterprise with pleasure. This is but conjecture. When you are on the spot you and Col Clarke may discover its fallacy or reality. If the former appears, defence only is to be the object. If the latter or a good prospect of it, I hope the Frenchmen and Indians at your disposal will shew a Zeal for the affair equal to the benefits to be derived from established liberty and permanent peace. One great good expected from holding the Illinois is to overawe the Indians from warring on our Settlers on this Side Ohio. A close attention to the disposition character and movements of the hostile Tribes is therefore necessary for you. The Forces and Militia at Illinois by being placed on the back of them may inflict timely chastisment on these Enemies whose Towns are an easy prey in the absence of their Warriors. You percieve by these hints that something in the military line may be expected from you. So far as the occasion calls for the assistance of the people composing the Militia it will be necessary to co-operate with the Troops sent from hence. And I know of no better general direction to give than this, that you consider yourself as at the Head of the Civil department and as such having the Command of the Militia, who are not to be under the Command of the Military until ordered out by the Civil Authority and act in conjunction with them. You are on all occasions to inculcate on the people the value of liberty and the difference between the State of free Citizens of this Commonwealth and that Slavery to which Illinois was destined A free and equal representation may be expected by them in a little time together with all the improvements in Jurisprudence and police which the other parts of the State enjoy. It is necessary for the happiness increase and prosperity of that Country that the grievances which obstruct these blessings be known in order to their removal. Let it therefore be your care to obtain information on that subject that proper plans may be formed for the general Utility. Let it be your constant attention to see that the Inhabitants have Justice administred to them for any Injury received from the Troops. The omission of this may be fatal. Col Clarke has instructions on this head and will I doubt not exert himself to curb all licentious practices of the Soldiery, which if unrestrained will produce the most baneful effects. You will also discountenance and punish every attempt to violate the property of the Indians, particularly in their lands. Our Enemys have alarmed them much on that score. But I hope from your prudence and Justice that no ground of complaint will be administred on the subject. You will embrace every opportunity to manifest the high regard and friendly sentiments of this Commonwealth towards all the subjects of his Catholic Majesty, for whose safety prosperity and advantage you will give every possible advantage You will make a tender of the Friendship and services of your people to the Spanish Commandant near Kaskaskias & cultivate the strictest connection with him and his people. I deliver you a letter which you will hand to him in person. The detail of your duty in the civil department I need not give you. Its best direction will be found in your innate love of Justice and Zeal to be extensively useful to your fellowmen. A general direction to act according to the best of your Judgment in Cases when these instructions are silent and the laws have not otherwise directed is given to you from the necessity of the case; for your great distance from Government will not permit you to wait for orders in many cases of great importance. In your negotiations with the Indians confine the stipulations as much as possible to the single object of obtaining peace from them Touch not the subject of lands or boundaries till particular orders are received. When necessity requires it presents may be made; but be as frugal in that matter as possible & let them know that Goods at present are scarce with us but we expect soon to trade freely with all the World and they shall not want goods when we can get them. The matters given you in charge are singular in their nature & weighty in their consequences to the people immediately concerned and to the whole State. They require the fullest exertion of your abilities and unwearied diligence. From matters of general concern you must turn occasionally to others of less consequence. Mr Rocheblave's Wife and Family must not suffer for want of that property of which they were bereft by our Troops. It is to be restored to them if possible. If this can not be done, the Public must support them. I think it proper for you to send me an Express once in three months with a general Account of affairs with you and any particulars you wish to communicate. It is in Contemplation to appoint an Agent to manage Trade on J >Public Account to supply Illinois and the Indians with Goods. If such an appointment takes place you will give it every possible aid. The people with you should not intermit their endeavours to procure supplies on the expectation of this, and you may act accordingly. P. Henry 

Patrick Henry to Clark, December 15, 1778.  Williamsburg Decr 15'h 1778 Sir, Myers your Express has been kept here a long Time. I laid your Letters before the Assembly who are well pleased with your conduct & have thanked you. The Messenger waited for the passing the Act I send herewith. I thank you also for your Services to the Comonwealth & hope you'll stil have Success. Mr Todd is appointed to the County Lieutenancy. A Comandant as described in the Act is a civil Officer, & considering he is to hold his office during pleasure, it has been judged incompatible with any military office. You would have had it, had there been found any propriety in annexing it to military Comand. Mr. Todd being a man of Merit, I have no Doubt he will be acceptable to you & all your Corps. Let me hear from you often as possible. I beg you will present my Compliments to Mr Gibault & Doctr Lafong & thank them for me for their good Services to the State. I send you a Copy of the French Alliance & some other papers, by seeing which the people will be pleased, & attached to our Cause. I refer you to the Instructions I send herewith, & wishing you Safety & Success am Sir Yr mo. hlbe Servant P. Henry P. S. The President of Congress has this Moment assured me that the English apply'd to Spain to mediate a peace with France. The King of Spain highly resented the Terms offered by the English & put her whole Forces in Motion last Septr when every Day 'twas expected Hostilitys agts the English would be comenced. The Count D'Estaing the French Admiral has lately invited the French in Canada to take up Arms & join the Americans, & has in his Masters Name promised to support them. Let this be known every where in your Quarter, I send you a Col°5 Commission & some Blanks. y" as above P. Henry  To Col° Geo. R. Clark. 

Patrick Henry to Clark, December 16, 1778.  Willamsburg Decr 16th 1778 Dear Sir, Since writing my private Letter to you, I am informed that Congress have Design to put their Forces on our Frontiers, under my Directions. I am unacquainted with Indian Affairs at Present, not knowing what Nations do us most Mischief, their Numbers & situation, & what Nations have made peace. You must therefore send me an Express directly upon Receipt of this, letting me know the Situation of Affairs with you, & what Nations of Indians we have the most to fear from. Send off the Express to me with this Intelligence quickly as possible. Buy a Stallion on my Account for him to ride in. He may ride the Stallion & lead a Mare which buy for me also, & let. him leave them at Col° Christians, & get a fresh Horse there to ride to Wmsburgh. Chuse the best Stallion & Mare you can possibly get at so short warning for me, & let the Messenger take good Care of them. Perhaps it will be necessary to make one of the Creatures bring some Grain on it to feed them both on the Way. I send forty-five pounds cash towards buying the Horse & Mare, by this Express, & shall send more Money by Col°" Todd & Montgomery. Let yr public Letter to me contain nothing but public Affairs. I am Dear Col° yr very hble Servant P. Henry The other Mares mentioned in my other Letter provide without Loss of Time, & send them as good oppertunitys offer y" P. H.  private To Col° George Rogers Clark at the Ilinois by Wm Myers Express £45 inclosed  Gov Henry Decr 16th 1778 

Leonard Helm to Clark, December 17, 1778. Dr. Sir, At this time theer is an army within three miles of this place. I heard of their comin several days beforehand sent spies to find the certainty the spies being taken prisoners I never got intelligence till they got within 3 miles of the town as I had calld the militia & had all assurance of their integrity I orderd at the fireing of a Cannon every man to apear, but I saw but few Capt. Burron  behaved much to his honour & Credit but I doubt the certaint of a certain gent Ecuse hast as the army is in sight, my Determination is to defend the Garrison though I have but 21 men but wht has lef me I referr you to theMrWms for the test. The army is in three hundred yd of village you must think how I feel not four men that I can really depend on but am determined to act brave think of my condition I know its out of my power to defend the town as not one of the militia will take arms thoug before sight of the army no braver men. their is a flag at a small distance I must conclud Yr. humble servt Leod Helm. Must stop. To Col. Clark.  Copy of Cap' Helm's letter commanding for the Rcbells at Post Vincennes—Enclosed in Lt. Govr Hamilton's Letter of the 18th Decr Marked Detroit No. 25. 

Return of the Vincennes Militia by Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, December 24, 1778.' Return of the Militia of Poste Vincennes who were in pay of the Rebells, as also of those who bore Commissions & were enrol'ed without pay & who laid down their arms the 17th of Dec 1778. 


Officers who were on pay: George Rogers Clark Esquire, commanding the eastern part of Illinois and its dependences, etc. Proclamation On account of the complaints, which have been addressed to us by several inhabitants of this bank through their petitions, presented to us the twenty-second of the current month, in which they beg us to remedy the disorders, abuses and brigandage of so long duration, that has been caused by the too great liberty enjoyed by the red and black slaves, a liberty that prevents them from accomplishing the different pieces of work in which their masters employ them, and is thus causing the total loss of this colony: in consequence of the aforesaid complaints and in order to maintain good order in the whole extent of this country, it has pleased us to ordain and we do ordain what follows: to wit, 1. We forbid and prohibit very expressly all persons of whatsoever quality they may be from selling to, causing to be given to, or trading with the red and black slaves any intoxicating liquors under any pretext whatsoever and in any quantity, little or big, under penalty of twenty piastres fine for the first offense and of double, if it is repeated; of which fine the accuser shall receive half. 2. We forbid all persons living on this bank to lend or rent gratuitously to any red or black slaves their house, buildings and courts, after sunset or for the night, for the purpose of dancing, feasting, or holding nocturnal assemblies therein, under penalty of forty piastres fine for the first offence and of double, if it is repeated; of which fine the accuser shall receive half. We do not intend, however, to prevent the said red or black slaves from taking their recreation in dancing on Sundays and feast days; provided it is during the day time, and the said slaves are furnished with a permit signed by their masters to the effect that all persons can rent or lend them their houses for the purpose of dancing without restraint during the day. 3. In order to prevent thefts and robberies by red and black slaves, we forbid them to go out of the house or court of their masters after tattoo is beaten unless they are provided with a permit signed by their said master, and this shall be granted them only in case of necessity and can be used only once. Those who shall go out after tottoo is beaten, without being furnished with the said permit, shall in a public place be given thirty-nine strokes of the whip at the expense of their masters. Likewise he who shall go from one village to another without being furnished with a permit from his master shall suffer the same chastisement; and if it is repeated, he shall be punished with twice the number of strokes, always at the expense of his master. 4. Finally we forbid all persons to buy from or exchange with, the said red or black slaves any goods, commodities, pigs, wood or other things whatsoever, unless the said slaves are furnished with a permit from their masters to sell or exchange the said commodities; and this under penalty of an arbitrary fine payable by the transgressors of this our present proclamation. 5. We enjoin all captains, officers of the militia and other individuals to enforce the execution of the present proclamation, and all white men to arrest the red or black slaves whom they shall meet in the streets of each village of this bank after tattoo is beaten or eight o'clock in the evening; and likewise the slaves who shall be found after the beating of tattoo or eight o'clock in the evening in the cabins of other slaves than those of their masters shall be also arrested and, in a public place, beaten with thirty-nine strokes of the whip at the expense of their masters; and he who shall arrest one or several slaves, after the beating of tattoo or eight o'clock in the evening, either in the street or in a cabin which is not the dwelling place of the slave, shall receive  piastres for each slave who shall be arrested, at the charge of the master to whom the slave shall belong. 6. Our present proclamation shall be posted on the door of each church of the villages of this bank so that no person can be ignorant thereof. Given at Fort Clark under the seal of our coat of arms and the signature of our secretary, December 24, 1778. by Monseigneur (signed) G. R. Clark. Carbonneaux, Clerk. (Signed) Jean Girault. 

Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton to the People of Illinois. December 29, 1778.1  As nothing more can be wished for in behalf of so remote an establishment as yours, than the enjoyment of a free trade, the secure possession of property, & the tranquility of private families, I must suppose that I address myself to a people who know their interest, and who are sensible of the misfortunes to which they will be exposed by withdrawing themselves from the dominion of the King of England. If I could by proper representations, impress them with a clue sense of their error in facilitating the entrance of the rebels into their country, in neglecting their duty to their King, and committing an offense against God, I should in so doing feel a true satisfaction. I shall make it my glory to restore the happiness, and regain the confidence of a people who have been seduced from the right way, by evil examples and evil counsels, but who are still capable of discerning good from evil, and again becoming good subjects and good christians. The storm which threatens them on all sides is gathering fast, and will soon burst without distinction on the rebels and those who shall support them. Let them, therefore, imitate the conduct of their relations and friends at the post of St. Vincents, who, having seen their error, have by voluntarily forsaking it, availed themselves of the protection of his Britanic Majesty, ever disposed to forget the faults of those who know to deserve his goodness, by returning to their duty. In order to make the inhabitants of the Illinois sensible of their dangerous situation, it is necessary to unfold to them the means and preparations which will be made use of to expel the rebels, and reestablish that peace and tranquility which have been distributed  by those who feel no attachment but to their interest. The Chickasaws, Cherokees, and the other Southern nations, inveterate enemies to the rebels, are ready to invade the Illinois on the first opening of the spring, they will be sustained by a regiment of the King's troops now on their way from Pensacola with their officers, the whole under the conduct of the Superintendent of the Southern Department. The nations inhabiting the shores of the Lakes will all be devoted to whatever service I shall recommend to them. Those of the Wabash who came down this fall have acted in concert with them, and have abandoned the flag of the rebels. The Six Nations, the Shawanons, the Isonnontouans begirt the frontiers closely everywhere; the communication by the Falls of the Ohio is intercepted, the rivers blocked up. This is the prospect which presents itself to the consideration of the inhabitants of the Illinois; and if they suffer themselves any longer to be so far blinded by the promises of the Americans (hitherto so badly fulfilled) as to range themselves under their standard, they must prepare to abide by the consequences. The reinforcement of the troops which I expect this spring will enable me to support the good, and to punish bad subjects. May honor, gratitude and religion, may conjugal love and parental tenderness operate in their minds, that I may espouse with warmth the interests of the inhabitants of the Illinois. This shall be the object of my cares; this is what I wish with fervor and sincerity. (Signed) H. H. Lt. G. Sent off by H. Baulon, 29th December, 1778 Translated by order of the Board, (Signed) Charles Bellinc, elk of Foreign Correspondence 

Clark to Patrick Henry, February 3, 1779. Kaskaskias Illinois Feby 3d 1779 DRSR As it is now near twelve months Since I have had the least Inteligence from you I almost despair of any Relief sent to me, I have for many Months past had Reports of An army Marching Against DeTroit, but no Certainty. A Late MenuV of The Famous Hair Buyer General, Henry Hamilton Esqr. Lieut. Governor of DeTroit, hath allarmed us much; on the 16th. of December last he, with a Body of Six Hundred Men Composed of Regulars French Voluntier and Indians Took possession of St. Vincent on the Waubach What few men that Composed the Garison not being able to make the least Defence, he is Influancing all the Indians he possibly Can to Join him: I learn that those that have Treated with me have as yet Refused his offers. I have for some time Expected an attact from him he has Blockd. up the Ohio R with a party French and Indians. Yesterday I fortunately got every peace of Inteligence, that I could wish for, by a Spanish Genl. that made his Escape from Mr Hamilton. No Attact to be Made on the Garison at Kaskaskias until the Spring  passage is too difficult at present,  Sent to war against Different parts of  Especially Kentucky. Both presents and Speaches Sent to all the Nations South of the Ohio Amediately to meet at a great Council at the Mouth of the Tennesse R to lay the Best plans for Cuting of the Rebels at Illinois and Kentucky & the Grand Kite and his Nation living at Post St Vincent told Mr. Hamilton that he and his people was Big Knives and would not give their hands any more to the English for he would shortly see his Father that was at Kaskaskias Ninety Regulars in Garrison a few Voluntiers and about Fifty Tawaway Indians that is Shortly to go to war they are very Busy in Repairing the Fort which will Shortly be very Strong, One Brass Six-pounder two Iron four pounders and two Swivels Mounted in the Bastians plenty of Amunition and provitions and all kinds of warlike Stores, Making preparation for the Reduction of the Illenois & has no Suspition of a Visit from the americans this was Mr. Hamilton Circumstance when Mr. Vigo left him. Being sensible that without a Reinforcement which at present I have hardly a right to Expect that I shall be obliged to give up this country to Mr. Hamilton without a turn of Fortune in my favour, I am Resolved to take the advantage of his present Situation and Risque the whole on a Single Battle I shall Set out in a few Days with all the Force I can Raise of my own Troops and a few Militia that I can Depend on (whole to only one) Hundred (of which goes on) Board a Small G  out some time ago Mounting two four pounders and four large Swivels one nine pounder on Board this Boat is to make her way good if possible and take her Station Term Leagues Below St. Vincens until further orders if I am Defeated She is to Join Col. Rogers on the Mississippi She has great Stores of Ammunition on Board Comd by Lieut. Jno Rogers. I Shall March across by Land my self with the Rest of My Boys the principal persons that follow me on this forlorn hope is Cap,n Joseph Bowman John Williams Edwd Worthing Richd M Carty & Fran* Charlovielle Lieu1" Richd Brashears Abm Kellar Abm Chaplin Jonathon Jerault And Jonathon Bayley and several other Brave Subalterns, You must be Sensible of the Feeling that I have for those Brave officers and Soldiers that are Determined to share my Fate let it be what it will I know the Case is Desperate but Sr we must Either Quit the country or attact Mr. Hamilton no time is to be lost was I Shoer of a Reinforcement I should not attempt it who knows what fortune will do for us Great things have been affected by a few Msn well Conducted perhaps we may be fortunate we have this Consolation that our Cause is Just and that our country will be greatful and not Con  our Conduct in Case we fall through if so this  trey as well as Kentucky I believe is los  I have wrote to Col. Rogers Desiring of him not to Enter the  Ohio River Untill further Inteligence from Me I learn that by a noble Stroke of Policy that he has Got his Cargo above the British posts in Floriday if I have Success I shall Amediately Send Dispatches to him The Expresses that you have sent I Expect has fallen into the hands of Governor Hamilton I have the Honour to be Sr Your Very Humble Serv' G. R. Clark 

Clark to John Rogers, February 3, 1779.  Kaskaskia, Feb'y 3d, 1779. Sir.' You are to take charge of the row-galley called the Willing now lying in the Kaskaskias, with all her furnitures and crew, and immediately drop down into the Ohio river, and make what way you possibly can up s'd river and Waubash, and take your station ten leagues below the Post St. Vincents, and wait until further orders from me or some of your superior officers. I would request it of you to be continually on your guard. Much depends on your safety. Suffer no vessel to pass you except friends. I would recommend it to you to keep spies on the bank of the rivers as you go up them, for fear of surprise. It is conjectured by many that Lieut. Governor Hamilton will attempt to make his escape down the Mississippi. If you should meet him, never quit him as long as you have the least chance to take him. You must be sensible of the importance of the charge you have. Act prudently and with spirit. Run no risks in going up in order to speak to parties of Indians that you may see on the Ohio. If I should have success in the premeditated attack on Saint Vincent, you may expect a re-enforcement immediately. I heartily wish you  To Lieut. John Rogers, Esq.

David Lyster to George Moorehead, February 4, 1779.  Detroit 4th February 1779. Dr Comrade George I Received yr kind letter which gave me the greatest pleasure to hear you were well but sorrow to hear of yr want of water which was A misfortune not to be avoided we are all in good health but our Old freind who is as mad as Ever, Dr. George we have so much news and one account thro: out the whole Varying from another that it not worth sending to you, on the arrival of the first Vessell from Fort Erie after y Departure orders come up to build a new fort which is now carrying on with the greatest Expedition the ground is at the head of the Kings Garden where the Block House stood under the Direction of Captn Bird, there is two of us always with him to see the Fascines laid and Picketed down, we worked Every Day since it began but Christmass Day as no weather Ever hinders us let it be Ever so bad, Cap™ Lernoult and all the Officers work Constantly we have got part of it fifteen feet high and all the Embrasures formed the Fort Consists of 4 Courtains and 4 Bastions each Bastion mounting 3 Guns, Every man that works is allowed One Pint of Rum Pr Day beside One Ration and half of the Different Species of Provision Except Bread Pr Day but no wages, the merchants and all the inhabitants in the sittlement work 3 Days out of Every nine, we had A Bombardier Douglas sent up here from Niagara to relieve Bombardr: Gavine but Gavine rems here till the spring as no Vessell sailed from here since. Dr Geo, I have more news Mr Mercer is married to Miss Phillis Barthe Sister in law to Commadore Grant and if you were here you might renew yr former intrigue Yr Brother Dolwood was married to the widow Murray on the 24th of last Decembr The wedding was held at Mr Forsythes and A Jovial one it was we hear As there was none of us there but Thompson and wife, we are all Deceived but who would have thought it as for me freind John I beleive he has reason to be proud it is so, there was an Express arrived here the Other Day from Niagara by land we hear there are two thousand Rebels Destined for this place and now on their March, the Niagara Rangers and Indians have Burned and Destroyed all the settlements on the German flats and Cherry Valley, Simon Garty come in this Day about two 0 Clock but we have heard nothing of the news he brought as Yet, the Rebels are reported to be under the Command of A General Sullivan I have sent you by Mr Macombe One Check shirt 1 Pair of Shoes half a yard of Blue Stroudings with half a pound of thread the Strouding I sent to Compleat a pair of trowsers with the Yard you get as a gift I have sent you a Blanket Coat by Mr Phillip Dejean, the first articles are Directed for you, but the Blanket Coat is Directed for Lieu' Devernot which you are to receive, the Stocking web and Brown Coat and Cord Du Roy I could have Disposed of to advantage this winter but would not as 1 had no Orders from you Dr Geo; any thing you want in my power to Send you let me know and it shall be forwarded to you by the first opportunity and I beg you let me hear from you as often as you have Opportunity and You will Oblige Yr Real freind and Loveing Comrade David Lyster P. S DR George as you left y Garden Seeds and Lot of Ground in my Charge let me know by the first opportunity how you chuse I should act or whether Should have it Cultivated or not if you think that you are to return here this Ensuing Summer or next fall let me know and I shall act Accordingly D Lyster  To Mr George Moorehead Royal Artillery on Expedition under the Command of Governor Hamilton. 

Alexander Macomb to Jehu Hay, February 4, 1779.  Detroit 4 Feby 1779. Dear Sir I have ree'd your letter of 24th Dec last and am very glad to learn your quiet situation, we had imagined you would have some opposition at S' Vincennc. We had accepted all the bills hitherto presented whether drawn by Gov r Hamilton or you, and shall continue so to do. According to your desires I have purchas'd a large quantity of Goods (all that arrived last fall of ours being disposed of.) which shall be forwarded as soon as the Navigation will permit, they will amount to upwards of twelve thousand pounds Nyk Cy at this place, you shall order them as you mention, among the Goods I shall send about three thousand pounds of tobacco for to compleat the Assortment. I have mention'd to Govr Hamilton that, as times seem  be Daily more and more precarious in this quarter, that it would not  imprudent to make a calculation of the Expences he may be likely to contract between this and next Septemr or later, for which he should send us his Bills on the General, as payments late from that part would be of little service untill the spring following, the amount of those bills can be settled by the Sums the Gov r shall draw on us for. This will be of great service to us should any unwished for revolution happen in this quarter, as it would secure to us what we will of course bill in advance for the different departments. I hope Gov Hamilton will not think me too forward for making this proposition. You will never suppose that Mr Dejean would have been the bearer of Letters to S' Vincenne, but there is no accounting for every turn in human affairs & he is actually, god willing, to deliver you this. The volunteers cloathing goes by him, & a small trunk of Silver work & another of summer clothes for you in one of the bales, there is also a small red trunk for Cap' Lamothe. Many letters from Montreal, there is some news which I have mentioned to the Gov r to whom I take the liberty to refer you, as I am a bad hand at newsmonging, I hope his letter in that part will suffice for you both. I have sent him some Kegs of tea & Sugar, Coffee, wine, brandy & spirits, which I suppose will be us'd in common as I prevented M" Hay send* you any thing by this opportunity imagining that you live at the same table. This small supply will I hope suffice untill we can forward you a more ample one by water which you may hope for by first opportunity. Would it not be right to send orders to have the horses & boats &ca taken for the Expedition, paid for according to the estimation made of them? it will be much cheaper to pay for them at that rate, than by the day, as the long time they are likely to be absent will make any charge of that kind come high. An express will soon leave this for Niagara, by which we shall send down the accou. I shall charge all your different pays as Major, Indian Agent, Engineer, as usual. You desire me to charge the pay of Batteaumaster, Mr Carpenter &08—but I am ignorant to whom I am to account to them for—inform me fully of all those matters that regard the public Accounts I draw out We have delivered a a good quantity of the Goods we owe the department and all the Rum of Which I keep an exact acco for your satisfaction. I am Dr Sir Your friend & humble Ser' A L W Macomb Jehu Hay Esq". 

Alexander Macomb to Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, February 4, 1779.  Detroit 4 Feby 1779. Dear Sir I have ree'd your letter of the 24'h Dec pr les Messieurs d'honneur. we are all heartily rejoiced at your successful entry into Fort Sackville & my better half is happy that you eat your Xmas dinner in peace at S' Vincenne, since you could not do us that pleasure at Detroit. You will be surpriz'd to see Mr Dejean deliver you this, he beg'd Captn Lernoults permission to go to see you.1 he wants your order in writing for some of his actions calld in Montreal, unwarrantable, and he wants I suppose to make some Settlement with Legras & I dare say some favors for himself. He conducts  Horses which are loaded for you & some salt for the Miamis. I send you two Kegs Susan, 8 Gl each, two Eight gallon Kegs of Coffee Sugar & green tea, One 8 Ga Keg very excellent brandy, one 8 G* Keg Spirits. & the number of Horses Mr Dejean may procure shall decide a further supply of liquor. The Cloathing for the volunteers makes part of the Caravan,— 42 Suits consisting each of a coat a vest a pr trousers and Cap.— I have put into one of the bales Some summer cloaths for your self—that is—8 towels, 6 Stocks, 6 pr white silk hose, 3 pr Color'd d°, two stripd coats vests trousers & one pr Breeches, & Scarlet frock, 3 White vests & breeches, 6 Shirts, 8 Handkerchiefs, & 1 pr Shoes. Mr Hay in his letter has desir'd me to send an Assortment of Goods early in the Spring to the Miamis for your Service, our own goods were all disposed off, (I mean those arrivd last fall) when I rec'd his orders, but that you may not want any service in our power for your success, I immediately purchasd large quantities which shall be forwarded you as soon as the navigation will permit, and at same time a sufficiency of Liquors & other Stores for your self. As times grow daily more precarious with regard to our quarter, I think it will be necessary that you make some computation of the cxpences you may be likely to contract untill next fall, including those goods, which will amount to ten or twelve thousand pounds Newyk O at least, and send us your bills on His Ex? for the same payable at Sixty days sight or in Septr next and the amount of those bills will be settled by what you shall draw on us. this is a precaution I hope you will find necessary for public accounts, for should you send us any bills on The General late in the Season, at your distance from the place of payment, they would be useless to us untill the spring following. I have taken the liberty to propose you this, satisfied of your wishes for our welfare.—and you see that such a step will certainly serve to promote it in many matters. Mr David white, Garret Teller, a Mr Blackley & a nephew of Cap' Cornwals, arrivd from Niagara the 1st instant.—by them we have letters from Montreal of the 11th Nov. mentioning the  intention of the rebels to send a force of 3000 men against this place next spring.1—they have this from a Mr Watts who left Boston last Oct 9th, and from a South Carolina paper. General Haldimand mentions this to Cap' Lernoult. & I have it from Capn McDougall my father & a Mr Ellice. All the fishing posts & those of trade on the Labrador intirely destroyd by a rebel pivateer. Gen Clinton has imbarked his troops at N York, their destination suppos'd against the French fleet at Boston, but given out for the West Indies.—nothing material done last campaign. A riot at Boston between the Mob y 8c the french, in which two french Lieutenants & several others were killd & wounded on both sides.—"Bigoted prcsbitcrians & ceremonious papists will never agree" Several vessels from Newyork & Halifax—in them Col° Guy Johnson. Major Rogers arrivd at Quebec, and set out immediately for England suppos'd not to have been well received by the General. Major Carleton gone on an expedition over Lake Champlain with 400 Regulars & 100 Savages to endeavor to destroy some Magazines deposited by the rebels on the road between Ticonderoga & Benington to facilitate an expedition into Canada—he left He aux Noix about the 1s' Novr. The House, I mean the Council house, is finished.—it has serv'd yet only to shuffle in on monday evenings & is I assure a very excellent house for haranguing as well as for dancing. Our Fort, of four half bastions, the base of the walls 24 feet over, is not likely to be finished untill about April, 'twill be a very solid piece of earth;—it is erected back of the town on the highest ground partly in & part outside of the Garden, & near about the middle walk. Simon Girty is just this moment arrived.—he authenticates the raports of the rebels being on their way hither.—the army, which consists of 2500 men, is commanded by a Mr Macintosh, the main body is about 30 miles in this side Fortpit & the van at Tuscarawa, commanded by a Mr Gibson, at each place they have a picqueted fort, it is said they intend beginning their march in about a month hence. Tucker has been a la decouverte, this long time,— not yet return'd.—Girty says that 7 or 800 Savages intend to make an attack on Gibson's party.—he is come for amunition & has some belts, the purport of which is to be disclosd in a council, & which I suppose Captn Lcrnoult will make known to you.1 Cap' Butler, Joseph Brant & their Rangers and Savages have made cruel havack on the mohawk river—the fine settlement of Cherry Valley is intirely destroy'd; men women & children all promiscuously butcher'd by the Savages, nor could Cap' Butler or the other officers keep any restraint on them. I enclose you a letter from Mr. Pollard to a young lad here, nam'd Geo. Forsith, nephew to Cap' Geo. Phyn, which will give you a good deal of news & of Butler's affair in particular. Mr Baby has just rcceivd your letter of 1 Jan?—I have seen my part of it—I had car'd for you in most of these Articles before its arrival as pr first Sheet. I cannot well send your hat by horse carriage.—paper & Wax you shall have, and when the communication opens by water, I shall send you an abundant Stock of many Essentials. I admire your opinion of S' Vincenne it is a happy mixture, if such mixture can be so, of vice levity Sloth & ignorance. Mr Gibault's spiritual Example would greatly incourage such habits.—from morality to the Naval Department—if Como° Grant & some others found that I made the One so distant from the other, he would scold me.— but nevertheless.—the Wiandot is not yet launch'd;—she is ready almost for baptism, but winters On the Stocks for convenience & safety. The Ottawa with only the Keel bow & Stern part, as you left Her.—The Carpententers all at work on the old vessels whose shatterd sides require repair. We are paymasters for that department—5 pr Cent profit—& we must give of necessity Nine months Credit. It may be new to you to be informd of the marriage of Miss Phillis Barthe with Mr Morecr shortly after the death of Mr Showard. Her eldest brother is splic'd to Miss Beaubien. Upon supposition that Mr Hay & you make use of but one table, I have prevented Mre Hay from sending any liquor &?* to her husband, of which I have acquainted him. The horses are all purchased and chargd to Indian Department, so that you will dispose of them to any service you find necessary.—Two Kegs of Lisbon—not very excellent.  Never was there such disagreable weather for the season.— incessant rains.—every place meer mud & impossible to do a thousand necessary labours requisite for the good of Individuals & the public;—particularly for hauling the timber necessary for the New fort.—Every body digs.—Merchants at pleasure:—Canadians by Corvees of three days—Our merchant diggers turn the turf with great Slights but they are mostly Irishmen & a Stranger to see us would swear that they inherited it. We all wish you health, success and every happiness you merit. believe me Dr Sir Your friend Alex Macomb 

R. B. Lernoult to Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, February 9, 1779.  Copy of Letter from Captn Lernoult Commander of Detroit to Lieut. Governor Hamilton at Post S' Vincennes 9'h Feb? 1779 Dear Sir Dejean being very Desirous of Paying you a visit I Permit him, he will deliver the Pacquet, I detained him some days on' the arrival of Simon Girtie with Mesages from the Six Nations &ca. The Copy of the Speaches I send with a belt from the Southern Nations to be comunicated to the Indians on the Wabash. Your Despatches I sent to Niagara the day after I Received them (Jany 27'h) I congratulate you on your Success, having little or no hopes of any reinforcement being sent here, I have errected a Strong work on the Hill Sufficient to Secure the' Stores &ca belonging to the Crown and to enable me with a few Troops and fewer good subjects here to defend them, it is no longer a doubt of the enemies design on this Settlement—my little knowledge in Indian Matters Prompts me to wish you on the Spot as it will require all our attention to keep them in the Interest of the Crown, I have sent them a large supply of amunition, Cloathing &ca, Captn Bird is very desirous of Serving as a Volunteer with them, I have given him Ten Volon teers from my detachment and he sets off for S' Dusky with Simon Girty in one of the Small Vessels and a farther Supply of ammunition &ca. I learn by Girty that the Numbers coming do not exceed 2500 men that they Advanced to Tuscarawas, Built a Pickettcd Fort, but provisions falling Short, the main Body went back to beaver Creek leaving 250 in the Fort. They have also built a Strong fort at Beaver Creek, G:McIntosh Commands the whole & has Six Peices of Cannon, none above Six Pounders, a Colonel Gibson Commands the 250 at Tuscarawas—that the wiandots are much displeased at you and me & have declared if we do not perform our Promisses in assisting them with Men and all their wants They will no longer listen to us, you will see by the Speaches to The Nations here, how little dependance they have on their lending a hand. I cannot help observing their Indiference upon the Occasion, Baby is my Chief Councellor in these Matters, Tucker with five Chipowas on a Scout Droulliard the only Interpreter. Girty says white Eyes is dead, that the Six Nations, Delewares Shanees and Wiandots, to the Number of 700 are assembled at the little Village of S' Dusky that they Intend marching off the 14ih to Attack the Virginians at Tuscarawas, if they Cannot decoy them out they will drive off and destroy their Cattle and If the main Army Advances they will Attack them in the Night, that he heard General McIntosh porposed advancing abo' the Latter end of March, that about 70 Moravian Indians were in the Virginian Interest and were lying near Beaver Creek; that two of them were Constantly detained as hostages, for the rest Girtie thinks they will Join the Other Indians when occasion offers. I must refer you to Dejean for many things Passd here since you left us. the Steady McGregor has his share of Troubles with the Inhabitants— Pirraugues making as fast as Possible—few in the' Settlement, none of the Horses sent back from Miamis, Reaume a very usefull man cutting Timber in The Woods all Winter for Battries and Bomb Proof in the New Work, The Merchants lend a hand Willingly the Canadians pr force—an expres from Niagara extracts of News Inclosed, Several Letters to yr Address,—all well—Join in best wishes,— yours very Sincerely Signd R B Lernoult 

Garrison at Vincennes, February 24, 1779.  List of the Garrison of Fort Sackville under the Command of Lieut: Governor Hamilton the 24th February 1779 Officers Militia Major Jehu Hay William Lamothc Captn VolunJ. McBeth, Surgeon teers L. F. Bellefeuille French InterJacob Schieffelin Lt. D° pret1' Charles Reaume Captn I. DeNicolas Laselle Store Keeper part' George Moorhead Chabert Lieut. D° Royal Corporal J. B. Gaffee, Commisy ProviArtillery John Adamson sions Mattross James parkinson John Chapman Abel Leazenby Corporal William Sadler Private Alexr Prescott D° James Harrison D° * Ruden Veasey D° James Duckworth D° William Perry D° Richard McDade D° John Horn D° Charles Morgan D° William drendwater D° Robert Bryant D° Benjamin Pickering D° Patrick Maher D° , Kings Serjeants Regiment John Sutherland Private Owen Gallagher D° Thomas Leany D° * Isaac Booth D° James Macmullen D° * John Joynes D° George Spittle D° John Wall D° William Malloy D° John Grimshaw D° * Richard Baker D° Charles Mason D° Samuel Watkins D° Bilser Debins D° Christr McCraw D° John Fraser D° Thomas Keppel D° Captain Lamothes Volunteers Joseph Baron Serjeant Francois Magnian D° John McKivors D° Alexr Bigras Francois Mince dit lenfant Pierre Longueville Jacques Gagnier J. B. Dubord J. B. Rapin J. Robert J. B. Ouimette J. B. Beaudouin Joseph Laronde Louis Viaux John McMichel Pierre Dolphin Militia Volunteers Paul Gamelin Corporals Pierre S' Andre Louis Demoushelle J. B. Daunois William Scott Francois Arquoite William Taylor Samuel Caffe"e J. B. Valade Nicolas Venette Thomas Connally John Bribonne J. B. S' Pierre Edward Shelly Patrick McKindlar Jean Daine J. B. Leroux Carpenters Amus Ainsley Jacob Bogarts Andrew Young Jehu Hay Major Militia Prisoners who took the Oath, March 9, 1779.  A List of Prisoners names taken at Fort Pl Henry under the command of Lieu' Governor Hammelton who hath toock the oath of Nutrality This 9th day of March, 1779. John Chapman Sarg' George Morehead Corp James Duckworth Corpi Wm Drinckwater Owen Golcher Samuel wadkins Andrew Young t Jacob Bogard Wm Sadler Wm Scot sworn Richard Baker Richard Mcdead John Addamson Alexander Presseot, not sworn James McMullen Mr Chabert Bill Saddavis Mr Gaffes Isaac Booth Mr Laselle John Jiants Mr Lafoy John Mcmichael Mr Reaume Edward Shee Mr Adhemard John Dain Mr Santcrainte Prisoners of War, March 9, 1779.  List of the Prisoners of War Governor Hamilton Sutherland Major Hay Keppel Captain LaMothe Wall Lieutt Schieffelin Macgra Mr Dejean Brebin Mr Bellefeuille Taylor Doctor Macbeath Mackinlie Mr Maisonville Vesey Serjeant Parkinson Ainsley Corp Leazenby Pickering Bryant Home Spittal Perry Fraser Givine Receiv'd of Capt. Williams The within mentioned prisoners in number 26 March the 31 : 1779 Wim Herrod  Capt Clark to Lieutenant John Rogers, March 9, 1779.  Fort Patrick Henry 9th March 1779 Sir you are to Accompany Captn Williams to the Falls of Ohio and accompany the Prisoners from thence to Williamsburg, they will be guarded and Conducted by the Kentucky Millitia, you are to be carefull that they want no necessarys if Possible to Procure them you will draw Bills on the Treasury for the Expences of your Journey and Render a Just account thereof to his Excellency the Governor I am Sir your Hb Scrv' G R Clark To Lieut Jonathon Rogers.

George Rogers Clark to George Mason, November 19, 1779. Louisville, Falls of Ohio Novr 19 1779. My Dr Sir continue to favour me with your valuable Lessons; Continue your Repremands as though I was your Son: when suspicious, think not that promotion or confer'd Honour will occation any unnecessary pride in me; You have infus'd too many of your Valuable precepts in me to be guilty of the like, or to shew any indifference to those that ought to be dear to me; it is with pleasure that I obey in transmiting to you a short sketch of my enterprise and proceeding in the Illinois as near as I can Recollect or gather from memorandums. After disingageing myself from Kentucky, I set out for Williamsburg in Aug' 1777 in order to settle my Act" I had just Reasons known to few but myself that occationed me to resolve not to have any farther Command whatever, without I should find a very great call for Troops and my Country in danger in such case I was determined to loose my Life rather we should submit—On my arrival at Town I found to appearance a friend in many Gentlemen of note that offered cir Interest to me in case I should offer at any Post—Many was surpris'd that I would not selicit for some Birth. I must confess that I think myself often to blame for not makeing use of Intrest for my promotion but to merit it first is such a fixed principal with me that I never could, and I hope never shall ask for a Post of Honour, as I think the Publick ought to be the best Judge whether a Person deserves it or not, if he did he would certainly be Rewarded according to the Virtue they had. But finding that we were in a larming situation, the Indians desperate on one side, the Britains on the other I immediately Resolved to encourage an Expedition to the Illinois. But to make it publick was a certain loss of it. I propos'd the plan to a few Gentlemen, they communicated it to the Governour it was immediately determined on, to be put in Execution as soon as a Bill could be passed to enable the Governour to order it. it accordingly pass'd though but a few in the House knew the real intent of it. After giving the Council all the intiligence I possibly could, I resolv'd to pursue my other Plans, But being desired by the Governour to stay some time in Town, I wated with impatience; he I suppose believeing that I wanted the Command, and was determined to give it to me; But it was far from my Inclination at that time. I was Summoned to attend the Council-Board; the instructions an necessary papers was ready for puting in the name of the Person to Command: I believe they expected me to selicit for it, but I resolved not to do,1 for reasons I hinted you before. However I1 excepted it after being told the Command of this little Army was designed for me—I then got every request granted and fully impowered to raise as many Men as I could not exceeding a Certain Number.3 After being engaged, I was then as Determined to prosecute it with Vigour, as I was before indifferent about the Command; I had since the beginning of the War taken pains to make myself acquainted with the true situation of the British posts on the Fronteers; and since find that I was not mistaken in my judgment—I was ordered to Attact the Illinois in case of Success to carry my Arms to any Quarter I pleased I was certain that with five hundred Men I could take the Illinois, and by my treating the Inhabitants as fellow Citizens, and shew them that I ment to protect rather than treat them as a Conquered People. Engageing the Indians to our Interest &c. It might probably have so great an effect on their Countrymen at Detroyet, (they already disliked their Master,) that it would be an easy prey for me—I should have mentioned my design to his Excellency but was convinced, or afraid that it might lessen his esteem for me, as it was a general oppinion that it would take several thousand to approach that Place. I was happy with the thoughts of fair prospect of undeceiveing the Publick respecting their formidable Enemies on our Fronteers; I left Williamsburg January the 18th, made as quick dispatch as possible to the fronteers, and by the end of the month had Recruiting Parties disposed from Pitsburg to Carolina, had my little Army Recruited in half the time I expected—Elivated with the thoughts of the great service we should do our Country in some measure; puting an end to the Indian War on our fronteers, it may appear to you to be a mear presumption in me, but I was always too jealous of myself to be far wrong in plans,1 that I had so long studied, and since find that I could have executed it with the greatest ease if it had not been  following Conduct of many leading Men in the fronteers, that had liked to have put an end to the enterprise, not knowing my Distination, and through a spirit of obstinacy they combined and did every thing in their power to stop the Men that had Enlisted, and set the whole Fronteers in an uproar, even condescended to harbor and protect those that Deserted; I found my case desperate, the longer I remained the worse it was—I plainly saw that my Principal Design was baffled—I was resolved to push to Kentucky with what men I could gather in West Augusta; being Joined by Cap'* Bowman and Helms who had each raised a Compy for the Expedition, but two thirds of them was stopt by the undesign'd Enemies to the Country that I before mentioned: In the whole I had about one hundred & fifty Men Collected and set Sail for the Falls—I had previous to this received Letters from Cap' Smith on Holdston enforming me that he intended to meet me at that place with near two hundred Men, which encouraged me much as I was in hopes of being enabled by that reinforcem' at least to attact the Illinois with a probability of Success &c. I set out from RedStone the 12th of may leaving the Country in great confusion, much distressed by the Indians—General Hand, pleased with my intentions furnished me with every necessary I wanted and the  of may I arrived at the Canoweay  to the Joy of the Garrison as they were very weak, & had the day before been attacted by a large Body of Indians. Being Joined by Cap' Oharrads Compy on his way to the Osark; after spending a day or two, We set out and had a very pleasant Voyage to the falls of Ohio having sent Expresses to the Stations on Kentucky from the mouth of the River, for Cap' Smith to join me immediately as I made no doubt but that he was wateing for me; But you may easily guess at my mortification on being informed that he had not arrived; that all his Men had been stopt by the incessant labours of the populace, except part of a Compy that had arrived under Command of one Cap' Delland Some on their March being threatened to be put in Prison if they did not return; this information made me as Desperate as I was before Determined. Reflecting on the Information that I had of some of my greatest opponents censureing the Governour for his Conduct, as they thought, ordering me for the Protection of Kentucky only; that and some other secret impulses Occationed me in spite of all Council to Risque the Expedition to convince them of their error until that moment, secret to the Principal Officers I had—I was sensible of the impression it would have on many, to be taken near a thousand  from the Body of their Country to attact a People five times their number, and merciless Tribes of Indians their Allies and determined Enemies to us. I knew that my case was desperate, but the more I reflected on my weakness the more I was pleased with the Enterprise; Joined by a few of the Kentuckyans, under Col° Montgomery to stop the desertion I knew would ensue on Troops knowing their Destination I had encamped on a small Island in the middle of the Falls, kept strict Guards on the Boats, but Lieutenant Hutchings of Dillards Compy contrived to make his escape with his party after being refused leave to return, luckely a few of his Men was taken the next day by a party sent after them; on this Island I first began to discipline my little Army knowing that to be the most essential point towards success, most of them determined to follow me, the rest seeing no probability of making their escape I soon got that subbordination as I could wish for; about twenty families that had followed me much against my Inclination I found now to be of service to me in guarding a Block house that I had erected on the Island to secure my Provisions; I got every thing in Readiness on the 26'h of June, set off from the Falls, double Man'd our Oars and proceeded day and Night until we run into the mouth of the Tenesse River the fourth day landed on an Island to prepare Ourselves for a March by Land, a few hours after we took a Boat of Hunters but eight days from Kaskaskias; before I would suffer them to answer any Person a question after their taking the oath of allegiance I examined them particularly, they were Englishmen, & appear'd to be in our Interest, their intiligence was not favourable, they asked leave to go on the Expedition, I granted it, and ordered them what to relate particularly on pain of Suffering, they observed my instructions which put the whole in the greatest spirits; Sure by what they heard of success, in the evening of the same day I run my Boats into a small Creek about one mile above the old Fort Missack, Reposed ourselves for the night, and in the morning, took a Rout to the Northwest and had a very fatiegueing Journey for about fifty miles, until we came into those level Plains that is frequent throughout this extensive Country. As I knew my Success depended on secrecy, I was much affraid of being discovered in these Meadows as we might be seen in many places for several miles; nothing extraordinary happened dureing our Route Excepting my guide loosing himself and not being able, as we judged by his confusion of giving a Just account of himself; It put the whole Troops in the greatest Confusion. I never in my life felt such a flow of Rage—to be wandering in a Country where every Nation of Indians could raise three, or four times our Number, and a certain loss of our enterprise by the Enemie's getting timely notice. I could not bear the thoughts of returning; in short every idea of the sort served to put me in that passion that I did not master for some time; but in a Short time after our circumstance had a better appearance for I was in a moment determined to put the guide to Death if he did not find his way that Evening; I told him his doom, the poor fellow scared almost out of his wits, begged that I would stay awhile where I was and suffer him to go and make some discovery of a Road that could not be far from us, which I would not suffer for fear of not seeing him again, but ordered him to lead on the party, that his fate depended on his success; after some little pause he begged that I would not be hard with him, that he could find the Path that Evening; He accordingly took his course and in two hours got within his knowledge; On the Evening of the 4th of July we got within three miles of the Town Kaskaskias, having a River of the same name to cross to the Town; After making ourselves ready for anything that might happen, we marched after night to a Farm that was on the same side of the River about a mile above the Town, took the family Prisoners, & found plenty of Boats to Cross in; and in two hours Transported ourselves to the other Shore with the Greatest silence. I learned that they had some suspician of being attacted and had made some preparations, keeping out Spies, but they making no discoveries, had got off their Guard. I immediately divided my little Army into two Divisions ordered one to surround the Town, with the other I broke into the Fort, secured the Governour Mr Rochblave in 15 minutes had every Street Secured, sent Runners through the Town ordering the People on the pane of Death to keep close to their Houses, which they observ'd and before daylight had the whole disarmed; nothing could excell the Confusion these People seemed to be in, being taught to expect nothing but Savage treatment from the Americans, Giving all for lost their Lives were all they could dare beg for, which they did with the greatest fervancy; they were willing to be Slaves to save their Families I told them it did not suit me to give an answer at that time, they repared to their houses trembling as if they were led to Execution; my principal would not suffer me to distress such a number of People, except, through policy it was necessary; A little reflection convinced me that it was my Intrest to Attach them to me, according to my first Plan; for the Town of Cohos & S' Vincents and the numerous Tribes of Indians attached to the French was yet to influence, for I was too weak to treat them any other way; I sent for all the Principal Men of the Town who came in as if to a Tribunal that was to determine their fate forever Cursing their fortune that they were not apprised of us time to have defended themselves: I told them that I was sorry to find that they had been taught to harbbour so base an opinion of the Americans and their Cause: Explain'd the nature of the dispute to them in as clear a light as I was capable of, it was certain that they were a Conquered People and by the fate of War was at my mercy and that our Principal was to make those we Reduced free instead of enslaving them as they immagined, that if I could have surety of their Zeal and attachment to the American Cause, they should immediately enjoy all the priviledges of our Government and their property secured to them that it was only to stop farther effusion of Innocent Blood by the Savages under the influence of their Governour, that made them an object of our attention &c.' no sooner had they heard this than Joy sparkled in their Eyes and  fell into Transports of Joy that really surprised me; as soon as they were a little moderated they told me that they had always been kept in the dark as to the dispute between America & Britain that they had never heard any thing before but what was prejuditial and tended to insence them against the Americans, that they were now convinced that it was a Cause they ought to Espouse; that they should be happy of an oppertunity to convince me of their Zeal, and think themselves the happyest People in the World if they were united with the Americans and beg'd that I would receive what said their real sentiments (expected policy) in order to be more Certain of their sincerety, I told them that an Oath of fedelity was required from the Citizens and to give them time to reflect on it, I should not Administer it for a few days in the meantime any of them that chose, was at liberty to leave the Country with their families; except two or three particular Persons. that they might repair to their families conduct themselves as usial without any dread. The Priest that had lately come from Canada had made himself a little acquainted with our dispute; Contrary to the principal of his Brother in Canada) was rather prejudiced in favour of us. He asked if I would give him liberty to perform his duty in his Church I told him that I had nothing to do with Churches more than to defend them from Insult. That by the laws of the state his Religion had as great Previledges as any other: This seem'd to compleat their happiness. They returned to their families, and in a few Minutes the scean of mourning and distress was turned to an excess of Joy, nothing else seen nor heard—Addorning the Streets with flowers & Pavilians of different colours, compleating their happiness by singing &c. In meantime I prepar'd a Detachment on Horseback, under Cap' Bowman to make a Descent on Cohos, about sixty miles up the Country; the Inhabitants told me that one of their Townsmen was enough to put me in possession of that place, by carrying the good news that the People would rejoice, however I did not altogether chuse to trust them, dispatched the Captain, Attended by a considerable number of the Inhabitants who got into the middle of the Town before they were discovered; the French Gentlemen Calling aloud to the People to submit to their happier fate, which they did with very little hesitation: A number of Indians beings Town,on hearing of the Big knives, immediately made their Escape; In a few days the Inhabittants of the Country took the Oath! scribed by Law; and every Person appeared to be happy; Ourfrie the Spanyards, doing every thing in their power to convince me of their friendship, a Correspondence immediately commenced between the Governour and myself.—Post S' Vincent, a Town about the Size of Williamsburg was the next Object in my view; As the whole was appris'd of me, I was by no means able to march against it (their Governour a few months before going to Detroit) I was resolved if possible to win their affection which I thought myself in a fair way of doing more fully to know the sentiments of the Inhabittants about there; And to execute my Plans I pretended that I was about to send an Express to the falls of Ohio for a Body of Troops to Join me at a certain place in order to attact it; it soon had the desired effect Advocates immediately appear'd among the people in their behalf. Mr Jeboth, the Priest, to fully convince me of his Attachment offered to undertake to win that Town for me if I would permit him and let a few of them go; they made no doubt of gaining their friends at St Vincents to my Interest; the Priest told me he would go himself, and gave me to understand, that although he had nothing to do with temporal business, that he would give them such hints in the Spiritual way that would be very conducive to the business; In a few days the Priest, Docf Lefont, the Principal, with a few others set out, and a Proclamation I sent, for that purpose, and other instructions in case of success—In a few weeks they returned with intiligencc agreable to my wishes. I now found myself in possession of the whole, in a Country where I found I could do more real service than I expected; which occationed my situation to be more disagreeable as I wanted Men. The greatest part of my Men was for returning, as they were no longer Ingaged surrounded by numerous Nations of Savages, whose minds had been long poisoned by the English. It was with difficulty that I could Support that Dignity that was necessary to give my orders that force that was necessary,1 but by great preasents and promises I got about one hundred of my Detachment Enlisted for eight months, and to colour my staying with so few Troops I ma<|9a4aint of returning to the Falls, as though I had sufficient confidence in the People, hoping that the Inhabitants would remonstiaSte against my leaving them, which they did in the warmest terms proving the necessity of the Troops at that place that they were affraid if I returned the English would again possess the Country. Then seemingly by their request I agreed to stay with two Companies of Troops, and that I hardly thought, as they alleg'd that so many was necessary; but if more was wanted I could get them at any time from the Falls; where they were made to believe was a Considerable Garrison. As soon as possible sent off those that could not be got to stay, with Mr Rochblanch, and Letters to his Excellency letting him know my situation and the necessity of Troops in the Country Many of the French fond of the service, the different Companies soon got Compleat. I stationed Cap' Bowman at Cohos, Cap' Helms comd at S' Vincents Superintendant &c—Domestick affairs being partly well settled the Indian Department came next the object of my attention and of the greatest importance, my sudden appearance in their Country put them under the greatest consternation, they was generally at War against us, but the French and Spainyards appearing so fond of us confused them, they counciled with the French Traders to know what was best to be done, and of course was advised to come and selicit for peace, and did not doubt but we might be good Friends; it may appear otherwise to You, but always thought we took the wrong method of treating with Indians, and strove as soon as possible to make myself acquainted with the French and Spanish mode which must be prefferable to ours, otherwise they could not possibly have such great influence among them; when thoroughly acquainted with it exactly Coinsided with my own idea, and Resolved to follow that same Rule as near as Circumstances would permit, the Kaskaskias, Peoreanas & Mcchegames immediately treated for peace; I sent letters and speaches by Cap' Helms to the Chief of the Kickebues & Peankeshaws residing at Post S' Vincents desireing them to lay down their Tomahawk, and if they did not chuse it to behave like Men and fight for the English as they had done; but they would see their great father as they called him given to the Dogs to eat (gave Harsh language to supply thewant of Men; well knowing that it was a mistaken notion in many that soft speeches was best for Indians) But if they thought of giving their hands to the Big knives to give their Hearts also, and that I did not doubt but after being acquainted, that they would find that the Big knives of better Principals than what the bad Birds the English had taught them to believe. They received the Speeches from the Cap' with another of his own, and after some Consultation they resolved to take the Big Knives by the hand and came to a conclusion of Peace—And said the Americans must be Warriers and no deceivers, or they would never have spoke as they did; that they liked such People; and that the English was Liers and they would listen to them no longer; that by what they had heard of the Big knives, the Indians had as great a right to fight the English as they had, that they was convinced that it was the truth—What they alluded to was, part of the Speech that I had sent to them, explaining to them the nature of the War, in the following manner. That a great many years ago, our forefathers lived in England, but the King oppressed them in such a manner that they were obliged to Cross the great Waters to get out of his way; But he not being satisfied to loose so many Subjects sent Governours and Soldiers among them to make them obey his Laws, but told his Governours to treat them well and take but little from them until they grew populus, that then they would be able to pay a great deal; By the good treatment we got, we grew to be a great People and flourished fast—The King then wrote to hisGouvernour & Officers that we had got Rich and numerous enough, that it was time to make us pay tribute, that he did not care how much they took, so as they left us enough to eat, and that he had sent them a great many Soldiers to make the Americans pay if they refused, that when they had made the Americans do as they pleased, they would then make the Indians pay likewise; But for fear the Indians should find it out by the Big Knives that the English intended to make them also pay, & Should get mad with the English for their treatment to their neighbours the Big Knives, that they, his Governours should make us Quarrel &c—We bore their Taxes for many Years, at last they were so hard that if we killed a Deer they would take the Skin away and leave us only the Meat, and made us buy Blankets with Corn to fead their Soldiers with. By such usage we got Poor and was obliged to go naked; And at last we complained—The King got mad and made his Soldiers Kill some of our People and Burn some of our Villages. The Old Men then held a great Council and made the Tomahawk very sharp and put it into the hand of the young Men, told them to be strong & Strike the English as long as they could find one on this Island. They immediately struck and Killed a great many of the English. The French King hearing of it sent to the Americans and told them to be strong and fight the English like Men, that if they wanted help or Tomahawks he would furnish them &c. &c. This Speech had a greater effect than I could have immagined, and did more service than a Regiment of Men cou'd have done. It was with astonishment that viewed the Amazeing number of Savages that soon flocked into the Town of Cohos to treat for peace, and to hear what the Big Knives had to say many of them 500 miles distant Chipoways, Ottoways, Petawatomies, Missesogies Puans, Sacks, Foxes, Sayges, Tauways, Mawmies and a number of other Nations all living east of the Messicippa, and many of them then at War against us. I must confess that I was under some apprehention among such a number of Devils, and it proved to be just for the second or third night, a party of puans & others endeavored to force by the Guards into my Lodgings to Bear me off; but was happily Detected and made Prisoners by the elacrity of the Sergeat; The Town took the alarm and was immediately under Arms which convinced the Savages that the French were in our Interest. I was determined to follow the Principal that I had set out upon, let the consequence be what it would. I immediately ordered the Chiefs to be put into Irons by the French Militia. They insisted that it was only to see whether the French would take part with the Americans or not, that they had no ill Design, this treatment of some of the greatest Chiefs among them, occationed great confusion among the rest of the Savages. The Prisoners, with great submission celicited to speak to me, but was refused. They then made all the interest they possibly could amongst the other Indians (who was much at a loss what to do as there was Strong Guards through every Quarter of the Town) to get to speak to me; but I told the whole that I believed they were a set of Villians, that they had Joined the Inglish and they were welcome to continue in the Cause they had espoused; that I was a Man and a Warrier: that I did not care who was my Friends or Foes; and had no more to say to them: Such conduct Alarmed the whole Town: but I was sensible that it would gain us no more Enemies than we had already, and if they after selicited for terms, that it would be more sincere, and probably a lasting good effect on the Indian Nations, distrust was visible in the Countenance of almost every Person during the latter part of the day. To shew the Indians that I disregarded them, I remained in my Lodging in the Town about one hundred Yards from the Fort seemingly without a guard, but kept about fifty Men conceiled in a Parlour adjoining, and the Garrison under Arms; there was great Counciling among the Savages dureing the Night; But to make them have the greater idea of my Indifferency abcut them; I assembled a Number of Gentlemen & Ladies, and danced nearly the whole Night—In the morning I summoned the different Nations to a grand Council, and the Chief under Guard released, and invited to Council that I might speak to them in presence of the whole. After the Common Cerimonies over, I produced a Bloody Belt of wampoin and spoke to them in the following manner I told the Chief that was Guilty, that I was Sencible their Nation was engaged in favour of the English, and if they thought it right, I did not blame them for it, and exhorted them to behave like Men, and support the Cause they had undertaken; that I was Sensible that the English was weak and wanted help; that I scorned to take any advantage of them by Persuading their friends to desert them; that there was no People but Americans, but would put them to death for their late behaviour; That it convinced me of their being my Enemies. But it was beneath the Character of Americans to take such revenge that they were at their Liberty to do as they pleas'd But to behave like Men, and not do any mischief until three days after they left the Town that I should have them escorted safe out of the Village, and after that expiration of time, if they did not choose to return and fight me, they might find Americans enough by going farther, That if they did not want their own Women and Children massecred, they must leave off killing ours and only fight Men under Arms, which was commendable; that there was the War Belt, We should soon see which of us would make it the most Bloody &c—Then told them that it was customary among all Brave Men to treat their Enemies well when assembled as we were; that I should give them Provisions & Rum while they staid, but by their behavior I could not conceive that they deserved that appellation, and I did not care how soon they left me after that day. I observed that their Countenances and attitude favoured my real design; the whole looked like a parcel of Criminals. The other Nations rose and made many submissive Speeches excusing themselves for their conduct in a very pretty manner and something noble in their sentiments (their talk I enclose) they alledged that they were persuaded to War by the English, and made to harbour a wrong oppinion of the Americans, but they now believed them to be Men and Warriers, and could wishrto take them by the hand as Brothers; that they did not speak from their lips only, but that I should hereafter find that they spoke from their Hearts, and that they hoped I would pitty their blindness and their Women and Children; and also selicited for their Friends that had been Guilty of the late crime I told them that I had instructions from the Great Man of the Big Knives not to ask Peace from any People but to offer Peace and War, and let them take their Choice, Except a few of the worst Nation to whom I was to grant no Piece, for as the English could fight us no longer he was aff raid our Young Warriers would get rusty without they could get somebody to fight &c—I presented them with a Peace & War Belt and told them to take their choice; excepting those who had been Imprisoned, they with a great deal of seeming Joy took the Belt of Peace. I told them I would refer  Smokeing the Peace Pipe until I heard that they had called in all their Warriers, and then we would conclude the Treaty with all the Ceremony necessary for so important Occasion —they immediately selicited for some Persons to go with them to be witness of their Conduct, and hoped that I would favour their Guilty Friends, which I refused; and was pleased to see them set trembling, as Persons frightened at the apprehension of the worst fate. Their speaker then rose and made a most lamentable speach; such as I could have wished for: Begging Mercy for their Women and Children: for the French Gentlemen whom they put the greatest confidence in had given them lessons that favour'd my Purpose: I recommended it to them to go to their father the English, as he had told them that he was Strong perhaps he might help them as he had promised; that they could blame no Person but themselves when their Nation should be given with the English to the Dogs to eat—When they had tried their Elloquence to no purpose, they pitched on two Young Men for to be put to Death as an attonement for the rest hoping that would passify me; It would have surprised You to have seen how submissively those two Young Men presented themselves for Death, advancing into the middle of the floor, setting down by each other and covering their heads with their Blankets to receive the Tomahawk (Peace was what I wanted with them if I got it on my own terms) but this stroke prejudiced me in their favour, and for a few moments was so adjutated that I dont doubt but that I should without reflection killed the first Man that would have offered to have hurt them: My wishes respecting this Treaty was now compleat; And I since find no room to blame myself for any omission in what follow'd in the Treaty: which time has already proved the good effects of it throughout the Illinois Country Our Influence now began to spread among the Nations even to the Border of the Lakes. I sent Agents into every Quarter)  I continued for about five weeks in the Town of Cohos; in which time I had setled a peace with ten or twelve different Nations. — Being much fatiegued I returned to Kaskaskias leaving Major Bowman to act in which he did himself much Honour—An intamacy had commenced between Don Leybrau Lieu Governour of Western Illinois and myself he omited nothing in his Power to prove his Attachment to the Americans with such openness as left no room for a doubt; as I was never before in Compy of any Spanish gen' I was much surprised in my expectations; for instead of finding that reserve thought peculiar to that Nation, I here saw not the least symptoms of it, freedom almost to excess gave the greatest Pleasure; at my return to Kaskaskias I found every thing as well as I could have expected. Having so far fixed matters as to have a moments Leasure: which was taken up with deeper Reflections than I ever before was Acquainted with. My situation and weekness convinced me that more depended on my own Behaviour and Conduct, than all the Troops that I had far removed from the Body of my Country: Situated among French, Spanyards and Numerous Bands of Savages on every Quarter: Watching my Actions, ready to receive impressions favourable or not so of us; which might be hard to remove, and wou'd perhaps produce lasting good, or ill effects. It was now that I saw my work was only began, maturely examineing every circumstance of my past Actions fixing such Resolutions, that in case of misfortune or loss of Interest, it should be for want of Judgment only. Strict subordination among the Troops was my first object, and soon effected it. It being a matter of the greatest consequence to Persons in our situation. Our Troops being all Raw and undissiplined. You must be sensible of the pleasure I felt when harangueing them on Perade. Telling them my Resolutions, and the necessity of strict duty for our own preservation &c—For them to return me Answer, that it'was their Zeal for their Country that induced them to engage in the Service, that they were senciblc of their situation and Danger; that nothing could conduce more to their safety and happiness, than good order, which they would try to adhere to and hoped that no favour would be shewn those that would neglect it. In a short time perhaps no Garrisson could boast of better order, or a more Valuable set of Men. By this time the English party at Detroit, finding their influence among the Savages abateing, sent out messengers through the different Nations as far as they dare venture, Redoubled their Presents and insinuations to little purpose; as I had a Number of Persons well acquainted with the Indians, Spread through the whole that had treated with me, 7 Spies continually in and about Detroit for a considerable time. One of the British Agents residing at Oueaugh,  about eighty Leagues above S' Vincents hurt our growing Interest much, the Indians in that Quarter being inclin'd to desert the British Interest, but in some measure kept from their good intention by that Person—I Resolved if possible to take him off, and sent a Detachment of Men from Kaskaskias under Command of Lieu' Bailey to join Cap' Helms at S' Vincents and if possible surprise him; The Cap' with about one hundred Men in number, part french Militia and Indians, set out by water. The Agent hearing of it collected a few Savages from the neighbourhood that he could trust in order to give Battle (the Indians in general Neutrals) but a few days before the Captains arrival Mr Celeron thought proper to make his Escape, leaving his friendly Indians in the Fort, who being Assembled in a Grand Council to determine what was best to be done, neglecting to shut the Gate or keep Sentinels (not supposeing the Enemies to be so near) in the hith of their deliberation Cap' Helms and Bailey  his Small Party entered the Fort and ordered them to surrender before they were appris'd About forty in number being made Prisoners, The Cap' made a Valuable Treaty; Gave them their Liberty; this stroke compleated our Interest on the WabacheJ S' Vincents being a Post of great Importance, and not being able to spare many Men to Garrisson it I took uncommon pains intirely to Attach them to our Interest as well as the Inhabitants of the Illinois Knowing no other kind of Government than what might be expected from the lust of Power, Pride and Avarice of the Officers Commanding in that Country Whose will was a Law to the whole and certain destruction to disobey the most trifleing Command. Nothing could have been more to my Advantage, as I could temper the Government as I pleased, and every new privilege appeared to them as fresh Laurels to the American Cause I by degrees laid aside every unnecessary Restriction they laboured under. As I was convincedthatitwasthemercinary views of their former Governours that Established them, paying no regard to the happiness of the People, and those Customs Strictly observed that was most conducive to good order; I made it a Point to guard the happiness and Tranquility of the inhabitants supposing that their happy change reaching the ears of their Brothers and Countrymen on the Lakes and about Detroit, would be paving myjvay to that Place; and a good Effect on the Indians. I soon found it had the desired Effect; for the greatest part of the French Gen' and Traders among the Indians declared for us many Letters of Congratulation, sent from Detroit to the Gen' of the Illinois which gave me much Pleasure. I let slip no oppertunity, in Cultivating our growing Interest in every Quarter where there was the least appearance of a future advantage; and had as great Success as I had any right to expect. Great tranquility appeared in every countenance, being apprehensive that the British Party at Detroit finding it hard to regain their lost Interest among the Savages would probably make a Descent on theTllinois if they found themselves capitated,1 for fear of their finding out our Numbers (parties of Men coming & going from Kentucky and other places Recruits &c—) I suffered no Parrade except the guards for a considerable time, and took every other precaution to keep every Person ignorant of our numbers which was generally thought to be nearly double what we really had. I found that my Ideas, respecting the movement of the English just, having certain Accounts by our Spies that Governour Hammilton was on his march from Detroit with a Considerable Party, taking his Rout up the Meamies River. In a few days receiveing certain intiligence that General McIntosh had left Pitsburg for Detroit with a Considerable Army. Knowing the weakness of the Fortiycation of that Post at that time their numbers &c—I made no doubt of its being shortly in our Possession. And that Governour Hamilton, Sensible that there was no Probability of his defending the Fort, had marched with his whole force to encourage the Indians to Harrass the General on his March; as the only Probable Plan to stop him. little thinking that He had returned, and Mr Hamilton had the same design on me, that I supposed he had at General McIntosch. It being near Christmas we feasted ourselves with the hopes of immediately hearing from Detroit, and began to think that we had been neglected in an express not being sent with the Important news of its being ours. But a circomstance soon hapened that convinced us that our hopes was vain A Young Man at the Town of Cohos holding a Correspondance and sending Intilligence to Governour Hamiltons Party was Detected & punished accordingly: By which we Learned the return of General McIntosch, and Goverr Hamiltons Intentions on the Illinois, But not so fully expressed in the latter as to reduce it to a certainty; but supposing that in case of its being true they would make their first Descent on Kaskaskias It being the strongest Garrison and head Quarters I kept Spies on all the Roads to no Purpose; Mr Hammilton having the Advantage of Descending the Oubach with eight hundred Men French, Indians and Regulars; took possession of Post S' Vincents on the 17'h day of Decemr he had Parties on the Road that took some of our Spies— hard weather immediately seting in I was at a loss to know what to do, many supposed that he had Quit his design and came no farther than Ome. But no Intiligence from S' Vincents. I was Still under some doubt of his being there, except the Comhad kept back the Express on account of the High waters. In this situation we remain'd for many Days. I intended to evacuate the Garrisson of Cohos in case of a Siege; But was anxious to have a Conferrence with the Principal Inhabitants that I knew to be Zealous in our Interest, to fix on certain Plans for their Conduct when in possession of the English, if it should be the case; And set out on the  day of Januy 1779 for that Town with an Intention of staying but a few days. Mr Hammilton in meantime had sent a party of 40 Savages headed by white Men from S' Vincent in order if possible to take me Prisoner, and gave such Instructions for my treatment as did him no dishonour. This Party lay conceal'd keeping a small Party near the Road to see who Passed; they lay by a Small Branch about three miles from Kaskaskias, there being Snow on the Ground, I had a Guard of about six or seven Men and a few Gen' in Chairs, one of them Swampt within one hundred Yards of the Place where these fellows lay hid, where we had to delay upwards of an hour I believe nothing here saved me, but the Instruction they had, not to Kill me or the fear of being over Powered, not having an oppertunity to Alarm the main Body (which lay half a mile off) without being discovered themselves. We arrived safe at the Town of Lapraryderush about twelve miles above Kaskaskias The Gentlemen & Ladies immediately assembled at a Ball for cur Entertainment; we spent the fore part of the night very agreably; but about 12 Oclock there was a very sudden change by an Express Arriveing enforming us that Governour Hammilton was within three miles of Kaskaskias with eight hundred Men, and was determined to Attact the Fort that night; which was expected would be before the Express got to me, for it seems that those fellows were discovered by a hunter and after missing their aim on me, discovered themselves to a Party of Negroes and told them a story as suited their Purpose. I never saw greater confusion among a small Assembly than was at that time, every Person having their eyes on me as if my word was to determine their good or Evil fate. It required but a moments hesitation in me to form my Resolution, Communicated them to two of my Officers that accompyd me, which they Approved of. I ordered our Horses Sadled in order if possible to get into the Fort before the Attact could be made. Those of the Company that had recovered their Surprise so far as to enable them to speak, begged of me not to attempt to Return, that the Town was certainly in possession of the Enemy and the Fort warmly Attacted. Some proposed Conveying me to the Spanish Shore; some one thing and some another. I thanked them for the Care they had of my Person, and told them it was the fate of War. that a good Soldier never ought to be affraid of his Life where was a Probability of his doing service by ventureing of it which was my Case. That I hoped they would not let the news Spoil our Divirsion sooner than was necessary, that we would divirt ourselves until our horses was ready, forced them to dance and endeavoured to appear as unconcerned as if no such thing was in Adjutation. This Conduct inspired the Young Men in such a manner that many of them was getting their Horses to Share fate with me. But chusing to loose no time as soon as I could write a few lines on the back of my Letter to Captain Bowman at Cohos, I set out for Kaskaskias; each Man  a Blanket, that in case the Fort was attacted We were to wrap ourselves in them fall in with the Enemies fire at the Fort until we had an oppertunity of getting so near as to give the proper signals knowing that we should be let in. But on our Arrival we found every thing as calm as we could expect. The weather being bad, it was then thought the Attact would not commence until it cleared up But no Person seem'd to doubt of the Enemies being at hand, and from many circumstances I could not but Suppose it was the case, and that they deferd the Attact for some time in order to give us time to Retreat; which I supposed they wou'd rather chuse by their proceedings; But I was determined that they should be disappointed if that was their wishes. There was no time lost during the Night puting every thing in as good order as Possible. The Priest of all Men the most affraid of Mr Hammilton, he was in the greatest consternation, determined to Act agreeable to my Instruction. I found by his Consternation that he was sure that the Fort would be taken, Except Reinforced by the Garrisson at Cohos which I did not chuse to let him know would be the case although I knew him to be a Zealous Friend. I pretended that I wanted him to go to the Spanish side with Publick Papers and Money, the Proposition pleas'd him well, he immediately started & getting into an Island the Ice passing so thick down the Messicippi, that he was obliged to Encamp three days in the most obscure part of the Island with only a Servant to attend him I spent many serious reflections during the night. The Inhabitants had always appeard to be attached to us: but I was convinced that I should in the morning have a Sufficient trial of their fadility: (several of their Young Men had turned into the Fort in order to defend it) but Sensible at the same time that in case they took Arms to defend the Town that the whole would probably be lost, as I should be obliged to give the Enemy Battle in the Commons. I would have chose to have had those without families to Reinforce the Garrisson, and the rest to have lain Neuter. I resolved to burn part of the Town that was near the Fort and Guard it, as I knew the greatest service we possibly could do, was to Sell the Fort as Dear as possible; there being no probability of escaping after Attact, or expectation of Reinforcements, as we were too far detached from the Body of our Country. The only probable chance of safety was Cap' Bowmans joining me which I expected the next evening down the Messicippi, to defend ourselves until Mr Hamiltons Indians got tired and returned in four or five Weeks which I expected the greatest Part would do if they had not that Success that they expected. I had no occasion to consult the Garrison in any Resolution I should fix upon as I knew that they was all as Spirited as I could wish them to be, and took pains to make them as desperate as possible. If You rightly Consider our Situation & Circumstance, You must conceive it to be desperate; in the morning the first thing I did was to assemble all the Inhabitants in order to know their Resolutions; as they had been the night Counciling with each other they expected some orders Issued which I did not chuse to do; at the Assembly I asked them what they thought of doing, whether they would endeavour to defend The Town or not; if they did I would Quit the Fort leaving a Small Guard, and head them with the Troops; and if the Enemy lay until the weather Broke, we might probably in the meantime discover their Camp and get some advantage of them. They appear'd to be in great confusion, and all my fear was, that they would agree to defend themselves, and if the Enemy was as numerous as was expected the whole would be lost. But I need not to have been uneasy about that, for they had too maturely studied their own Interest to think of fighting, which they certainly would have done if I had only as many Troops as would have given any probability of suckcess. they displai'd their situation in such a manner as was really moving and with great truth. But denied to Act either on one side or the other; And begged that I would believe them to be in the American Interest: But my whole force joined with them would make but a poor figure against so considerable a party and gave hints that they could wish us to take Spanish Protection as they could not conceive we could keep possession a Single day as the Enemy would immediately set the adjacent Houses on fire which would fire the Fort (not knowing that I intended to Burn them myself as soon as the wind shifted.) I very seldom found but I could govern my temper at pleasure: But this declaration of theirs and some other Circumstances put me in a most violent Rage, and as soon as I could curb my Passion gave a Lecture suitable for a set of Traitors, (although I could not conceive the whole of them to be such). I ordered them out of the Garrisson, and told them that I no longer thought they deserved favor from me, that I consequently must conceive them to be my secret Enemies and should treat them as such; They endeavoured to soothe me into pitty, but to have listned to them would have destroyed my intention. I determined to make myself appear to them as desperate as Possible that it might have a Greater effect on the Enemy (they asked me to issue an order for all the Provision in the Town to be brought into the Fort immediately, by which I was convinced that it was their desire that I should be able to stand the Siege as long as possible, and only wanted an excuse to the Person they expected every moment to be their Master for making the supplies) I told them that I would have all the Provisions and then Burn the Town to the Enemies hand: that they might send the Provision if they chose it, and sent them out of the Fort: and immediately had fire set to some out Houses; Never was a set of People in more distress; Their Town set on fire by those that they wished to be in friendship with; at the same time Surrounded by the Savages, as they expected: from whom they had but little else but destruction to expect; The Houses being covered with Snow, the fire had no effect only on those it was set to; the Inhabitants looking on without daring to say a word: I told them that I intended to set fire to all those that had much Provision for fear of the Enemie's getting it: They were not in so great a Leathergy, but they took the hint and before night they brought in six months Provisions of all sorts; by which they were in hopes to come on better Terms: but a fresh Circumstance Alarmed them; one of the Inhabitants Riding into the Field met a Man that told him he saw a party of the Enemy going on the Island to take the Priest, he returning to Town met the Priest's Brother in Law and told him what he had hear'd, and begged of him not to tell me of it the Poor fellow half scared to death about his Brother, made all haste and told me. I took his Evidence; sent for the Citizen who could not deny it. I immediately ordered him hanged: The Town took the Alarm hasted about the walls of the Fort, if possible to save their Friend. The Poor fellow given up to the Soldiers who dragged him to the place of Execution, each striving to be foremost in the Execution as if they thirsted after Blood: some was for Tomahawking him, some for hanging & Others for Burning: they got to Quarreling about it; which at last saved his life; the Inhabitants having time to supplicate in his favour; but nothing would have saved his life but the appearance of his Wife and seven small Children, which sight was too moving not to have granted them the life of their Parent on terms that put it out of his power to do any damage to me—The weather clearing away Cap' Bowman Arrived the following day with his own and a compy of Volunteers from Cohos; we now began to make a tolerable appearance and seemd to defie the Enemy: and sent out Spies on every Quarter to make discovery of them hoping we might get some Advantage of them, chusing for many important Reasons to attact them two to one in the field rather than suffer them  take possession of the Town, which by the form and manner of Picquiting the Yards and Gardens was very Strong I was convinced that the Inhabitants now wished they had behaved in another manner I took the advantage of the favourable oppertunity to Attach them intirely in my Interest, and instead of Treating them more sevear as they expected on my being Reinforced, I altered my Conduct towards them and treated them with the greatest kindness, granting them every request my Influence among them, in a few hours was greater than ever; they condemning themselves and thought that I had treated them as they deserved; and I believe, had Mr Hammilton appear'd we should have defeated him with a good deal of ease not so numerous but the Men being much better. Our Spies returning, and found the great Army that gave the alarm consisted only of about forty Whites and Indians making their Retreat as fast as possible to S' Vincents; sent for no other purpose as we found after but to take me. We were now Sensible that S' Vincents was in possession of the English; and consequently we might shortly expect an Attact though no danger at present, and had some time to make preparation for what we were certain of—I had reason to expect a Reinforcement on the presumption that Government ordered one on the Receipt of my first Letter; still encouraged each other and hoped for the best: But suffered more uneasiness than when I was certain of an immediate Attact, as I had more time to reflect: the Result of which was that the Illinois in a few months would be in the possession of the English except the Garrison which I knew would not be disposed to surrender without the greatest distress I sent off the Horsemen to S' Vincents to take a Prisoner by which we might get intiligence, but found it impracticable, on account of the high waters; but in the hight of our anxiety on the evening of the 29th of Januy 1779 Mr Vague  a Spanish Merch' Arrived from S' Vincents, and was there the time of its being taken, and gave me every Intiligence that I could wish to have. Governour Hamiltons Party consisted of about eight hundred when he took possession of that Post on the 17'h day of december past: finding the Season too far spent for his intention against Kaskaskias had sent nearly the whole of his Indians out in different Parties to War: But to embody as soon as the weather would Permit and compleat his design: He had also sent messengers to the southern I ndians, five hundred of whom he expected to join him. only eighty Troops in Garrisson (our Situation still appeard desperate, it was at this moment I would have bound myself seven years a Slave to have had five hundred Troops) I saw the only probability of our mamtainin* the Country was to take the advantage of his present weakness, perhaps we might be fortunate: I considered the Inclemency of the season, the badness of the Roads &c—as an advantage to us, as they would be more off their Guard on all Quarters. I collected the Officers, told them the probability I thought there was of turning the scale in our favour: I found it the sentiment of every one of them and eager for it. Our Plans immediately concluded on; and sent An Express to Cohos for the Return of Cap' McCarty & his Volunteers, and set about the necessary preparations in order to Transport my Artillery Stores &c. I had a Large Boat prepared and Rigged mounting two four pounders six  large swevels Manned with a fine Comp* Commandd by Lieut. Rogers :l She set out in the evening of the 4th of Jany with orders to force her way if possible within ten Leagues of S' Vincents and lay until further Orders. This Vessel when Compleat was much admired by the Inhabitants as no such thing had been seen in the Country before. I had great Expectations from her I conducted myself as though I was sure of taking Mr Hamilton, instructed my Officers to observe the same Rule. In a day or two the Country seemed to believe it, many anxious to retrieve their Characters turned out, the Ladies began also to be spirited and interest themselves in the Expedition, which had great Effect on the Young men By the 4'h day of Januy I got every thing Compleat and on the 5'h I marched being joined by two Volunteer Compys of the Principal Young Men of the Illinois Commandd by Cap' McCarty & Francis Charlaville. Those of the Troops was Captn* Bowman & William Worthingtons of the light Horse, we were Conducted out of the Town by the Inhabitants: and Mr Jeboth the Priest, who after a very suitable Discourse to the purpose, gave us all Absolution And we set out on a Forlorn hope indeed; for our whole Party with the Boats Crew consisetd of only a little upwards of two hundred. I cannot account for it but I still had inward assurance of success; and never could when weighing every Circumstance doubt it: But I had some secret check. We had now a Rout before us of two hundred and Forty miles in length, through, I suppose one of the most beautiful Country in the world; but at this time in many parts flowing with water and cxceading bad marching, my greatest care was to divert the Men as much as possible in order to keep up their spirits; the first obstruction of any consequence that I met with was on the 13'h Arriveing at the two little Wabachces although three miles asunder they now make but one, the flowed water between them being at Least three feet deep, and in many places four: Being near five miles to the opposite Hills, the shallowest place, except about one hundred Yards was three feet.1 This would have been enough to have stop'ed any set of men that was not in the same temper that we was But in three days we contrived to cross, by building a large Canoe, ferried across the two Channels, the rest of the way we waded; Building scaffolds at each to lodge our Baggage on until the Horses Crossed to take them; it Rained nearly a third of our March; but we never halted for it; In the evening of the 17th we got to the low Lands of the River Umbara which we found deep in water, it being nine miles to S' Vincents which stood on the East side of the Wabache and every foot of the way covered with deep water, we Marched down the little River in order to gain the Banks of the main which we did in about three Leagues, made a small Canoe and sent an Express to meet the Boat and hurry it up from the spot we now lay on was about ten miles to Town, and every foot of the way put together that was not three feet and upwards under water would not have made the length of two miles and a half and not a mouthful of Provision; To have waited for our Boat, if possible to avoid it, would have been Impolitic If I was sensible that You wou'd let no Person see this relation I would give You a detail of our suffering for four days in crossing those waters, and the manner it was done; as I am sure that You wou'd Credit it. but it is too incredible for any Person to believe except those that are as well acquainted with me as You are, or had experienced something similar to it I hope You will excuse me until I have the pleasure of seeing You personally. But to our inexpressible Joy in the evening of the 23d we got safe on Terra firma within half a League of the Fort, covered by a small Grove of Trees had a full view of the wished for spot (I should have crossed at a greater distance from the Town but the White River comeing in jest below us we were affraid of getting too near it) we had Already taken some Prisoners that was coming from the Town: Laying in this Grove some time to dry our Clothes by the Sun we took another Prisoner known to be a friend by which we got all the Intiligence we wished for: but would not suffer him to see our Troops except a few. A thousand Ideas flashed in my Head at this moment I found that Govr Hamilton was able to defend himself for a considerable time, but knew that he was not able to turn out of the Fort; that if the Seige Continued long a Superior number might come against us,as I knew there was a Party of English not far above in the River: that if they found out our Numbers might raise the disaffected Savages and harass us. I resolved to appear as Darring as possible, that the Enemy might conceive by our behaviour that we were very numerous and probably discourage them. I immediately wrote to the Inhabitants in general. Informing them where I was and what I determined to do desireing the Friends to the States to keep close in their Houses those in the British Interest to repair to the fort and fight for their King: otherways there should be no mercy shewn them &c—&c—Sending the Compliments of several Officers that was known to be Expected to reinforce me, to several Gentlemen of the Town: I dispatched the Prisoner off with this letter waiting until near sunset, giving him time to get near the Town before we marched. As it was an open Plain from the Wood that covered us; I march'd time enough to be seen from the Town before dark but taking advantage of the Land, disposed the lines in such a manner that nothing but the Pavilions could be seen, having as many of them as would be sufficient for a thousand Men, which was observed by the Inhabitants, who had Just Receiv'd my letter counted the different Colours and Judged our number accordingly But I was careful to give them no oppertunity of seeing our Troops before dark, which it would be before we could Arrive: The Houses obstructed the Forts observing us and were not Allarmed as I expected by many of the Inhabitants: I detached Lieu' Bayley and party to Attact the Fort at a certain Signal, and took possession of the strongest Posts of the Town with the main Body. The Garrisson had so little suspicion of what was to happen that they did not believe the Fireing was from an Enemy, until a Man was wounded through the Ports (which hapned the third or fourth shot) Expecting it to be some drunkn Indians—The Fireing commenced on both sides very warm; a second Division Joined the first A considerable number of British Indians made their escape out of Town: The Kickepous and Peankeshaws to the amount of about one hundred that was in Town immediately Armed themselves in our favour and Marched to attact the Fort. I thanked the Chief for his intended service, told him the 1ll consequence of our People being mingled in the dark; that they might lay in their Quarters until light, he Approved of it and sent off his Troops appeared to be much elivated himself and staid with me giving all the Information he could. (I knew him to be a friend) The Artillery from the Fort played briskly but did no execution. The Garrisson was intirely surrounded within eighty and a hundred Yards behind Houses Palings and Ditches &c—&c.—Never was a heavier fireing kept up on both sides for eighteen Hours with so little damage done. In a few hours I found my Prize sure^Certain of taking every Man that I could have wished for, being the whole of those that incited the Indians to War: all my past sufferings vanished: never was a Man more happy. It wanted no encouragement from any Officer to inflame our Troops with a Martial Spirit. The Knowledge of the Person they attacted and the thoughts of their massecred friends was Sufficient. I Knew that I could not afford to loose Men, and took the greatest care of them that I possibly could: at the same time encouraged them to be daring,but prudent, every place near the fort that could cover them was crowded, and a very heavy firing during the Night, having flung up a considerable Intrenchment before the gate where I intended to plant my Artillery when Arrived. I had learntthatone Mason ville had arived that evening with two prisoners taken on the Ohio discovering some sign of us, supposed to be spies from Kentucky, immediately on his arival Cap' Lemote was sent out to intercept them; being out on our Arival could not get in the Fort; in attempting several of his men was made Prisoners, himself and party hovering round the Town; I was convinced that they wou'd make off to the Indians at daybrake if they cou'd not join their friends; finding all endeavours fruitless to take him I withdrew the Troops a little before from the Garrisson in order to give him an oppertunity to get in which he did (much to his Credit and my satisfaction: as I would rather it should Receive that Reinforcement, than they should be at Large among the Savages. The firing again com~L ^menced, A number of the Inhabitants Joining the Troops & Behaved exceeding well in General; knowing of the Prisoners lately taken and by the discription I had of them I was sure of their being the Express from Williamsburg (but was mistaken) to save the papers and Letters; about Eight o'clock in the morning I ordered the fireing to cease and sent a flag into the Garrisson with a hard Bill Recommended Mr Hamilton to surrender his Garrisson & severe threats if he should destroy any Letters &c. He return'd an Answ to this purpose; that the Garrisson was not disposed to be awed into any thing unbecomeing British Soldiers: the Attact was Renewed with greater Vigour than ever and continued for about two hours; I was determined to listen to no Terms whatever until I was in Possession of the Fort; and only ment to keep them in Acttion with part of my Troops, while I was making necessary preparations with the other (neglected calling on any of the Inhabitants for Assistants although they wished for it) A flag appeard from the Fort with a Proposition from Mr Hamilton for three days Cessation—A desire of a Conference with me immediately, that if I should make any difficulty of comeing into the Fort, he would meet me at the Gate:T at first had no notion of listening to any thing he had to say as I could only consider himself & Officers as Murderers, And intended to treat them as such: but after Some deliberation I sent Mr Hamilton my Compliments, and beged leave to inform him that I should agree to no other terms than his surrendering himself and Garrisson Prisoners at discretion; but if he was desirous of a Conference with me I would meet him at the Church. We accordingly met, he Offered to surrender but we could not agree upon terms. He received such treatment on this Conference as a Man of his known Barbarity deserv'd. I would not come upon terms with him, recommendd to him to defend himself with spirit and Bravery, that it was the only thing that would induce me to treat him and his Garrisson with Lenity in case I stormed it which he might expect. He asked me what more I could Require than the offers he had already made I told him (which was really the truth) that I wanted a sufficient excuse to put all the Indians & partisans to death, as the greatest part of those Villians was then with him: all his propositions was refus'd: he asked me if nothing would do but fighting. I knew of nothing else: he then begged me to stay until he should return to the Garrisson and consult his Officers: being indiferent about him and wanted a few moments for my Troops to refresh themselves I told him that the firing should not commence until such an hour, that during that time he was at Liberty to pass with safety. Some time before a Party of Warners sent by Mr Hamilton against Kentucky, had taken two Prisoners, was discoverd by the Kickebues who gave information of them. A Party was immediately Detached to meet them which hapned in the Commons: they conceived our Troops to be a Party sent by Mr Hamilton to conduct them in; an honr commonly paid them. I was highly pleased to see each Party hooping, hollowing and Striking each others Breasts as they approached in the open fields each seemed to try to out do the other in the greatest signs of Joy: the Poor Devils never discovered their mistake until it was too late for many of them to escape ;\ Six of them was made Prisoners, two of them Scalped and the rest so wounded as we afterwards learnt, but one Lived. I had now a fair oppertunity of making an impression on the Indians that I could have wished for; that of convincing them that Governour Hamilton could not give them that protection that he had made them to believe he could, in some measure to insence the Indians against him for not Exerting himself to save their Friends: Ordered the Prisoners to be Tomahawked in the face of the Garrisson: It had the effect that I expected: insted of making their friends invitcrate against us, they upbraided the English Parties in not trying to save their friends and gave them to understand that they believed them to be liers and no Warriers—A remarkable Circumstance hapned that I think worthy our notice: An old French Gen' of the name of S' Croix Lieu' of Cap' McCarty's Volunteers from Cohos had but one Son who headed these Indians and was made Prisoner. The Question was put whether the White Man Should be saved. I ordered them to put him to Death, through Indignation which did not extend to the Savages. for fear he would make his escape, his father drew his Sword and stood by him in order to Run him through in case he should stir; being painted could not know him. The Wretch on seeing the Executioners Tomahawk raised to give the fatal Stroke, raised his eyes as if making his last Addresses to heaven; Cried out O Save me. The father knew his Son's voice you may easily guess of the adgetation and behaviour of these two Persons comeing to the knowledg of each other at so critical a moment. I had so little mercy for such Murderers, and so valuable an oppertunity for an Example; knowing there would be the greatest selicitations made to save him, that I immediately absconded myself: but by the warmest Selicitations from his father who had behaved so exceedingly well in our Service; and some of the Officers, I granted his Life on certain conditions Mr Hamilton and myself again met: he produced certain Articles which was refused; but towards the close of the Evening I sent him the following Articles— 1" That Lieu' Governour Hamilton engages to deliver up to Col°Clark, Fort Sackville as it is at presentwith all the Stores &c— 2d The Garrisson are to deliver themselves up Prisoners of War and March out with their Arms and Acoutriments &c &c— 3rd The Garrison to  Delivered up tomorrow at ten Oclock— 4'h Three days time be allowed the Garrison to settle their Accompts with the Traders and Inhabitants of this Place— 5thly The Officers of the Garrisson to be allowed their necessary Baggage &c—&c— Which was agreed to and fulfilled the next day knowing that Governour Hamilton had sent a Party of Men up the Ouabach to Ome for Stores that he had left there which must be on the return; I waited about twelve hours for the Arival of the Galley to Intercept them; but fearing their getting Intiligence, dispatchd Cap' Helms with a Party in Armed Boats who Supprised and made Prisoners of forty, among which was Dejeane, Grand Judge of Detroit with a large Packet from Detroit, and seven Boats load of Provisions, Indian Goods &c—Never was a Person more mortified than I was at this time to see so fair an oppertunity to push a Victory; Detroit lost for want of a few Men; knowing that they would immediately make greater Preparations expecting me— The Galley had taken upon her passage the Express from Williamsburg with letters from his Excellency—Having at once all the intiligence I could wish for from both sides. I was better able to fix my future Plans of operation against Du Troit. By his Excellencies Letter I might expect to have a Compleat Batallian in a few months, the Militia of the Illinois I knew would turn out, did not doubt of getting two or three hundred Men from Kentucky Consequently put the matter out of doubt. I contented myself on that Presumption having almost as many Prisoners as I had Men—Seeing the necessity of geting rid of many of the Prisoners, not being able to guard them; not doubting but my good treatment of the Volunteers Inhabitants of Detroit would Promote my Interest there I discharged the greatest Part of them that had been with Indian Parties, on their taking the Oath of Neutrality. They went off huzzaing for the Congress and declared though they could not fight against the Americans they would for them. (As I after this had Spies constant to and from Detroit I learnt they answered every purpose that I could have wished for, by prejudiceing their friends in favour of America. So certain was the Inhabitants of that Post, of my Marching immediately against it, that theymade Provision for me in defiance of the Garrison Many of them has paid dear for it since. I dispatched off Cap' Williams and Compy with Governour Hamilton, his principal Officers and a few Soldiers to the Falls of Ohio, to be sent to Williamsburg, and in a few days sent my letters to the Govourr Having matters a little setled, the Indian Department became the next Object. I knew that Mr Hamilton had endeavoured to make them believe that we intinded at last to take all their Lands from them and that in case of Success we should shew no greater Mercy for those that did not Join him than those that did. I indeavoured to make myself acquainted  the Arguments he used: And calling together the Neighbouring Nations, Peankeshaws, Kickepoes, & others that would not listen to him Indeavoured to undeceive them; I made a very long Speach to them in the Indian manner, Extol'd them to the Skies for their Manly behaviour and fedility; told them that wc were so far from having any design on their Lands, that I looked upon it that we were on their Land where the Fort stood, that we claimed no Land in their Country; that the first Man that offered to take their Lands by Violence must strike the tomhk in my head; that it was only necessary that I should be in their Country during the War and keep a Fort in it to drive off the English, who had a design against all People; after that I might go to some place where I could get Land to support Me: The Treaty was concluded to the satisfaction of both parties; they were much pleased at what they hear'd and begged me to favour them the next day with my Compy at a Council of theirs I accordingly Attended: greatest part of the time spent in Ceremony; They at last told me they had been meditating on what I had said the day before: that all the Nations would be rejoiced to have me always in their Country as their great Father and Protector: And as I had said I would claim no Land in their Country, they were determin'd that they would not loose me on that Account: and Resolved to give me a piece, but larger than they had given to all the French at that Village, and laying down what they would wish me to do &c—I was well pleased at their offer as I had then an oppertunity to deny the oxecptance, & farther convince them that we did not want their Land; they appear'd dejected at my Refusial; I waved the discourse upon other Subjects: Recommended a frolick to them that night as the Sky was clearer than ever; gave them a qunty of Taffy and Provisions to make merry on and left them. In a few days some Chipoways and others who had been with Mr Hamilton, came in and begged me to excuse their blindness and take them into favour; after the warmest Silicitations for Mercy, I told them that the Big Knives was merciful which Proved them to be Warriors; that I should send Belts and a Speech to all the Nations: that they after hearing of it might do as they pleased but must blame themselves for future misfortunes and dispatched them. Nothing destroys Your Interest among the Savages so soon as wavering sentiments or speeches that shew the least fear. I consequently had observed one steady line of conduct among them: Mr Hamilton, who was almost Deified among them being captured by me, it was a sufficient confirmation to the Indians of every thing I had formerly said to them and gave the greatest weight to the Speeches I intended to send them: expecting that I should shortly be able to fulfill my threats with a Body of Troops sufficient to penetrate into any part of their Country: and by Reducing Detroit bring them to my feet—I sent the following Speech to the different Tribes near the Lakes that was at war with us. to wit— To the Warriers of the different Nations— Men and Warriers; it is a long time since the Big Knives sent Belts of peace among You Siliciting of you not to listen to the bad talks and deceit of the English as it would at some future day tend to the Destruction of your Nations. You would not listen, but Joined the English against the Big Knives and spilt much Blood of Women & Children. The Big Knives then resolved to shew no mercy to any People that hereafter would refuse the Belt of Peace which should be offered, at the same time One of War; You remember last summer a great many People took me by the hand, but a few kept back their Hearts. I also sent Belts of Peace and War among the Nations to take their choice, some took the Peace Belt; others still listned to their great father (as they call him) at Detroit, and Joined him to come to War against me. The Big Knives are Warriers and look on the English as old Women and all those that Join him, and are ashamed when they fight them because they are no Men. I now send two Belts to all the Nations, one for Peace and the other for War. The one that is for War has your great English fathers Scalp tied to it, and made red with his Blood; all you that call yourselves his Children, make your Hatchets sharp & come out and Revenge his Blood on the Big knives fight like Men that the Big Knives may not be ashamed when they fight you; that the old Women may not tell us that we only fought Squaws. If any of you is for taking the Belt of Peace send the Bloody Belt back to me that I may know who to take by the hand as Brothers, for you may be Assured that no peace for the future will be granted to those that do not lay down their Arms immediately. Its as you will I dont care whether you are for Peace or War; as I Glory in War and want Enemies to fight us, as the English cant fight us any longer, and are become like Young Children begging the Big Knives for Mercy and a little Bread to eat; this is the last Speech you may ever expect from the Big knives, the next thing will be the Tomahawk. And You may expect in four Moons to see Your Women & Children given to the Dogs to cat, while those Nations that have kept their words with me will Flourish and grow like the Willow Trees on the River Banks under the care and nourishment of their father the Big Knives. In a few weeks great Numbers came into S' Vincents and treated for Peace being laughed at by those that had strictly adhear'd to their former Treaty with me. After fixeing every Department so as to promise future advantage sending Letters to County Lieu' of Kentucky siliciting him to make some preparitory strokes towards Joining me when calld on with all the force he could Raise, leaving a sufficient Garrison on the 20th of march I set out for Kaskaskias by Water with a Guard of eighty Men, spending much time in making some observation at different places; consequently Arrived too late to have hindred a War that commenced between the few Delawares residing in this part of the World and the Inhabitants; a few of them that had joined the British Party knowing what had hapned went to Kaskaskias, as was supposed to compromise matters; but getting drunk with some loose young fellows gave some thereats  on each side; one of the Indians snaping a Gun at a Womans Breast two of them was immediately Killed the rest pursu'd by the Townsmen some distance down the River one Killed and some others wounded. The War was carried on Pretty equal on both sides for several Months: but they at last thought proper to Silicit a peace. During my absence Cap' Robert George Command* the Compy formerly Cap' Willings; had Arrived from Orleans taking charge of the Garrison which was a considerable Reinforcement to our little Party. Every thing having the Appearance of Tranquility, I resolv'd to spend a few weeks in Divertions which I had not done since my Arrival in the Illinois, but found it impossible when I had any matter of importance in view, the Reduction of Detroit was always uppermost in my mind, not from a motive of Applause; but from the desire I had of Establishing a Profound Peace on the Fronteers; being so well acquainted with its situation, Strength and Influence; that in case I was not disappointed in Number of Troops I expected I even Accounted Detroit my own, Receiving letters from Col° Bowman at Kentucky informing me that I might expect him to Reinforce me with three hundi men when ever I should call on him; If it lay in his power at the same time rcceiveing Intiligence from Col° Montgomery I now thought my Success reduced to a certainty, immediately set about making provision for the Expedition to be ready against the Arrival of the Troops to give the Enemy as little time as Possible to compleat the new fortifications I Knew they were then about I sent an Express to Col° Bowman desireing him to Join me on the 20th. of June at S' Vincents with all the force he Possibly could raise agreeable to his Letters to me; sent out Cap' Lanctot among the different Nations of Indians to receive their Congratulation on our late Success receive the submission of those that Resolved to Desert the English &c as well as to get fresh Intiligence from Detroit. The Civil Departm' In the Illinois had heretofore rob'd me of too much of my time that ought to be spent in Military reflections I was now likely to be Relieved by Col° Jonathon Todd appointed by Government for that Purpose; I was anxious for his Arrival & happy in his appointment as the greatest intimacy and friendship subsisted between us; and on the  of may had the Pleasure of seeing him safely Landed at Kaskaskias to the Joy of every Person: I now saw myself happily rid of a piece of trouble that I had no delight in—in a few days, Col° Montgomery arrived to my Mortification, found that he had not half the Men that I expected; immediately receiveing a letter from Col° Bowman with fresh Assurances of a considerable Reinforcement. The Officers in Gen being anxious for the Expedition, Resolved to rendevoux according to appointment; and if not deceived by the Kentuckyans I should still be able to compleat my design, as I only wanted men sufficient to make me appear Respectable in Passing through the Savages by which means I could on the March Command those friendly at my ease, and defy my Enemies. Three hundred Men being at this time sufficient to Reduce the Garrisson of Detroit, as the new Works was not Compleat, nor could be accord15 to Plan before my Arrival. The Gentlemen of Detroit not being Idle (having sufficient reason to be convinced, that they were in no danger from the Dep' of Pitsburg always suspicious of my Attacting them, sensible of my growing Interest among the Savages.—In order to give themselves more time to fortify by making some divirtion on the Illinois) engaged a considerable number of their Savages to make an Attempt on S' Vincents; those Indians that had declared for the American Interest; in order to shew their Zeal sent word to them that if they had a mind to fight the Bostonians at S' Vincents; they must first cut their way through them, as they were Big Knives too. This effectually stopt their operation; knowing that the Expedition depended intirelyon the Kentuckyans turning out, I began to be suspicious of a disappointment on hearing of their Marching against the Shownee Towns which proved too true for on my arrival at S' Vincents the first of July, instead of two or three hundred Men that I was promised; I found only about thirty Volunteers, meeting with a Repulse from the Shawnees got discouraged Consequently not in the power of the Comd to March them as Militia, being for some time, (as I hinted before) suspitious of a disappointment, I had conducted matters so as to make no 1ll impression on the minds of the Savages in case I should not proceed as the whole had suspected that my design was against Detroit. Several Nations silicited me to go and suffer them to Join me. Various was the conjectures respecting the Propriety of the Attempt with the Troops we had (about three hundd & fifty) at a Council of War held for the purpose there was only two casting voices against it and I pretend it was on account of Gen Sullivants Marching against Niagary, which we had Just heard that stopt us that there was no doubt of his success Detroit would fall of course; and consequently was not worth our while Marching against it: although I knew at  same time that Detroit would not fall with Niagary, as they had an easy communication with Montreal through another Channel by way of the Grand River. A number of Indians visited me at this time renewing the Chain of friendship &c. To all of whom I gave Gen satisfaction, except that of my refutial of a Tract of Land that their Chief had formerly offered me; I inquired of several Gentlemen acquainted with them, why they were solicitous about it; their oppinions was that the Indians being exceedingly Jealous of their Lands being taken without their Consent, being told by the English that I had a design on their Country, by my exceping a Tract from them as a preasant, would prove sufficiently to them that what they had been told was false, being satisfyed in this they also had a desire of my Remaining In their Country as their Chief and Guardian and that my refusial had given them suspicion; in order to Remove it I made a suitable Speech to them which gave Gen satisfaction and in a few days they with a great deal of Ceremony presented me the following Deed of gift— By the Tobacos Son Grand Chief of all the Peankeshaw Nations & of all the Tribes. Grand Dore to the Ouabache as ordered by the master of Life, holding the Tomahawk in one hand and peace in the other. Judging the Nations giving entrance for those that are for Peace, and making them a Clear Road &c. Declaration. Whereas for many years past, this once peaceable Land hath been put in confusion by the English encouraging all People to Raise the Tommahawk Against the Big Knives, saying that they were a bad people, Rebellious, and ought to be put from under Sun and their names to be no more. But as the Sky at our Councils was always Misty and never Clear we was still at a loss to know what to do, hoping that the Master of Life would one Day or other make the Sky Clear and put us in the right Road. He taking Pitty on us sent a father among us (Col° George Rogers Clark) that has cleared our eyes and made our Paths straight defending our Lands &c—So that we now enjoy Peace from the Rising to the Seting of Sun; and the Nations even to the heads of the great River (meaning the Messicippi) are happy and will no more listen to Bad Birds; but abide by the Councils of their great father, A Chief of the Big Knives that is now among us— And whereas it is our desire that he should long remain among us, that we may take his Council and be happy; it also being our desire to give him Lands to reside on in our Country that we may at all times speak to him. After many Silicitations to him to make choice of a Tract he chusing the Lands adjoining the falls of Ohio on the west side of said River— I do hereby in the names of all the Great Chiefs and Warners of the Ouabash and their Allies, Declare that so much Lands at the falls of Ohio contained in the following bounds, to wit, Beginning opposite the middle of the first Island below the falls, Bounded upwards by the west bank Bank  of the River so far as to include two Leagues and a half on a straight line from the begining, thence at right angles with said line two Leagues & half in Breadth, in all its parts shall hereafter and ever be the sole property of our great father (Col° Clark) with all things thereto belonging, either above or below the earth shall be and is his; except a Road through the said Land to his Door which shall remain ours, and for us to walk on to speak to our father. All Nations from the Rising to the seting of the Sun, that are not in alliance with us are hereby warned to esteem the said gift as sacred and not to make that Land taste of Blood; that all people either at peace or War may repair in safety to get Council of their father. Whoever first darkens that Land shall no longer have a Name. This declaration shall forever be a Witness between all Nations and our present G' father; that the said Lands are forever hereafter his property. In witness whereof I do in the name of all the Great Chiefs and Warriers of the Ouabash in open Council affix my mark and Seal done at S' Vincents this 16th day of June 1779 (Sign'd) Francis son of Tobacco. Which Deed, I excepted, and Indeavoured to convince them how much I Prised so liberal a gift &c as I had no idea of haveing Property in the Lands myself, knowing the Laws of my Country Justly against it; I chose it at the falls of Ohio suspecting that I might hereafter find it necessary to fortify that Place for conveniency of free Intercourse Having a Number of supernumerary Officers I sent them Into the Settlement Recruiting finding the Interest of the Department required me to spend a few months at the Falls of Ohio being also Induced with the hopes of giving the Shawneess a Drubing in case a sufficient force Could be again raised at Kentucky; After giving proper Instructions for the discretion of the Comd" of the different posts I set out for the falls where I Arrived safe on the 20 day of August I Received an Express from his Excellency much to my Satisfaction having fresh assurance of a sufficient Reinforcement and his intention of erecting a fortification at or near the mouth of the Ohio, so much the desire of every person it being a place of great importance, and by having a strong fotification &c it would immediately be the __ Key of the Western Country; all my expectations in my being here has been disappointed (except laying up a considerable quantity of beef) by lowness of the Ohio which so remarkable that it would be worth recording, few being able to navigate it with the smallest canoes for several months past. I shall not for the future leave it in your power to accuse me for a neglect of friendship, but shall continue to transmit to you whatever I think worthy your notice. I am Sir with Esteem, yours. N. B. As for the description of the Illinois Country which you seem so anxious for you may expect to have by the ensuing fall as I expect by that Period to be able to give you a more General Idea of it. this you may take for granted that its more Beautiful than any Idea I could have formed of a Country almost in a state of Nature, every thing you behold is an Additional Beauty, On the River You'll find the finest Lands the Sun ever shone on; In the high Country You will find a Variety of poor & Rich Lands with large Meadows extending beyond the reach of your Eyes Varigated with groves of Trees appearing like Islands in the Seas covered with Buffaloes and other Game; in many Places with a good Glass You may see all those that is on their feet in half a Million of Acres; so level is the Country which some future day will excell in Cattle. The Settlements of the Illinois commenced about one hundred Years ago by a few Traders from Canada my Reflections on that head its cituation the probability of a flourishing Trade the State of the Country at present what its capable of Producing My oppinion Respecting the cause of those extensive Plains &c. the Advantages arising by strong fortifications and Settlements at the mouth of Ohio. The different Nations of Indians their Traditions Numbers &c—You may expect in my next G R Clark 

Journal of Joseph Bowman.  a Spanish Subject who had been at Post S' Vincent on his lawful business arrived and gave us Intelligence that Govr Hamilton and thirty regulars with fifty French Volunteers and about four hundred Indians had come last Novr and took that Fort with Capt. Helm and Several other Americans, who were there with a number of horses designed for the settlement of Kantuck &c. 30'h On which Col. Clark called a Council with his officers and it was concluded to go and attack Govr Hamilton at all Events (for fear) if it was let alone till the Spring that he with his Indians would undoubtedly cut us all off.1 31.— Sent an express to to Cahokea for the Volunteers. Nothing Extraordinary this day.2 Feb'y. 1st Orders given for a large Batteau to be repair'd and provisions got ready for the Expedition concluded on— 2nd A Pack horse Mastr appointed and orders to prepare Pack saddles &c. 3rd The Gaily or Batteau finished called her the Willing put the loading on Board together with two four Pounders and four Swivels Ammunition &c. 4th About ten oClock Capt McCarty arriv'd with a comp'y of Volunteers from Cahoes and about two o Clock in the afternoon the Batteau set off under the command of Lieut Rogers with 46 Men, with orders to proceed to a certain Station near S' Vincent till further Orders. 5'h Raised another comp'y of Volunteers under the command of Capt. Francois Charlwice  which added to our , \force and encreased our number to 170 Including the Artillery Pack Horsemen &c. about three O Clock Crossed the Kaskaskias River with our Baggage and Marched about a League from the Town Rainy and drisly weather. 7'h began our March early, made a good days March for about 9 leagues4—The roads very bad with Mud and Water, pitched our camp in a square, Baggage in the Middle every Comp'y to guard their own Square 8th Marched early thro' the Water which we now began to ] meet in those large and level plains where (from the Flatness of \ \ the country the Water rests a considerable time before it drains off, notwithstanding our Men were in Great Spirits, tho much fatigued. 9th Made a moderate days march rain'd most of the day.5 10.—Crossed the River of the Petel  Ford upon Trees that we felled for that purpose the Water being so high there was no fording it; still raining and no Tents encamped near the River stormy &c7j 11'h Crossed the saline River nothing extraordinary this day— 12. Marched across bad plain saw and killed numbers of Buffaloe, the roads very bad from the immense Quantity of Rain that had fallen, the Men much fatigued, encamped at the Edge of the Wood, this plain or Meadow being fifteen or more Miles across—it was late in the Night before the Troops and baggage got together—Now 21 leagues* from s' Vincent. Arrived early at the two Wabashes altho a league a sunder they now made but one—We set to make a Canoe. 14. Finished the Canoe and put her in the water about four O Clock in the afternoon. 15. Ferryed across the two Wabashes with it—being then five Miles in Water to the opposite hills, where we encamped still raining—Orders given to fire no Guns in future except in case of Necessity. 16. Marched all day thro' Rain and Water Crossed the second river our provisions began to grow short. 17. Marched early crossed Several Rivers very deep sent Mr Kennedy (our commissary) with three Men to cross the River Embara  to endeavour to cross if possible and proceed to a plantation  post Vincent in order to steal Boats or canoes to ferry us across the Wabash—About One hour before sunset We got Near the River Embara found the country all overflown, we strove to find the Wabash traveld till 8th O Clock in mud and water but could find no place, to encamp on still kept marching on but after some time Mr Kennedy and his party return'd found it impossible to cross the Embara River we found the Water fallen from a small spot of Ground staid there the remainder of the Night drisly and dark Weather 18'h At Break of day heard Govr Hamiltons morning Gun— set off and marched down the River saw some fine land—About 2 o Clock came to the Bank of the Wabash, made Rafts for 4 Men to cross and go up to Town, and Steal Boats but they spent the day and the Night in the Water to no purpose for there was not one foot of dry land to be found. 19'h Capt. McCartys Comp'y set to making a Canoe and at three O Clock the 4 Men returned after spending the Night on some old logs in the Water—the Canoe Finished Capt. McCarty with three of his Men embarked in the Canoe and made the next attempt to Steal Boats but he soon returned having discovered four large fires about a league distance from our Camp and Seemed to him to be fires of Whites and Indians—Immediately Col. Clark sent two Men in the said Canoe down to meet the Batteau with orders to come on dayandNight that being our last hope, starving Many of the Men much cast down particularly the Volunteers, No provisions of any Sort now two days hard fortune. 20. Camp very quiet but hungry some almost in despair Many of the Creols Volunteers talking of returning fell to making more Canoes when about 12 0 Clock our Centry on the River brought to a Boat with 5 frenchmen from the Post who told us we were not yet discover'd that the Inhabitants were well disposed towards us &c. Capt. Williams's Brother (who was taken in the Fort) had made his escape—also to us one Maisonvile with a party of Indians were 7 days in pursuit of him with much news more news in our favor Such as the repairs done the fort the strength  &c. they informed us of two Canoes they had seen adrift at some distance above us—Order'd Capt. Worthington with a party to go in Search of the Canoes, returned late with one only—One of our men killed a deer which was distributed in camp—Very acceptable. 21s' At Break of day began to ferry our Men over in our two Canoes to a Small little hill called the lower Mamell (or Bubbie) Capt. Williams with two Men went to look for a passage but were discover'd by two men in a Canoe but cou'd not fetch them too— the whole Army being over, we thought to get to town that Night, so plunged into the Water sometimes to the Neck for more than one league when we stop'd on the second hill of the Same name there being no dry land near us on one side for many leagues, our Pilots says we cannot get along that it was impossible, the whole of the Army being over, we encamped, Rain all this day no Provisions. 22— Col. Clark encourages his Men which gave them great Spirits Marched on in the Water, those that were weak and faintish from so much fatigue went in the Cannoes, we came one league farther to some sugar camps, where we staid all Night heard the Evening and Morning Guns from the Fort—No provisions yet, lord help us. J 23. Set off to cross a plain called Horse Shoe plain about 4 Miles long cover'd with Water breast high—here we expected Some of our brave Men must certainly perish having froze in the Night and so long fasting and no other Resourse but wading this plain or rather a leak  of Water we pushed into it with Courage Col. Clark being the first, taking care to have the Boats close by, to take those that was weak and benumbed (with the cold) into them Never was Men so animated with the thoughts of revenging the wrongs done to their back Settlements as this small Army was— About One O Clock we came in sight of the Town we halted on a small Nole of dry land called Warriors Island where we took a Prisoner that was hunting ducks—who informed us that no person suspecting our comeing in that season, of the year—Col. Clark Wrote a letter to the Inhabitants in the following terms— To the Inhabitants of Fort Vincennes Gentlemen Being now within two Miles of Your Village with my Army determin'd to take your Fort this Night and not being willing to surprize you I take this step to request of such of you as are true citizens and willing to enjoy the liberty I bring you, to remain still in your houses, and those (if any there be) that are friends to the King, will instantly repair to the fort and join the hair Buyer Gen and fight like Men and if any such as to do not go to the fort, shall be discovered afterwards, the  may depend on Severe punishment on the contrary those that are true friends to liberty may depend on being well treated and I once more request they shall keep out of the streets for every person I find in arms on my Arrival I shall treat him as an Enemy. signed G. R. Clark—  In order to publish this letter, we lay still to about Sun down when we began our March all in order with colors flying and drums brased after wading to the Edge of the Town in Water breas high we mounted the rising ground the town is built on about 8 o Clock Lieu' Bayly with 14 Regulars was detached to fire on the fort, while we took possession of the Town—and order'd to stay till he was reliev'd by another party which was soon done— Reconnoitred about to find out a place to throw up an Entrenchment found one and set Cap' Bomens comp'y to Work soon crossed the Main street about 120 yards from the fort Gate. We were Inform'd that Cap' Lamoth with a party of 25 Men were out in a Scout, who heard our firing and came back—we sent a party to Intercept them but Missed them, However we took one of their Men and one Capt Major Nille a principal Man,1 the Rest makeing their escape under cover of the Night into the Fort, smart firing all Night on both sides, the cannon play'd smartly, not one of our Men wounded seven Men in the Fort badly wounded—fine Sport for the sons of Liberty. 24. As soon as day light the fort began to play her small Arms Very Briskly one of our Men slightly wounded about 9 O Clock the Col. sent a flag to Govr Hamilton the firing then ceased during which time our Men was provided with a Breakfast it being the only meal of Victuals since the 18th Ins1. Col. Clarks letter as follows— Sir In order to save yourself from the Impending Storm that now Threatens you I order you to Immediately surrender yourself up with all your Garrison Stores &c. &c. for if I am obliged to storm, you may depend upon such Treatment justly due to a Murderer beware of destroying Stores of any kind or any papers or letters that is in your possession or hurting one house in the Town for by heavens if you do there shall be no Mercy shewn you. signed G. R. Clark. Answer from Govr Hamilton— Govr Hamilton begs leave to acquaint Col. Clark that he and his Garrison are not disposed to be awed into any action Unworthy of British subjects. H. Hamilton The firing then began very hot on both sides none of our Men wounded several of the Men in the fort wounded thro' the port Holes, which caused Govr Hamilton to send out a flag with the following letter, viz. Ll Gov Hamilton proposes to Col. Clark a truce for three days during which time he promises there shall be no defensive works carried on in the Garrison, on condition Col. Clark shall observe on his part a like cessation of any offensive work that he wishes to confer with Col. Clark as soon as can be and further proposes that whatever may pass between them two and any other Person mutually—agreed upon to be present, shall remain a secret till Matters be finally concluded—As he wishes that whatever the Result of their conference may be to, the honor and credit of each party—If Col. Clark makes a difficulty of comeing into the fort Ll Govr Hamilton will speak to him before the Gate 24th Feb'y 1779. Col. Clarks Answer— Col. Clarks compliments to Mr Hamilton and begs leave to inform him that Col. Clark will not agree to any other terms than that, of Mr Hamiltons surrendering himself and Garrison Prisoners at discretion if Mr Hamilton is desirous of a conference with Col. Clark he will meet him at the Church with Capt. Helms. 24'h Feb'y 1779. The Messenger return'd with the above answer, during which time there came a party of Indians down the hills behind the Town, who had been sent by Govr Hamilton to get some Scalps and Prisoners from the falls of Ohio. Our Men having got news of it pursued them kill'd two on the Spot wounded three took 6 Prisoners Brought them into Town two of them proving to be White men That they took Prisoners, we releas'd them and brought the Indians to the Main Street before the Fort Gate there tomahawked them and threw them into the River—During which time Govr Hamilton and Col. Clark met at the Church-^Govr Hamilton produced certain articles of capitulation with his name signed to it which was refused—The Col. told him he wou'd consult with his officers and let him know the terms on which capitulate on  as follows. 1 That L' Govr Hamilton engages to deliver up to Col. Clark Fort Sackville as it is at present With all the stores &c, 2.... The Garrison the Garrison  are to deliver themselves prisoners of War, & march out with their arms & accoutrements &c. 3. ... The garrison to be deliver'd up to morrow at ten o Clock. 4.... Three days time to be allow'd the Garrison to settle their accounts with the Traders & Inhabitants of this place. 5th The officers of the Garrison to be allow'd their necessary baggage &c. signed at Fort Vincennes 24th Feb'y. 79. Agreed to for the following Reasons—The Remoteness of Succour, the state and Quantity of Provisions &c. the Unanimity of officers and men on its expediency, The Hon'ble Terms allow'd and lastly the confidence in a Generous enemy. Henry Hamilton L. Govr & SupT Intend'. _ 25'h About 10 O Clock Capt. Bowman & Capt. McCarty Companies paraded on the one side of the Fort Gate, Govr \ Hamilton and his Garrison Marched out whilst Col. Clark Capt* Williams & Wetheringtons comp'y marched into the fort Reliev'd the Centry's hoisted the American colors—Secur'd all their arms \ / Govr Hamilton marched back to the fort shut the Gates—Orders for 13 Cannon to be fired—during which time there happen'd a very unlucky accident for thro' Mismanagement there blew up 26 six pound Catridges in one of the Bateries which Much burnt Capt. Bowman Capt. Worthington and four more Men very Much. No ace of our Boat as yet. 26. Rain all day Capt. Helm Bosseron Henry and Major Legra with 50 Men of the Militia order to proceed up the River With 3 boats with a Swivle in each to meet 10 Boats that was sent in decr last for Provisions and stores to Omi and to take the same in custody. 27. The Willing our Batteau arriv'd to the great Mortification of all on board, that they had not the honor to assist us in the same. Came Wm Mires express from Williamsburgh With very good news—Capt. Bowman receives a Majors commisn inclosed from the Govr. 28th Nothing extraordinary. March 1s' The officers discharged on Parole, nothing extraord'y 2nd 3rd & 4th Wet Weather. 5th About 10 o Clock Capt. Helm arriv'd with his party took Seven boats laden with Provision Bale Goods &c taken from the Enemy—with the following Prisoners—Mr Dejean Grand Judge of Detroit Mr Adimar Com'y with 38 Privates—Letters that was taken from the com'y dated at Detroit the 6'h Feb'y says they are much afraid of our people in the Spring prays Gov r Hamilton to come back again War was not as yet declar'd Between France and England this sent of a party of Volunteers to Kiskaskias. 6th A Very Rainy day nothing extraordinary. 7lh Capt. Williams Ll Rogers with 25 Men set for the falls of the ohio to conduct the following Prisoners—Viz—Lieut. Govr Hamilton, Majr Hay, Cap' Lamothee, Mons. Dejean Grand Judge of Detroit—Lieut. Shifflin, Doctr McBeth, Froincois Masonville Mr BellfeiulP with Eighteen Privates—8th 9'h 10th 11lh 12'h 13th & 14th—Cloudy weather and Rain all the foregoing Week this morning Wm. Mires Set out for Williamsburgh with two Men. .' .*'.r'..„ 15'h A Party of Piankishaws, Peaurians and Miami Indians wait on Col. Clark and Assure him of fidelity &c. to the Americans and beg their Protection. In the Mean time an express arriv'd from Kiskaskias by which we learn that Capt. George with 41 Men were arriv'd there from New Orleans and took command of fort Clark and also that Capt. James Willing had resigned his comp'y to said Capt. George and that he and Capt. McIntire had embarked for Philada. William Mires return'd not being able to go by land to the falls of the Ohio the country overflow'd with Water—so took a Canoe and three Men and went by Water. 16th Most of the Prisoners took the oath of Neutrality and got permission to set out for detroit Sent by them a copy of the Alliance between the United States and france. 17. Nothing Extraordinary 18'h Snow and Rain the best part of the day. 19. Orders for six boats to be got ready to return to Kiskaskia*; with the Prisoners. 20. The Boats ready and loaded Capt. McCarty takes Charge with the Willing—Capt. Keller, Capt. Werthington Ensign" Montgomery & Lawoin each of them to take charge one boat a Sergv and Six Men to take charge of the Small Boat called the Running Fly—About 4 o Clock the whole embarked leaving Lieut. Brashier, command' of the fort with Lieut. Bayly Ll Chaplin 40 Men Serg & Corp. Includ'd to take care of the Garrison till rcleiv'd from Kiskaskias. Capt. Helm command of the Town in all Civil Matters and superintend' of Indian affairs Mr Moses Henry Indian Agent Mr Patrick Kennedy Quarter Masf &c. The Boats after much rejoicing are now out of sight—God send them a good and safe passage. Journal of George Rogers Clark.'  

Journal of Colonel Clark. What precedes this part of Col° Clarke's journal is only an account of his setting out and his march till the 23rd Feby. Sett off very early, waded better than three miles on a stretch, our people prodigious, yet they keep up a good heart in hopes of a speedy sight of our enemy. At last about two o'clock we came in sight of this long sought town and enemy, all quiet, the spirits of my men seemed to revive we marched up under cover of a wood called the Warriours Island where we lay concealed untill sunset, several of the inhabitants were out a shooting by which was assur'd they had no intelligence of us yet. I sent out two men to bring in one who came and I sent him to town to inform the inhabitants I was near them ordering all those attached to the King of England to enter the Fort and defend it, those who desired to be friends to keep in their houses. I order'd the march in the first division Capt. Williams, Capt. Worthington's Company and the Cascaskia Volunteers, in the 2nd commanded by Capt. Bowman his own Company and the Cohos Volunteers. At sun down I put the divisions in motion to march in the greatest order and regularity and observe the orders of their officers—above all to be silent—the men we took in the canoes were our guides; we entered the town on the upper part having detached Lt. Bayley and 15 riflemen to attack the Fort and keep up a fire to harrass them until we took possession of the town and they were to remain on that duty untill relieved by another party, the two divisions marched into the town and took possession of the main street, put guards &c without the least molestation I continued all night sending parties out to annoy the enemy and caused a trench to be thrown up across the main street about 200 yds from the Fort Gate— we had intelligence that Capt. Lamotte and 30 men were sent out about 3 hours before our arrival to reconnoitre, as it seems they had some suspicion of a party being near them. One Maisonville and a party of Indians coming up the Ouabache with 2 prisoners made on the Ohio had discover'd our fires and they arrived here a few hours before us. I order'd out a party immediately to intercept them and took sd Maisonville and one man—they gave us no intelligence worth mentioning. 24th As soon as daylight appeared the enemy perceived our works and began a very smart fire of small arms at it, but could not bring their cannon to bear on them, about 8 o'clock I sent a flag of truce with a letter desiring Lt. Gov. Hamilton in order to save the impending storm that hung over his head immediately to surrender up the Garrison, Fort, Stores &c &c and at his peril not to destroy any one article now in the said Garrison—or to hurt any house &c belonging to the Inhabitants for if he did by Heaven, he might expect no mercy—his answer was Gov. H. begs leave to acquaint Col. C. that he and his Garrison were not disposed to be awed into any action unworthy of British subjects—I then ordered out parties to attack the Fort and the firing began very smartly on both sides one of my men thro' a bravery known but to Americans walking carlesly up the main street was slightly wounded over the left eye but no ways dangerous—About 12 o'clock the firing from the Fort suspended a Flag coming out I order'd my people to stop firing till further orders. I soon perceived it was Capt. Helm who after salutations inform'd me that the purport of his commission was, that Lt. Gov. Hamilton was willing to surrender up the Fort and Garrison provided Col. Clarke would grant him honourable terms and that he beg'd Col. Clarke to come into the Fort to confer with him, first I desired Capt. Helm not to give any inteligence of G. H.'s strength &c he being on his Parole, second my answer to Gov. H was that I should not agree to any other terms than that Lt. Gov. H should immediately surrender at discretion and allowed him half an hour to consider thereof— as to entering the Fort my off" and men would not allow of it, for it was with difficulty I restrained them from storming the Garrison. I dismissed Capt. Helm, with my answer, at the time allowed Capt. Helm came back with Lieut. Gov. H's second proposals which were—Lt Govr Hamilton proposes to Col. Clarke a truce for three days, during which time there shall no defensive works be carried on in the Garrison provided Col. Clarke shall observe the like cessation on his part—he further proposes that whatever may pass between them two and any person mutually agreed upon to be present shall remain secret untill matters be finally determined. As he wishes that whatever the result of this conference may be—the Honor and credit of each may be considered —so he wishes he may confer with Col. Clarke as soon as may be—as Col. Clarke makes a difficulty of coming into the Fort Lt Gov. H will speak to him before the Gate 24 Feby 1770 (sign'd) H. H. This moment received intelligence that a party of Indians were coming up from the falls with Pris" or Scalps, which party was sent out by G. Hamilton for that purpose, my people were so enraged they immediately intercepted the party which consisted of 8 Indians and a french man of the Garrison, they killed three on the spot and brought 4 in who were tomahawkd in the street oposite the Fort Gate and thrown into the river—the frenchman we shewd mercy as his aged father had behaved so well in my party— I relieved the two poor Pris" who were French hunters on the Ohio, after which L' Helm carried my answer thus—Col. Clarks comp^ to G. H. and begs leave to inform him that Col. Clark will not agree to any other terms than of G. H. surrendering himself and Garrison prisoners at discretion—if G. H. desires a conference with Col. Clarke, he will meet him at the church with Capt. Helm. 24 Febry 1779 (signd) G. R. Clark. I immediately repaired there to confer with G. Hamilton where I met with him and Capt. Helm. Gov. Hamilton then begd I would consider the situation of both parties that he was willing to surrender the Garrison but was in hopes that Col. Clark would let him do it with Honour—I answered him I have been informed that he had 800 men—I have not that number but I came to fight that number. G. H. then replied who could give you this false information I am Sir (replied I) well acquainted with your strength and force and am able to take your Fort, therefore I will give no other terms but to submit yourself and Garrison to my discretion and mercy—he reply'd Sir my men are brave and willing to stand by me to the last, if I can't surrender upon Honble terms I'll fight it out to the last—Answered, Sir this will give my men infinite satisfaction and pleasure for it is their desire, he left me and went a few pays aloof, I told Capt Helm Sir you are a prisoner on your parole, I desire you to reconduct G. H. into the Fort and there remain till I retake you. Lt Gov. Hamilton then returned saying, Col. Clarke why will you force me to dishonour myself when you cannot acquire more honor by it—I told him could I look on you Sir as a Gentlemen I would do to the utmost of my power, but on you Sir who have embrued your hands in the blood of our women and children, Honor, my country, everything calls on me aloud for Vengeance. G. H. I know my character has been staind but not deservedly for I have alwaise endeavour'd to instill Humanity as much as in my power to the Indians whom the orders of my superiours obliged me to employ. C. C. Sir I speak no more on this subject my blood glows within my veins to think on the crueltys your Indian parties have committed, therefore repair to your Fort and prepare for battle on which I turned off and the Gov and C' Helm towards the Fort— when Capt Helm says Gentlemen don't be warm, strive to save many lives which may be useful to their country which will unavoidably fall in case you don't agree on which we again conferd— G Hamilton said, is there nothing to be done but fighting—Yes, Sir, I will send you such articles as  think proper to allow, if you accept them, well—I will allow you half an hour to consider on them on which C' Helm came with me to take them to G. H.—having assembled my officers I sent the following articles viz.: 1st Lt. Gov. Hamilton engages to deliver up to Col. Clark Fort Sackville as it is at present with all the stores, ammunition, provisions, &°. 2nd. The Garrison will deliver themselves up Prisra of War to march out with their arms accoutrements, Knapsacks &°. 3. The Garrison to be delivered up tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock. 4th. Three days to be allowed to the Garrison to settle their accounts with the traders of this place and inhabitants. 5. The officers of the Garrison to be allowed their necessary baggage &c. (signed) Fort Vincenness 24th Feby 1779 G. R. Clark. Within the limitted time Capt. Helm returned with the articles signed thus, viz Agreed to for the following reasons, remoteness from succours, the state and quantity of Provisions &c the unanimity of officers and men on its expediency, the HonbIe terms allowd and lastly the confidence in a generous Enemy. (signed) H. Hamilton Lt Gov & Superintend' 27th The willing (a boat) arrived at 3 o'clock she was detained by the strong current on the Ouabache and Ohio—2 Lts and 48 men with two iron 4 lb" and 5 swivels on board the Willing. 

Clark to Patrick Henry, April 29, 1779. ' To the Governor of Virginia Kaskaskias, Illinois, April 29, 1779. Dear Sir,— A few days ago, I received certain intelligence of William Morris ,2 my express to you, being killed near the falls of Ohio; news truly disagreeable to me, as I fear many of my letters will fall into the hands of the enemy, at Detroit, although some of them, as I learn, were found in the woods torn in pieces.' I do not doubt but before the receipt of his, you will have heard of my late success against Governor Hamilton, at post St. Vincennes. That gentleman, with a body of men, possessed himself of that post on the 15th of December last, repaired the fortifications for a repository, and in the spring, meant to attack this place, which he made no doubt of carrying; where he was to be joined by two hundred Indians from Michilimackinac, and five hundred Cherokees, Chickasaws, and other nations. With this body, he was to penetrate up the Ohio to Fort Pitt, sweeping Kentucky on his way, having light brass cannon for the purpose, joined on his march by all the Indians that could be got to him. He made no doubt, that he could force all West Augusta. This expedition was ordered by the commander-in-chief of Canada. Destruction seemed to hover over us from every quarter; detached parties of the enemy were in the neighborhood every day, but afraid to attack. I ordered Major Bowman to evacuate the fort at the Cohas, and join me immediately, which he did. Having not received a scrape of a pen from you, for near twelve months, I could see but little probability of keeping possession of the country, as my number of men was too small to stand a siege, and my situation too remote to call for assistance. I made all the preparations I possibly could for the attack, and was necessitated to set fire to some of the houses in town, to clear them out of the way. But in the height of the hurry, a Spanish merchant, who had been at St. Vincennes, arrived, and gave the following intelligence: that Mr. Hamilton had weakened himself, by sending his Indians against the frontiers, and to block up the Ohio; that he had not more than eighty men in garrison, three pieces of cannon, and some swivels mounted; and that he intended to attack this place, as soon as the winter opened, and made no doubt of clearing the western waters by the fall. My situation and circumstances induced mc to fall on the resolution of attacking him, before he could collect his Indians again. I was sensible the resolution was as desperate as my situation, but I saw no other probability of securing the country. I immediately despatched a small galley, which I had fitted up, mounting two four pounders and four swivels, with a company of men and necessary stores on board, with orders to force her way, if possible, and station herself a few miles below the enemy, suffer nothing to pass her, and wait for further orders. In the meantime, I marched across the country with one hundred and thirty men, being all I could raise, after leaving this place garrisoned by the militia. The inhabitants of the country behaved exceedingly well, numbers of young men turned out on the expedition, and every other one embodied to guard the different towns. I marched the 7th of February. Although so small a body, it took me sixteen days on the route. The inclemency of the season, high waters, &c., seemed to threaten the loss of the expedition. When within three leagues of the enemy, in a direct line, it took us five days to cross the drowned lands of the Wabash river, having to wade often, upwards of two leagues, to our breast in water. Had not the weather been warm, we must have perished. But on the evening of the 23d, we got on dry land, in sight of the enemy; and at seven o'clock, made the attack, before they knew anything of us. The town immediately surrendered with joy, and assisted in the seige. There was a continual fire on both sides, for eighteen hours. I had no expectation of gaining the fort until the arrival of my artillery. The moon setting about one o'clock, I had an entrenchment thrown up within rifle shot of their strongest battery, and poured such showers of well-directed balls into their ports, that we silenced two pieces of cannon in fifteen minutes, without getting a man hurt. Governor Hamilton and myself had, on the following day, several conferences, but did not agree until the evening, when he agreed to surrender the garrison (seventy-nine in number) prisoners of war, with considerable stores. I got only one man wounded; not being able to lose many, I made them secure themselves well. Seven were badly wounded in the fort, through the ports. In the height of this action, an Indian party that had been to war, and taken two prisoners, came in, not knowing of us. Hearing of them, I despatched a party to give them battle in the commons, and got nine of them, with the two prisoners, who proved to be Frenchmen. Hearing of a convoy of goods from Detroit, I sent a a party of sixty men, in armed boats well mounted with swivels, to meet them, before they could receive any intelligence. They met the convoy forty leagues up the river, and made a prize of the whole, taking forty prisoners and about ten thousand pounds worth of goods and provisions; also, the mail from Canada to Governor Hamilton, containing, however, no news of importance. But what crowned the general joy, was the arrival of William Morris, my express to you, with your letters, which gave general satisfaction. The soldiery, being made sensible of the gratitude of their country for their services, were so much elated, that they would have attempted the reduction of Detroit, had I ordered them. Having more prisoners than I knew what to do with, I was obliged to discharge a greater part of them, on parole. Mr. Hamilton, his principal officers and a few soldiers, I have sent to Kentucky, under a convoy of Captain Williams, in order to be conducted to you. After despatching Morris with letters to you, treating with the neighboring Indians, &c, I returned to this place, leaving a sufficient garrison at St. Vincennes. During my absence, Captain Robert George, who now commands the company formerly commanded by Captain Willing, had returned from New Orleans, which greatly added to our strength. It gave great satisfaction to the inhabitants, when acquainted with the protection which was given them, the alliance with France, &c. I am impatient for the arrival of Colonel Montgomery, but have heard nothing of him lately. By your instructions to me, I find you put no confidence in General MTntosh's taking Detroit, as you encourage me to attempt it, if possible. It had been twice in my power. Had I been able to raise only five hundred men when I first arrived in the country, or when I was at St. Vincennes, could I have secured my prisoners, and only have had three hundred good men, I should have attempted it, and since learn there could have been no doubt of success, as by some gentlemen lately from that post, we are informed that the town and country kept three days in feasting and diversions, on hearing of my success against Mr. Hamilton, and were so certain of my embracing the fair opportunity of possessing myself of that post, that the merchants and others provided many necessaries for us on our arrival; the garrison, consisting of only eighty men, not daring to stop their diversions. They are now completing a new fort, and I fear too strong for any force I shall ever be able to raise in this country. We are proud to hear Congress intends putting their forces on the frontiers, under your direction. A small army from Pittsburg, conducted with spirit, may easily take Detroit, and put an end to the Indian war. Those Indians who are active against us, are the six nations, part of the Shawnese, the Meamonies , and about half the Chesaweys , Ottawas, Jowaas , and Pottawatimas nations, bordering on the lakes. Those nations who have treated with me, have behaved since very well; to wit, the Peankishaws, Kiccapoos, Orcaottenans of the Wabash river, the Kaskias, Perrians , Mechigamies, Foxes, Socks, Opays , Illinois and Poues , nations of the, Mississippi and Illinois rivers. Part of ithe Chessaweys have also treated, and are peaceable. I continually keep agents among them, to watch their motions and keep them peaceably inclined. Many of the Cherokees, Chickasaws, and their confederates, are, I fear, ill disposed. It would be well if Colonel Montgomery should give them a dressing, as he comes down the Tennessee. There can be no peace expected from many nations, while the English are at Detroit. I strongly suspect they will turn their arms against the Illinois, as they will be encouraged. I shall always be on my guard, watching every opportunity to take the advantage of the enemy, and, if I am ever able to muster six or seven hundred men, I shall give them a shorter distance to come and fight me, than at this place. There is one circumstance very distressing, that of our moneys being discredited, to all intents and purposes, by the great number of traders who come here in my absence, each outbidding the other, giving prices unknown in this country by five hundred per cent., by which the people conceived it to be of no value, and both French and Spaniards refused to take a farthing of it. Provision is three times the price it was two months past, and to be got by no other means than my own bonds, goods, or force. Several merchants are now advancing considerable sums of their own property, rather than the service should suffer, by which I am sensible they must lose greatly, unless some method is taken to raise the credit of our coin, or a fund be sent to Orleans, for the payment of the expenses of this place, which would at once reduce the price of every species of provision; money being of little service to them, unless it would pass at the ports they trade at. I mentioned to you, my drawing some bills on Mr. Pollock in New Orleans, as I had no money with me. He would accept the bills, but had not money to pay them off, though the sums were trifling; so that we have little credit to expect from that quarter. I shall take every step I possibly can, for laying up a sufficient quantity of provisions, and hope you will immediately send me an express with your instructions. Public expenses in this country, have hitherto been very low, and may still continue so, if a correspondence is fixed at New Orleans for payment of expenses in this country, or gold and silver sent. I am glad to hear of Colonel Todd's appointment. I think government has taken the only step they could have done, to make this country flourish, and be of service to them. No other regulation would have suited the people. The last account I had of Colonel Rogers, was his being in New Orleans, with six of his men. The rest he left at the Spanish Ozack, above the Natches. I shall immediately send him some provisions, as I learn he is in great want. I doubt, he will not be able to get his goods up the river except in Spanish bottoms. One regiment would be able to clear the Mississippi, and do great damage to the British interests in Florida, and, by properly conducting themselves, might perhaps gain the affection of the people, so as to raise a sufficient force to give a shock to Pensacola. Our alliance with France has entirely devoted this people to our interest. I have sent several copies of the articles to Detroit, and do not doubt but they will produce the desired effect. Your instructions I shall pay implicit regard to, and hope to conduct myself in such a manner as to do honor to my country. I am, with the greatest respect, your humble servant, G. R. Clarke. P. S. I understand there is a considerable quantity of cannon ball at Pittsburg. We are much in want of four and six pound ball. I hope you will immediately order some down. 
 
Report by Lieutenant-Governor Henry Hamilton on His Proceedings from November, 1776 to June, 1781. Sir,—The last letter I had the honor of addressing to your Excellency was dated May the seventh, 1781, and was accompanied with returns of the Prisoners, a general account of disbursements, and of Cash received at different times, duplicates of all which shall be sent by the first opportunity. The Packett which brought Major Hay and myself sailed from Sandy Hook on the 27th May, and arrived at Falmouth on the 21st June. Yesterday being the 5th of July I had the honor of paying my respects to Lord George Germaine. His Lordship was pleased to attend to the account I gave of our ill-success, and the treatment we experienced from the Rebels, from the day of our being made prisoners of War the 25 Feby 1779 to the 4th March 1781, when we were totally out of their power by a final exchange. Having mentioned to His Lordship that I had preserved a diary of transactions he directed me to commit to paper a brief account, and transmit the same to your Excellency. In obedience to His Lordship's orders I shall endeavor to avoid detail and supply as well as may be the want of such papers as were seized by Order of the Rebel Governor Mr. Jefferson, on our being thrown into the Dungeon at Williamsburg; some things previous to the arrival of your Excellency at Quebec, it may be proper slightly to mention. On the 9th day of November I arrived at Detroit, and almost immediately applications were made by the Indians for my assent to their making inroads upon the Frontiers of Pennsylvania and Virginia, this I declined giving not having received positive orders on the subject, and the rebels being in possession of Montreal, all intercourse with Sir Guy Carleton was cut off. In the month of June 1777 Lieutenant Governor Cramahe" wrote me a Letter containing the copy of Lord George Germaine's orders and instructions, by which I was Authorized to appoint proper Officers and Interpreters and to send them with the Indians against the Rebels, with the strictest injunctions to discourage and restrain them from their usual barbarities. A most strict adherence to these injunctions has been observed on my part, and as whatever I advance can be well supported, I shall mention some of the measures taken with the Indians, to invalidate the odious falsaties propagated by the Rebels in different parts of America, and to shew that the Savages have yielded to restraint, and foregone their habits of cruelty. When any party of Indians were desirous of going on a discovery, they were brought to me by the Interpreters, every dissuasive against cruelty was used their pretensions to the title of Warriors set in a just light, presents promised them for prisoners brought in alive, which the liberality of Government enabled me to make them, and the stability of future peace urged if after the conclusion of it, the Americans had living proofs of the humanity of the Indians, in the preservation of their Children and other defenceless persons. Some or all these arguments had their weight with the very first party sent out, which returnd with seven prisoners alive, who testifyed to the gentle treatment shewn by the Savages. The presents given on this occasion were incentive to other parties to act in like manner, and when we went against St. Vincennes we left 129 prisoners of different Ages and Sexes, who seemed heartily grateful for their humane treatment, being clothed and fed at the expence of the Crown, and allowed all liberty within the settlement. / On the 6th of August 1778 intelligence was brought me by Mr. Francis Maisonville of the attack of the Illinois by Colonel Clarke, the shamefull treatment of Monsieur de Rocheblave, who was laid in Irons and put into a place where hogs had been kept, ankle deep in filth, the indignities offered Madame de Rocheblave, the destruction of his property/&c. Expresses were dispatched with all possible speed to inform the Commander-in-Chief at Quebec, Lieutenant Colonel Bolton, commandant at Niagara, and Captain De Peyster, commandant at Michilimakinac. No time was lost in making preparations for executing the Orders of the Commander-in-Chief, should he approve of an attempt to dislodge the Rebels. Monsieur de Celoron was sent off directly for Ouiattanon, with Belts and Speeches for the Miamis Indians, and those of the River Ouabache, his Orders which were given him in writing, as was the case with all partizan Officers, directed that he should as soon as possible give me information of the dispositions of the Indians, the Numbers and if possible the views of the Rebels, and that he should not fail to have the few small Cannon at Fort Sackville spiked, and the Trunnions knocked off, a detail of his treacherous conduct I had the honor of laying before your Excellency in a letter from Ouiattanon. September 15th I had the honor of a letter from your Excellency, and in consequence wrote to Major de Peyster at Michilimakinac informing him of my design of attempting to dislodge the Rebels from the Ilinois. Having reviewed the Companies of Militia I found there would be as many of them turn out Volunteers as with the regulars La Mothe's Company, and the Indians, would employ what little Craft we had. Captn Lernoult who at that time commanded the detachment of the King's (8th) Regiment, assisted me greatly in forwarding everything necessary to be provided, and gave permission to Lieutenant Showrd' two Serjeants and thirty Rank & File who were all Volunteers to accompany me. Orders having been given in time for putting the carrying place at the Miamis in order, repairing the Carriages &c, proper artificers engaged, craft overhauled, and the weight of the provisions amunition, stores, Indian Goods &c, calculated. The Indians being found well-disposed, and Messengers sent to the different Nations resorting to Detroit, apprizing them of my design, and exhorting them to send out frequent parties upon the Frontiers, the day was fix'd for our departure. Pere Potier the Jesuit missionary a man of a respectable character and venerable figure, came to the head of our little encampment on the Common of Detroit, and having attended to the reading the Articles of War, and the renewal of the Oath of allegiance to His Britannick Majesty, he gave the blessing to the Catholics present, conditionally, upon their strictly adhering to their oath, being the more engaged thereto as the indulgence and favour of their prince, merited their best services and had exceeded their most sanguine expectations The subsequent behavior of these people has occasioned my recalling this circumstance. Our numbers (by recollection, as the Rebels got possession of the returns with other papers) were as follows—Of Regulars, one Lieutenant firworker two Matrosses—One Lieutenant 2 Serjeants, 30 Rank and file of the King's (8th) Regiment. Of Irregulars One Captain one Lieutenant 2 Serjeants 4 Rank & file—being Volunteers who had been disciplined in the best manner we could compass for about one Year, about seventy Volunteers selected from those who presented themselves at the reviews of the Militia companies of the settlement, and about 60 Indians. '/On the 7th of October the various necessaries for a winter movement of 600 Miles being provided, by the activity and goodwill of Captains Lernoult and Grant the latter of whom had attended to everything afloat, and by the assistance of Major Hay and Mr. Fleming the Commissary, we struck our Tents and embarked with one Field peece which was all could be spared from the Garrison/ One single person, he an Indian, was affected with liquor. We proceeded a little way down the River and encamp'd—I shall observe once for all, that camp duty was as strictly attended to, as the slender knowledge I possessed would admit, and that the Guards Picketts and advanced Centries, were regularly visited from the setting the watch, which was usually at sunset till broad daylight, that the boats were loaded, manned, and arranged in such a way as to be perfectly secured within our centries every night—That the Indians encamped and decamped, as regularly as could be wish'd, and that among them not a single Instance of drunkenness or quarrelling occurrd for 72 days, nor the least repining at the fatigues of the Journey, or the hardships of the season—Their customs in War, their ceremonies on the way, and what pass'd in the meetings with various tribes, with the Speeches, are enterd upon my diary, and may be of service to persons who wish to be acquainted with their forms without an attention to which, no hearty assistance is to be expected from them. On the 9th a snowstorm having subsided, it was debated whether or not we should hazard the passage of the Lake, from the Mouth of Detroit river, to that of the Miamis, but considering the advanced Season, and that contrary winds or the freezing of the Lake would frustrate our design, I determined to make the Push. The traverse is of 36 miles and it was noon before the swell on the Lake was fallen sufficiently. The night proved extremely dark, the head boats with guides carryed lights for the direction of those astern, about 11 o'clock the wind shifted, it began to rain, a heavy swell roll'd in, we were on a lee shore and all was at stake, what I sufferd on this occasion may more readily be conceiv'd than express'd, after rowing some time we lay on our Oars with our sterns to the swell till we  the most distant boats could discern our lights, and then rowed in shore, when happily we made an ouzy beach within a mile of the entrance of the Miamis river—It blew so hard all night we could neither pitch a tent or make a fire, and yet were happy in our escape, for if providentially we had not passed an extent of rocky coast before the storm arose, we had all inevitably perish'd. This day Monsieur de Celeron met us on his return, he made his report aloud, that the rebels were already arrived at the Miamis, I affected indifference, tho' astonished at his imprudence, and said I had already heard of it. I orderd him to proceed to Detroit— It soon appeard that his design in giving that false intelligence was deliberately treacherous, as he had been industrious in passing the Indian settlements on the way to spread the alarm. I apprized the Commandant at Detroit by letter of this manege. On the 11th we arrived at the foot of the Rapids, where we found Captain Grant, who in the sloop Archangel had brought 14 tonns of provision to expedite our journey—The next day we lost Lieutenant Showrd' by the accident of his piece going off which shattered his leg, we sent the Surgeon with him in a light boat to Detroit, where he sufferd the amputation but a mortification ensuing he lost his life. On the 24th we arrived at the Miamis town after the usual fatigues attending such a Navigation, the water being remarkably low. Here we met several tribes of the Indians previously summoned to meet here, and held several conferences, made them presents, and dispatched Messengers to the Shawanese, as well as the Nations on our route, inviting them to join us, or at least watch the motions of the Rebels upon the frontiers; for which purpose I sent them amunition. Having pass'd the portage of nine miles, we arrived at one of the sources of the Ouabache call'd the petite Riviere, the waters were so uncommonly low that we should not have been able to have pass'd, but that at the distance of 4 miles from the landing place the Beavers had made a dam which kept up the water, this we cut through to give a passage to our boats, and having taken in our lading at the landing pass'd all the boats. The Beavers are never molested at this place by the traders or Indians, and soon repair their dam, which is a most serviceable work upon this difficult communication. With great labor we next pass'd a Swamp called les Volets, beyond which the little Riviere a Boete joins the one we had made our way thro. The shallowness of the water obliged us to make a dam across both Rivers to back the water into the Swamp, and when we judged the Water to be sufficiently raised cut our Dyke and pass'd with all our craft. The same obstacle occurred at Riviere a I'Anglais, and the same work was to be raised./ /In our progress down the Ouabache difficulties encreased, the setting in of the frost lowerd the river, the floating ice cut the men as they worked in the water to haul the boats over shoals and rocks, our Batteau were damaged, and to be repeatedly unloaded, calked, and payd, 97,000 lbs. of provisions and stores to be carryed by the men, in which the Indians assisted chearfully, when the boats were to be lighten'd. It was sometimes a day's work to get the distance of half a league. It was necessary to stop frequently at the Indian Villages, to have conferences with them, furnish them with necessarys, and engage a few to accompany us. At length we got into a good depth of Water a fall of rain having raised the River, this advantage was succeeded by fresh difficultys the frost becoming so intense as to freeze the River quite across, however by hard labour we made our way, and now approaching within a few days' journey of St. Vincennes, our reconnoitring party brought in a Lieutenant and three Men, sent from Fort Sackville to gain intelligence. The Officer had in his pocket two commissions, one from Lieutenant Governor Abbott, the other from Colonel Clarke, and was in the pay of Congress—I gave their Arms to the Indians, but would not proceed rigorously with them, wishing to gain these people by lenity, and apprehensive, that an instance of severity might rouze the ferocity of the Indians which I wished of all things to avoid. Learning from the prisoners the state of things at St. Vincennes, I sent off parties to lay upon the roads from thence to the Ilinois, and to the falls on the Ohio, where the Rebels had a Fort, and a number of families lately come to settle, their Orders were to intercept any messengers, secure them and their letters, but not to suffer any violence to be offer'd to their persons, They executed their Orders and took prisoners, two men sent off by the Officer commanding for the Rebels at Fort Sackville with letters to Colonel Clarke acquainting him of our arrival. /'Major Hay was detach'd with orders to fall down the river, and send to the principal Inhabitants of St. Vincennes, acquainting them that unless they quitted the Rebels and laid down their Arms, there was no mercy for them, some chiefs accompanied him to conciliate the Peankashaa Indians residing at St. Vincennes, and to show the French what they might expect if they pretended to resist. Major Hay secured the Arms, ammunition, and spiritous liquors, as soon as the inhabitants laid down their Arms, and the Officer who commanded in the Fort (Captain Helm) being deserted by the Officers and Men who to the Number of 70 had form'd his Garrison, and were in pay of the Congress surrender'd his wretched fort on the very day of our arrival being the 17th of December 1778. Thus we employ'd 71 days in coming only Six hundred Miles, which is to be attributed to the extraordinary difficulties of the way owing to an uncommon drought; the severity of the season, and the inevitable delays at the Indian Villages, particularly at Ouiattanon, where the Chiefs who had receiv'd the Rebel colors came in to us from their hunting, acknowledged their error gave up the flags and accused Monsieur de Celoron of having deserted them, besides that he never distributed to them the goods entrusted to him for the Indians. Iv In the fort we found two iron three pounders, mounted on truck carriages, two swivels not mounted, a very small quantity of amunition, and thirty two stout Horses which had been purchased for Congress, and which I gave to the Indians. As to the state of the fort we found it a miserable stockade, without a Well, barrack, platform for small arms, or even a lock to the gate. Such was the moderation and good order observed by the Indians, that not a single person had the slenderest cause of complaint, not a shot was fired nor any inhabitant injured in person or property. It is remarkable that tho on our arrival at this place our number was encreased to 500 Men, there was not one sick, nor had there been a single instance of drunkenness among the Indians or soldiery from the day we left Detroit, tho' rum was deliver'd out on every occasion when the fatigues or bad weather made it necessary. As soon as proper precautions were taken for securing our boats, landing our provisions &ca, it became a point of consideration whether we should proceed directly to attack the Rebels at the Ilinois, or content ourselves with establishing ourselves in this post where we had these several advantages; the command of the River Ohio by which the Spaniards had supplyed the Rebel forts with Powder &c, the cutting off the communication between the Ilinois, and the falls of Ohio across the country—The being situated so as to check the River Indians, and encourage the Delawares and Ottawas on white River, further to divide our small force (since we must leave a Garrison in Fort Sackville) appear'd not eligible, and we could not expect the Indians to remain much longer with us. The state of our provisions, the length of the journey (240 miles) and the want of Carriages, added to the nature of the country, subject to innundations all combined to direct our determination to fortify ourselves here, and wait for reinforcements in the Spring. On taking an account of the Inhabitants at this place of all ages and sexes we found their number to amount to 621, of this 217 fit to bear arms, on the spot, several being absent hunting Buffaloe for their winter provision. Having summon'd the Inhabitants to assemble in the Church, I went to meet them, reproach'd them with their treachery and ingratitude, but told them since they had laid down their arms and sued for protection, that on renewing their Oath of Allegiance they should be secured in their persons and property. Lenity I thought might induce the French inhabitants at Kaskaskias to follow their example, tho' the conduct of the Canadians at large was but poor encouragement. I read twice to them the Oath prepared for them to take, explain'd the nature of it, and cautioned them against that levity they had so recently given proof of. The oath being administer'd, they severally kiss'd a silver crucifix at the foot of the Altar, after which they sign'd their names to a paper containing the same Oath in writing. It was conceived in the following terms. Those who had accepted commissions under the Congress delivered them up, and all those who had laid down their arms and renew'd their Oath of allegiance received their arms and on application had passports to hunt Buffaloe. The state of the Fort was one of our first concerns, in the course of the winter we built a guard-house, Barracks for four companies, sunk a Well, . erected two large Blockhouses of oak, musquet proof, with loop7holes below, and embrasures above for 5 pieces of Cannon each, alter'd and lined the Stockade, laid the Fort with gravel—Several parties were sent out chiefly towards Kaskasquias and the falls of Ohio by land, and to the mouth of the Ouabache by Water. The Indians who came from different quarters all seem'd pleased with our arrival, and from their jealousy of the Americans, would I am persuaded, have acted to our wish. Messengers were sent to Mr. Stewart the agent for Indian affairs to the Southward, with Letters proposing a meeting in the Spring at St. Vincennes, or the Cherokee River, the object of which was to reconcile the Southern Indians with the Shawanese and other Northern Nations, and to concert a general invasion of the frontier. A Letter was also sent for Captain Blomer at the Natchez by a person who I expected would betray his trust, and shew it to Don Bernardo de Galvez at New Orleans. A party of 30 Men with an Officer was sent to the Mouth of the Ouabache to intercept any boats that might be sent up the Ohio— as soon as Indian Parties return'd, others supplied their Places, and so well did they execute what was recommended to them, that they did at different times bring in prisoners and prevent intelligence being carried from St. Vincennes to the Ilinois, till ._ the desertion of a Corporal and six men of La Mothe's company  in the latter end of January, who gave the first intelligence to 'c Colonel Clarke of our arrival. As the Corporal and some of the Men had hitherto behaved well, it was apprehended that they were moved to desert by illintentioned people among the French at St. Vincennes. One of the deserters was brother to Gibault the priest, who had been an active Agent for the Rebels, and who's vicious and immoral conduct was sufficient to do infinite mischief in a Country where ignorance and bigotry give full scope to the depravity of a licentious ecclesiastic. This wretch it was who absolved the French inhabitants from their Allegiance to the King of Great Britain. To enumerate the Vices of the Inhabitants would be to give a long catalogue, but assert that they are not in possession of a single virtue, is no more than truth, and justice require, still the most eminently vicious and scandalous was the reverend Monsieur Gibault. The several Nations of Indians inhabiting the banks of the Ouabache came in at different times; made great professions, and declared their distrust of the Virginians, but there was but one Chief with his party who really acted with zeal and spirit, tho' the lake Indians shewed them a very good example. An Ottawa chief in particular soon after our arrival at St. Vincennes offer'd himself with a party to go down to the River's mouth where it falls into the Ohio, where having remain'd some time without taking any prisoners, he declared he would not return without attempting to be of further service, and went accordingly by land (a very fatiguing march) to Kaskaskias, where had he not been prevented by the treachery of a Canadian, he would (as Col° Clarke afterwards told me himself) have taken prisoners Col° Clarke with several other officers who were going to Cahokia. This Canadian was the Interpreter to the Miamis Indians, Charles Baubin by name, who contrary to my positive orders took away their horses from some of the french hunters of the Ilinois, and would have kept them but for the Chief already mentioned who reproach'd him with acting contrary to my Orders—Baubin further threatened that the Indians were to be brought down to the Ilinois and everything put to fire and sword, which directly contradicted the written Messages and letters I had sent by him and Hypolite Baulon to the inhabitants of the Ilinois. It is said Baubin is still employed as Interpreter to the Miamis, which makes me conclude some of my letters to your Excellency have miscarried. When he returned from the Ilinois, he asked leave to go to the Miamis, and his behaviour displayed the consciousness of a Villain who had betray'd his trust. Colonel Clarke's account of his treachery was supported by the testimony of other of his officers; thus at different periods, secret treason brought on our final misfortune. The fort was on the 22nd of February in a tolerable state of defence the Work proposed being finish'd—This day, Mr. Francois Maisonville return'd from a scout having been in pursuit of Deserters, and brought in two Virginians prisoners, whom he had taken on the Ohio. He took me aside immediately and told me he had discover'd about four leagues below the fort, fourteen fires, but could not tell whether of Virginians or Savages, I instantly sent off Captain La Mothe, Lieutenant Shieffelin and 20 Men to bring me a more perfect account. The Waters being out, the meadows were so greatly overflowed it was necessary to take a circuit. Mr. Maisonville had taken upon him to serve as a guide tho' fatigued. They lost their way night coming on, and were only appriz'd by the firing of Cannon at the fort that it was invested; returning to the Village & finding it impossible to make their way good, they concealed themselves in a barn, sending from time to time one of their Number to explore and make report, but as they emploied Canadians, none of them return'd—The Militia of the Fort had been order'd under arms in the evening. The Major, Le gras, and one of the Captains, Bosseron, with several of the Private Men being reported absent, I suspected treachery, the two Officers however made their appearance at sunset. About 5 minutes after candles had been lighted we were alarmed by hearing a Musquet discharged ;presentlyaftersomemore, I concluded that some party of Indians was return'd or that there was some riotous frolic in the Village, going upon the Parade to enquire I heard the Balls whistle, order'd the Men to the Blockhouses, forbidding them to fire till they perceived the shot to be directed against the Fort. We were shortly out of suspence, one of the Serjeants receiving a shot in the breast. The fire was now return'd, but the enemy had a great advantage from their Rifles, and the cover of the Church, Houses, Barns, &c. Mr. McBeath the surgeon having been in the Village when the firing began, push'd to get to the Gate, and narrowly escaped being kill'd, he reported that as soon as the first shots were fired, the Woman of the house where he was told him that Colonel Clarke was arrived with 500 Men from the Ilinois. This very house had lately been searched in the night on suspicion of a stranger being conceald, but the serjeant and party could not discover any such person—Tho' the night was dark we had a Serjeant Matross and five Men wounded. The weather was still so cold we were obliged to bring the Wounded into our own quarters. The Officers who had continued in tents all the winter were exposed to the fire of the enemy's riflemen as the picketting of the Fort was so poorly set up that one might pass the hand clench'd, between the Stockades. We dislodged the enemy from the Church, and nearest houses by~a few cannon shot from the Blockhouses, but when day appeared and we saw that the Inhabitants of the Village had joined the Rebels, we despaired of Captain La Mothe's party regaining the fort, but to our great surprize and joy about half-an-hour before sunrise they appear'd and got into the Fort over the Stockades which were upright,'and 11 feet out of the ground, with their Arms in their hands. Two Canadians of his Company had deserted the preceding night, and Mr. Maisonville was betrayed and deliver'd to the Rebels by his own Cousin. The 2. *ffiring was but slack after sunrise, and about 8 o'clock a flag of truce from the Rebels appear'd, carried by Nicolas Cardinal a Captain of the Militia of St. Vincennes, who deliver'd me a Letter from Coll Clarke requiring me to surrender at discretion, adding with an Oath that if I destroy'd any Stores or Papers I should be treated as a murtherer. Having assembled the Officers and read this letter I told them my intention was to undergo any extremity rather than trust to the discretion of such sort of people as we had to deal with. They all approve of this resolution, on which I assembled the Men and informed them of our determination. The English assured me they would defend the King's Colors to the last, adding a homely but hearty phrase, that they would stick to me as the shirt to my back—they then gave three cheers—The French on the contrary hung their heads—I return'd for answer to Col° Clarke's Note, that threats would not prevent us from doing our duty as British Subjects, and the Flag having returnd, the firing recommenced. La Mothe's Volunteers now began to murmur, saying it was very hard to be obliged to fight against their countrymen and relations, who they now perceived had joind the Americans—As they made half our number, and after such a declaration were not to be trusted—The Englishmen wounded, six in number were a sixth of those we could depend on, and duty would every hour fall heavier on the remaining few; considering we were at the distance of six hundred miles from succour, that if we did not burn the Village we left the enemy most advantageous cover against us, and that if we did, we had nothing to expect after rejecting the first terms, but the extremity of revenge, I took up the determination of accepting honorable terms if they could be procured, else to abide the Worst. I stated these considerations to the Officers first, who allowed them to be reasonable then to the Men, who very reluctantly admitted them, and here I must declare that if the defence of the Fort had depended on the spirit and courage of the English only the Rebels would have lost their labour, but (Colonel Clarke has since told me he knew to a man those of my little garrison who would do their duty, and those who would shrink from it—There is no doubt he was well informed. / The propositions which I sentout to Colonel Clarke were as follow. Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton engages to deliver up to Colonel Clarke, Fort Sackville as it is at present with all the Stores, ammunition and provision, reserving only thirty-six rounds of powder & ball per man, and as many weeks' provision, as shall be sufficient to subsist those of the garrison who shall go by land or by Water to their destination which is to be agreed on hereafter. The garrison are to deliver themselves up prisoners of War, and to march out with their Arms, accoutrements and Knapsacks. A Guide or Guides to be given, with a safeguard to escort the Garrison to their destination, as also horses for the transport of provision, provided the Garrison marches by land. The Garrison not to be deliver'd up, till the person employed by Colonel Clarke shall have receiv'd an account of the stores &ca. Three days time from the signing the Articles, to be allowed the Garrison for providing Shoes &ca necessary for the journey (if by land) for the baking of bread, and for the settling accounts with the traders of this post. Officers or others of the Garrison who have families, to be permitted to return to their homes, on promise of not acting during the present Contest between Great Britain and America. Sick and wounded are recommended to the humanity and generosity of Colonel Clarke, any charges incurred for them to be answer'd by Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, who will leave a draft for 50/. New York Currency for their use. Officers to take their private baggage. Sign'd at Fort Sackville Feby. 24th, 1779 H. Hamilton Before anything was concluded the following scene was exhibited, of which I give your Excellency a relation, as it serves to contrast the behaviour of His Majesty's Subjects with that of the Rebels, so often celebrated for humanity, generosity, and indeed everything virtuous, elevated, and noble. About 2 o'clock afternoon a party of Indians with some whites return'd from a Scout, with two Canadians whom they had taken prisoners near the falls of Ohio, probably with information for the Rebels at the Fort. Colonel Clarke sent off a detachment of 70 Men against them. The Indian party was 15 or 16 Men, who seeing the English Flag flying at the Fort, discharged their pieces, an usual compliment with those people, they were immediately fired upon by the Rebels and Canadians, two killed on the spot, one shot in the belly, who however escaped, the rest were surrounded and taken bound to the Village, where being set in the Street opposite the Fort Gate they were put to death, notwithstanding a truce at that moment existed. The manner (as related to me by different people, and among others by the man at whose door this execrable feat was perpetrated) was as follows— One of them was tomahawk'd immediately. The rest sitting on the ground in a ring bound—seeing by the fate of their comrade what they had to expect, the next on his left sung his death song, and was in turn tomahawk'd, the rest underwent the same fate, one only was saved at the intercession of a Rebel Officer, who pleaded for him telling Coll Clarke that the Savages' father had formerly spared his life. The Chief of this party after having had the hatchet stuck in his head, took it out himself and deliver'd it to the inhuman monster who struck him first, who repeated his stroke a second and a third time, after which the miserable spectacle was dragged by the rope about his neck to the River, thrown in, and suffer'd to spend still a few moments of life in fruitless struglings—Two Serjeants who had been Volunteers with the Indians escaped death by the intercession of a father and a Sister who were on the spot. Mr. Francis Maisonville whom I formerly mentioned was set in a Chair, and by Coll Clarke's order a Man came with a scalping knife, who hesitating to proceed to this excess of barbarity on a defenceless wretch, Colonel Clarke with imprecations told him to proceed, and when a piece of the scalp had been raised the man stopp'd his hand, he was again order'd to proceed, and as the executor of Coll Clarke's will, was in the act of raising the Skin, a brother of Mr. Maisonville, who had joined the Rebels, step'd up and prevailed on Coll Clarke to desist. The poor man who survived this crueltreatment, and shew'd an unshaken firmness in the minute of impending death, was not afterwards proof to the long confinement he underwent at Williamsburg, the gloominess of his situation affected his spirits first, the apprehension of suffering an ignominious death lower'd them still more, till his reason began to be impair'd—The surgeon, a Man of great humanity, tho' attached to the cause of Rebellion, wrote to the Governor and Council of Virginia to solicit a little enlargement for this poor man, as the only means likely to save him, what the answer was I know not, but the unfortunate creature put an end to his miseries and his life, in spight of two persons who watched him and were aware of his situation. Colonel Clarke yet reeking with the blood of these unhappy Victims came to the Esplanade before the Fort Gate, where I had agreed to meet him and treat of the surrender of the Garrison— He spoke with rapture of his late achievement, while he washed off the blood from his hands stained in this inhuman sacrifice. He told me it was in vain to think of persisting in the defence of the Fort, that his cannon would be up in a few hours, that he knew to a Man who might be depended on with every other circumstance of my situation, that if from a spirit of obstinacy I persisted when there was no probability of relief and should stand an Assault, not a single Soul should be spared. I replyed that tho' my numbers were small I could depend on them, He said he knew I had but 35 or 36 staunch men, that 'twas but folly to think of a defence with so small numbers so overmatch'd; that if I would surrender at discretion and trust to his generosity, I should have better treatment than if I artcled  for terms—my answer was, that I would then abide the consequence, and never take so disgracefull a step while I had ammunition and provision. You will be answerable (said he) for the lives lost by your obstinacy. I said my Men had declared they would die with Arms in their hands rather than surrender at discretion, that still I would accept such terms as might consist with my honor and duty, that knowing what I could pretend to, little time was necessary for drawing up Articles—He said he would think upon it and return in half-an-hour, he returned accordingly accompanied by one of his Captains—I went to meet them with Major Hay, the soldiers in the meantime apprehensive of some ill design, mannd the East Blockhouse ready to fire at an instant. The conversation was resumed, and Colonel Clarke appeared as determined as before, I then said further discourse was vain, that I would return to the Fort and to prevent mistakes, the firing should not take place for an hour after our parting took my leave & was proceeding to the fort, when Major Hay & Captain Bowman call'd me back, the subject was renewed, and Coll Clarke agreed to my sending terms for his consideration—They were sent that same evening, Colonel Clarke made his alterations and I agreed to them, having first called the Officers together, and exposed to them the necessity of the step. The Men were then assembled, and were convinced that no advantage to His Majesty's service could result from our holding out in the present circumstances. Among reasons not mentioned on the face of the capitulation were the treachery of one-half our little garrison, the certainty of the Inhabitants of the Village having joyned the Rebels—The North-East Angle of the fort projecting over a sandbank already considerably undermined, the miserable state of the wounded Men, the impossibility of effecting an escape by water, while the half of our number had shewed their poltronnerie and treason, and our wounded must be left at the mercy of a mercyless set of Banditti. Having given the necessary orders, I pass'd the night in sorting papers and in preparing for the disagreable ceremony of the next day. Mortification, disappointment, and indignation had their turns. At ten o'clock in the morning of the 25th, we marched out with fix'd Bayonets and the Soldiers with their knapsacks—the colors had not been hoisted this morning, that we might be spared the mortification of hawling them down. It had been told Col Clarke, that we had labour'd all night to lay powder Chests under the Gateway, and had planted the six-pounder loaded with grape which by a train was to destroy the Rebels as they enter'd to take possession. This report may reasonably be imputed to the invention of the french inhabitants since they had the effrontrie to give Col Clarke a written account of Cruelties exercised by us while at St. Vincennes, which our own American prisoners confuted in their Accounts to Col Clarke. Thus by the baseness and ingratitude of people who owed their lives and properties to us, we were betrayed into the hands of our enemies. Permit me Sir to make a slight digression, and attempt to show that a Correspondence with the french inhabitants, and not to our supineness and neglect, The Rebels owed the information necessary for accomplishing their design. On our arrival at St. Vincennes a strict search was made for Gunpowder, all that was to be found in the place was put into the Magazine, and a heavy fine was laid on those who should be found to conceal any, nevertheless Colonel Clarke was supplyed by the Inhabitants, his own to the last ounce being damaged on his March. He himself told me that he should never have attempted to attack us but that he was minutely informed of our situation in every respect. The Indians who after a march in winter of seventy-one days had acted with great zeal and fidelity, and furnish'd as many parties as I wish'd, had almost all return'd to their homes—Two Companies of Volunteers from Detroit had testyfied so much uneasiness, and unwillingness to remain that I chose to send them away rather than keep them against their inclination—Several persons who had been on pay as partisans with the Indians I believe fomented this discontent, which I attributed to their surmizing that France would join the Americans—Those people I discharged and sent away—The conduct of the Canadians in general has shewn that no ties that have force upon enlightened and generous minds, can bind them, and that they prefer any subjection, to the freedom of Englishmen. The artfull manege of the inhabitants of the Ilinois is not to be forgot—When news was carried to that place of the Indians coming against them under my orders, the young men offer'd their service to Coll Clarke to bear arms against the English, but their Fathers & uncles told him they had sworn allegiance to the King of great Britain, therefore could not act the same part, but that they would not fight against the Americans. The terms granted by Colonel Clarke and which I reluctantly signd were as follow— 1st. Lieutenant Governor Hamilton engages to deliver up to Coll Clarke, Fort Sackvillc as it is at present with all the Stores, ammunition & provisions &c &c. 2d. The Garrison are to deliver themselves up prisoners of war, and to march out with their Arms accoutrements and knapsacks. 3d. The Garrison to be deliver'd up to-morrow at 10 o'clock. 4thly Three days time to be allowed the Garrison to settle their accounts with the traders of this Town. 5thly. The Officers of the Garrison to be allowed their necessary baggage. Signed at Post Vincennes the 24th day of February 1779 G. R. Clarkk Agreed to for the following reasons— The remoteness from succour, the state and quantity of provisions the unanimity of officers & men on its expediency, the honorable terms allowed and lastly, the confidence in a generous enemy. Henry Hamilton Lieut. Govr. & Superintendent. If it be consider'd that we were to leave our wounded men at the mercy of a Man who had shewn such instances of ferocity as Colonel Clarke had lately done, a compliment bespeaking his generosity and humanity may possibly find excuse with some as 1 know it has censure from others. The evening of the day we capitulated, Colonel Clark order'd Neck-irons, fetters and handcuffs to be made which in our hearing he declared were designd for those Officers who had been employed as partisans with the Indians. I took him aside and reminded him that these persons were prisoners of War included in the capitulation which he had so lately set his hand to, he said his resolution was form'd, that he had made a vow never to spare woman or Child of the Indians or those who were employ'd with them—I observed to him that these persons having obey'd my orders were not to be blamed for the execution of them, that I had never known that they had acted contrary to those orders, by encouraging the cruelty of the savages, on the contrary, and that if he was determined to pass by the consideration of his faith and that of the public, pledged for the performance of the Articles of capitulation, I desired he might throw me into prison or lay me in irons rather than the others—He smiled contemptuously, turn'd away and order'd three of these persons to the guard, till the Irons should be made—The scalps of the slaughter'd Indians were hung up by our Tents, a Young man of the name of Rainbault was brought into the fort with a halter about his neck and only for the interposition of the Volunteers from the Ilinois some of whom were his Relations would infallibly have been hanged without any crime laid to his charge but his having been with a scouting party; he was half strangled before he was taken from the tree. Our Soldiers told us that some of the Rebels had sworn solemnly to destroy Major Hay and myself the first oppertunity. As we could not guard against any attempt in the situation we then found ourselves, we thought it best to appear unacquainted with any such resolution, but we were twice in the night obliged to fly for security to Coll Clarke's quarters in the fort, two men that were intoxicated and who's names had been given us, attempting to shoot us in our tent—The attempt was proved but no punishment ensued. We were kept in the dark as to the day of our departure, tho' I had repeatedly ask'd it, that we might have bread baked and prepare what was necessary. On the 5th of March, Monsieur Dejean was brought in prisoner, along with Monsieur Adhemar, the latter had been sent up with ten pirogues and thirty men to the Miamis, to bring down provi»sions and stores which had been forwarded from Detroit, Mr. Dejean had obtained leave of the Commandant there to pass to St. Vincennes, and had taken Charge of letters from Detroit for me—The day before Captain Helm (an American Officer who commanded the party sent to take the convoy) arrived at Ouiattanon Mr. Dejean heard that we had fallen into the hands of the Rebels, but he had not sufficient presence of mind to destroy the papers which with everything else were seized by the Rebels. Besides the provision cloathing and Stores belonging to the King, all the private Baggage of the Officers fell into the possession of Coll Clarke, not an Article of which was offer'd them, tho' they to conciliate the good offices of the Rebels to our wounded men and those whom we apprehended would not be permitted to go along with us gave away to Coll Clarke and to his people several things we should otherwise not have parted with, we afterwards heard that the prisoners were notwithstanding treated with great severity. Our Surgeon was robbed of his medicines and instruments Coll Clarke being arbiter of that article of the Capitulation by which the Officers were to take their necessary baggage. At length on the 8th day of March, we were put into a heavy Oak boat, being 27 in Number, with our provision of Flour and pork at common ration, and 14 Gallons of Spirits for us and our guard which consisted of 23 persons including two officers—We had before us 360 Miles of water carriage and 840 to march to the place of our destination Williamsburgh in Virginia—The 10th in the afternoon we reach'd the Ohio, whose Waters were out in an uncommon and astonishing degree—The depth above the banks 18 feet with such a swift current as made it very fatiguing to row which we all did in turn while our guard were distributed in four light boats—At night we were obliged to lye in our boat making it fast to a tree, for the flood extended as far in the wood as the Eye could reach, we made a miserable shift with our mast and oars to throw a  over head to keep out the rain, and lay like swine close jammed together having not room to extend ourselves. We presently found the discipline of our Guard such as would have enabled us to seize their Arms and escape to the Natchez, this was agitated among us but the Idea given up, on a persuasion that our companions left in the hands of the Rebels at St. Vincennes would be sufferers for it. We fell in with four delaware Indians who were hunting having only their bows & arrows, our escort obliged them to accompany us part of the way, but they disappeard one day, and we were given to understand they were quietly knock'd on the head. Not to trouble your Excellency with remarks made on my journey which are however noted in my diary, we arrived at the falls of Ohio the 30th of March here we found a number of settlers who live in log houses in eternal apprehensions from the Indians— it is remarkable that the parties from St. Vincenncs had been so vigilent, that the news of Fort Sackville falling into our hands the 17th of Decemr was only known here on the 29th of March—Col° Clarke had promised to send 15 Horses to this place for our use on the March, but that never was perform'd—He had apprized us that there was but little chance of escaping with our lives, the people on the Frontiers were so exasperated by the inroads of the Indians, and in this we found he had told us the truth, being often threatned upon the march and waylaid at different times. Our guard however behaved very well, protected us and hunted for us else we must have starved for our rations were long since expended and our allowance of bears flesh and Indian meal was frequently very scanty—The people at the forts are in a wretched state, obliged to enclose their cattle every night within the fort, and carry their rifle to field when they go to plow or cut wood. On our long march we had frequently hunger and thirst to encounter as well as fatigue, at length we gained the settled Country and at Lynches ferry on James River, were put into canoes and continued our progress by Water. On the 20th of May being on shore to get refreshment we were agreeably surprized to find ourselves at Brigadier Hamiltons quarters, who endeavored by his kindness and hospitality to make us forget our hardships—The same evening halting at the house of a Rebel Colonel Lewis, we had the good fortune to see two Officers of the convention Army, Captain Freeman aid de camp to General Reidesel was so obliging as to be the bearer of a Letter from me to General Philips, as also one for your Excellency containing the Capitulation and some returns—On the 26th A Rebel Captain with a Guard marched us from Beaver dam to Richmond, from thence to Chesterfield, where we remain'd till the 15th June, on which day an Officer having a written order under the hand of the Governor of the Province Thomas Jefferson for taking me in Irons to Williamsburgh. I was accordingly handcuff'd, put upon a horse, and my servant not being suffered to go with me, my Valise was fasten'd behind me—Captn Lamothe was order'd to accompany me, being in like manner handcuff'd—The fatigues of the march having heated my blood to a violent degree I had several large boils on my legs, my handcuffs were too tight but were eased at a Smiths shop on the road thus sometimes riding and sometimes walking we arrived the 2d evening at Williamsburgh having come 60 Miles—We were conducted to the Palace where we remain'd about half an hour in the Street at the Governors door, in wet cloaths, weary, hungry, and thirsty, but had not even a cup of water offered to us—During this time a considerable Mob gather'd about us, which accompanied us to jail—On our arrival there we were put into a cell, not ten feet square where we found five criminals and Mr. Dejean who was also handcuff'd. This poor man could not refrain from tears on seeing our equipment, We had the floor for a bed, the 5 felons were as happy as rum could make them and so we were left to our repose for that night. The next day we three were taken out about 11 oClock, and before a number of people our handeuffs taken off and fetters put on in exchange—I was honored with the largest which weighed eighteen pounds eight ounces—As I thought oppertunities might not offer frequently, and seeing some of the delagates present, I took occasion while my irons were rivetting to speak a few words. I told them that the ignominious manner in which we were treated without any proof of criminality, or any hearing, without even a crime being laid to our charge, was a reproach to those only who could act in that manner by prisoners of War, under the sanction of a Capitulation—That after a proceeding so unjust I was prepared for any extremity, but desired the persons present to observe that punishment was exercised on us before any enquiery had taken place or any person who might have accused us being confronted with us—some by their gestures appeard to feci for us, but no one uttcr'd a word, and when our fetters were properly fixed we were remanded to our Dungeon from which the five felons were removed—The light we received was from a grate, which faced the Court of 20 feet square with walls 30 feet high—The prison having been built 60 Years it may be conceived we were subject to one very offensive convenience, in the heat of summer almost suffocating, our door was only open'd to give us water, we were not allowed any candle, and from the first to the last of our confinement we never could find that the Governor or Council had order'd provision of any kind to be made for us except Water with which we were really very well supplied—The variety of vermin to which we were a prey, bad air, Chagrin and want of exercise began to produce their effects on my companions; having therefore obtain'd from our Goaler (who was left sole arbiter to deale out his indulgence or straighten our captivity) paper pen & ink, I wrote the following letter to the Lieut: Governor and Council of Virginia, the humility of the Stile was adopted in consequence of finding, that a bold representation of our situation would never find its way out of the prison. Your Excellency will I hope pardon me for giving a copy of the paper which I gave to the Goaler the day before, and which he return'd to me with the greatest insolence of contempt, telling me that dignified Characters in that Country were not to be treated with so little ceremony—It was worded as follows— Mr. Pelham— "Having understood from you yesterday that the Governor was "gone to the Country to stay for a month, I request of you to "wait on the Lieutenant Governor, present my respects to him, acquainting him, that by a written order sign'd by the Governor, "I with Mr. Dejean and Captain La Mothe have been ironed & "thrown into a dungeon where we have now lain upwards of 40 "days—That we have not been inform'd of the cause of this treat"ment—we do not hear of our being to be confronted with our "accusers, we hear no mention of any public enquiery, we suffer "without any trial: We understand that these proceedings are "not agreeable to the Laws of this Province, or to any known "rule of equity, that it is inconsistent with the tenor of the Governors Oath, and breathes the genuine spirit of lettres de cachet "in the most arbitrary government—The Governor's departure, "without bestowing a thought on men in our situation, shews, that "we may suffer in reputation, health and loss of time, with as "little prospect of redress, as if we were in the cells of the inquisi"tion—Mr. Pelham please to inform the Lieutenant Governor, "that I do not think common justice to be less the birthright of "every man, than the enjoyments of light & liberty, but that "since our arrival in this State, we have in lieu of common jus"tice, experienced uncommon injustice—I do therefore for myself "and the Gentlemen confin'd with me, demand Justice, Justice "as open to the public, as our treatment has been notorious. "Mr. Pelham when you shall commit this Message to paper, I "beg you will give me a copy of it certified with your own name "signd. This being as I mentioned contemptuously refused—I was necessitated to lower my tone, or give up all thoughts of redress, and this I might have done for the Lieutenant Governor never deign'd an answer to the following letter Wn.LiAMSBi-RGH Jail July 30th—1779. GENTLEMEN— Mr. Pelham having very obligingly procured me the means of addressing you, I take the first oppertunity of representing to you the circumstances and situation of the two Gentlemen at present in confinement along with me. I am to suppose they have been put in prison for having acted under my orders, if there be any criminality in those orders, Justice demands that I alone should be the sufferer—I therefore make it my request that I suffer alone. The health of these Gentlemen are daily impair'd by the consequences of their restraint, as they are in want even of a change of linnen highly necessary at this sultry season—As to my own conduct however misrepresented, I have a confidence (which "will I hope hereafter appear well grounded) that it will sup"port itself against the attacks which have been made upon it ''in this Country, and that it will abide the test of that enquiery "which I am to expect it will undergo, whenever I shall be call'd "upon by those Superiors, whose orders I have endeavored to "execute, with humanity and moderation. Gentlemen whatever may be the result of this application I shall with patience wait for the day when I may more largely expose to the World the whole tenor of my conduct, which I have all the reason imaginable to think, has been discolored and misrepresented. I have the honor to be with all due respect Gentlemen Your most Obedient very homble servant Henry Hamilton To the Honorable the Lieut Governor and Council of Virginia. Having been by order of the Governor (with the advice of his Council) prohibited the use of pen Ink and paper, or the converse of any one but our Jailor we had no employment but in our reflections, at length the prisoners in the next cell contrived to thrust the Newspapers thro a hole and in them we found the formal charge drawn up against us entirely unsupported by truth or evidence—I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency copies of their publications—The day after our confinement the jailor came to ask me for my Keys, which having deliver'd my box was search'd, and such papers as would have disproved their assertions, taken out, however as I had had many proofs of the disingenious part these people were capable of acting, I had hid my journal, with copies of usefull papers, which I have found means to preserve, tho our place and mode of confinement were so often changed. August 31st—Major Hay with the other Prisoners from Chesterfield arrived at Williamsburgh, the Soldiers were confined in the debtors room, the officers 5 in Number were put into the Dungeon with us which made the heat intolerable At eleven at night we were obliged to alarm the prisoners in the next cell who pass'd the word to the Guard for the Jailor, our Surgeon being on the point of suffocating an asthma to which he was Subject having seized him at this time with that violence, that he lost his pulse for ten minutes, we had tried by wafting a Blanket to draw some air thro' the grate but this was insufficient and if he had not had presence enough of mind to open a vein, he would probably have expired, for the state of the air was such that a Candle with which we had lately been indulged, would barely live if held at the top of the Cell. The Jailor took Mr. McBeath out and suffered him to sleep in his own Room, and I must declare in Justice to him, that in several points he shewed more feeling by far than his employers. The door of our Cell continuing shut for several days, the poor prisoners Young and old, Men and Women, offered to be lock'd up and debarr'd the use of the court, if we might be allow'd that liberty, which at length we had The Humanity and attention of these poor people is not to be forgot, they offer'd themselves to do a hundred kind offices, cleand and wash'd our Cell, shew'd us how to manage our Irons, wrapped them round with rags, offer'd to saw them off whenever means of escape offer'd, but what struck me most was, that when we were indulged with the use of the court and sat to eat, these people always withdrew—Gratitude calls on me to mention the difference of Characters we experienced from the leaders in this Country, and those subjected to their controul. Being attack'd with a fit of the Gout a Surgeon was sent for who treated me with the greatest tenderness—by his means my fetters were taken off, and handcuffs put on, but these were little restraint, for as I had fallen away considerably, I could slip my hands thro them with ease. Other persons persuaded of the falsehood and infamy of the charges laid against us found means to convey to us intelligence, and what was still more acceptable, sometimes a loaf of bread, meat, vegetables fruit &c. and this at their great peril—On our first arrival a person came who proposed to furnish us provision at four pounds per man of their paper Money per day. General Philips knowing our situation had sent us an unlimited credit, and his letter having passed to us thro' the hands of the Governor and Council we for a time lived plentifully and had the means of helping out the miserable ration of the prisoners, but after a while the executive power order'd our purveyor to limit our allowance, and at length after we had rejected the parole he was forbid to furnish us any longer, so that in the depth of a Winter the severest ever known in this country, we had water alone for drink, and our provision was bread of Indian meal and very poor salted Beef. October 1st—A Parole was tenderd to us which having read and duly considered we all rejected, as some people thought a spirit of obstinacy rather than prudence dictated on this occasion, I send your Excellency a transcript of it— Copy of the first parole tender'd Octob. 1st. 1779. I do promise on my parole of honor, that I will not depart out of the limits which shall from time to time be prescribed to me by the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any other person having Authority from him to prescribe or alter such limits —That I will not say or do anything directly or indirectly to the prejudice of the united States of America or any of them. That I will hold no conference with any prisoners of war, other than those fix'd at the same quarters with me, but in the presence of such person as the Governor or some one acting by authority from him shall appoint, nor send nor receive any letter or message, nor communicate any intelligence to or from any person but with the privity and permission of the Governor, or other person authorized by him for that purpose, to whom all letters or other papers coming to my hands shall be deliverd before their Seals shall be broken, or they shall be otherwise opened: and this promise which I make on the faith of a Gentleman shall be binding on me untill I shall be enlarged from my captivity by exchange or otherwise with the consent of the Governor of Virginia. Virginia Set: Under the faith of the above parole is dischargd from his confinement in the public Jail, is to prepare himself immediately and to take his departure with such Gentlemen as shall be appointed to escort him to Hanover court house, where he is to continue till further orders, not going more than one mile from said court house in any direction. The County Lieutenant of Hanover, has Authority to inspect and licence all letters from the said Sign'd Th. Jefferson. As we had suiler'd already from the simple asservations of obscure persons, one of whom John Dodge was known by several Virginias to be an unprincipled and perjured renegado, and as we had experienced the inhumanity of the executive power, It plainly appeard that this parole was offer'd from no other motive than to lay us open to the malice of the first informer, when we should probably have been imprisoned as before, with the additional Stigma of having broken a parole, which it was next to impossible to observe in all its parts. October the 9th The Soldiers were sent from the Jail to the Barrack, where being allowed to cut wood a part was sent to the Jail for us, and even the American soldiers on guard, tho' miserably bare of clothing themselves, used to spare a part of their own fuel for the dressing our victuals. On Christmas Day the Soldiers were march'd away to King William County—The weather at this time became so intensely cold, that we could not rise from the floor but continued day and night in our blankets, The scurvy began to make it's appearance, and our legs to swell—The Jailor then concluding we could not survive the severity of the cold in our present situation, took us to an upper room in the Jail, where prisoners had formerly been kept, this tho it had no window but an open grate was more tolerable than the Dungeon, we could light fire in the Chimney and by sacrificing part of our blankets to stop the grated window and stuff the cracks in the cieling we made a shift to endure in the daytime, at night were remanded to our Dungeon. April 18th. 1780 Lieutenant Schieffelin made his escape, in Company with Monsieur De Rochblave and after great risques and difficulties got to New York. June 1st—Mr. Maisonville destroyd himself. August 1st—We were march'd from Williamsburgh—Major Hay and I sent to the Jail at Chesterfield—the Surgeon and Mr. Bellefeuille to King William Court-House—Captn La Mothe and Mr. Dejean some time in last October accepted the parole formerly rejected, the former went to Hanover, the latter went to Coll Clarke but what is become of him, I have not since learn'd. Some time in September a second parole was offer'd for our consideration which varied so little from the first that we chose to remain prisoners rather than accept it—While at Chesterfield our confinement was rendered very tolerable, and several of the Military and other who were convinced of the injustice and illiberally of our treatment shewed by their behaviour what opinion they had of the executive power—In this Jail Major Hay and 1 had a very severe tho' short attack of Fever which was pretty generally felt thro' the Country, we were well attended—We had liberty to walk about in the neighbourhood of the Jail—On the 23d Lieutenant Col° Fowles who had been a long time Prisoner to the English on Long Island, arrived at Chesterfield. He had had hopes of procuring an Exchange, and got permission to come to Virginia to effect it if practicable—He brought me letters from my friends at York which gave me to understand, that unless I accepted a Parole, there was little probability of my procuring an exchange—Having therefore Written to Brigadier Hamilton to request the continuance of his kindness to the prisoners now removed to Frederic Town—I with Major Hay accepted the parole following— I Henry Hamilton Lieutenant Governor and Superintendant of Detroit hereby acknowledge myself a prisoner of War to the Commonwealth of Virginia, and having permission from His Excellency Thomas Jefferson, Governor of the said Commonwealth to go to New York, do pledge my faith and most sacred promise upon my parole of honor, that I will not do, say, write, or cause to be done said or written, directly or indirectly, in any respect whatsoever anything to the prejudice of the united States of America, or any of them, untill I shall be enlarged from my Captivity by exchange or otherwise with the consent of the said Governor of Virginia or his successors, & that I will return when required by the said Governor or his successors, to such place within the said Commonwealth, as he shall point out, and deliver myself up again to him or the person acting for or under him. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and Seal at Chesterfield this 10th day of October 1780 Henry Hamilton (L. S.) The within mentioned Henry Hamilton, having sign'd a Parole of which this is a copy, has permission to go to New York, and to remain within such parts of that State, as are in possession of the armies of his Britannick Majesty, untill he shall be exchanged, or otherwise liberated with consent of the Governor of Virginia for the time being, or untill he shall be recalled by him. Given under my hand and Seal of the Commonwealth of Virginia at Richmond, date within written. (L. S.) Th. Jefferson Having accepted this Parole we hasten'd to Williamsburg in our way to Hampton, and there were stopped by the Lt. Governor, who as General Leslie had just arrived thought it not adviseable to let us pass, and gave orders for our being escorted back to Richmond—This treatment I resented telling them they might march me back prisoner, but that this was a step they might judge imprudent in the present Juncture. They seemd to think so, for we had liberty to proceed—As soon as I had given certificates, recommending to General Leslie such of the inhabitants as had shewn an attachment to Government, or had been kind to us in our distress, we proceeded to York, where some turbulent people were minded to set a guard over us and stop our progress, at length we got to Hampton—This short journey cost us one thousand pounds, such was the depreciated State of the paper Money at that time. At Hampton people were civil to us furnish'd us with a cannoe, which to our inexpressible satisfaction put us on board His Majesty's Sloop Delight, Captain Inglis, who by his kind reception of us presently recruited our lower'd spirits—We next went to wait on Captain Gayton Commander of the squadron—The cartel Vessel which was to have conveyed us from Hampton to New York, had been taken and the masters certificate not appearing genuine, he with the Vessel were detain'd. Having paid our Respects to General Leslie who received us with the greatest politeness, we returned to the Romulus, Captain Gayton's ship—The Cartel Master was suffer'd to go to Hampton to prepare for his Voyage. The Stores which General Leslie and Captain Gayton had most liberally supplied us were plunder'd by the Americans on shore for we did not choose to risque ourselves out of a King's Ship—At length we set off from the Romulus in our Cartel, a little miserable sloop of 36 feet keel, for a passage in which we were obliged to pay four hundred hard dollars—A Violent gale of wind obliged us to Anchor oft Smith's Islands, where we were very near perishing, our crew was three hours at work to get the Anchor out of the ground, at last we got it home leaving one flook behind, and to our no small mortification were obliged to put back to Hampton—Here we were on the point of being detain'd by Order of General Nelson,I who had assembled some Militia, but our Skipper being desirous to get away, and having got another Anchor, we once more set sail for New York. A very severe Gale of wind took us near the Capes of Delaware when our skipper not having a log line on board laid the vessel to, and we had reason in the morning to admire our good fortune, for the wind was right on Shore, and it was 12 at night when he lay to, judging by the run—that we were opposite Delaware Bay, as it proved for we had driven seven leagues up the Bay from the time of laying to. We arrived at New York very squalid Spectacles, not having had any sleep for 3 days and nights, our Cloths ragged, Shoes broken and so alter'd in face and figure that our acquaintance could scarcely recollect us—His Excellency Sir Henry Clinton, Major General Philips, Lord Rawdon were so good as to take several steps towards procuring our Exchange, which finally took place on the 4th day of March 1781, we took our passage for England the 10th, but the packet not sailing till the 27th of May our arrival in this Country was so late as the 21st June. Thus Sir I have attempted to give your Excellency some account of my unfortunate failure, with the causes of it which while I lament I must attribute chiefly, if not entirely, to the treachery of persons, whom I had reason to expect, Lenity and moderation would have gained, and whose interest it was to be faithfull. Among those to be raised for this service, there was but little choice, the Arts of some rebel emisaries, and the trigues of persons still attach'd to the Interest of France got the better of the good intentions the Canadians might have set out with. The difficulties and dangers of Colonel Clark's march from the Ilinois, were such as required great courage to encounter, and great perseverance to overcome. In trusting to traitors he was more fortunate than myself, whether on the whole he was entitled to success is not for me to determine, If my conduct appears to your Excellency in a justifiable light, I may hope to be more pitied than blamed at least your approbation will enable me to support the weight of that censure which seldom fails to accompany an unsuccessful! enterprize. I have the honor to be with profound respect Sir Your Excellency's most devoted, most obedient and most humble servant Henry Hamilton Jermyn Street London July 6th, 1781.  Lt. Gv. Hamilton, London the 6th July, 1781. Rec'd from Himself.

Clark to John Brown, 1791.  Sir in fulfiling the engagement I am under to you in with Respect to the wars of Kentucky I must commence with the first settlemen of the District which had been but partially Explored previous to the year 1773 when a considerable number Surveyors and private adventurers passed Gen,y through it the first Settlement attempted was Col. J. Harrod at Harrods Town in the spring 1774 but they Had made but small progress in Building &c before they was obliged to abandon the country on ace' of the war with the Shawonees they Marched through the wilderness and Joined Col. Lewis army at the Close of that war they made preperation and again took possession of their Town in the spring 1775 inmean time Col Henderson and Company had purchased the country from the Cherokees and made in Establishment at Boonsborough opening a Land office &c but you are too well acquainted with those circumstances too need any Information it was at this period that I first had thoughts of paying some attention to the Interest of this country the the Proprietors at first took great pains to Ingratiate them selves in the favr of the people but too soon for their Interest began to Raise on ther Lands which caused many to complain, a few Gentlemen mad some attempts to to persuade the people to pay no attention to them. I plainly saw that they would work there own Ruin as the greatest Security they had for the country would be that of making it the Interest of the people to support their claim and that by their Conduct they would shortly exasperate the people and that would be the Moment to overset them. I left the country in the Fall 17751 and Returned the Spring following while in Virginia I found there was various oppinions Respecting Hendersons Claim Many thought it god others doubtd wheter or not Virginia could with propriety have any pretentions to the country this was what I wanted to know I imediately fixed on my plans that of assembling the people get them to Elect deputies and send them to the assembly of Virginia and treat with them Respecting the country if Valuable Conditions was procured to declare our selves Citizens of the State otherways Establish an Independant Government and by giving away great part of the Lands and disposing of the Remainder otherways we could not only gain great numbers of Inhabitants but in good Measure protect them to Carry this Scheam into effect I appointed a gen Meeting at Harrods Town on the 6ih June 76 that some thing that something would be proposed to the people that very much consered their Interest the Reason I had for not publishing what I wished to be done before the Day was that the people should not get into parties over the Subject and as every one would wish to know what was to be done theer would be a more gen Meeting but unfortunately it was late in the Eavening of that Day before I could get to the place the people had been in some confusion but at last concluded that the whole design was to send delagates to the assembly of Virginia with a petition praying the assembly to accept of them as Such to Establish a New County &c the Poles was opened and before I arrive far advanced in the Election and had Entered with spirit into it that I could not get them to change the principal that of Delagates with Petitions to that of Deputies under the authority of the people in short I did not take much pains Mr John Gabriel Jones and my Self was Elected the papers prepaired and in a few days we set out for Williamsburgh in hopes arriving before the assembly then Seting should Rise under great apprehentions that the Indeans under the Influance of the Brittish would shortly make a Break uppon the country and no time ought to be lost in geting it  a State of defence and apprehending no imediate danger on the Wilderness Road Mr Jones and my self attempted to pass without waiting for other company but had great cause to repent it, the second Day we discovered allarming signs we was under great apprehentions on the third Day Mr Jones Horse gave out and our little put on mine and in so Hilly a country it was Impossible that more than one could ride at time the weather being very rainy our Feet being wet for three or four Days and Nights without ever being dry not daring to make fire we boath got what the Hunters call the Scald Feet a most shocking Complaint the Skin seems to hot on every part of our Feet this cituation we travailed in greator torment than I ever before or since Experienced in hopes of geting Relief at the Station 10 or 12 miles from the Cumberland Gap in powills Valley how greatly were we disappointed on our arival to find the place totolley abandoned and part of it Burnt my Companion being but little used to such distress got almost discouraged at the disappointment I flattered him in the certainty of the peoples being at Martins Fort about 8 Miles ahead as I expected the whole had imbodied their although the danger was much greator than we had apprehended but being now fully apprised of it I could without Runing any great Risque if we could but make out to walk through the woods bytboath of us Riding whare there was leaval ground, this we attempted in Vain and was obliged to take the Road for the person on Foot could by no means bare to the torture of tracking thrugh the thick Woods hearing of Indean guns Frequently we ware in hopes they ware Hunters from the station we ware aiming at but to our supprise on our arrival foun the Fort to have been abandoned for a Considerable time a few Human Tract to be seen which we knew to be Indeans as well as the Guns we had heard, our situation now appeared to be deplo the nearest Inhabetants we now knew to be sixty miles not able to Travel our selves and Indeans appeared to be in full possession of.the country that we ware in we sat a few Viewing Each other I found myself Reduced to a perfect desperation Mr Jones asked me what we should do I told him that it impossible for us to make to Settlement in the condition that we ware in to hide our selves in the Mountains if the weather was to continue wet we might probably get worse than better and perhaps perish that we knew that within 8 or 10 Days that a party was to follow us from Kentucky that I knew that oil and ouse made of oak Bark would cure our Feet in a few Days that I thought that the only plan we could would be to get possession of the best cabbin in the place fortify ourselves in it and burn down the Rest of the Fort that abundance of Hogs about the corn Cribs we a few of them a barrel of Water and some corn that we probably stand a Siege untill we ware Releived by the party we expected to follow us from Kentucky that 10 or 12 Indean could not drive us out of the House as I was well acquainted with them a new that they would not storm us to a great disadvantage that we ware well armed a Rifle 2 Cases of good pistols and a Hanger that I was confident that we could defend our selves against a greator number of Indians than he had an Idea of he was over Joyed at the proposition an we fell to work I sent him to kill a Hog by Runing a sword through it was Eating corn to prevent noise a small strong Cabbin of Cap'n Martins being a little detached from the Rest and Locked having a table and some other things in it I dome up to the top of the chimney and flung it down until it was so Low that I could drop into the House without hurting my self (not being able to support myself with my Feet against the Logs) and cut the Locke of the Door Loose by this time my Friend had got his hog he being best able to walk filed a Cag with water and Collecting some wood geting in some corn &c we Barred the Door nocked out some port holes set the Table in the Middle of the Floor and Spread our arms and amunition in order and waited with Impatience for the wind to shift that we might set fire to the Fort with out burning our own Castle our agrement was that in case of an attact that Mr Jones should continue to the Pieces as discharged them without paying any attention to the Enemy except there was the appearance of a storm we Cooked some provitions and mean time dresed our Feet with oil and continued to prepair ourselves for defence with delegince untill late in the Eavening when the wind the wind appeared to die away we proposed seting Fire to the Houses as we intended but we had no sooner unbared our Door than we heard a Horse Bell open on the Road and in a few minutes stop again we ware fully convinced that the Enemy ware at hand and amediately secured ourselves as well as possible determined to Execute our first plan and if they should attempt to burn us out to nock of the Roof of the Cabbin we waited in suspence for some time but at last to our great Joy found that they ware white men that had come from the Settlement of Clinch River to collect some things they had hid at the time they had left the place the Bell of one of their Horses happened unstop when they got within sight of the Fort, when they discovered the smoak of our Fire supposeing us to be Indians they Creep round in order to make full discovery and get the advantage of us while at this business we had a full View of them and shew our selves to them their appeared to be happy in having it in their power to Relieve us with them we crosed the Mountains to the Settlements Recruiting ourselves we proceeded on our Journey as far as Bottetourt County, and there learnt that we ware too late for the assembly that they had already Risen we ware now at a loss for some time to determine what but concluded that we should wait untill the Fall session in mean time that I should go to Williamsburgh and attempt to procure some powder for the Kentuck and watch their Interest we parted Mr Jones Returned to Holston in order to  the Forces that was Raising in order to repell the Cherokee Indians as the lately Commenced Hostilities and myself proceeded on the Govr of Virginia (Mr Henry) Lay sick as his Seat in Hanover whare I waited on him and produced my Vouchers he appeared much disposed to favour the Kentuckyens and wrote by me to the Counsill on the subject I attended them my application was for 500 lbs of powder only to be coveyed to Kentucky as lmediate supply after Various questions and Consultations they agreed to furnish the supply but as we ware a detached people not yet united to the state of Virginia and uncertain untill the seting of the assembly whether we should or not they could only lend us the amunation as to Frends in distress but that I must become answerable for it in case the Assembly should not receive us as Citizens of the State I informed them that it was out of my power to pay the Expence of Cariage and Guards necessary for those supplies that the British Officers on our Frontiers ware making use of every Effort to ingage the Indians in the war that the People might be distroyed for the want of this small supply that I was in hopes they would consider the Matter and favour us as to send the amunition out at Publick Expence &c. They Replied that they ware really disposed to do every thing for us in their power consistent with their office (which I believed) after Making Making use of many arguments to convince me that even what they proposed was a stretch of power informed me that they could venture no further an order was Issued to the Keeper of the Magizean to deliver me the Amunition I had for twelve month past Reflected so much on the Various Situation of things Respecting our Selves on Continent at large that my Resolution was formed before I left the counsill Chamber. I Resolved to Return the order that I had Received and Imediately repair to Kentucky knowing that the people would readyly fall into my first plan as what had passed had almost Reduced it to a Certainty of sucksess I wrote to the Councill and inclosed the order informing them that I had weighed the Matter and found that it was out of my power to convey those stores at my own Expence such a distance through an En mies country that I was sorry to find that we should have to seek protection else whare which I did not doubt of geting that if a country was not worth protecting it was not worth Claiming &c &c what pased on the Reseption of this Letter I cannot tell I was sent for that could suppose by a set of Gentc zealous in the welfare of their country and fully apprised of what they might expect to take place at Kentucky being a little prejudiced in favr. of my Mother country I was wiling to meet half way orders was amediately Issued dated Aug' 23d 17761 for they conveying those Stores to pittsburg and their to wait further orders from me things being amicably sctled I wrote to Kentucky informing of them what had been done and Recommended it to them to send to Pittsburgh and convey the Amunition by water to their own country (this they never Rcccved) and waited my self untill the Fall Session when I was Joined by my Coleague Mr Jones we laid our Papers befor the assembly they Resolved that we could not take seat as Members but that our Business should be attended to Co Henderson one of the purchscrs of the Chirokees being present Retarded our business much Co Arthur Camppell one of the Members being also much opposed to our having a new County but wished us to remain annexed to the County on the Frontiers of which we lay and himself Represented this caused it to be late in the session before we got a compleat Establishment a new county by the name of Kentucky of a county by the name of Kentucky Mr Jones and my self parted at Williamsburgh but learning that the amunition was yet at Pittsburgh we resolved to go by that post and take it down the River we agreed to meet their but the weather prooving sevear it was late in the Fall before we could set out but[however trifling a small Quantity of amunition or the loss or acquisition of a few men may appear in the scale of affairs among people in Gen to the Kentuckuns the loss of cither I knew would be sensibly felt—of course payed every attention possible I found that the Indians ware fully prepairing for war in the spring that those of them that attended at F' Pitt under the Colour of friendship was in fact acting as spies that they had some Idea of our intention of going down the River and would attempt to intercept us sensible that our safety solely depended on Expedition only without waiting to Recruit our party, we set out with seven hands only in a small Vessel and by the most Indefatigable labour made our way good, we past the Indians in the Night or by some means or other got a head of them, for the Day before we Landed near Limestone we plainly discovered that they war in persuit of us: we hid our stores in four or five different places, at a considerable distance apart, and riming a few miles lower in our Vessel set it a drift and took by Land for Harrods Town in order to get a force suffitient and Return for our stores we pased by the Blue Lick; and the third day from our leaving the River got to Hinkstons Cabbin on the West Fork of Licking Creek, while we ware resting our selves, four men came to us that had been Exploreing Land in that quarter and informed of the situation of affairs in Kentucky that very little damage had yet been done that the late Co Jonathon Todd was with a party some whare in that part of the country; that if we could find him we should be strong Enough to Return to the River; but this was uncertain. As several of our party was much fatigued we agreed that my self and two others should proced to Harrods Town for the proposed party; that Mr Jones and the Rest should Remain in that neighberhood untill our Return. In a short time after I had set out Co Todd arrived at the same place and after some consultation concluded that they ware able to go to the River and bring on the amunition & other stores and accordingly set out with Ten men and between the Blue Lick and the River on 25 Dccr met the Indians on our Trail and got totally routed Mr Jones was killed and three others got killed and taken prisoners fortunate for us the prisoners did not discover our Hidden stores to the Indians.1 The party sent from Harrods brought them safe to that place which gave universal Joy.2 on the 29th Decr a large party of Indians attactcd McCllcins F' on Elkhorn Kiled Mc Clellin and White and wounded two others after which the whole moved to Harrodstown the Inhabitants of Kentucky at this period consisted only of about  men in those stations Harrods Town Boonsborough and Co Logans about this time Established, the information I gave suffitiently allarmed them; the people had scarsely time to prepair themselves before a large body of Indians advanced on the 7th March 77 (on the 5'h the Militia of the Cty was Imbodied) to the attack of Harrods Town they fired on some Boys in the eavening, 5 miles from Town kiled one; the Rest made their escape and gave the allarm a party from the Fort advanced to the place it being late in the Eavening they fortunally did not fall in with the Indians as in all probability our party would have been cut to pieces and of course the country lost the loss of a single man at this time was sensibly felt and Gen Actions with the Enemy ought to be guarded agains without an aparent superiority, as the enemy could easely Retrive their loses by Recruits from numerous Nations which was an advantage we could not expect to injoy in for some time_Jin the morning following the Indians had waylaid the upper of the Town (that had been Evacuated the Eavening before) and a little after Day light set fire to one of the Houses a small party unadvisedly went to see what was the cause and was fired on by the Indians they ware covered by a party from the Fort and made good their Retreat in this affair there was a man lost Killed on each side and a few wounded, being the Superior officer we had the country put in as good a state of defence as our situation would admit of determined if possible to stand our Ground in hopes of Relief as the Govr of Virginia had uniformly appeared to be our Steady friend from this period we may date the commencement of that Blody war in Kentucky that have continued ever since with savage fury in which (on a modirate calculation upwards of two Thousand Souls have perished on our side and sevearly felt by the most active Indian Nations to enumerate all the little actions that happened it is Impossible they ware continual and frequently sevear whin compared to our small forces the Forts ware often attacted (policy seem to have Required that the whole should be imbodied in one place but depending on Hunting for the greatest part of our provitions forbid it) no people could be in a more allarming situation detached at least two Hundred miles from the nearest settlement of the States surrounded by numerous Nations of Indians each one far superior in number to ourselves and under the Influancc fo the British government and pointedly directed to distroy us as appeared by many Instruments of writing left on the brest of people Kiled by them I was frequently affraid that the people would think of Making their peace with DeTroit and suffer themselves and Families to be carried of their distress may be easily conceived from our situation but they yet remained firm in hopes of Relief which they received by the arrival of a Company of Men under Comd of Col John Bowman on the 2d of Sep"" this Reinforcement though small added new life to the appearance of things incourageed by this and the stand they had already made every one seemed determend to exert himself in Strengthing the country by Incouraging as many of his friends as possible to move out which succeeded in the end after the arrival of Col. Bowman I left Kentucky in Oof 1777 with a party of young Men who had been detained on the promis of being liberated on the arrival of Co Bowman and Returned to Virginia. During the past sevcar spring and sumer our conduct was very uniform the defence of our Forts the procuring of provitions and when possible supprising the Indeans (which was frequently done) burying the dead and dresing the wounded seemed to be all our business the whole of my time when not thus Imployed in Reflecting on things in Gen particularly Kentucky how it accorded with the interest of the United States whether it was to their interest to support it  not &c. this led me to a long train of thinking the result of which was to lay aside every private View ingage seriously in the war and have the Interest and welfare of the publick my only View untill the fate of the Fall of the continent should be known divesting myself of prejudice partiallity &c in favr of any particular part of the Comunity but to persue what I conceived to be the Interest of the whole this hath Influancc my conduct through the course of the war and inabled me better to Judge of the Importance of Kentucky to the Union situated as it was in the center almost of the Indians that had already Genly engaged in the Kentucky war as an impediment in their way to the more Interiour frontiers that as soon as they should accomplish the destruction of it they would Bodily let loose on the Frontiers that instead of the states Receiving supplies from thence they would oblige to keep large bodies of Troops for their defence and almost impossible to move an army at so great a distance to attac their Towns if they could find them and that by supporting and incourageing the growth of Kentucky those obstacles would in a great Measure be removed for should the British Officers find their mistaken policy in carrying on the war against Kentucky by the Indeans and withdraw them from and bend their whole force against the interiour frontiers as a certain mode of distresing the States we migh with a little assistance at any time March from this country at any time with case to any part of their country we chose (this is the only circumstance that can excuse their conduct) those Ideas caused me to View Kentucky in the most favourable point of View as a place of the greatest consequence and ought to meet with every incouragement and that nothing that I could ingage in would be of more Gen Utility than its defence and as the Commandant of the different Towns of the Illinois and Waubash I knew was busily Ingaged in Exciting the Indians their Reduction became my first object expecting that it might probably open a field for further action I sent two young Hunters S. More & B. Linn to those places as spies with proper Instructions for their conduct to prevent suspition neither did they nor any person in Kentucky ever know my design untill it was ripe for execution they Returned to Harrodsburgh with all the information I could have Reasonably expected I found by them that they had but little expectation of a visit from us but that things ware keep in good  the Militia Traind &c that they might in case of a visit be prepared that the greatest pains ware taken to inflame the minds of the French Inhabitants against the Americans notwithstanding they could discover traces of affection in some of the Inhabitants that the Indians in that part of the cuntrey were genlly Ingaged in the war &c When I left Kentucky Octr 1 1777 I plainly saw that every Eye was turnd towards me as if expecting some stroke in their favr some doubted my return expected that I would Join the army in Virginia I left them with Reluctance promising that I would certainly Return to their assistance which I had predetermined On my arrival at Williamsburgh I Remained a considerable time selling the Acts of the Kentuck Militia and making Remarks of every thing I saw or heard that would lead me to the knowledge of the disposition of those in power Burgoynes army having been Captured and things seeming to wear a pleasing aspect on the 10ih of Decembr I communicated' my Views to Govr Henry at first View he apperd to be fond of it but to Detach a party off at so great a Distance (although the service performed Might be of great utility) appeared Daring and Hazardous as nothing but secresy would probable give sucksess to the Enterprise to lay the Matter before the assembly then seting would be dangerous as it would soon be known throughout the Fronters and probably the first prisoner taken by the Indians would give the allarm which would end in the certain distinction of the party he had several private Counsills composed of select gentn after makeing every Inquirey into my prosed plan of opperation (and particularly that of a Retreat in case of Misfortune which I intended a cross the Mississippi into the Spanish Territory) the Expedition was resolved on and as an Incouragement to those that would Ingage in sd service and Instrument of writing was sign wharein those Gentn promised to use their Influance to procure from the assembly 300 Acres of Land Each in case of sucksess the Gov r and Councill so warmly Ingaged in the sucksess of this enterprise that I had very little trouble in geting matters adjusted and on the 2 Day of Jny 1778 Received my Instructions and Received 1,200 £ for the use of the Expedition and order on Pittsburgh for Boats amunition &c finding from the Governors conversation to me in Gen upon the subject that he did not wish an implicit attention to his instructions should prevent my executing any thing that would manifestly tend to the good of the publick on the 4'h I set forward Cloathed with all the authority I wished for I advanced to Majr Wm B. Smith 150 £ to Recruit men on Holston and to meet me in Kentucky Captn Leonard Helms of Fauquire and Captn Joseph Bowman Frederick to Raise each a Company and on the l"' Feby arrive at Redstone old Fort being now in the country wharc all my arrangements ware to be made I appointed Cap'" William Harrod and many other officers to the Recruiting service and Contracted for Flower and other Stores that I wanted Gen Hand then Commd at Pitt, promis a supply of the articles I had orders for. I received information from Captn Helms that several Gen'n in quarter took pains to counteract his Interest in Recruiting as no such service was known of by the assembly consequently he had to send to the Governor to get his conduct Ratified I found also oposition to our Interest in the Pittsburgh country as the whole was divided into Violent parties between the Virginians and pensilvanians Respecting Territory each trying to Counter Act the Idea of men being for the State of Virginia affected the Vulgar of the one party, and as my Real Instruction was keep conseald and only an Instrument from the Governour wrote designedly for deseption was made uublick wharcin I was to Raise men for the defence of Kentucky ^JVlany Gen1n of Boath parties conceived it to be Injurious to the publick Interest to draw of men at so Critical a moment for the defence of a few detached Inhabitants that had better be removed &c those circumstances caused some confution in the Recruting business on the 29lh of March I received a Letter from Majr Smith by Express informing me that he had Raised four Companies on Holston to be march amediately to Kentuck agreable to his orders and an Express from Kentucky informed me that they had much strengthened since I had left that Quarter &c. this information of four companies being ready Raised with Bowmans and ] Ielms which I knew was on their way to join me at Redstone caused me to be more easy Respecting Recruits than I otherway should have been the officer only got such as had friends at Kentucky or induced by their own Interest and desire to see the country meeting with several disappointments it was late in may before I could leave the Redstone settlement with three companies and a considerable number of Families and private adventurers taking in my stores at Pittsburg and weling I proceeded Down the River with Caution on our arrival at the mouth of the grat Konhaway Captn Arbuckell the Comd' informed us that about 250 Indians had warmly attacted his post the Day before and wounded a few of his men that the Enemy had directed their ther Course to the settlements of Greenbrier that he had sent an Express of to give the allarm that if I thought it prudent he was sensible that the forces I had with the addition of part of the Garison could in all probability overtake them before they got to the settlement and give them a total Rout the prospect was flattering but the uncertainty of geting the advantage of the Enimy the loss of time and perhaps a number of men which end in the destruction of the Enterprise that I was on and the almost certainty of fronteers geting the allarm by the Express in time and might repell them (which they did) those Ideas induced me to decline it I proceeded on (being Joined by Cap'n James O'hara on his way to the Arkansa on publick business)1 I landed at the mouth of Kentucky whare I intended to have Fortified as the growth of Kentucky greatly depended on a post being fixed on the Ohio River as a place of securety for the Emigrants that wished to come down the River but taking in View my designs to the westward I found that Kentucky was not the spot (except we could afford to keep two posts) in case of sucksess it would be absolutely nessesary to have a post of Communication on the River betwen the Illinois and Kentucky and of course the Falls was the more Elligible spot as it would answer all those desireable purposes and in a great measure Protect the Navigation of the River as every Vcssel'would be obliged to stop some time at that place they would be always exposed to the Indians I had learned that but one company Capin Dillard of Majr Smith Troops had yet arrived in Kentucky which allarmed me as I was affraid the disappointment would prove fatal to our scheme I wrote to Co Bowman informed him of my Intention of fixing a Garison at the Falls and that I had an object in view of the greatest Importance to the country desired him to meet me their with what Troops their was of Majr Smiths and what Militia could be spared with safety from the different Posts I moved on to the Fall and Viewed the diferent cituation but reflecting that my secret Instruction ware yet  eaven to the party with me, and not knowing what would be the consequence when they should be divulged I wished to have every thing as much as possible on our being Joined by the whole I observed the little Island of about seven acres oposite to whare the Town of Lewisville now stands seldom or never was intirly covered by the water, I resolved to take possession and fortify which I did on  of June; dividing the Island among the Families for Gardens. these Families that followed me I now found to be of Real Service as they ware of little expence, and with the Invalids would keep possession of this Little post untill we should be able to Occupy the Main shore which happened in the Fall, agreeable to Instructions I sent from the Illinois the people on the Monongehaly Learning by I had sent them of this post great numbers had moved down, this was one of the princi'pal among other Causes of the Rapid progress of the settlement of Kentucky, on the arrival of Co Bowman part of the Militia and several of the Gentn of the country we found on Exmination that we ware much weaker than expected and the Indians continued without intermission and their more numerous the longer they continued as the British continued to add to their strength by Exiteing others to Join them &c under those circumstances we could not think of leaving the posts of Kentucky defenceless that it was better to Run a great Risque with one party than to divide our forces in such a manner as to Hazard the loss of boath; of course we agread to take but one compleat company and part of another from Kentucky, expecting that they would be replaced by troops we yet expected from Majr Smith. Those war our deliberation after my Making known my Instructions almost every Gentn warmly Espoused the Enterprise and plainly saw the utility of it, and supposed they saw the salvation of Kentucky almost in their Reach but surely Repined that we ware not strong enough to put it beyond all doubt, the Soldiery in Gen Debated on the subject but determined to follow their Officers some ware allarmed at the thought of being taken at so great a distance into the Enemys country that if they should have sucksess in the first instance they might be attacted in their posts without a possibility of geting suckors or making of their Retreat (in case of Retreat it was designed to the Spanish Government) p spies ware continually among the whole, some dissatisfaction was discovered in Captn Dillards Company consequently the Boats ware well secured and sentinels placed whare it thought their was a possibility of their waiding from the Island, my design was to take them from the Island down the  on our way that would not attempt to desert but got out Generald by  their Lieutenant whome I had previously conceived a very tolerable opinion of they had by swiming in the Day discovered that the channel oposite to their Camp might be waided and a little before Day himself and the Greatest part of the company slipt down the Bank and got to the oposite shore before they were discovered by the sentinells. Vexed at the Idea of their escape in the manner they did asfone of my principal motives for taken post on the Island was to prevent desertion and intending to set out the next day I was undetermined for few moments wat to do as it might take a party several Days to over take and having no distrust of those that Remained the example was  amediately dangerous but might prove so hearafter, and recollecting that there was a number of Horses belonging to Gentn from Harrodsburgh I ordered a strong party to persue them and for the Foot and Hors to Relieve each other Regularly and to put to death every man that was in their power that would not surrender they overhauled them in about 20 Miles the Deserters discovering them at a distance scattered in the wods only 7 or 8 was taken the Rest made ther way to the different posts Many that was not woodsmen almost perished,1 the poor Lieut and the few that Remained with him after suffering almost all that could be felt from Hunger and fatigue arrive at Harrods Town, having heard of his conduct would not for some time suffer him to come into their Houses nor give him any thing to Eat, on the Return of the party the Soldiery Hung and burnt his Effigy, every preparation now made for our departure after spending a Day of amusement in parting with our friends of Kentucky they to Return to the defence of their country and we in serch of new adventures and on the  of June 1778 we left our Little Island and Run about a mile up the River in order to gain the main Channel, and shot the Fall at the very moment of the suns being in a great Eclipse which caused Various conjectures among the superstitious as I knew that spies ware kept on the River below the Towns of the Illinois I had resolved to March part of the way by Land and of course left the whole of our bagage. St Vincent I had fully acquainted myself that the French Inhabitants in those Western settlements had great Influance among the Indeans in Gen and more beloved by them (the Ind") than any other Europeans. that their Commercial Intercourse was universal throughout the West and N Western country and the governing Interest on the Lakes was mostly in the Hands of the English not much beloved by them those and many other Ideas Similar thereto caused me to Resolve if possible to strengthen myself by such train of conduct as might probably attach the whole to our Interest and give us influance at a greator distance than the limets of the country we ware aiming for thos war the principals that Influanced my future conduct and fortnately I had Just Received a Letr from Co Campbell Dated Pittsburgh informing me of the contents of the Treaty betwen france and America As I intended to leave the Ohio at Fl Missiac 3 leagues below the Tennessee I landed on Baritaria a small Island in the mouth of that River in order to prepair for the March in a few Hours after one Jonathon Duff and a party of Hunters coming Down the River was brought too by our Boats they ware men formerly from the States and assured us of their happiness in the adventure their supprise having been owing to their not knowing who we ware they had been but lately from Kaskaskias and was able to give us all the Inteligence we wished for. they said that Gov r Abbot had lately left S' Vincent and was gone to DeTroit on some business of Importance that Mr Rochblave Commanded at Kaskaskias &c that the Militia was keep in good order, and spies on the Mississippi, and that all Hunters boath Indians & others ware ordered to keep a good lookout for the Rebels, that the Fort was keep in good order as an assylum &c but they believed the whole to proceed more from the fondness of perade than the expectation of a Visit, that they ware convinced if they was to get timely notice of us they would collect and give us a warm Reception as they ware taught to Harbour a most horrid Idea of the Barbarity of the Rebels, espetially the Virginians, but that if we could supprize the place which they ware in hopes we might they made no doubt of our being able to do as we pleased that they hope to be Received as partakers in the Enterprise and wished us to put full confidence  them and they would assist guides in the conducting the party &c this was agreed to they prooved Valuable men the acquisition to us was great as I had had no Inteligence from those posts since;the Spies I sent twelve months past, but*no part of their information pleased me more than that of the Inhabitants Viewing of us as more savage than their Neighbours the Indians, I was determined to improve upon this if I was fortunate enough to get them into my possession, as I conceived the greator the Shock I could give them at first the more sensibly would they feel my lenity and become more valuable friends; this I conceived to be agreable to Human nature, as I had observed it in many Instances having every thing prepaired we moved down to a little gut a small distance above Messiac in which we concealed our Boats and set out a Northwest course, nothing remarkable on this rout, the weather was favoarable, in some parts water scarce as well as game of course we suffered drougth and Hunger but not excessive on the third Day John Saunders our principal guide appeared Confused we soon discovered that he was totally lost without there was some other cause of his present conduct I asked him Various question and from his answers I could scarcely determine what to think of him, whether or not be was sensible that he was lost the thought of which or that he wished to deceive us the cry of the whole Detachment was that he was a Traitor, he beged that he might be suffered to go some distance into a plain that was in full View to try to make some discovery whether or not he was right. I told him he might but that I was suspitious of him from his conduct that from the first of his being imployed always said that he knew the way well that there was now a different appearance that I saw the nature of the country was such that a person once aquainted with it could not in a short time forget it that a few men should go with him to prevent his escape, and that if he did not discover and take us into the Hunters Road that lead from the East into Kaskaskias that he had frequently described that I would have him Imediately put to death which I was determined to have done, but after an Hour or two's search he came to a place that he perfectly knew and we discovered that the poor fellow had been as they call it bewildered. In the eavining of the fourth of July in the eavining we got with in a few miles of the Town whare we lay untill near dark, keeping spies a head, after which we continued our march and took possession of a House whare in a large Family lived on the bank of the Kaskias River abut three Quartirs of a Mille above the Town whare we ware informed that a few Days before the people ware under arms but had concluded that the cause of the allarm was without foundation and that at present all was quiet that their was great number of men  Town but that the Indians had gen,y left it we soon procoured a suffitiency of Vessels that the man  in care to convey us across the River and formed the party into three Divitions.3 I was now convinced that it was Impossible that the Inhabitants could make any resistance as they could not now possibly get notice of us time enough to make much resistance my object now was to conduct matters so as to get possession of the place with as little confution as possible but to have it eaven at the loss of the whole town not perfectly relying on the Information we got at the House as he seamed to Vary in his information and  was Just heard in Town which he informed us he supposed was the Negroes at a Dance &c with one of the Divitions I march of to the Fort and ordered the other two into different Quarters of the Town, that if I met with no resistance at a certain signal, a gen shout was to be given and certain part was to be amediately possessed and men of each detachm' that could speak the French Language to Run through every streat and proclaim what had happened and inform the Inhabitants that every person that appeared in the streats would be shot down this disposition had its desired effect and in a very little time we had compleat possession and every Aveneue guarded to prevent any escape to give the allarm to the other Villages in case of opposition Various orders had been Issued not worth mentioning I dont suppose greator silence ever Reagnd among the Inhabitants of a place than did at this at present not a person to be seen, not a word to be heard by them for some time, but designedly the greatest noise keep up by our Troops through every quarter of the Town and Patrools continually the whole night round it as Intecepting any information was a Capitol object and in about two Hours the whole of the Inhabitants was disarmed and Informed that if one was takin attempting to make his escape he should be amediately put to death. Mr Rochblave was secur'd but as it had been some time before he could be got out of his Room I suppose it was in order to inform his Lady what to do I suppose to secure his Publick Letters &c as but few was got his chamber not being Visited for the night shee had full oppertunity of doing but by what Means we never could learn. I dont suppose among her Trunks—although they never was examined she must have expected the loss of eaven her cloaths from the Idea she entertained of us several particular persons was sent for in the course of the Night for infermation &c but got very Little except what we already knew except from the conduct of several person then in Town their was reason to suppose that they ware inclined to the american Interest that a great number of Indn" had been and was then in the neghberhood of Kohokias 60 Miles from this that Mr Cerre a principal merchant one of the most inveterate Enemies we had left this place a few Days past with a large Quantity of furs for Michilimackinack & from thence to Quebeck from  he had lately arrived that he was then in S' Louis' the Spanish Capital that his Lady and Family was then  Town with a very considerable quantity of goods which would  pointing out many other Individuals &c I amediately suspected what those informers aimed at that of makeing their peace with me at the expence of their Neighbers my situation Required too much caution to give them much satisfaction I found that Mr Cerre was one of the most Eminent men in the country of great influance among the people I had some suspition that his accusars was probably in debt to and wished to Ruin him but from observation I had made from what I had heard of him, be became an object of consequence to me that perhaps he might be wavouring in his oppinion Respecting the contest that if he should take a desisive part in our favour he might be a valuable acquisition, in short his Enemies cause me much to wish to see and as he was then out of my power I made no doubt of bringing it about through the Means of his Family having them then in my power I had a guard Amediately placed at his House his stores sealed &c as well as all others Making no doubt but that when he heard of this he would be extreamly anxious to get an interview Mess" Rd Winston and Dan Murry who proved to have been in the american interest by the moring of the 5th had plenty of Provitions prepaired after the Troops had regaled themselves they whare withdrawn from within the Town and posted in distent position on the Borders of it and every person had been expressly forbid holding any conversation with the Inhabitants all was distrust their Town in compleat possession of an Enemy whome they Entertained the most horrid Idea of and not yet being able to have any conversation with one of our people even those that I had conversation with was ordered not to speak to the Rest after some time they were informed that they walk frely about the Town after finding they was busy in conversation I had a few of the principal malitia officers put in Irons without Hinting a Reason for it or hearing any thing they had to say in their own defence the worst was now expected by the whole I saw the Consternation the Inhabitants ware in and I suppose in Imagination felt all they experienced in Reallity and felt my self perfectly disposed to act as an arbiter betwen them and my Duty after some time the Priest got permition to wait on me he came with five or six Elderly Gen'n with him how ever shocked they already ware from their present situation the addition was obvious and great when they entered the Room whare I was siting with other Officers a dirty savage apperance as we had left our Cloath at the River we ware almost naked and torn by the Bushes and Bryers they ware shocked and it was some time before they would Venture to take seats an longer before they would speak they at last was asked what they wanted the priest informed me (after asking which was the principal) that as the Inhabitants expected to be seperated never perhaps to meet again they beged through him that they might be permited to spend some time in the church to take their leave of each other (I knew they expected their very Religion was obnoxtious to us) I carelesly told him that I had nothing to say to his church that he might go their if he would if he did to inform the people not to venture out of the Town they attempted some other Conversation but was informed that we was not at leisure they went off after answering me a few questions that I asked them with a very faint degree that they might totally discouraged from petioning again as they had not yet come to the point I wanted—the whole Town seem to have collected to the Church Infants was Carried and the Houses Genly left withaut a person in them without it was such that cared but little how things went and a few others that was not so much allarmed order was given given to prevent the soldiers entering a house they Remained a considerable time in the church after which the priest and many of the principal men came to me to Return thanks for the Indulgence shewn them and beged permission to address me farther on a subject that was more dear to them than any thing else that their present situation was the fate of war that the loss of their property they could reconsile but was in hopes that I would not part them from their families and that the women and children might be allowed to keep some of their Cloaths and a small Quantity of provitions that ware in hopes by Industry that they might support them that their whole conduct has been Influanced by their Comd"* whome they looked upon themselves bound to obey and that they ware not shore ware not certain of being acquainted with the nature of the American war as they had had but little opportunity to inform themselves that Many of  frequently expressed themselves as much in favour of the Americans as they dare do in Short they said every thing that could be supposed that Sensible men in their allarming situation would advance all they appeared to aim at was some lenity shewn their women and families supposing that their goods would appease us. I had sufficient Reason to believe that their was no Finess in all this but that they really spoke their sentiments and the height of their expectations. This was the point I wished to bring them to— I asked them very abruptly whether or not they thought they were speaking to savages that I was certain they did from the tenor of their conversation did they suppose that we ment to strip the women and children or take the Bread out of ther mouths or that we would condesend to make war on the women and Children or the Church, that it was to prevent the effution of Innocent blood by the Indians through the Instigation of their Comdu and Enemies that caused us to visit them, and not the prospect of Plunder that as soon as that object was obtained we should be perrfectly satisfied that as the King of France had Joined the Americans their was a probability of their shortly being and end to the War (this information very apparently effected them) they ware at liberty  take which side they pleased with out any dred of loosing their property or having their families distressed as for their church all religians would be tolerated in america and that so far from our Intermedling with it that any Insult offered to it should be punished and to convince them that we ware not savages and Plunderers as they had conceived that they Might return to their Families and inform them that they might conduct themselves as utial with all Fredom and without apprehention of any danger that from the information I had got since my arrivall so fully convinced me of their being Influanced by false information from their leaders that I was willing to forget every thing past that their friends in confinement should amediately Released and the guards with drawn from every part of the Town except Cerres and that I only required a complyance to a proclamation I should amediately issue &c this was the substance of my Reply to them they wished to soften the Idea of my conceiving that they supposed us to be savages and Plunderers that they had conceived that the property in all Towns belonged to those that Reduced it &c &c I informed them that I new that they ware taught to believe that we ware but little better than barians but that we would say no more on the subject that I wish them to go and Relieve the ancziety of the Inhabitants, their Feelings must be more easily guessed than expressed they Retired and in a few minutes the Scene was changed from an almost mortal dejection to that of Joy on the extream the Bells Ringing the Church crowed Returning thanks in short every appearance of Extravagant Joy that could fill a place with almost confution I amediately set about prepairing a proclamation to be presented to them befor they left the Church, but wishing  prove the people farther I omited it for a few Days as I made no doubt but that any Report that would be now made of us thrugh the country would be favourable I was more careless who went or came into the Town but not knowing what might happen I yet uneasy as Kohokia and was determined to make a lodgment their as soon as possible and gain the place by something Similar to what had been done I ordered Majr Bowman to mount his company and part of another and a few Inhabitants to inform their Friends what had hapened on Horses to be procured from the Town and proceed without delay and if possible get possession of Kohos befor the Insuing morning that I should give him no further Instructions on the subject but for him to make use of his own prudence he gave orders for collecting the Horses on which Numbers of the Gent" came and informed me that they was sensible of the design that the Troops ware much fatiegued that they hoped I would not take it amiss at their offering themselves to Execute what ever I should wish to be done at Kohos that the people ware their friends and relations and would follow their Example at least they hoped that they might be permited to Accompany the Detachment conceiving that it might be good policy to shew them that we put confidence in them and that in fact what I wish for from obvious Reasons I informed them that I made no doubt but that Majr Bowman would be fond of their company and that as many as chose it might go through we ware to we ware too weak to be other ways than suspitious and much on our guard and knowing that we had a suffitient security for their good behaviour I told them  they went they ough to Equipt for War although I was in hopes that every would be amicably Settled but as it was the first time they ever boor arms as free men it might be well to equip themselves and try how they felt as such Espetially as they ware agoing to put their friends in the Same situation &c they appeared Highly please at the Idea and in the Eavening the Majr set out with a Troop but little Inferiour to the one we had Marched into the country the French being commanded by their former militia officircers these new Friends of ours was so Elated at thought of the Perade they ware to make at Kohas that they ware too much Ingaged in Equping themselves to appear to the best advantage that it was night before the party Moved and the distance 20 Leagues that it was late in the Morning of the 6'h before they Reach Kohokia detaining every person they Met with they got into the borders of the Town before they ware discovered the Inhabitants was at first much allarmed at being thus suddenly visited by strangers in a Hostile appearance and ordered to surrender the Town even by their Friends and Relations but as the confution among the Women Children appeard greator than they expected from the cry of the big Knife being in Town they Amedeately assumed and gave the people a detail of what had happened at Kaskaskias the Majr informed them not to be allarmed that although Resistance at present was out of the question he would convince them that he would prever their friendship than otherways that he was authorised to inform them that they ware at Liberty to become Free americans as their Friends at Kaskaskias had or that did not chuse it might move out of the country except those that had been ingaged in Inciting the Indians to war Liberty and Fredom & hozaing for the Americans rang thrugh the whole Town the Kaskaskias Gen'n dispersed among their Friends in a few hours the whole was Imicably  and Majr Bowman snugly Quartered in the old British Fort some Individuals said that the Town was given up too tamely, but little attention was paid to them a considerable number of Indians that was then incampt in the Neighberhood as this was a principal port of Trade amediately fled, one of them them that was at St. Louis some time af this got a Letter wrote to me excusing himself for not paying me a Visit by the 8th Majr Bowman got everything] settled agreably to our wishes, the whole of the Inhabitants took the oath of allegience chearfully he set about Repairing the Fort and Regulating the internal Police of the place &c the Intermediate Vilages followed the example of the others and as a strict examination was not made as to those who had a hand in Incouraging the Indians to war in a few Days the country appeared to be in a most perfect state of Harmony a friendly correspondence amediately commenced betwen the Spanish officers and our selves added much to the Gen Tranquility and happiness but as to myself Injoyments of this nature was not my fortune I found myself Launched into a Field that would require great attention and all the address that I was master of to Extricate myself from in doing that service to my cuntrey which appeared now in full View with Honour  them and credit to my self as I could now get every peace of Information I wished for I was astonished at the pains and Expences the British ware at in Ingage in the Indians and that they had Emisaries in evey Nation throughout those Extensive countrys and with great even bringing the Inhabitants of Lake Superiour by water to DuTroit and fiting them out from thence that the sound of war was universal among them scarcely a nation but what had Declared it and received the Blody Belt & Hatchet post S' Vincenes I found to be a place of Infinite Importance to us to gain it was now my objet but sensible that all the force we had Joined by every man in Kentucky would not be able to aproach it I Resolved on other Measures than that of arms I determined to send no Measage to the Indians for some time but wishing for an Interview to happen betwen us through the Means of the French Gentn and appear careless myself in all the Titles I gave myself in nessesary writings &c the Falls of Ohio was mentioned in oder that the Troops we had was only a detachment from that place though suffitient to answer our present purpose that the body of our forces ware their fortifying that great numbers more was Dayley expected to arrive from whence we entended to proceed to war every man we had was taught to speak on this stain from many hints and fained Information of Mine before I left that place the greatest part of them believed the most of this to be true in short an Excuse for our Marching into the Illinois with so small a force was Really nessessary this Idea had at an early period struck me I inquired particularly into the manner the people had been Governed formerly and much to my satisfaction that it had Genly as sevear as under the Military Law. I was determined to make an advantage of it and took every step in my power to cause the peoples to feell the blessings Injoyed by an American Citizen which I soon discovered inablcd me to support from their own choice almost a supream authority over them I caused a Court of sivil Judicature to be Established at Kohas Elected by the people Majr Bowman to the supprise of the people held a pole for a Majestacy and was Elected and acted as Judge of the Court the policy of Mr Bowman holding a pole is easily perseived after this similar Courts ware established in the Towns of Kaskas and S' Vincenes ther was an appeal to myself in certain Cases and I believe that no people ever had their business done more to their satisfaction that  they had through the means of this Regulation for a considerable time. Mr Cerre formerly Mentioned at the time of Majr Bowmans arrival at Kohas was yet in S' Louis and prepairing to procecute his Journey to Canada but was stopt in consequence of the Information after learning the situation of things agreable to my Expectation he Resolved to return but learning that their was a Guard keep at his House and at no other and that Several had attempted to Ruin him by their information to me you was advised not to venture over without a safe Conduct he applyed to the Spanish Governor for a Letr to that purpose and came to S' jenveive opposite to Kaskias and got another from the, Comd' of that post to the same purpose and sent them to me but all the Interest he could make thrugh the Channel of the Spanish officers and the solicitation of his particular Friends which I found to be a great majority of the people could  procure him a safe conduct I absolutely denied it and hinted that I wish to hear no more on the subject neither would I hear any person that had any thing to say in Vindication of him informing of them that I understood that Mr. Cerre was a sensible man that if he was Innocent of the allegations against him he would not be affraid of delivering himself up that his backwardness seem to prove his guilt that I cared very little about him I suppose a Rumer amediately gave him this information in a few Hours he came over and before visiting his Family presented himself before me I told him that I supposed that he was fully sensible of the Charges that was Exhibited against particularly that of inciting the Indians to murder &c a crime that ought to be punished by by all people that should be so fortunate as to get such persons in their power that his late backwardness almost confirmed me in his guilt, he Replyed that he was a Mear Merchant that he never conserned himself about State affairs further than the Interest of his Trade required that he had  as yet an oppertunety so fully to Acq himself with the principals of the present Contest as to Inable finally to settle his own opinion to his satisfaction that his being Gen so far detached from the seat of affairs that he was always doubtfull of his only heard one side of the Question that he had Learned more in a few Days past than he ever before knew that it only confirmed his former suspition I Read him part of a Letter from Govr Hamilton of DeTroit to Mr Rochblave wherein he was alluded to with much affection the said that when he was their he behaved himself as became a subject that he defied any man to prove that he ever Incouraged an Indn to war that many had often heard him disapprove of the cruelty of such proceedings that their was that their was a number in Town that was much in Debt to him perhaps the object of some of them to get clear of it by Ruing of him that it would be Inconsistent for him in his present situation to offer to declare his present sentiments Respecting the war but wished to stand every test as that of Incouraging of the Indians is what he ever detested he excused his fears in coming over the Mississippi as soon as he could have wished I told him to retire into another Room without making him any further Reply the whole Town was anxious to know the fate of Mr Cerre I sent for his accusers a great number following them and had Mr Cerre called I plainly saw the confution his appearance made among them I open the case to the whole told them that I never chose to condemn a man unheard that Cerre was now present that I was Ready to do Justice to the world in Gen by the punishment of Mr Cerre if he was found Guilty of Incouraging murder or equit him if innocent of the charge that they would give in their information Cerre began to speak to them but was ordered to desist his accusars began to whisper to each other and to retire for private conversation at length but one of six or seven was left in the Room I asked him what he had to say to the point in question in fact I found that none of them had any thing to say to the purpose I gave them a suitable Reprimand and after some gen conversation I informed Mr Cerre that I was happy to find that he had so Honourably acquited himself of so black a charge that he was now at liberty to dispose of himself and property as he pleased if he chose to become a Citizen of the Union that it would give us pleasure if not he was at full liberty to dispose of himself he made many acknowledgements and concluded by saying that many doubts that he had ware now cleared up to his satisfaction and that now  wished to take the oath amediately in short he became a most Valuable man to us. as simple as this may appear it had great weight with the people and was of Infinite service to us every thing in this quarter having a most promising appearance Post Vincenes never being out of my mind and from some things that I had learnt had some Reason to suspect that Mr Jebault the Priest was inclined to the American Interest previous to our arrival in the country and now great respect showed him having great Influance over the people at this period S' Vincent also being under his Jurisdiction I made no doubt of his Integrity to us I sent for him and had long conferance with him on the subject of S' Vincenes in answer to all my Queries he informed me that he did not think it was worth my while to cause any Military preparation to be made at the Falls for the attack of S' Vincenes although the place was strong and a great number of Indians in its Neighberhood that to his Knowledge was Genly at was that Govr Abbot had a few weaks left the place on some business to DeTroit; that he expected that when the Inhabitants was fully acquainted with what had past at the Illinois and the present happiness of their Friends and made fully acquainted with the nature of the war that their Sentiments would greatly change that he new that his appearance their would have great weight Eaven among the savages that if it was agreable to me he would take this business on himself and had no doubt of his being able to bring that place over to the American Interest without my being at the Trouble of Marching Troops against it that his business being altogether Spiritual he wished that another person might be charged with the Temporal part of the Embassy but that he would privately direct the whole &c he named Docf Lafont as his assosiate This was perfectly agreable to what I had been secretly aiming at for some Days the plan was amediately setled and the Two Doctors with their intended Retinue among whom I had a spie Set about prepairing for their Journey and set out on the 14th of July with the Following Adress and great numbers of Letters from their Friends to the Inhabitants and Letr to Mr Jebault Dr Lafonts Instruction is lost Mr Jebault Verbal Instructions how to act in certain cases It is mentioned hear that Govr Abbots Letters to Mr Rochblave had convincd us that they warmly attached to the american cause &c this was altogether a piece of policy no such thing had s we knew that the would with propriety suppose that Gov r abbots Letr to Rochblave had fallen into our hands as he had wrote in that stile Respecting them they more cordially Veryfy it Mr Jebault was led to believe this and authorising them to Garison their own Town themselves would convince them of the Great confidence we put in them &c all this had its desired effect Mr Jebault and party arrive safe and after their spending a day or two in Explaining Matters to the people, they Universally acceeded to the propotial (except a few Europanes that was left by Mr Abbot that amediately left the country) and went in a body to the Church whare the Oath of Allegience was administered to them in the Most Solem Manner an officer was Elected and the Fort Amediately  and the American Flag displayed to the astonisment of the Indians and every thing setled far beyond our most sanguine hopes the people hear amediately began to put on a new face and to talk in a different Stile and to act as perfect Fremen with a Garison of their own with the United States at their Elbows their Language to the Indians was Amediately altered they began as Citizens of the States and informed the Indians that their old Father the King of France was come to Life again and had Joined the Big knife as was Mad at them for Fighting for the English that they would advise them to make peace with the Americans as soon  they could otherways they might expect the Land to be very Blody &c &c they began to think seriously throughout out those countrys this was now the kind of Language they Genly got from their antients Friends of the waubash and Illinois thrugh the means of their correspondence Receding among the Nations our Batteries began now to play in a proper Channel Mr Jebault and party accompanied by several gen'n of S' Vincenes Returned about the first of August with the Joyfull News during his absence on this business which caused great ancziety in me (foifwithout the possession of this post all our Views would have been blasted) I was exceedingly Ingaged in Regulating of things in the Illinois the Reduction of those posts was the period of the Inlistments of our Troops I was at a great looss at this time to determine how to act and how far I might Venture to strain my Authority as my Instruction was Silent on many important Ocations as it was Impossible to foresee the events that would take place to abandon the country and all the prospects that opened to our View in the Indian department at this time for the want for the want of Instruction in certain cases thought would amount to a reflection on government as having no confidence in Me I Resolved to usurp all the Authority nessesary to Carry my points I had the Greatest part of our  Reenlisted on a different Establishment appointed French officers in the country to compleat a Company of the young Inhabitants Established a Garrison at Kahokia commanded by Cap'n Bowman another at Kaskias Cap'n Williams late Lieu' post Vincenes Remained in the situation as mentioned Co Wm Linn that had accompanied us as a Volunteer took charge of the party that was to be descharged on their arrival at the Falls and orders sent for the Removal of that post to the main Land Cap'n John Montgomery was dispatched to Government with Let" and also Conducted Mr Rochblave thither, the principals of this Gentn was so fixed and Violent agains the united  that was quite unsitiable  his Lady had been to take of all her furniture &c without among the Soldiers except a few the whole of her Slaves was detained to be sold as plunder to the Soldiers which did not take place for some time the officers genly wishing them to be returned to M" Rochblave (he being confined to his Room in order to secure him from the soldiers as he seemed to take delight in Insulting them on all occations and I was feared that some of them might do him a mischief) and was in hopes that the Troops might be brought to conform to it as many of them ware men of sentiment and the Dividend would be but small and the Credit would be considerable this was in a fair way to take place some of the officers was desired to ask Mr Rochblave to walk and spend the eavening a Certain House in whare a number of his acquaintance would be assembled he did but at the assembly he abused them in a most Intolerable manner as Rebels &c they amediately sent him of into the Guard House and all further thoughts of saving his slave was sold and divided among the it amounted to about 1500 pounds Piriform the Governor by Co Montgomery of the whole of our proceedings and present prospects pointing  the nessesity for an Imediate augmentation of Troops and that some person should be sent as head of the civil Department &c Refering him to Cap'n Montgomery for a Gen Information of things this party being dispatched I again turned my attention to S' Vincenes & plainly saw that it would be highly nessesary to have an American officer at that post Captn L. Helms appeared Calculated to answer my purpose he was past the Meridian of life and a good deal acquainted with Indian business I sent him to Comand at that post* and also appointed him Agent for Indian affar in the Department of the waubash (as others ware of this in different quarters) expecting by the Fall to receive Reinforcements from the Governor when a strong Garison should be sent to him he was fully possested of my Ideas and the plans I proposed to persue and about the middle of august set out to take possession his new Command an Indian chief called the Tobaccos son a piankeshaw at this Resided in a Village adjoining S' Vincent this man was caled by the Indians the Grand Door to the waubash as the grat Pondiac had been to that of S' Joseph that nothing of Importance was be undertaken by the League on the Waubash without his assent I discovered that to win him was an object of great importance I sent him a spirited compliments by Mr Jebault he returned them I now by Capta Helms Touched him on the same spring that I had done the Inhabitants and the following] speach with a belt of wampom directing Cap'n Helms how Manage if he was pasificly Inclined or other ways The Cap'n arrive safe at S' Vincenes and was received with acclimations by the people and after the utial Ceremonies was over he sent for the Grand Door and delivered my Letter to him after having it read he informed the Cap'n that he was happy to see him one of the big knife chiefs that he was in this Town it was true that he had Joined the English against him but confessed that he always thought the sky looked glomy and as the contents of the Letter was a matter of great Moment he could not give an answer for some time that he must collect his counsillers on the subjet and was in  the Cap"1 would be patient &c in short he put  all the Courtly Dignity that he was master off and Captain Helms following his Example it was several Days before this business was finished as the whole proceeding was very serimonious at length the Cap'n was invited to the Indian counsell and informed by the Tobacco that they had maturely considered the case in hand and had got the nature of the war betwen the English and us Explained to their satisfaction that we spoke the same Language and the same people he had always thought that he was in the Dark as to the truth of it but now the sky was Cleared up that he found that the Big Knife was in the Right that perhaps if the Englis conquered  they would serve them in the same manner they intended to serve us &c in short that his Ideas was quite changed and that he tell all the Red people on the waubash to blody the Land no more for the English and Jumpt up struck his Breast Called himself a Man and a warriour and said that he was now a Big knife and took Cap'n Helms by the Hand whose example was  the whole present and the eavening spent meriment thus ended this Valuable negotiation and the saving of much Blood this man proved a zealous Friend to Day of his DeathJ](which happened two years after when he desired to be buried  the American his Body was convey to the Garison of Kohokias and buried with the Honour of war) he appeared in all his conduct as if he had the american Interest much at Heart, in a short time almost the whole of the Various Tribes of the different Nations on the waubash as high as the weautinon Came to S' Vincenes and followed the example of their grand chief and as expresses was continually passing between Cap. Helms and self the whole time of those Treaties the business was setled perfectly to my satisfaction and greatly to the advantage of the Publick the British Interes Dayly lost ground in this Quarter and in a short time our Influance Reach the Indians  as the River S' Joseph and the Border of Lake Michigan the French Gentn at the different posts that we now had possession Ingaged warmly in our Interest they appeared  Vie with each other in promoting the business and through the Means of their Correspondence Trading among the Indians and otherways in a short time the Indians of Vareous Tribes Inhabiting this Region at Illinois in great numbers came to Kohokias in order to make peace with us from the Information they Geny got from the French Genn (whome they Implisitly believed) Respecting us they ware truly allarmed and of course we ware Visited by the Greatest part of them with out any Invitation from us of cours we had greatly the advantage in making use of such language as suited our interest with the greater propriety those treaties commencing last of aug' that continued betwen three and four weeks was probably Conducted in a different  from any other known in america at that time, they commenced about the last of augst and first of sep'r l Q had been always convincd to our Gen Conduct with the Indians was rong that Inviteing them to treaties was construed by them in a different manner to what we expected and imputed by them to fear and that given them great presents confirmed it. I Resolved to guard against this &c I took great pains to make myself aquainted fully acquainted with the French and Spanish Methods of Treating Indians and of the manner and disposition &c of the Indians in General and as the Indians in this Quarter had not yet been spoiled by us I was Resolved that they should not I began this business fully prepaired having copies of the British Treaties After the great Ceremonies Commonly made use of at the Comencement of Indian Treaties they as the soliciters opening of it and after laying whole blame of their takeing up the Blody Hachet to the delusions of the English acknowledging ther errour and many protestation of guarding in future against those bad birds flying thrugh the Land (alluding to the British Emisaries sent among them) concluding in hoping that as the Great spirit had brought us together for good as he is good that they might be received as our friends and that the peace might take place of the blody Belt throwing down and stamping on those Emblems of war that they had received from the British such as Red belts of wampum Flags &c &c I informed them that I had paid attention to what they had said and that the next Day I would give them an answer when I hoped that the Hearts and years of all people would be open to Received the truth which should be pure without deception that I Recommended it to keep themselves prepaired for the Result of this Day on which perhaps their very Existance as as Nations depended &c and dismised them not suffering any of our people to shake hands with them as peace was not yet concluded telling them it was time enough to give the Hand when the Heart could be given also they Replyed such sentiments was Like men that had but one Heart and that did not speak with a double Tongue &c The next Day I delivered them the following speach Men & Warriors pay attention you informed me yesterday that the Great Spirit had brought us together which you hoped was good as he is good I also have the same hope and that what ever may be agread to by us at present I expect that Each party will strictly adhear to (whether for peace or war) and hence forward prove our selves worthy of the attention of the great spirit I am a man and a Warriour and not a councillor I carry in my Right hand war and Peace in my left and was sent by the great counsel phire of the Big Knife and their friends to take possession of all the Towns that the English possess in this country and to remain hear watching the Motions of the Red people to Blody the Paths of those that continued the attempt of stoping the course of the Rivers but to Clear the Roads that lead from us to those that wished to be in friendship with us that the Women and Childrin might walk without anything being in the way for them to strike their Foot against but to continue to call on the Great phire for a sufficient number of warriours to Darken the Lands of the Lands so that the Inhabitants should hear no sound in it but that of Birds that live on Blood I know that a mist is yet before your Eyes I will dispell the clouds that you may clearly see the cause of the cause War betwen the Big Knife and the English that you may Judge yourselves which is in the Right and then if you are men and Warriours as you profess yourselves to be prove it by Stickly adhearing to what you may now declare without deceiving Either party and prove your selves to be only old Women The Big Knife are very much like the Red people they dont know well how to make Blanket powder and cloath &c they buy from the English (whom they formerly desended from) and live chiefly by making corn Hunting and Trade as you and the French your Neigbours do. Bug  the Big knife Dayley geting more numerous like the Trees in the woods so that the Land got poor and Hunting scarce having but little to Trade with the women began to cry to see their Children Naked and tryed to learn to make cloathes for them themselves and soon gave their Husbands Blankets of their own making and the men learned to make Guns and Powder so that they did not was to buy so much from the English they got mad and put Strong Garison through all our country (as you see they have done among you on the Lakes and among the French) and would not let our women Spin nor the men Make powder nor let us trade with any body else but said that we should Buy all from them and since we had got saucy they would make us give them two Bucks for a Blanket that we use to get for one and that we should do as they pleased &c killed some of us to make the reast fear This is the truth and the cause of the War betwen us which did not take place for some time after they had served us in this manner the Women and Children was cold and Hungrey and continued to cry the young men was lost and no counsellors to put them in the Right path the whole Land was Dark and the old men hung down their Heads for shame as they could not see the sun and thus the was mourning for many Years At last the great sperit took pity on us and kindled a great Counsill fire that never goes out at a place called Philadelphia stuck down a post and left a war Tomahawk by it and went Away. The sun amediately broke out and the sky1, was Blue the old men heled up their Heads and assembled at the Phire took up the Hatchet sharpened it and put it into hands of the young men and told to strike English as long as they could find one on this side of the Great Water the young men Amediately struck the war Post and Blood Insued Thus the war began and the English was drove from one place to another until they got weak and hired you the Red people to fight for them and help them The great Sperit getting angrey at this he caused your old Father the French King and other Great Nations to Joyn the Big knife and fight with them against all their Enemies so that the English is become like a Dear in the Woods From this you may see that it is the great sperit that caused your waters to be Troubled because you Faught for the people that he was mad with and if your women and Children should Cry you must blame your selves for it and not the Big knife you can now Judge who is in the right I have already told you who I am Hear is a Blody Belt and a white one take which you please behave like men and dont let your present situation being surrounded by the Big knife cause you to take up the one Belt with your hands when your Hearts Drink up the other If you take the Blody path you shall go from this Town in safety and Join your Freinds the English and we will try like Warriours who can put the most Stumbling Blocks in the Roads and keep our Cloaths the longest perfumed with Blood If you should take the Path of Peace and now be received as Brothers to the Big knife French &c and should hereafter listen to bad Birds that will be flying through your Land you will then be counted not men but having two Tongues ought to be destroyed without listning to what you say as nobody could understand you As I am convinced that you never before heard the Truth I would not wish you to give me an answer before you have time to counsill (if you wish it) we will part this Eavening and when you are ready, if the Great Spirit will bring us together again let us prove our selves worthy by Speaking and thinking with but one Heart and one Tongue &c&c Whatever their private consultations on this speach might be we never could learn but on their Return the next Day the business commenced with more than Utial ceremony a new fire was Kindled all the Gentn in Town was Collected and after all their preparatory seremony was gone through the Cheif that was to speak advanced near to the Table whare I set with the Belt of peace in his hand another with the Sacred Pipe and a third with the fire to Kindle it which was first presented to the Heavens then to the Earth and compleating a cirkle it was presented to all the Spirits Invokeing them to witness what was about to be concluded on to my self and desending down to every person present the Speaker then adressed him self to the Indians the substance of which was that they ought to be thankfull that the great spirit had taken pity on them and had cleared the sky and opened their Ears and Hearts So that they could hear the Receive and Truth &c &c and addressing himself to me said that they had paid great attention to what the great spirit had put into my Heart to say to them that they beleved the whole to be the Truth as the big knife did not speak like any other people they had ever heard that they now plainly saw that they had been deceved that the English had told them Lies and never had told them the Truth which some of their old men had always said which they now believed that we ware in the right and as the English had Forts in their country they might if they got strong want to serve the Red people as they did the B knife that they the Red people ought to help us &c that they had with a sincear Heart taken up the Belt of Peace (and spurned the other away) that they war determined to hold it fast and would have no doubt of our friendship as Judging from the maner of our speaking that their was no room for suspition that they would call in all ther warriours and cast the Tomahawk into the River whare it could never be found again and suffer no more Emisaries or Bad birds to pass thrugh their Land to disquiet their women and Children that they might be alway chearfull to smoath the Roads for their Brothers the B Knife when ever they came to see them that they would send to all their Friends and let them know the good Talk they had heard and what was done and advise them to listen to the same that they hoped that I would send men among them with my Eyes to see my self they ware men and strictly adheard to all that had been said at this great fire that the great spirit had Kindled at hear at Kohokias for their good of all people that would listen toit&c This is the substance of their answer to me The Pipe was again Kindled and presented to all the Spirits to be witnesses smoaking of which and shaking of Hands concluded this Grand peace of Business I suppose with as much Dignity and Importance in their Eyes as the Treaty betwen France and America was to ours7they put on a different apearance they greatest Harmony now Reaigned without the apearance of any distrust on their side but we ware  quite so tame as I had set a Resolution never to give them any thing that should have the appearance of Courting them but Gen,y made some excuse for the little I presented] such as their comming a long way to see me had expended their amunition wore out their Leggins or met with some misfortune or other but they ware genly allarmed and conclution of Peace satisfied them and parted with in all appearance perfectly satisfied I always made it a point to keep spies among them and was pleased to find that the greatest body of those that Treated with us strictly adheared to it so that in a short time from this we could send a single soldier through any part of the Ouabash and Illinois cuntreys for the whole of those Indians came to Treat Either at  Kohokias or S' Vincens in course of this Fall it is not  while the particulars of Every Treaty as the one already Mentioned conveys an Idea of the plan we went on the whole was held on the same Principal always sticking to the Text but Varying in the Manner of Delivery to the Different Tribes Some times more sevear but never Moderateing exept with those we ware in friendship with of cours a very different kind of Language was made use of Their Replyes ware nearly the same throughout the whole and a boundary seemed to be now fixed betwen the British Emisaries and our own at the heads of the Waters of the Lakes and those of the mississippi Neither party careing much to venture to fur some of the Nations got divided among themselves part for us others for the English. Such a sudden change among the Indians in this Region in our favr Required great attention to keep up the Flame from cooling too soon (as the appearance of a Reinforcement which we had Reason to expect in the Fall would Renew our Influance) Every Method was pursued to convince the French Inhabitants that their Interest &c was studied every restriction that was formerly under that was disagreable to them was done away their business with the comanding officers was done without Fuss Neither any to courts that weakly set on their business and many other little things that  good effects and through them our Interest Grew considerably among their Friends on the Lakes and Many Traders and others watching their opertuneties and came a cross with their goods and setled in the Illinois and S' Vincenes this also had a good effect among the Indians the Friendly correspondence betwen the Spaniards and ourselves was much to our advantange as every thing the Indians heard from them was to our Interest The behaviour of two young men at the time of those Treaties at Kohokias effected me very much and perhaps not disagreable to you to have their conduct Related a party of what is called the Meadow Indians that Rove about among the different Nations composed partly of the whole of them was informed that  they would contrive to take me off they would get a great reward &c they came Down as other had done pretending to treat for peace they ware lodged in the yard of Mr Bradies pretending some acquantance about one Hudred yards from my Quarters and nearly the same distance fronting the Fort the Little River Kohokias passing fronting the Houses on the oposite side of that part of the streat which was there about knee deep having business at time with other Indians they listened to what was passing Loitired about and got pretty well acquainted With our people having receved but a bad Report of them I took aparenly but little notice of them they had observed the House I lodged in very Quait of Nights and had supposed the Guards to be but few formed ther plan in the following manner some of them was to cross the River fire of their Guns opposite to their Quarters on which they ware to attempt to get in under the protection of the Quarter Guard as flying from other Indians their Enemies that had fired on them across the River if they suckceeded to Butcher the Guard and Carry myself off a few nights after ther arrival they made the attempt about one aclock having two much to think to sleep much I happened to be awake at the time the allarm was given they war amediately at the yard gate when the sentinell presenting his piece being a ligh night they saw the Guard peraded front of the Door More numerous perhaps than they expected they took a by way and got into their Quarters the whole Town was now under arms they guard was possitive it was those Indians they ware amediately examined Said it was their Enamies that had fired on them cross the Creek that they wanted to get under the protection of the Guard but was not permited and made the best of their way back to defend themselves but some of the French Gen'n being better acquainted  them than the rest insisted that it was them that give the allarm sent for a candle and discovered that Leggens and Moquesons of the fellows that had crossed the River quite wet an muddy they ware quite confounded wanted to make Various excuses but was  suffered to speak their design was easily seen through. I said but little to them (and as ther was good many of other Nations in Town and to convince the whole of the strict union of the French and us) I told them as they had disturbed the Town the people might do as they pleased with them and went away but whispered that the cheifs should be sent to the Guard house and put in Irons which was amediately done by the Inhabitants they in that situation was every Day brought into the Counsel but not suffered to speak and on finishing with the others I had their Irons taken off and told them that their disign was obvious to me as a Bird from their country had whispered me in the year that all people said that they ought to Die which they must think themselves that they deserved and what I intended but on considering the Matter and the Meanness of the attempt to watch and Ketch a Bear sleaping I found that you was only old women and too mean to be killed by a B Knife but as you ought to punished for puting on Britch Cloath like men that shall be taken from you and plenty of provition given to you home as women dont know to hunt and as long as you stay hear you shall be treated as all skaws ought to be and without any further notice of them conversed Indifferently with others present on very triffling subjects they appeared to be much agutated after some time they Rose and advanced with a Belt and Pipe of Peace which to me and made a speach which I would not suffer to be Interpreted (at that time) and a Sword laying on the Table I Brok ther Pipe and told them that the B K never treated with women and for them to sit down and Injoy themselves as other did and not be affraid (what they had said was an acknowledgement of their design excusing themselves by saying that it was owing to bad men that was among them from Michilimackinack that put it into their Heads that they ware in hope we would take pity on their women and children and as their lives was spared when they deserved to loose it they ware in hopes that peace would be granted them as it was to others &c) several chiefs of other Nations present spoke in their favr Condemning their attempt as they saw the Big Knife was above little things they ware  I would take pity on the Families of those men and grant them peace &c I told them that I had never made war upon them that if the B. K come across such people in the woods they commonly shot them down as they did wolves to prevent ther Eating the Dear but never Talked about it &c the conversation on the subject dropt for some time these fellows continued busy in private conversation at last two young men advanced to the Middle of the Floor set down and flung their Blankets over their heads (this at first I did not know what to make of) two of the chiefs with a pipe stood by them and spoke nearly in the same manner they had done before and concluded by saying that they had offered those two young men as an attonement for their guilt and was in hopes that the B K would be Reconsiled after this sacrifice of their &c and again offered the Pipe which I refused and told them to go and set down that I would have nothing to say to them but in a mile tone than I had before spoke to them It appeared that those people had got so compleatly allarmed (which I had taken pains to do Guarding disperation) that they supposed a Tomahawk was hanhing over the heads of every one of ther Nation that nothing would save them but get peace before they left the place and expected that by our puting to Death or keeping those two young men as slaves that we should be Reconsiled. The young men keep their first Position and frequently would push the Blanket aside as if impatient to know their fate I could have no expectation of this Business Ending in this manner I always Intended at last to be perswaded to grant those people peace but this astonished me I hardly knew whether it was sinccar or not but every thing Proved it every person present (which was a great number) seemed anxious to know what would be done and a Gen silance amediately took place for some time all suspence I Viewed those persons with pleasure you may Easily guess at my feeling on the Occation I had read of some thing simalar but did not know whether to believe it or not and never before nor since felt my self so Capable of speaking I ordered the young men to Rise and oncover themselves (I found their was a very Visible alteration in their Countenances which they appeared to try to conseal) I Suitably Harangued the whole assembly on the Subject and concluded by teling them that I was happy to find that there was men among all Nations as we ware now witnesses their was at least two among those people I then spoke to the young men said agread in their praised &c concluded by saying that it was only such men as them that chiefs of a nation that it such that I liked to Treat with that through them the B K granted Piece and Friendship to their people that I took them by the Hand as my Brothers and chiefs of their Nation and I expected that all present would acknowledge them as such I first presented them to my own officers to the French and Spanish Gen'n present and Lastly to the Indians the whole greeting them as chiefs and ended the Business by having them Saluted by the Garison I wish I had a copy or I could remember the whole I said on this business but you may Easily conceive from the nature of it. It appeared to give Ge satisfaction but I thought the old Chefs appeared much cowed our new Nabobs was now treated with great Respect on all occations a Counsill was called in order to do some business with them and great seremony made use of &c in order more firmly to Rivet what had been done and on departure some presents was given them to distribute among ther Friends at home by whom I understood they ware acknowledged and held in great esteem and the Americans much spoke of among them It would be difficult to acl for the consequences in case they had have succeeded in their plan (it appears to have been but badly laid but is the most proble one they could have attempted it in the Town in Daylight and I never went out of it without Guards too strong for them the whole as it turned out was a fortunate adventure it gain us much credit and had good effect among the Indians in this Quarter as it soon became the subject of their Gen Conversation I now turned my attention to Saguina Mr Black Bird & Nakiowin two chiefs of the Bands of the Sotairs and outaway Nation bordering on Lake Michigan and the River S' Josiph Mr Black Bird and party was in S' Louis at the time that Majr Bowman took possession Koho, got allarmed and pushed off knowing that their Nation was warmly Ingaged in the War and not believing the Spanish protection suffitient to secure them against the Revenge of the B K that was so near at hand although the Gov r purswaded them with a certainty of their being friendly received those chiefs on ther passage up the Illinois met with Numbers of Traders (who had heard wat had passed among their Friends and had already begun to alter ther Tone among the Indians) that perswaded them to turn back and see the B. K. for as he had been so near them and would not go to see them they would think that he was affraid and run away & he excused himself by saying his Family was sick but that he would go in the Spring in the Mean time would write to us. I suppose he thought calculated to make us believe that they war Freinds to us and I make no doubt but that their sentiments now dayly changed in our favour I made strict enquirey about Black Bird I found that they ware cheifs of Considerable Bands about S' Joseph then at war that Black Bird had great Influance in that Quarter and it was thought by some Traders lately arrived that he Really wanted a Conferance but wished to have an Invitation &c I gave a man that answered my purpose two Hundred Dollars to Visit him at S' Joseph and wrote him a compleat answer to his Letr Inviting of him to come at Kaskaskias this Fall which he did with only Eight attendants' and my Mesenger Denoe after they had Rested and got Refreshed he observed some Utial preparations makeing for an Indian counsel he sent and informed me that he came to see me on Business of Consequence that conserned boath our nations and wished that we should not Spend our time in seremony he said it was customary among all Indians but that it was not nessessary between us that we could do our business seting at a Table much better that he wanted much conversation with me and hoped that their would be no seremony used &c I found that Mr Black Bird in a different manner to what other had been that he assumed the Airs of a Polite Genn &cj a Room was prepaired and the Nabob formaly Introduced by a French Gentn after a few compliments he took a Seat at one end of the Table myself at the other the Interpreters to our Right & Left Gentn seated round the Room B. Bd opened the conferance and attempted to speak as much in the European manner as possible he said that he long wished to have some conversation with a chief of our Nation but never before had an opportunity he had conversed with prisoners but he put little confidence in what they said as they ware gen affraid to speak that he had ingaged in the war for some time but had always doubted the propriety of it as the English and us appeared to be the same people he was sensible that their was some mistery that he was unacquainted with that he had only heard one side of the story and now wished me to Explain it to him fully that he might be a Judge himself as he would then have heard boath sides to satisfy this inquisitave Indian I was obliged to begin almost at the first settlement of America and to go through almost the whol History of it to the present time particularly the cause of the Revolution and as I must not speak to him as I did to other Indians by Similes it took me near half a Day to satisfy him he asked a great number of questions very pertinent and must be satisfied as to every point which I was now more able to do being pretty well acquainted with all the British Officers had said to them He appeared to be quite satisfied and said that he was convinced from many circumstances that what I had said was a true state of the matter that he long suspected from the Conduct of the English that they wished to keep the Indians in the dark and it was now very obvious to him that he thought the Americans was perfectly Right and that they augh to be assisted than otherways that he was happy to find that their old Friends the French had Joined us and that the Indians ought to do so Likewise but as I had said we would not wish it they ought at least to set still that he would not blame us if we did as I had said drive the whole off the face of the Earth that would not do so, for it was plain to him thatfthe English was affraid otherways they would not give so many goods as they did for the Indians to fight for them that he was perfectly satisfied himself that I might be assured that his sentiments was fixed in favr of us and would no longer pay any attention to the English that he would amediately put an end to the war as to his part but as many of their young men was then out I must excuse that but as soon as they Returned he would make them lay down their arms and not one of those that he Influanced should again take them up that on his return home he would take pains too tell the Indians of every denomination of what had passed betwen us and inform them of the true cause of the war and that he was sure that the most of them would follow his example that it would have good effect if I would send a young man among them under his protection (which I did) as his appearance would give great weight to what he himself said to them that for the future he was in hopes that we should View each other as Freinds and that Correspondence should be keep up betwen us &c &c I told him that I was happy to find that this business was likely to end so much to both our satisfactions and so much to the advantage and Tranquility of Each of our people that I should amediately the Govr of Virginia of what passed betwen us and that I knew that it would give him all the Americans great pleasure and that he (B B) would Registered among their friends &c &c this is wat passed betwen us of a publick nature after spending a few Days with us he returned home a young man of Mine acompanied him I had two pack Horses loaded with nessaries for his Journy home and sent some presents to his Family perhaps to the amount of 20 or 30 pounds thus ended the business betwen this chief and my self and as I had frequent oppertunity of hearing from him in the cours of this fall I found that he strictly adheard to what he had declared to me that he had not only stopt his own tribe but had great numbers of Indians in that quarter to very cool in the British Interest I had though it policy in the course of all my conversation with the Indians to inform them that I did not blame them for receiving what presents the British chose to give them but that it was degrading to them to make war as Hirelings &c that it was beneath the Dignity of a Warriour & the B K View others that was at war against them on their own Ac' with more they did the Hireling that the one was keep as great Trophies when perhaps the scalps of the others was given to the children to ply with or flung to the Dogs this kind of Language to a people whome we most ardently wish to be at peace with may appear strange but it had good effect among person of ther Education and perfectly Consonant to our systim of Policy about this time I Received a letter from a chief of the Name of Lajes or the Big Gate it seems that this fellow being a lad at the Time Pontiac Besieged DeTroit had shot a man standing in a Gate and amediately the Name of Big Gate was given to him as a Mark of Honour he had early ingaged in the British Interest and had lead several parties against the Fronteers with good sucksess and on hearing what was going forward in the Illinois he fell in with some Putowatamies on their way to see us and came with them to hear what we had to say for ourselves he assurance to make his apearance in a compleat war dress and the Blody Belt that he had Received from the English hanging about his Neck he attended the counsells for several Days always placed himself in front of the Room and set in great state without saying a word to us or we to him I had found out I wanted to know about him and had fixed my Resolutions and in the cours of my business with the other Indians I had made use of several expressions in order to prepair my Gen'n for what and on the close of the business I address myself to him told him that I had been informed who he was but as he knew that publick business must take place before private ceremonies I hoped that he would excuse me in speaking to him before that time that it was customary among the white people that what Officers meet in this Manner although Enemies they treated each other with greator Respect than they did Common people and Valued each other the more in proportion Exploits that he had against each others Nation espetially as he had come designedly to see us and business was now over I hoped he would spend a few Days more with us and that he would do us the pleasure of Dining with the B K that eavining he appeared in nettles and Rose and began to excuse himself I would not hear but run on uppon the same topeck I would stop he would commence and I would begin again untill I found I had worked him up to as high a pitch as I wished for and then him go on he stept out into the middle of the Floor took of his Belt of war and a small British Flag that was in his Busam and flung them on the Floor then the whole of his cloath that he had except his Britch Cloath Struck his Breast and addressed himself to the whole audience and told them that they knew that he warriour from his youth that he delighted in war that the English had told him lies he thought from what they said that the B K was in the wrong and that he had been at war against them three times and prepaired to go again but thought that he would rest himself a while and come hear and see what sort of people ware and how they Talked that he had listened to every that had been said that he was now convinced that the English was wrong and that the B K was right and that he as a man and a warriour would not fight in a rong cause—that there ware the Blody cloths the English had given him he had flung away & gave them a kick across the room Struck his Breast and said that he was now a Big Knife and came and shook Hand with me and the whole company as his Brothers a great deal o meriment Insued the whole company appeared devirted he being a mery fellow himself keep up ther by speaking to them as a new Man and a B Knife but as our new Brother was now naked it was nessessary that he should be cloathed those that he had pulled of being pushed into the street by one of the servants as dip ised Captn McCarty having a Suit good deal Laced Cap'n Big Gate at Dinner was much the finest man at Table and to appear in as much state as the Rest of us he had ordered one of his men to wait on him but was rather awkward as we had suffered the Indians to Dine with us except chiefs of the Greatest Dignity to prevent any Jealousy pains was taken with those in Town that was of as High Rank as Mr Lajes after Dinner was over he informed me that he wish to have some private conversation with me and pointed to Room that had a large window opening into a Back streat being always suspitious I did not know My new Brother intended to Stab me and make his escape through the window I privately to him made provition and we ware shut up with the Interpreter near half an Hour he gave me a History of himself and a full acl of the situation of things at DeTroit said that he could do almost what he pleased at that place that if I chose it he go and bring me a scalp or a prisoner in Forty Days as they did not know what had happened hear he could have what oppertunity he pleased I told him that we never wished the Indians to fight for us all we wished them to do was for them to set still and look on that those that would not might expect to be swallowed up as they would see the Lakes Covered with of Boats belonging to the B K and wished him by no means to kill any person on our Ac' but that he would bring me news or a prisoner if he could get one Handily I should-be glad but by no means to hurt him as it was beneath us to treat prisoners ill. I gave him a Captains Commission and a medal The Day he took his departure many Indians accompanying him as he took his leave at my Quarters Many Gen'n present they saluted by him fireing their pistals through the windows pasing in front of they he was again saluted which Elated him much he did not advanced far before he stopt and said he supposed those poor soldiers was Hungary for a dram and ordered one of his men to go to a Trader of his acquaintance then in Town and get a little keg of Rum and give to them to drink his health which was done and then went of by water up the Illinois River whare he fell in with some Traders of his acquaintance that had got a permit at Mackinois to Trade on those Waters with a design to come to the to us and was then on their passage Lajes asked them which way they ware going they said only Trading then asked them if they was not affraid of the B K that was at Kohas they said not he then asked the who they was for they what he ment by it he said are for the King of England or the B K. knowing the fellow character they answered for the King of Engd Certainly was he not he said no that he was a Cap'n of the B. K. and produced his Comission and told them that they ware Enemies to his country and his prisoners that he would Return and take them to his Superior Officer at Kohos the men got allarmed did not know what to make of the fellow but found he was in earnest and had a Comission for under my Hand Seal they then told him that they ware Runing away and was going to the B K he said they Liars and would not believe them and pestered them for two or three Days untill a party came by that he knew was in the American Interest and became surety that they should deliver themselves up to and got a Letter wrote to me dictated by himself he warned the Men to take care of themselves for if they ware deceitfull and fell into his hands again that he should treat them ill this was a Curious Indian Letter I cant Remember the particulars of it further than that it touched on the above business it is lost with all the papers of the present year except a few that by chance have been Recovered Cap Big Gate proceded on his Journey and as long as I knew of him behaved well spoke much of his new Dignity abusing the other Indians for fighting as Hirelings &c whether or not he ever after Joined the Brith I never learnt By this time we had done business with almost the whole of the Indn" on the Waubash and Illinois and as High as the Ioways, sacks and Renards the Inhabitants of the Bottom of Lake Michigan &c and the country at this time appeared to be in a perfect State of Tranqulity I was pleased to learn that our new post at the Fall of Ohio continued to gather strength as well as the Kentuckey in Gen and that a powerful expedition was to move from Pittsburgh to DeTroit this with the thought of what we had done cause us to Injoy ourselves for the first time since our arrival (but it did not last long) a part of Mississury Indians came several Hundred down that River to see us their Curiosity was so great that they could not Resist the temptation they informed us that the whole of their business was a Visit that they had often heard of the B K. and wished to see them and hoped that their Curiosity my be excused which was and themselves Familiarly treated whille they staid they appeared to be something different in their manners and their complexion much fairer than any other Indians I had seen and suppose that they gave rise the Idea of their being Welch Indians in that quarter^ Cap'n Helms informed me express that the British had sent an Emisary to the Weaughtinon with a considerable Quantity of goods to attempt to regain the affections of the Indians in that Quarter that he Thought he might be taken If I would Authorise the attempt several Gen'n at the Opost was of the same opinion I authorised the Enterprise and impowered the Cap'n to acl agreable to the counsills held among themselves but that if they at any time on finding the attempt dangerous or the chance against them to Relinquish the Enterprise and return giving out that they had only made a small Excurtion to see their friends &c he set out by Water with  men chefly Inhabitants of S' Vincents and proceed up the Waubash the French Merchants a long tradeing with the Indians on the way and Capin Speaking to on publick affairs as if this was intended as a Visit he wished to pay them and that those with him attended in Complisance and to see a little about their Trade they did not appear as having any Hostile intention untill they got near the Weaughs they then made all the Expedition possible Entered the Fort and took the Kite and twenty or thirty Chipeway warriour then in counsill prisoners the Emisary (I forget his name) frequently heard of this party coming up the River but was told by the Indians that they ment no Harm that the B K that was along only came with the Traders to give good talks to his friends &c but after a few Day he began to suspect the sincerity of the Indians and moved of up the River a little before Capto Helms arived' Those chipeways was a party that he had Invited to met at the Weaugh and get supplyed and make war at the Opost they arrive but a few minutes before our party hearing the News and finding their Friend gone they slipt into the Fort as a convenience to take some refreshments and hold a Counsell they had had scarcely commenced before our party entered and Closed the gate on them* as the Inhabitants did not give them notice of the aproach of the party the Indians was much allarmed at finding themselves so suddenly taken and had but little to say for themselves at first After some consultation betwen Cap'n Helms and the French Gentn with him it was thought that a good advantage might be made of this adventure and fixed on the plan there was a great deal said to the prisoners but the whol amount was this that the B K never to catch a prisoner sleeping and as that was the case in the present instance they the Indians was at liberty and might fight for the English as long as they pleased that if they again fell into the Hands of the B K they might expect what would be their fate the Indians gave a Suitable answer to this seeming Generosity and declared that they never would fight against the B K again and I understood that these Indians frequently Mentioned this adventure and spoke much in our favour our party Returned in safty to the Opost having Spoke with the greatest part of the Indians aparantly much to the satisfaction of boath parties So great was our Interest among the Indians about this time that Governor Hamilton on his Expedition against S' Vincent with all his Influance could Raise not more than four or five Hundred Indians to accompany him. The Chicasaws being at war I wished I which to have some correspondence them to feel their pulse I did not chuse to send to them as it would appear too much like Beggin a peace as they call it. It occurred to me that the Kaskaskias Indians had been long at war with the Chicasaws which had seemingly subsided for some time and Batteast, the Kaskias Chief I new was much in our Interest I proposed that he should go and propose a firm peace betwen him and the chicasaws and if he succeeded to mention some thing of the B K. I was in hopes to bring on a correspondence in this manner Batteast went with out being what was my real design the chicasaws Received him very kindly but hecould not compleat his own business for the want of some chiefs that was out of the way he mentioned the Americans but ther conversation on the subject was cool and answered no great purpose. The Winter now aproaching things began to wear a more glomy aspect not a word from Government severelly informed that their was great preparation making at DeTroit for an grand Expedition and that some Movement had already taken place as far as the Ome Town and talks sent to all the Indians we supposed that it was preparation to give the Army from F. Pitt as warm a Reception as possible &c all this Information gave us at first some pleasure untill we learnd that the army from Pittsburgh instead of marching into DeTroit had spent their time in Perade and Building a few post to facilitate their future designs this information we soon got from the Falls and disappointed us very much one Denny an Inhabitant of Kohokia was taken up by Majr Bowman for writing through the Indians to his friend near DeTroit given dangerous Information his Letters was intercepted and him self tied to the tail of a Cart and by drum Received a lash at every Door in Town and Burnt in the Hand for other Misdemeneours this was the first and most sevear punishment we had Inflicted on any of the Inhabitants it was nessessary at this time to show the people that we ware capable of Extreams Either way and that the good treatment we had shewn them was from the principal of the Government no information from S'Vincents for some time past as once a fortnight was the fixed time of the post we began to suspect some thing was wrong we sent spies that did not Return and we remained in a state of suspence I had prepaired to set out from Kaskias to Kohokia but whether proved bad for several Days at length set out while it was snowing but likely to clear up which it did in about § Hour we observed that six or seven men had passed some distance on the Road since the snow had ceased which we supposed was person from Town but wondered what they could be after having several Chairs a long the approaching near the River Hill one of the Cariages sunk into a gut the gentn that Rode in it was some time geting it out as the others would not suffer any assistance to be given them untill their Laughfter was out we went chearfully to Preara De Rush 12 Miles from Kaskaskia war I intended to spend the Eavening at Cap'n Barbers after supper a Dance was proposed in the Heigh of which an Express arrive informed me that late that Eavening some negres being up the Kaskaskias River Cuting of wood that a party of white men and Ind" came to them and after asking them a number of Questions told them that their was 800 of them laying within in a few miles and intended to attact the fort that night but if they gave information they would be put to Death and went off some of the Negrees gave the information and the express dispatched after me this sounded to us much like the Truth we had had Various suspition for some time past no information from the Post the Various Reports of the Indians and our spies not Returning and the Tracts we had seen in the Road occured to us the Vilago we ware in was much allarmed I was perswaded to cross the River to the Spanish side as a surety or protection as the Fort must be invested before that time I laughed at the Idea much to their Amusement Resolved the attempt to get into the Fort I ordered our Horses Borrowed Cloaths and every man dressed like a Hunter and set out politically making very merry on the subject the Snow on the ground and the Mon shone very bright taking the express with me in order to have time to think in about a Quarter of an Hour I wrote a Card to Majr Bowman at Kohokia ordering him Down with his Company and all the Volunteers he could Raise to be cautious and if he found that he could not Render service to mak S' Genevieve his Retreat and to act occationally the express was mounted on the best Horse we had being an expert woodsman he had orders to Run the Horse as long as he could go faster than he could himself on foot then to quit him and make the best of his way we proceeded leaving the Road whare their was any woods for a Covert for an Enemy the design of our dresing a woodmen in Leggins Capoes Handkerchiefs tied on our Heads &c was in case the Enemy had actually Invested the Fort to quit our Horses fall into their Lines and fight with the Indians (as probably they would not be apt to discover us from their friends the English) untill we could make our way good with them to a certain gut near one of the angles of the Fort whare their was a Small Sally port whare we could Easily make our selves known and probably draw some of them into it this was our plan in this seeming desperate situation geting near the Town all was Silant we approach cautiously discovered that nobody of men had passed as could be easily discovered in the snow by our taking a circuitous Rout we went in much to the Joy of the whole I found every preperation I could have wished for and from every circumstance we must expect the Enemy in the Neighberhood particularly from the manner of the conversation with the Negroes the Night past off with out any further allarm and Gely supposed that the Snow had prevented the attact I spent the nigh in various I knew that it was Impossible that we could defend the Town or hold out long in the fort but was in hopes of Baffling their attempt and fright them away by a very plausable Report (that as they must have taken S' Vincenes to get to us) we had Received full information of their hole proceedings and had sent an Express to Kentucky for an Army to march across and Intercept their Retreat &c &c As by the report of the Negros the most of the Inhabitants of the Town was much threatned I was affraid that they would propose the defence of it but that nothing should appear wanting in us I sent for the principal of them and put the Question to them and desired them to speak their sentiments freely after some deliberation they told me that they thought it prudent to Remain Nutral it was certainly a More Juditious Resolution and what I wished but I made my advantage of it I pretended to be in a passion desired them to go to their homes that I had no further business with them that I expected they would see their Town in flames they went off and some of the young men came in Voluntarily some of them privately advised that all the wood in Town should be ordered into the Garison but Received but a slight answer and told that we had plenty of provitions Several Building being very near the Walls of the Fort the Inhabitants was told to move out that they would be amediately burnt a large Barn that Stood not far off full of grain was amediately set on fire without any thing being taken out of it and some other small buildings tore down and carried into the Fort for fuel and preparations making to set other building on fire all was now confution the Town on Fire the women and Children screaming moving &c I sensibly felt for them some of them beged to know how much of the Town I intended to burn that they might move their goods off they was Informed that it was far from us to wish to destroy more than was absolutely nessesary that they must be sensible that at a time like this it was our duty to do anything nessessary to promote our Safety that although I new they Enemy would soon be Intercepted by an Army from Kentucky yet they might do us much damage if we did not take nessessary precautions that we only meant to destroy the provitions that it should not fall into the Hands of the Enemy that they must confess that it was Right but as the wind was unfavourable no more building would be fired untill it Shifted they went off and we waited to see the Issue of all this in a very little time we observed the Carts began to play and in two Hours we had upwards of six months provition in Store this policy was to make our selves appear as daring as possible as well to get provitions the people ware desired to stop that perhaps the report was false that the spies would soon Return (when we should know better how to proceed) they did in a short time and informed that they had discovered the Trail of 70 or 80 men that appeared to direct ther course towards the opost but no appearance of a formiadable force in the Neighberhood things got more quiet they Day following Majr Bowman arived with a considerable number of Men we now began to feel ourselves of More Importance it was now conjectured that S' Vincents was certainly in the Hands of the Enemy and that the party that had been in the Neighberhood had been sent from that place on some Errand or other and the snow falling found it Impossible to Remain undiscovered as they must Hunt had given the allarm in order to have time to escape (this was nearly the case as we hereafter learned they war a party composed chiefly of Indians sent by Govr Hamilton then in possession of S' Vincent with Very Polite Instructions to lay in the Neiberhood of the Illinois untill they could get an opportunity of making a prisoner of me but by no means to Kill me that in case of suckcess they ware to treat me with every politeness on their Return to furnish me with a Horse and to prevent me from taking a little amusement I should want on the way but that I should be always attended by persons on better Horses than I had myself thus I was to be a prisoner of state in the Hands of the Savages this party by some means or other (I never could be perfectly satisfied from who, got information of a Visit to the Garison of Kohokia which I Intended they fixed themselves back of a Hill near the Road about three miles above Kaskaskias always keeping a few as a look out on the Road these fellows had advanced nearer to the Town the Day that I set out than Utial the snow comeing on they had set out to return to their camp and walked some distance in the Road which was the tracts we saw the country in this part being very open and we riding very fast they found it impossible to make their way good so as to allarm their Camp without being discovered and secreted themselves behind Some Rocks or Bushes within 70 or 80 yards of the Little gut whare the Cariage Swampt and we Tarried they Reported that they could have Supprised and taken the most of us but that not being able to distinguish me from the Rest as we ware all Muffled up with cloaths they ware affraid to fire for fear of Killing me but I Imagine the truth was they ware affraid to discover themselves as they  ware near double their numbers and even the Servants compleatly armed (the bad weather certainly as they did not expect us but and the body of them had returned to their camp and only seven that had advanced further on the Road was out finding that their hopes was now blasted and that they could not remain without being discovered they fell in with the Negroes with a design to raise such an allarm as should give them time to get of which they Compleatly effected the Instructions to this party was one principal caus of the Respect shewn to Govr Hamilton by our officers when he fell into our hands but his treatment when in Virginia was very different and dissatisfactory to them as they thought it in some Measure affected themselves) but to return it was concluded to send other spies to S' Vincenes and in the meantime prepair ourselves to ac'. Occationly being fully confident that a Revolution would shortly take place either for or against us we wished to strengthen our selves as much as possible the Volunteers that accompanied Majr Bowman from Kohokias was sent home and an Elegant Suit of Colours presented to them those that was but badly armed was compleated out of the stores and presents made to the others &c as an acknowledgment for the willingness they had shown on the present occation they paraded about Town with their New Flag and Equipments and Viewed themselves as superiour to the young Fellows Kaskaskias which cause so much anomosity betwen the two parties that it did not subside untill I interfeared some time after by a little peace of Policy that Reunited them when it Suited my own Convenience after making every arrangement that we thought most condusive to our safty Majr Bowman Returned to his Quarter and we Remained in suspence waiting for the Return of our spies we had thought that if we found their was no probability of keeping possession of our posts to abandon them Just on the aproach of the Enemy Return to Kentucky as that had considerably Increased raise a force suffitient to intercept and prevent the English from returning again to Dutroit as we knew the Indians was not fond of long Campaigns and would leave them but on the 29th of Jany 1779 Mr Vigo then a Spanish merch' who had been at S' Vincenes Arrived and gave information that Govr Hamilton with Thirty Regulars Fifty French Volunteers Indians Ajeants Interpreters Boatmen &c that amounted to a considerable Number and about four Hundred Indians had in December last taken that post and as the season was so far advanced it was thought Impossible to reach the Illinois he sent some of his Indians to Kentucky and to watch the Ohio disbanding of others &c the whole to meet again in the Spring drive us out of the Illinois and attact the Kentucky in a Body Joined by their southern friends that all the Goods was taken from the Merchants of S' Vincents for the Kings use that they ware Repairing the Fort and Expected a Reenforcement from DuTroit in the spring that they appears to have plenty of all Kinds of Stores that they ware strict in their Disipline but that he did not believe they was under much apprehention of a Visit and believed that if we could get their undiscovered that we might take the place in shot we got Every Information from this Gentn that we could wish for as he had had good opertunky and had taken great pains to inform himself with a design to give Inteligence We now Viewed ourselves in very critical Situation in a manner cut off from any Inwtercourse betwen us and the continent that G Hamilton in the Spring by a Junction of his Northward and Southern Indians which he had prepaird for would be at the Head of such force that nothing in this Quarter could withstand his arms that Kentucky must amediately fall and well if the desolation would end their. If we could amediately make our way good to Kentucky we ware convinced to before we could Raise a force Eaven suffitient to save that cuntrey it would be too late as all the Men in it Joined by the Troops we Had would not be suffitient and to get timely suckers from the Interiour Frontiers was out of the question we saw but one alternative which was to attact the Enemy in their Quarters If we ware fortunate it would save the whole if otherways it would be nothing more than what would Certainly be the consequence if we should not make the attempt Incouraged by the Idea of the greatness of the consequences that would attend our sucksess The Season of the year being also favourable as the Enemy could not suppose that we should be so mad as to attempt to march 80 Leagues through a Drownded country in the Debth of Win tor that they would be of their Guard and probably would not think it worth while to keep out spies that probably that if we could make our way good we might supprise them and we pull through the country would not be in a worse situation than if we had not made the attempt those and many other similar reason Induced us to Resolve to attempt the Enterprise which met with the aprobation of Every Individual belonging to us Orders was amediately Issued for preparations the whole country took fire at the allarm and every Order was Executed with Chearfullness by every description of the Inhabitants prepairing provitions Incouraging Volunteers &c &c and as we had plenty of stores Every man was compleatly Riged with what  could desire to withstand to coldest weather. Knowing that the Ouabasch at this season of the year in probability would be  flowed for five or six miles wide and to build Vessels in the Neighberhood of the Enemy would be dangerus to obviate this and to convey our artillery and stores it was concluded to send a Vessel round by water so strong that she might force her way as she could not be attacted only by water (without she chose it) as the whole of the low Lands was under water and of course she might keep of any Heights that was on the Rivers a large Mississippi Boat was amediately purchased and compleatly fitted as a Galley Mounting two four pounders and four Large Swivels and 46 men Commanded by Cap'n John Rogers He set sail the 4'h of February with orders to force his way up the Waubash as High as the Mouth of White River and to secreat him self untill further orders but if he found himself discovered to do the Enemy all the damage he could without Runing too great a Risques of Loosing his Vessel and not to leave the River untill he was out of hopes of arrival arrival by Land but by all means to conduct himself so as to give no suspition of our approch by Land We had great dependance on this Vessel she was far superiour to any thing the Enemy could fit out without building a new one and at the worst if we war discovered we could build a number of large Perogues shuch as they possessed to attend her and with such a Little Fleet perhaps pester the Enemy Very Much and if we saw it our Interest fore a Landing at any rate it would be some time before they could be a match for us on the Water As we had for some time time past been in a state of suspence we had partly prepared for some such event as this of course we ware soon compleat the Inhabitants of Kaskias being a little cowed since the affair of the supposed Intended siege nothing was said to them on the subject of Volunteers untill the arrival of those for  Kohokia to whome an Expensive Entertainment to which they Invited all their Acquaintance of Kaskias all little differences made up and by twelve oclock the next Day application was made to Raise a company at Kaskaskies which was granted and Compleated before Night the whole of the Inhabitants Exerting themselves in order to wipe of past Coolness Every thing being now ready on the 5 th of February after Reciving a lecture and Absolution from the Priest &c Crossed the Kaskias River with 170 Men Marched about three miles and Incamped whare we lay untill the 8'h and set out the weather wet (but fortunately not cold for the season) and great part of the plains under water for several Inches it was difficult and very Fatieguing Marching my object now was to keep the men in spirits I suffered them to shoot game on all occations and feast on them like Indians war Dances each company by Turns Inviteing the other to their feasts which was the Case every Night as the Company that was to give it was always supplied with Horses to lay up suffitient Store of well meat in the course of the Day my self and principal Officers hailing on the woodsmen shouting now and then and Runing as much through the Mud and Water as any of them Thus Insinsibly without a Murmur was those men led on to the Banks of the Little Waubash which we reached the 13'h through Increditable difficulties far surpassing any thing any of us had ever experienced (but notthing to what we had to go through) frequently in the pleasant of a day and the divertions of the night wore of the thought of the preceeding Day. This place is called the two Little Waubashes they are three miles apart and from the Heights of the one to that of the other on the oposite Shores is five miles the whole under water Genly About three feet Deep never under two and frequently four we formed a camp on a Height we found on the Bank of the River and suffered our Troops to amuse themselves I Viewed this sheet of Water for some time with Distrust but accusing myself of Doubting I amediately Set to work without holding any consultation about it or suffering any body else to do so in my presence ordered a Perogue Ammediately built and acted as though crossing the water would be only a piece of divertion and as but few could work at at a time, pains was taken to find divertion for the rest to keep them in High spirits but the men ware well prepared for this attempt as they had frequently waided farther in Water, but perhaps seldom above half Leg deep. My Ancziety to cross this place continually increased as I saw that it would at once fling us into a situation of a forlorn hope as all Ideas of a Retreat would be in some Measure done away that if the Men began after this was accomplished to think seriously of what they had really suffered that they prefer Risquing any seeming difficulty that might probably turn out favourable, than to attempt a Retreat when they would be certain of Experiencing what they had already felt and if the weather should be Freesing altogether Impracticable except the Ice would bear them in the eavening of the 14'h our Vessel was finished maned and sent to Explore the Drownded Lands with private Instructions what Report to make, and, if possible, to find some spot of dry Land on the Bank of the oposite small River which they did about half a Acrae, and marked the Trees back from thence to the camp and made a very favourable Report fortunately the 15th happened to be a worm moist Day for the Season and the channel of the River whare we lay About Thirty yd" wide a scaffold was built on the opposite Shore that was about 3 feet under water our Baggage ferried across and but on it our Horses swam across and Received their Loads at the scaffold by which time the Troops was also brought across and we began our march our Vessell Loaded with those that was sickly &c we moved on chearfully every Moment expecting to see dry Land which was not discovered untill to little Dry spots mentioned this being a smaller branch than the other the Troops amediately crossed and marched on in the water as utial to gain and take possession of the nighest Height they could discover our Horses and Baggage crossed as they had done at the former River and proceeded on following the marked Trail of the Troops (as Tracts could not be seen in the water the Trees was Marked By the eavening we found our Selves Incamped on a pretty Height in high spirits Each Laughing at the other in consequence of something that had happened in the course of this ferrying business as they called it and the whole at the great ExVploit as they thought that they had accomplished this a little Antick Drummer afforded them great divertion by floating on his Drum &c all this was greatly Incouraged and they really began to think themselves superiour to other men and that neither the Rivers or seasons could stop their progress their whole conversation now was what they would do when they got about the Enemy and now began to View the main Waubash as a Creek and Made no Doubt but such men as they ware could find a way to cross it they wound themselves up to such a pitch that they soon took S' Vincenes divided the spoil and before Bed time was far advanced on their Route to DeTroit this no Doubt was pleasing to those of us that had more serious thoughts we ware now as it ware in the Enemies country no possibility of a Retreat if the Enemy should discover and overpower us (except by the Means of our Gaily if we should fall in with her) we ware now convinced that the whole of the Low country on the waubach was drownded that the Enemy could Easily get to us if they discovered us and wished to risque an action if they did not we made no doubt of crossing the River by some means or other suppose Cap'n Rogers had not got to his station agreable to his appointment that we would and if possible steal some Vessels from Houses oposite to the Town &c we flatered ourselves that all would be well and March on in High Spirits on the 17 'h dispatched Mr Keneday and three men off to cross the River Umbara (this River is six miles from S' Vincenes) and if possible get some Vessels in the Vicinity of the Town but principally if he could do it in safety get some Intelign he proceeded on and geting to the River found that the country betwen that and the Waubach Over flowed we Marched down below the Mouth of the Umbara attempting in Vain to get to the Baks of the waubash late in the Night finding a dry spot we Incampted and was amused for the first time by the Morning Gun from the British Garrison we continued our March and about 2 OClock 18th gain the Banks of the Waubash 3 Leagues below the Town whare we Incamped dispatched four men across the River on a Raft to find Land if possible march to the Town if possible and get some canoes privately Cap'n McCarty with a few set out the next in a little canoe he had made for the same purpose boath parties Returned without the first could not get to Land and the Cap'n Was drove back by the appearance of a Camp the Canoe was amediately dispatched down the River to meet the Gaily with orders to proceed Day and Night but determined to have every string to my Bow I possibly could I ordered canoes to be built in a private place not yet out of hopes of our Boat arriving if she did those canoes would augment our Fleet if she did not before they ware ready they would answer our purpose without her Many of our Volunteers began for the first time to despair some talked of Returning but my situation was situation now was such that I was past all uneasiness I laughed at them without perswading or ordering them to desist from any such attempt but told them I should be glad they would go out and kill some dear they went confused with such conduct my own Troops I knew had no Idea of abandoning an Enterprise for the want of provitions while their was plenty of good Horses in their possession and I new that with out any Violence the Volunteers could be detained for a few Days in the course of which time our fate would be known I conducted myself in such a manner that caused the whole to believe that I had no doubt of suckcess which keep their Spirits and Hunters being out they every moment hopes of geting a geting a supply from them as well as the hopes of the Gallys heaving in sight I was sensible that if we should not be discovered in two Days that we should effect the passage of the River On the 20th the water guard decoyed on shore a Boat with 5 Frenchmen and some provitions on board they on their way to Join a party of Hunters down the River they informed us that we not discovered that the Inhabitants ware well disposed towards us that they had greatly strenghened the fort, which was quite finished that their numbers was nearly the same as when Mr Vigo left the place in short they gave us every Information we wished for and of two Vessels that they said was a drift up the River Cap'n Worthington Recovered one having now two small Vessels Early of the 21s' the Crossing of our Troops comenced and was landed and Landed on a small rising called the Mamel leaving our Baggage Cap'n J. Williams serening for a passage gave chase to a canoe but could not bring it to the men that we had taken said that it was Impossible that we could make the Town that Night or at all with our Vessels but recollecting what we had done we thought otherways—pushed into the water and Marched a League to what is call the upper Mamell being frequently to the arm pits in water4, hear we Incampted our men yet in spirits from the hopes of their Fatiegue <oon being at an end and their wishes acomplish in geting in in contact with the Enemy this last march through the water was so far Superiour to any thing the French Men had an Idea of that they ware backward in speaking said that the nearest Land to us was a small League call the Shugar Camps on the bank of the River a canoe was dispatch of and Returned without finding that we could pass I went in her my self and sounded the water found as deep as to my neck I Returned with a design to have the men Transported on board the canoes to the Shugar Camp which I new would spend the whole Day and Insuing night as the Vessels would pass but slowly through the Bushes the loss of so much time to men half starved was a matter of consequence I would have given now a good deal for a Days provition or for one of our Horses I returned but slowly to the Troops giving myself time to think on our arrival all ran to hear what was the Report every Eye was fixed on me I unfortunately Spoke Serious to one of the Officers—the whole was allarmed without knowing what I said the ran from one to another bewailing their Situation I Viewed their confution for about one minute Whispered to those near me to  as I did—amediately took some water in my hand poured on Powder Blacked my face gave the war hoop and marched into the water without saying a word the party gased and fell in one after another without saying a word like a flock of sheep. I ordered those that was near me to begin a favourite song of theirs it soon passed through the Line and the whole went on chearfully I now Intended have them Transported across the deepest part of the water but when geting about waist deep one of the men Informed me that he thought he felt a path we examined and found it so and concluded that it keep on the Highest ground which it did and by pains to follow it we got to the Shugar camp without the least difficulty and what gave the allarm at the former proved fortunate whare their was about half an Acre of dry ground at least not under water whare we took up our Lodgings the French men that we had taken on the River appeared to be uneasy at our situation they beged that they might be permitted to go in the two canoes to Town in they night that they would bring from their own Houses provitions without a possibility of any persons knowing it that some of our men should go with them as a surety of their good conduct that it was impossible we could march from that place untill the water fell that would be in a few days for the plain befor for upwards of three miles was covered too deep to march some of the Selicited that it might be done I would not suffer it by no means I never could well account for this piece  obstinacy and give satisfactory reasons to myself or any body else why I denied a proposition apparently so easy to Execute and so much advantage but some thing seemed to Tell me that it should not be done and it was not. The most of the weather that we had on this march was moist and warm for the season this was the coldest Night we had the Ice in the morning 2 > »was from J to J Inch thick near the shoars and in still water the Morning was the finest we had had on our march A little after sun-Rise I Lectured the whole what I said to them I forget but it may be easily Imagined by a person that could possess my affections for them at that time Concluded by informing them that surmounting the plain that was then in full View and Reaching the oposite woods would put an End to their fatiegue that in a few Hours they would have a sight of their long wish for Object and immediately stept into the water without waiting for any Reply a Huza took place as we Genly March through the water in a line as it was much Easiest before a third Entered^I Halted and further to prove the Men and having some suspition of three or four Hollowed to Majr Bowman order him to fall in the rear with 25 men and put to death any man that refused to March that we wished to have no such person among us the whole gave a cry of apperbation that it was Right and on we went This was the most Trying of all the difficulties we had experienced I Genly keep 15 or 20 of the strongest men Next myself and Judging from my own feeling what must be that of of other geting about the Middle of the plain the water about need deep I found myself sensibly failing as their was hear no Trees or Bushes for the men to support them selves by I doubted that many of the most weak would be drownd I order the canoes to make the Land discharge their Loading and ply backwards and forwards with all diligence and pick up the men and to Incourage the party sent some of the strongest men forward with orders when they got to a certain distance to pass the word back that the water was geting  and when geting near the woods to cry out Land This stratagem had its desired effect the men Incouraged by exerted themselves almost beyond their abilities the weak holding by the stronger and frequently one with two others holt this was of Infinite advantage to the weak but the water never got shallower but continued deepening geting to the woods whare they expected Land the Water was up to my shoulders but gaining those woods was of great consequence all the Low men and Weakly Hung to the Trees and floated on the old logs untill they ware taken of by the Canoes the strong and Tall got ashore and built fires many would reach the shore and fall with their bodies half in the water not being able to Support themselves with out it this was a delightfull Dry spot of Ground of about Ten Acres we soon found that the fires answered no purpose but that two strong men taking a weaker one by the Arms was the only way to recover him and being a delightfull Day it soon did But fortunately as if designed by Providence a Canoe of Indian squaws and Children was coming up to the Town and took through part of this plain as a nigh way was discovered by our Canoes as they ware out after the men they gave chase and took them on Board of which was near half Quarter of Buffaloe some corn Tallow Kettles &c this was a grand prise and was Invaluable Broath was amediately made and served out to the most weak by  with great care most of the whole got a little but a great many would not tast it but gave their part to the weakly Jocosely saying something cheary to their comrades this little refreshment and fine weather by the afternoon gave new life to the whole crossing a narrow deep Lake in the Canoes and marching some distance we came to a Copse of Timber called the warriours Island we ware now in full View of the Fort and Town not a srub betwen us at about two miles distance every man now feasted his Eyes and forgot that he had suffered any thing that all that had passd was owing to good policy and nothing but what a man could bear and that a soldier had no Right to think &c passing from one extream to another which is common in such cases it was now we had to Display our Abilities the plain betwen us and the Town was not a perfect level the sunken ground was covered with water full of Ducks we observed several men on Hors back out shooting of them within half Mile of us and sent out as many of our active young French men to decoy and take one of them prisoner in such a manner as not to allarm the others which they did the Information we got from this person was similar to those we took on the River excep that of the British that Eavening having Compleated the wall of the Fort &c that their was a good many Indians in Town our situation was now Truly critical no possibility of Retreating in case of Defeat in full View of a Town that at this time had upwards of Six Hundred Men in it Troops Inhabitants and Indians. The Crew of the Gaily though not fifty men would have been now a Reinforcement of Imence Magnitude to our Little Army (If I may so call it) but we would not think of them we ware now in the situation that I had Laboured to get our selves in the Idea of being made prisoner was foreign almost to Every man as the expected nothing but Torture from the savages if they fell into their Hands our Fate was now to be determined probably in a few Hours we knew that nothing but the Most daring conduct could Insure suckcess I knew that a number of the Inhabitants wished us well many Luke warm to the Interest of Either and also learned that the Grand Chief the Tobacos son had openly but a few Days past openly declared in Counsell with the British that he was Brother and Friend to the big knife these ware favourable circumstances (and as their was but little probability of our remaining untill dark undiscovered as great numbers of Fowlers go out in the and that we now sec and hear through the Plains around us) I determined to begin the Carear amediately and Wrote the Following Placart to the Inhabitants and sent it off by the Prisoner Just taken who was not permited to see our numbers To the Inhabitants &c Gen1l Being now within Two Miles of your Villag with my army determined to take your Fort this Night and not being willing to supprize you I take this step to Request of such of you as are true citizens & willing to Injoy the Liberty I bring you to remain Still in your Houses, and that those (If any there be) that are Friends to the King of England will Instantly repair to the Fort and Join his Troops and Fight like men and if such should here after be discovered that did not Repair to the Garison they be depend on sevear punishment on the contrary those that are True friends to Liberty may Expect to be well Treated as such. I once more Request that they may keep out of the Streets for every person found under Arms on my Arrival will be Treated as an Enemy I had Various Ideas on the Supposed Result of this Letter I knew that it could do us no damage that it would Incourage our Friends cause the lukewarm to be desided and Astonish our Enemies that they would of course suppose our Information good and our forces so numerous that we ware sure of suckcess and this was only a piece of Parade that the army was from Kentucky and not from the Illinois as it would be thought Impossible to march from thence and that my Name was only made use of (this they firmly believed untill the next morning when I was shown to them by a person in the Fort that knew me well) or that we ware a Flying party that only made use of this stratagem to give our selves to Retreat this latter Idea I new would be soon done away, several Gen'n men sent ther Compliments to ther Friends under borrowed Names well known at S' Vincents and the person supposed to have been at Kentucky the soldiers all had instructions that ther common conversation when speaking of our Numbers should be such that a stranger overhearing must suppose that their was near 10002 of us we anxiously Viewed this Messenger untill he entered the Town and in a few minutes could discover by our glases some stir in every street we could penetrate into, and great numbers Runing or Riding out into the Commons we supposed to View us which was the case but what supprised us was that nothing had yet happened that had the appearance of the Garisons being allarmed no Drum nor Gun we began to suppose that the Information we got from our prisoner false and that the Enemy already knew of us and was prepared Every Mand  had been Impatient the moment was now arrive a little before sunset we Moved and Displayed our selves in full View of the Town Crowds gazing at us we ware plunging ourselves into certain distraction or suckcess their was no midway thought of we had but little to Say to our men except Inculcating an Idea of the nessessity of obedience &c we knew they did not want Icourageing and that any thing might be attempted with them that was possible for such a number perfectly cool under proper subordination pleased with the prospect before them and much atached to their officers they all declared that they ware confinced that an implicit obedience to order was the only thing that would insure suckcess and hope that no mercy should be shown the person that should Violate them but amediately put to Death such Language as this from soldiers to persons in our situation must have been exceedingly agreable we moved on slowly in full View of the Town but as it was a point of some consequence to us to make ourselves appear as formadable we in leaving the covert that we ware in Marched and counter March in such a manner that we appeared numerous) Raising Volunteers in the Illinois every person that set about the business must have a set of Colurs given him which they brought with them to the am' of 10 or 12 pair these ware displayed to the best advantage and as the Low plain we mach through was not a perfect level but have frequent Risings in it of Seven or Eight Feet higher than the common Level which was covered with Water and they Genly Run in an oblique direction to the Town we took the advantage of on of them march through the Water under it which compleatly prevented our Men being Numbered but our Colours shewed considerably above the height as they ware fixed to long poles procured for the purpose and at a distance made no despicable appearance and as our young frenchmen had while we lay on the Warriours Island decoyed and taken several Fowlers with their Horses officers ware mounted on those and Rode about more compleatly to deceiv the Enemy in this manner we moved and directed our march in such a manner as to suffer it to be dark before had avancd more than half way to the Town we then suddenly altered our direction and crosed ponds whare they could not have suspected us and about Eight OClock gained the Heights back of the Town and as their was yet no Hostile appearance we ware impatient to have to have the cause unridled L' Bayley was ordered with 14 Men to march and fire on the Fort the main body move in a different direction and took possession of the Strongest part of the Town the firing now commenced on the Fort but they did not believe it was an Enemy untill on of the men was shot down through a port as he was lighting his Match as Drunken Indians frequently saluted the Fort after night the Drums now sounded and the business fairly commenced on boath sides Reinforcements was sent to attact of the Garison while Other Arangements ware making in Town &c we now found that the Garison had known nothing of us that having finished the Fort that eavening they had amused themselves at different games and had retired Just before my Letter arrive as it was near Roal Call the Placart being made publick Many of the Inhabitants was affraid to sho out of the Houses for fear of offence and not one dare give Information our friends flew to the Commons and other Convenient places to View the pleasing sight which was observe from the Garison and the reason asked but a satisfactory Excuse given and as part of the Town lay between our Line of March and the Garison we could not be seen by the sentinels on the walls Cap'n w. Shannon and another being some time before taken Prisoners by one ther and that Eavening brought in the party had discovered at the shugar camps some sign of us they supposed it to be a party of observation that Intended to Land on the Hight some distance below the Town Cap'n Lamoth was sent to Intercept them (It was at him the people said they were looking at when they ware asked the reason of their unutial stir) several Suspected person had been taken to the Garison among which was Mr Mosses Henry M" Henry went under the pretence of Carrying him provition and whispered him the News and what she had seen Mr Henry conveyed it to the rest of his fellow prisoners which gave them much pleasure particularly Cap'* Helms who amused himself very much during the Siege and I believe did much damage Amunition was scarce with us as the most of our Stores had been put on board of the Gaily though her Crew was but few such a Reinforcement to us at this period would have been Invaluable in many Instances but fortunately at the time of its being Reported that the whole of the Good in the Town was to be taken for the Kings use for which the owners was to receive Bills Co Lcgrass Majr Bosseron and others had buried the Greatest part of their powder and Ball this was amediately produced and we found our selves well supplyed by those Gen'n. The Tobacco's Son being in Town with a nunmber of Warriours amediately mustered them and let us know that he wished to Join us that by the Morning he would have a Hundred men he received for answer that we thanked him for his friendly disposition and as we ware suffitiently strong ourselves we wished him to desist and that we would converse on the Subject in the Morning and as we knew that their was a number of Indians in and near the Town that was our Enemies some confution might hapen if our men should mix in the Dark but hoped that we might be favoured with his counsell and Company During the Night which was agreable to him the Garison was now Compleatly surrounded and the firing continued without Intermission (except about 15 minutes a little before Day) untill about 9 OClock the following morning by the whole of our Troops Joined by a few of the young men of the Town that got permission Except 50 Men keep as a Reserve in case of Casualty happening which was many and diverting in the course of the night I had made myself fully acquainted with the situation of the Fort Town and the parts Relative to each the Cannon of the Garrison was on the upper Floars of strong Block Houses at Each angle of the F' Eleven Feet above the surface and the Ports so badly cut that many of our Troops lay under the fire of them within 20 or 30 yards of the walls they did no Damage except to the Building of the Town some of which they much shattered and their Musquetrey in the dark Imployed against woodsmen Covered by Houses pailings (the gardens of S' Vincents were very near & about two thirds around it the fencing was generally of good piquets well set and about six feet high whare those were wanting breast works were soon made by tearing down old houses gardens &c so that those within had very little advantage to those without the Fort and not knowing the number of the enemy thought themselves in a worse situation than they Really was) Ditches the banks of the River & was but of little avail and did no damage to us except wounding a man or two and as we could not afford to loose men great care was taken to preserve them suffitiently covered and to keep up a Hot Fire in order to Intimidate the Enemy as well as to destroy them the Ambrasures of their Cannon ware frequent shut for our Rifle men finding the true direction of them would pour in such Volleys when they ware opened that the men could not stand to the Guns 7 or Eigh of them in a short time got cut down our Troops would frequently abuse the Enemy in order to agravate them to open their Ports and fire their Cannon that that they might have the pleasure of Cuting them down with their Rifles fifty of which perhaps would be leveled the moment the Port flew open and I believe if they had have stood to their Artillery that the greatest part of them would have been destroyed in the course of the Night as the greatest part of our men Lay within Thirty yards of the Walls and in a few Houses was Eaqually Covered to those within it and much more Experienced in that mode of fighting the Flash of our guns directed them perhaps in an Instant the man moved his body the moment there was the least appearance at one of their Loop holes perhaps there would be dozzen guns fired at it some times an Ireruglar and as hot a fire as possible keep up from different Directions for a few minutes and then only a continual Scatering fire at the ports as utial and a great noise and Laughter Imediatcly commenced in different parts of the Town by the Reserved parties as if the had only fired on the Fort a few minute for Amusement as if those continually fire at the Fort was only Regularly Relieved conduct similar to this keep the garison Eternally allarmed they did not now what moment they might be stormed or saped as they could plainly discover that we had flung up some Intrenchments across the Strcats and appeared to frequently very busily under the Bank of the River which was within Thirty Feet of the Walls the situation of the Magazine we well knew Cap,n Bowman began some works in order to blow it up in case our Artillery should arrive but as we knew that we ware Dayley liable to overpowered by the numerous bands of Indeans on the River in case they had again Hertily Joined the Enemy (the certainty of which we ware yet unacquainted with) we resolved to loose no time but to get the Fort in our possession as soon as possible and that if the Vessel did not arrive before to undermine the Fort the ensuing night and fixed on the Spot and plan of Executing this work which we Intended to commence the next Day The Indians of Different Tribes that was Inimical had left the Town and neighberhood Cap'n Lamoth continued to hover about it in order if possible to make his way good into the Fort parties continued in vain to supprise him a few of his party was taken one of which was Masonville a famous Indian partizan two Lads that captured him led him to a post in the Streat and fought from behind him as a Breast work supposing that the Enemy would not fire at them for fear of killing him as he would allarm them they were ordered by an officer that discovered them at their amusement and was ordered to untie and take him of the Guard which they did but was so Inhumane as to take of part of scalp on the way but happened to do him no other damage As almost the whole of the persons that most active in the Department of DeTroit was Either in the Fort or with Cap'n Lamoth I got Extreamly uneasy for fear that he would not fall in our powers knowing that he would go off if he could effect his purpose in the course of the Night finding that without some unforeseen actident that the Fort must Enivetably be ours and that a Reinforcement of 20 Men although considerable to them would not would not be of great moment to us in the present situation of our affairs and knowing that we had weakened them by kiling or wounding many of their Gunners after some deliberation on the subject we concluded to Risque the Reinforcement in preference to his going again among the Indians and as the Garison had at least a month provitions if they could hold out in the course of that time he might do us much Damage a little before Day the Troops was withdrawn from the Fort except a few parties of observation and the firing totally ceased orders was given that in case approached not to allarm or fire on him without a certainty of killing or taking the whole in less than a Quarter of an Hour he passed within 10 Feet of an officer and small party that lay consealed Ladders was flung over to them and as they Mounted them as they mounted our party shouted many of them fell from the Top of the Walls some within and others back but as they was not fired on they all got over much to the Joy of their Friends which was Easily discovered by us but no doubt but that on their considering the matter they must have been convinced that it was a scheam of ours to let them in and that we ware so strong as to care but Little about them as the Manner of their geting into the Garison our Toops Hollowing and diverting themselves at them while mounting without fireing at them and being frequently told by our Most Blackguard soldiers of the scheam and Reason for suffering them to get in to the Fort which on Reflection they must have believed but we knew that their knowledge of it could now do us no damage but rather Intimidate them: however the Garison appear much Elated at the Recovery of a Valuable offiser and party The firing amediately commenced on boath sides with double Vigour and I believe that more Noise could not have been made by the same Number of men their shouts could not be heard for the fire arms but a continual Blaze around the Garison without much done untill a little before Day light when our Troops was drawn of to posts prepared for them from about 60 to 100 yd" from the Garison from which a Loop hole could scrcely be darkened by  a Rifle Ball would pass through it to have Stood to their Cannon would have  destroying their men without a probability of doing much service our situations ware nearly similar it would have been imprudent in either party to have waisted ther men with out some desisive stroke required it thus the attact continued untill about nine Oclock in the morning of the 24th Learning that the two prisoners they had brought in the Day before had a considerable number of Letters with them I supposed it an Express that we expected about this time which I new to be of the greatest moment to us as we had not received one Since our arrival in the countrey and not being fully acquainted with the character of our Enemy we ware doubtfull that those papers might be destroyed to prevent which I sent a flag Demanding the Garison and desiring Govr Hamilton not to destroy them with some threats in case he did if his Garison should fall into my Hands his answer was that they ware not disposed to be awed into any thing unbecoming British Subjects the fircing Commenced warmly for a considerable time and we ware obliged to be carefull in preventing our Men from exposing themselves too much as they ware now much animated having been refreshed during the Flag and frequently mentioned their wishes to storm the place and put an end to the business at once this would at this time be a piece of Rashness our Troops got warm the firing was heavy through every crack that could be discovered in any part of the Fort with cross shot several of the Garrison got wounded and no possibility of standing near the Ambrazures after some towards the Eavening a flag appeared with the following propotials I was greatly at a loss to conceive what reason G Hamilton could have for wishing a Truce of Three Days on such terms as he proposed numbers said it was a scheam to get me into their possession I had a different opinion and no Idea of his possessing such sentiments as an act of that nature would Infalibly ruin him but was convinced that he had some prospect of suckers or other ways Extricating himself although we had the greatest reason to expect a Reinforcement in less than three Days that would at once put an End to siege I yet did not think it prudent to agree to the propotial and sent the Following answer Sir &c we met at the Church about 80 yd" from the Fort Govr Hamilton Majr Hay Superintendand of Indian affairs and Cap1c Helms that was their prisoner Majr Bowman & self the conference began Govr Hamilton produced articles of capitulation signed that contained Various articles one of which was that the Garison should be surrendered on their being permited to go to pensecola on parole &c after deliberating on every article I rejected the whole he then wished that I would make some proposition I told him that I had no others to make than what I had already done that of his surrendering as prisoners at discretion that his Troops had behaved with spirit that they could not suppose that they would be wose treated in consequence of it with their Viewing us as savages that If he chose to comply with demand though hard perhaps the sooner the beter that it was in Vain to make any proposition to me That he by this time must be sensible that the Garison would Fall and that boath of us must that all Blood spilt for the future by the Garison as Murder that my Troops was already Impatient and Called aloud for permission to tear down and storm the Fort if such a step was taken many of Course .would be cut down andf_the Result of an Inraged body of Woodmen breaking in must be obvious to him it would be out of the power of an Amican officer to save a single man Various altercation took place for a considerable time Cap'n Helms attempted to moderate our fixed determination I told him that he was a British prisoner and it was doubtfull whether or not he could with propriety Speak on the subject G H then said that Cap'n Hels was from that moment Liberated and might use his pleasure I informed the Cap,n that I would not reseive him on such terms that he must return to the Garison and wait his fate and told the Govr that hostilities should not commence untill the minute after the drums gave the allarm We took our leave and parted but a few step before the Govr Stopt and politely asked me if I would be so kind as to give him my reasons for refusing the Garison on any other terms than those I had offered I told him that I had no objections in giving him my ral Reasons which was simply those tha£lknew the greatest part of the principal Indian partizans of DeTroit was with him that I wanted an excuse to put them to Death or other ways treat them as I thought proper that the Cries of the Widows and Fatherless on the Frontiers that they had occationed now Required their Blood from my Hands and that I did not chuse to be so timorous as to disobey the absolute Commands of their authority which I looked upon to be next to divine that I would rather Loose Fifty Men that not to Impower myself to Execute this piece of business with propriety that if he choose to Risque the masacre of his Garison for their sakes it was at his own pleasure and that I perhaps might take it in my head to send for some of those Widows to see it Executed Majr Hay paying great attention I had observed a kind of distrust in his countenance which in a great measure Influenced my Conversation during this time on my Concluding pray Sir says he who is that you call Indian partizans Sir I Replyed I take Majr Hay to be one of the Principals I never saw a man in the Moment of Execution So Struck as he appeared to be Pail and Trembling scarcely able to stand G H. blushed and I observed was much affected at his behaviour in the presence Cap'n Bowmans Countenance Suffitiently explained his disdain for the one and his Sorrow for the other I Viewed the whole with such sentiments as I suppose Natural to some men in such cases some moments Relapsed without a word passing on either side from that Moment by Resolutions changed Respecting G Hamilton situation I told him that we would return to our respective posts that I would reconsider the matter and that I would let him know the Result if we though of making any further propotials that of surrendering at discretion he should know it by the Flag if not to be on his Guard at a certain by Drum in mean  no offensive measures should be taken in mean time agreed to and we parted what had passed being made known to our officers it was agread the we should moderate our Resolutions the following articles was sent to the Garison and an answer amediately returned The business being now nearly at an End Troops was posted in several strong Houses around the Garison and Patrooled during the Night to prevent any Deception that might be attempted and the remainder of Duty lay on their arms and for the first time for many Days past got some Rest During the hole conference a party of about twenty Warriours that had bin sent to the Fall for scalps and prisoners was discovered on the Return as they entered the plains near the Town and their being no firing at this time they had suspition of an Enemy Cap'n Jonathon Williams was order to meet and salute them he went on meeting them the Indians supposed it a party of their Friends coming to welcome them gave the Scalp and war hoope and came on with all the Parade of suckcessfull Warriours Williams did the same aproaching each nearer the Indns fire a Volley in the air the Cap'n did so aproaching within a few steps of each other the cheif stopt as being suspitious Captn Williams amediately seized him the rest saw the mistake ran fifteen of them was Killed and Made prisoners two two partizans 3 and two prisoners released of them proved to be prisoners was Released and Indians Tomahawked by the Soldiers and flung into the River we after this learned that but one of this party ever returned that got off to their Nation so that seventeen must have been destroyed it was known by us that nearly the whole of them was badly wounded but as we yet had an Enemy to contend with of more Importance than they ware of their was no time for pursuit and but a few minutes in Executing the business before Cap"1 Williams drew of his party and Returned of course the Indn that not amediate fell or was taken got off One reason why we whished not Receive the Garison untill the following morning was its being late in the Eavening be the Capitulation was signed and the Number of prisoners that we should Have when compared to our small force we doubted the want of Day light to arrange matters to advantage and as we knew we could now prevent any misfortune happening as we could now form such dispositions with our Troops as Render the Fort almost useless as to defence that their could be no danger of cours supposed it prudent to let the British Troops Remain in the Fort untill the following morning we should not have had so suspitions as to made of so much precaution but I must confess that we could not help Doubting Honour of men that could condesend to Incourage the barbarity of the Indians olthough almost every man had conceived a very favourable opinion of Gov r Hamilton (and I believed what affected myself made some impression on the whole) I was happy to find that he never deviated while he stayed with us from that Dignity of Conduct that became an officer in his situation The Morning of the 25ih aproaching arrangements ware made for receiving the Garrison and about 10 Oclock it was delivered in Form and every thing amediately arranged to the best advantage on Viewing the Inside of the Fort and stores I was at first astonish at being given up in the Manner it was but on weighing every circumstance I found that it was prudent and a lucky circumstance and probably save the lives of many men on boath sides as the night past we Inclinded to attempt undermining of it and I found it would have required deligence to have prevented our suckcess if we had faild in this on further Examination I found that our information was so good that in all probability that the first hot shot after arrival of our Artillery would have blown up the Magazine and would at once put an end to the business as its situation and the Quantity of Power in it was such that it must have nearly destroyed great part of the Garison We yet found ourselves uneasy the Number of prisoners we had taken aded to those of the Garison was so considerable when compared to our own numbers that we ware at a loss how to dispose of them so as not to intefear with our future operations DeTroit opened full in our View not more than 80 men in the Fort great part of them Invalids and we found that a considerable Number of thar prinsipal Inhabitants was disaffected to the British cause the distance of any suckers they could get except Indians was very considerable they the Indians on our rout we knew would now be more than ever be cool towards the English that this matter was never rightly considered by the continent if it had the execution was but faintly attempted possession of Dutroit and a post of Communication at Guiahoga supplies might be always easily sent through that channel from pitsburgh and Lake Erie we might have easily in our possession which would compleatly put an End to all our Troubles in this Quarter and perhaps open a Doar to further advantageous operations those ware the Ideas that influanced us at present we could now augment our forces in this quarter to about four Hundred men as near half the Inhabitants of St Vincens would Join us Kentuck we new could immediately furnish perhaps 200 Men as their was a certainty of their receiving a great addition of setlers in the spring with the of our own stores which we had learnd was safe on their passage added to that of the British their would not be a single article wanting for such an atempt and supplyes of provitions migh be got at DuTroit for some time we privately Resolved to imbrase the object that seemed to Court my acceptance without delay giving the Enemy no time to recover the present blows they had received but wished it to become the object of the Soldiery and Inhabitants before we should say any thing about it but immediately became the common topick among them and in a few days had arranged things so that they war in their Imagination almost ready to march they ware discountenanced in such conversation and such measures taken as tended to show that our Ideas was foreign from such an attempt but at same time was taken every step to have our way the great quntity of publick goods brought from DeTroit added to the whole of those belonging to the Traders of St Vincent that had been taken was very considerable the whole was immediately divided among the soldiery (excep some Indian Medals that was kep in order to be altered for publick use) The officers received nothing except a few articles of Cloathing that they stood in need of te soldiers got almost Rich others envied their good fortune and wished that some Enterprise might be undertaken to inable them to perform some exploit DuTroit was their object the Clamour had now got to a great height to silance it and to answer other purposes they ware told that an army was to march the Insuing summer from Pittsburgh to take possession of DuTroit although from the last Falls proceeding we new that no such thing was to be aprehended A compleat company of Volunteers from DeTroit of Cap'n Lamoths mostly composed of young men was drawn up and when expecting to be sent of into a strange cuntrey and probaly never again returning to their connections was told that we ware happy to learn that many of them ware torn from their Fathers and Mothers and forced on this Expedition others ignorant of the True cause in contest had engaged from a principal that actuates a great number of men that of being fond of enterprise but that they now had had a good opportunity to make themselves fully acquainted with the Nature of the War which they might explain to their friends and that as we new that sending them to the States whare they would be confined in a Jail probably for the course of the war would make a great number of our Friends at DeTroit unhappy we had thought proper for their sakes to suffer them to return home &c a great deal was said to them on the subject on the whole they ware discharged on taking an Oath not to bear Arms against America untill exchanged and received an order for their Arms Boats and provitions to return with the Boats was to be sold and divided among them when they got home in a few Days they set out (and as we had spies that went among them as Traders we learned that they made great havack to the British interest on their return Publickly saying that they had taken an Oath not to fight against america but they had not sworn not to Fight  them &c and things carried to such a Height that the Comdg Officer thought it prudent not to take notice of any thing that was said or done M" McComb that keep a noted boarding hows I understood had the assurance to shew him the stores she had provided for the Americans this was the completion of our my design in suffering this company to return) Many others that we could trust we suffered to Inlist in the Core so that our charge of prisoners was much reduced' Finding that Ten Boats loaded with goods and provitions was Dailey expected down the Waubash for fear of geting inteligence and returning on the 26'h Cap'n Helms Maj" Bosseron & Legraw with 50 Volunteers was sent in three armed Boats in pursuit of them 27"' Our Gaily arrived all safe the crew much Mortified although they deserved great credit for their diligence they had on their passage taken up Wm. Myers Express from Government these dispatches gave much incouragement our own Battallion to be compleated and an additional one to be expected this Spring but in the end proved unfortunate and on first reading gave boath pleasure and pain we had though but a day or twos time to study on the subject so fix on the plan of operation that we ware almost certain of suckcess in case we without delay made the attempt on Detroit as we knew our own strength and supplies and wanted no further information Respecting that Post but on the other hand we ware hear flattered with the prospect of an Imediate Reinforcement a Councill was called on the subject I layed before the officers my plans for the Immediate Reduction of DeTroit and explained the almost certainty of suckcess and probability of keeping possession of it untill we could Receive suckers from the State which we might reasonable suppose that they would make use of every Exertion on receiving the Inteligencc which we could easily convey to them in a few If we waited the arrival of the Troops Mention in the Packet the Enemy in the mean time might get strengthened and probably we might not be so capable of Carrying the with the expected reinforcement as we should be with our present force in case we ware to make the attempt at this time and in case we shoud be disapointed in the promest Reinforcement we might not be able to effect it at all their was various arguments made use of on this delicate point every person appeared anxious to Imbrace the present opportunity but prudence appeared to forbid the Execution but to wait for the reinforcement the argument that appeared to have the greatest weight was that with such a force we might march boldly through the Indian Nations that it would make a greator on them all well as the Inhabitants of DeTroit and have better effect than if we ware now to slip of and take the place with the small force which was certainly in our power that the British would not wish to weaken Niagara by sending any considerable reinforcement to DeTroit that it was more difficult for them to get suckers from Canaday that it was for us to Receive them from the states that they would not be able to get a Reinforcement in time to prevent our executed our designs as we might with propriety expect ours in a few Weaks In short the Enterprise was defered untill the  of June to Rendevouse at this post in the mean time every preparation to  made procouring Provetions &c and to blind our designs the whole except a small Garison should march Immediately of to the Illinois and orders to Kentucky to prepair themselves to meet at the apointed time this was now our proposed plan an directed our operations the Insuing spring March 5th Captn Helms Maj" Bosseron & Legraw  returned from of their tour up the River with great suckcess they came up with the enemy in the Night discrying their Fires at a distance waited untill all was quiet surround and took the whole prisoners without firing of a gun those Gentlemen was so of their Guard and so little apprehention of a enemy in that part of the world that they could hardly perswade themselves that what they saw and Heard was real this was a Valuable 7 Boats loaded with Provitions and goods to a considerable amount the Provitions was taken for the Publick and the Goods Divided among the whole except about 800£ worth to cloath the Troops we expected to Receive in a shot  time this was very agreable to the Soldiers as I told them that they State should pay them in Money their proportions and that they had great plenty of Goods this reservation was a Valuable Idea for the Troops on their arrival what few ther was almost intirely Naked 7th Cap,n" Williams & Rogers set out by water with a party of 25 men to conduct the British officers to Kentuckey and farther to weaken the Prisoner 18 Privates was also sent after their arrival at the Falls Cap'n Rogers had Instruction to superentend their Rout to Williamsburg and be carefull that all manner of supplies should be furnished them on their way, and to wait the orders of the Governor poor Mieres the Express got killed on his passage and his packs fell into the Hands of the Enemy but I had so much on my guard that their was not a sentence in it that could be of any disadvantage to us for the Enemy to know and private Letters from Soldiers to their friends designed wrote to deseve in case of such acsidents this was very customary with us as our expresses was frequently supprised I sent a second to the Governor giving him a shot but full act of what had past and our Views the copys of this packet had been long since lost among many other papers but I expect the original might be recovered among the Publick papers of those times I sent Letters to the Comd of Kentucky directing him to give me a certain but private ac' of the Number of Men he could furnish in June the weather being now very disagreable and having some Leisure our time was spent in consultation weighing matters and arrangeing things to the best advantage A number of our men now got sick their Intrepidity and good suckcess had untill this keep up their spirits but things falling of to that little more than that of common Garison duty they more sensibly felt the Pains and other complaints that they had contracted during the severity of the late uncommon march to which many of those Valuable men fell fell a sacrifice and few others ever perfectly recovered it, I had yet sent no messag to the Indian Tribes wishing to wait to see what effect all this would have on them the Piankeshaws being of the Tribe of the Tobacos son was alway familiar with us part of the behaviour of this Grande as he View himself was diverting enough he had conceived such an inviolable attachment to cap'n Helms that on finding that the Cap'n was a prisoner and not being as yet able to Release him declared himself a prisoner also and Joined his Brother as he called and continually keep with him and condoleing their conditions as prisoners in great distress at the same wanted nothing that was in the power of the Garison to furnish Governor Hamilton knowing his Influance was extremely Jealous of his behaviour and took every pains to gain him by presents &c when any this was presented him his reply would be that it would serve him and his Brother to live on and would not enter into counsel saying that he was a prisoner and had nothing to say but was in hopes that when the grass grew that his Brothers the B K would release him and when he was free he could talk &c being presented with an elegant sword he drew it and bending the point on the floor very seriously said it would serve him and his Brother to amuse themselves sticking frogs in the Ponds while in captivity in short they could no nothing with him and the Moment he heard of our arival he Paraded all the warriours he had in his Village (Joining S' Vincents) and was ready to fall in and attact the Fort but for reasons formerly mentioned was desired to desist.1 15th a party of upper Piankeshaws Petawatmees and Miami Cheifs made their appearance Making great protestations of their attachment to the Americans begging to the might be taken under the cover of our wings and that the Roads through the Land might be made straight and all the Stumbling Blocks removed &c and that their friends the Neighbering Nations migh be also considered in the same point of View.1 I well knew from what principal all this Sprang from and as I had now DeTroit in my Eye it was my business to make a straight and clear Road for my self to walk without thinking much of their Interest or anything else but that of opening this Road in earnest by Flattery deception or any other means that occured I Told them that I was glad to see and was happy learn that most of the Nation on the Waubash and Ome Rivers had proved themselves to be men by strictly adhearing to the Treaties they had with the B Knife last fall except a few weak minds that had been Deluded by the English to come to war that I did not know exactly who they ware nor much cared but understood that they ware a band illy compose of almost all the Tribes but such people was to be found among all Nations that had the Meanness to sell their country for a shirt but as these kind of people was not of the attention of Warriours we would say no more about them and speak on subjects more becoming us That I should let the great Counsell of the Americans know of their good behaviour and knew that they would be counted as friends to the Big Knife and would be always under their protection and their country secured to them as the Big Knife had land enough and did not want any more but if ever they brok their faith the B K would never again trust them as they never hold friendship with a people that they find hath two hearts That they ware witnesses to the calamities the British had brought on their Cuntries by their False assertions and presents which was a suffitient proof of their weakness that they saw that all their boasted Valour was like to fall to the ground and would not come out of their fort the other day to try to save the Indians that they Flattered to war and suffered to be kiled in their sight and as the nature of the war had been fully explained to them last fall they might clearly see that the great spirit would not suffer it other ways That it was not only the case on the Waubash but every whare else That they might be assured that the Nations that would continue obstinately to listen to the English would be drove out of the Land and thir Cuntries given to those that was Steady friends to the Americans that I expected for the future that if any of My people should be going to war through ther cuntrey that they would be protected which should be always the case with theirs when among us and that mutual confidence should continue to exist &c &c They replyed that from what they had seen and heard that they ware convinced that the Master of life had a hand in all things that their people would rejoice on their Return that they would take pains to difuse what they had heard through all the Nations and made no doubt of the good effect of it &c &c after a long speach in the Indian stile calling all the spirits to be witness concluded by Renewing the chain of Friendship by smoaking the Sacred pipe exchanged Belts &c and I believe went of really well pleased (but not able to fathom the bottom of all they had heard the greatest part of which was mear Political Lies) for the Insuing summer Cap. J. Shelby with his own Company only Lay for a considerable time in the Weaugh Town in the heart of their country and was treated in the most friendly manner by all the Natives that he saw and was frequently invited by them to Join and plunder what the called the Kings pasture at DeTroit what they meant was to go and steal Horses from that Settlement About this time an express arrived from the Illinois with Letters from Captn Robert George  Things being now pretty well arranged Lieu' Richd Brashears was appointed to the Comd of the Garrison Lu Bayly and Chapline with 40 Pickd men. Captn Helms Comd' of the Town Superintendant of Indian affairs &c giving nessessary instruction to all persons that I left in office on the 20ih of March I set sail on board of our Gaily which was now made perfectly compleat and 70 Men on attended by five armd Boats the waters being very High we soon reached the Missary the winds favouring of us in a few Day we arrive safe at Kaskaskias to the Great Joy of our new friends Captn George and Company waiting to receive us on our passage up the Mississippi we had observed several Indian Camps that appear to us fresh but had been left in great confution this we could not ac' for but was now informed that a few Days past a party of Delaware Warriours Came to Town and appeared to be very Impudent that in the Eavening having been drinking they Swore they had come their for scalps and would have them and Flashed a Gun at the breast of an american woman present A serjeant and party that moment passing by the House Saw the Confution rushed in the Indians Immediately fled the Serjeant persued and Killed  of them A party was Instantly sent to rout their Camps on the River which was executed the Day before we came up which was the sign we had seen part of the Delaware Nation had setled a Town at the forks of the White River and Hunted the Cuntries on the Ohio and Mississippi they had on our first arrival Hatched up a kind of peece with us but I always new they ware for open war but never before could get a proper excuse for extirmenating them the country which I new they would be loath to leave and that the other Indians wished them away as they ware great Hunters and Killed up their game a few Days after this Cap'n Helms informed me by express that a party of Traders that was going by Land to the Fall was Kiled and plundered by the Delawares of White River that it appeared that their designs was altogether Hostile as they had received a belt from the great Counsell of their Nation I was sorry for the loss of our men otherways pleased at what had happened as it would give me an opportunity of showing the other Indians the Horid fate of those that would dare make war on the big Knife and to excell them in barbarity I new was and is the only way to make war and gain a name among the Indians. I immediately sent orders to St Vincent to make war on the Delawars to use every means in their power to distroy them to show no kind of Mercy to the Men but to spare the Women and Children this order was executed without delay their camps ware attacted in every quarter whare they could be fund many fell and others brought to s' Vincents and put to death the women and children secured &c they amediately applyed for reconsileation but was informed that I had ordered the War for reasons was explained to them and that they dare not lay down the Tomahawk without permittion from me but that if the Indians was agread no more Blood should be spilt untill an Express should go to Kaskaskias which was imediatcly sent I refused to make piece with the Delawares and let them know that we never trusted those that had once Violated their faith but that if they had a mind to be quiet they might and if they could geat any of the Neighbouring Indians to be security for their god behaviour I would let them alone but that I cared very little about it &c privately directing Cap'n Helms how to manage a Counsell was called of all the Indians in the Neighbourhood my answer was made Publick the Piankeshaws took on themselve to answer for the future good Conduct of the Delawares and the Tobaccoes Son in a long speach inform of the baseness of their conduct and how richly they had deserved the sevear blow they had met with that he had given them pcrmition to settle in that country but not kill his friends that they now saw the B K had refused to make piece with them but he had become Surety for their good conduct and that they might go and mind their Hunting and that if they ever did any more mischeLf to this pointing to the Sacred Bow that held in his left hand which was as much as to say that he himself would for the future chastise them thus ended the war betwen us and the Delawares in this quarter much to our advantage as the Nation about said that we ware as brave as the Indians and not affraid to put our enemy to Death June being the time for the Rendesvouse at this Post every exertion was made in procuring provition of every speties and making other preparations I received and express from Kentucky wharin Col Bowman informed me that he could furnish 300 good men we war now going on in high spirits and Dayley expecting the Troops down the Tennessee when on the  we were supprised at the arival of Col. Montgomery with 150 men only which was all we had a right to expect from that Quarter in a short if ever as the recruiting business went on but slowly and for the first time I learned the fall of our paper money things Imediately put on a different appearance we now lamented that we did not march &c from S' Vincenes to DeTroit but as we had a prospect of considerable Reinforcement from Kentucky we yet Flattered ourselves that some thing migh be done at least we might Maneuvrer in such a maner as to Keep the enemy in hot water and in suspence and prevent their doing our fronteers much damage went on with the procuring supplies and did not yet loose sight of our object and in order to feel the pulse of the Enemy I detached of Majr Linctot that had lately Joined us and a Company of Volunteers up the Illinois River under the pretense of Visiting our friends to cross the country and fall at the Weaughs and Return to the opost making his observations on his Rout This we expected woud properly cover our designs and if we saw it prudent we might on his return proceed early in June Col. Montgomery was detached of by water with the whole of our stores Majr Bowman march the remainder of our Troops by Land my self with a party of Horse reached the opost in four Days whare the whole safely arrived in a short time after Instead of 300 Men from Kentucky thare appeared about 30 Volunteers commanded by Cap'n McGary the loss of the expedition was too obvious to hesitate about it Col. Bowman had turned his attention against the Shawnees Town and got repulsed and his men discouraged this business from the first had been so conducted as to make no disadvantageous impression on the Enemy in case of a disapointment as they could never know whether we really had a design on DeTroit or only a feint to amuse them which would appear most probable Arrangeing things to the best advantage was now my principal Study The Troops was divided betwen the posts of S' Vincents Kohokias and Kaskaskias part to the Falls of Ohio Co Montgomery appointed to the Comd of the Illinois Majr Bowman power41 to superintend the Recruiting business a number of officers oppointed to that Service Majr Linctot and Captn  to Superintend the Indian busines and myself to take up my quarters at the Falls as the most convenient Spot to have an eye over the whole each person marching of to his post in Am*st I arrive by Land at the  as far as White River  in a few Days our movements during the summer had confused the Enemy consequently the commanding officer at Michilimackinack had sent an expedition via S1 Joseph to penetrate into the Illinois & to drive the American Traders out of it on their arrival at S' Joseph while Majr Linctot was on his way up the River it was reported that an American army was aproaching the Indians imediately fled from the English being asked the ocasion was told that they were Invited to see them and the B. K fight, and as it was like to be the case they had with drawn to a Height in order to have a full View of the Ingagement finding their little dependence on their Indians they with draw to the mouth of the R S' Josephs and formed a strong camp but on their first learning this Inteligence they had sent an express to Mackinaw A Sloop being dispatched of with provition & coming within full View of their camp at the mouth of the River supposing that it was the, americans that had captured their friends at S' Joseph and had taken post there all the signs they could make could not bring the Vessel too she returned with the disagreable news and the poor fellows had to starve untill they could get an answer to a second express in meantime Mr Linctot knowing nothing of all this had changed his rout to the weaugh which caused a conjecture that the whole body of us was directing our course to DeTroit which caused much confusion through the whole the summer was spent to advantage as we ware carefull to spread such reports as suited our Interest I remained at Louisville untill the spring following continually discharging the multiplicity of business that was continually before me from every quarter I fully acquainted the Governor of Virginia that as the new setlers now peopling Kentucky were quite numerous I was in hope that the was fully able to withstand any force the Enemy could send against her and perhaps act on the offensive We now began to feel the effects of the depretiated state of the paper currency every thing was at two or three prices and scarcely to be had at any price We set out on a plan of laying up this Fall great Quantities of jerked meat for the Insuing season but as DeTroit had pretty well recovered itself the Shawanees Delawares and other prominent Indian tribes was so exceedingly Troublesom that our hunters Had no suckcess numbers being cut off and small skirmishes in the country so common that but little notice was taken of them Col. Rogers who had been sent to the mississippi for a very considerable Quantity of Goos geting a reinforcement at the Falls on his passage to Pittsburgh, a little above Licking Creek got totally defeated himself and almost the whole of his party consisting of about 70 men were killed or made prisoners among the Latter those of Note ware Col. John Campbell and Cap"1 Abraham Chapline a small boat made her escape which was all that was saved.

Clark to Patrick Henry, March 9, 1779. Dr Sir by Wm Moiers you wrote to me, if possible to procure you some Horses and Mares, nothing could give me greater pleasure than to serve, but I doubt at present it is out of my power as my situation and Circumstances is much Alter'd as pr Letter—there being no such horses here as you request me to get, And I have so much publick business to do especially in the Indian Departm' that I doubt I shall not be able to go to the Illinois for some time. I find that you have conceived a greater oppinion of the Horses in this country than I have.2 The Pawne " and Chicasa Horses are very good and some of them delicate, but the common breed in this country is triffling as they are adulterated. The finest Stallion by far that is in the country, I purchased some time ago, and rode him on this Expedition, and resolved to make you a Compliment of him, but to my mortification I find it impossible to get him across the drown'd lands of the Wabash as it is near three leagues across at present, & no appearence of its falling shortly, but you depend that I shall by the first opportunity send him to you, He came from new Mexico three hundred leagues WJt of this. I dont think it in my power to send you such Mares as you want this spring, but in order to procure you the best can be got, I shall contract with some man of the Spanish Government, by permit of the Commdr to go to the Pawne" Nation two hundred leagues West, and get the finest Mares to be had of the true blood, they will be good, as they are all so, if they are handsome they will please you; I shall give such instructions as will be necessary, and am in hopes that you will get them by the fall, I could soon get five or Six Mares at the Illinois very fine, but I think they are hurt by hard usage, as the Inhabitants are barbarous Horse Masters but shall do it, except I can execute my other plan I thank you for your remembrance of my situation respecting lands in the Frontiers, I learn that Government has reserved on the lands on the Cumberland for the Soldiers. If I should be deprived of a certain tract of land on that River which I purchased three Years ago, and have been at a considerable expence to improve, I shall in a manner lose my all, It is known by the name of the great french Lick on the South or West side containing three thousand Acres, if you can do any thing for me in saving of it, I shall for ever remember it with gratitude. Their is glorious Situations and bodies of land in this Country formerly purchased, I am in hopes of being able in a short time to send you a Map of the whole my Comp" to yr Lady and familly, and remain Sr Your humble Servant G R Clark. Fort P Henry March 9'h 1779. To His Excellency Pat. Henry Esqr Govr of Virginia Williamsburg pr R. Moiers

Clark to Benjamin Harrison, March 10, 1779.  Fort P. Henry St Vincent March 10th 1779. Dr Sir, I receiv'd your kind Letter with the thanks of the House inclosed. I must confess Sir that I think my country has done me more honor than I merited but may rest assured that my study shall be to deserve that Honor that they have already conferr'd on me. by my public letters you will be fully acquainted with my late successful expedition against L' Govr Hamilton who has fallen into my hands with all the principal Partizans of Detroit. This stroke will nearly put an end to the Indian War, had I but men enough to take the advantage of the present confusion of the Indian Nations, I could silence the whole in two months, I learn that five hundred men is ordered out to reinforce me, If they arrive, with what I have in the country; I am in hopes will enable me to do something Clever. I am with respect Sir Yr very humble Servant G R. Clark Coll Harrison Speaker of the House D. Williamsbourg PrWm Moires  No" 3. and 4. Copys Col Clark's Letter to Mr Harrison. 

Clark to William Myers, March 13, 1779.  William Moires Express a Warrant To W* Moires Sn as the Letters you have at present contain matters of great consequence and require a quick passage to Wil'iamsburg, This is to empower You to press for the Service any thing you may stand in need of. If you cannot get it by fair means, you are to use force of Arms. I request of you to lose no time as you prize the interest of your Country. I wish you success &ca G R Clark Fort Pt Henry March 13'h 1779.  N° 1 Copy of a Warrant taken with the Letters 

Clark to R. B. Lernoult, March 16, 1779.  Fort P. Henry St Vincent March 16'h 1779.' Sir, As many of the Gentlemen that fell into my bands at this Post left Letters at their departure for their Friends at Detroit I have inclosed them to you hoping that you will expedite them to the persons directed to, As a few of the Inhabitants of this town with a number of your own people have permits to go to Detroit on their lawfull business, I hope you will not detain such as should want to return, as you may be assured that I want no Intelligence from them. You have one Mr Bentley* Inhabitant of the Illinois a prisoner among you, I would fondly exchange one of equal rank for him, if agreable, I learn by your letter to Govr Hamilton that you were very busy making new works, I am glad to hear it, as it saves the Ammericans some expences in building my Comp" to the Gentlemen of yr Garrison I am Yours &ca G R Clark Cap" Lernoult The Officers of Fort Pat. Henry solicit Captain Lernoult to present their compliments to the Officers of his Garrison  Copy of a Letter from a Col Clark to Captn Lernoult dated March 16th 1779 

Leonard Helm Appointed Superintendent of Indian Appairs at Vincennes, March 16, 1779.  To Leonard Helms Esqn By George Rogers Clark Esqr Col° and Commander in chief of the Virginia Forces in the Illinois Depar' &c. By virtue of the Power and Authority to me given by his Excellency Patrick Henry Esqr Governour of the State of Virginia &c You are hereby nominated and appointed Superintendant of Indian affairs in the Department of S' Vincents. You are therefore carefully to do your duty as  appertaining to the Indian department assigned you tending to the welfare of the  States in general. Given under my hand and seal at head Quarters Kaskaskias Recorded at Kaskaskias March 16'h 17   Clark Carbonneaux Greffier 

Captain R. B. Lernoult to Lieutenant-Colonel Bolton, March 26, 1779.1  Detroit, March 26, 1779. Sir, I had just finished copies of the several letters taken by the Indians near Fort Laurence and extracts of Govr Hamilton's and Mr Hay's last letters; when one Isadore Chaine (an Interpreter) and two Hurons arrived from Post Vincennes with the unfortunate news of that place having been retaken by Colonel Clarke, the Governor and whole party made prisoners, except himself, who made his escape with difficulty. This most unlucky stroke, with the arrival of a large body of Virginians advancing towards St. Dustrie has greatly damped the spirits of the Indians. The chiefs from St. Dustrie are come in here with John Montoure* to claim Governor Hamilton's promises to assist them; they declare, if a large detachment with cannon are not sent without delay from below, they must go out of the way, being not able to fight the enemy alone. As the loss of this Post opens a new road for the Virginians to this place by the Miamis River, I hope a strong reinforcement will be sent here from Niagara by return of the vessels —at least what they can convey—as the new work is not yet defensible requiring many hands. The Canadians, exceedingly assuming on our bad success and weakness, not one of them will lend a hand. Spades, shovels, &c. are much wanted—also amunition as pr enclosed returns: above 30,000 lbs of Flour of last years allowance not as yet sent here, with other species in proportion, and the enormous quantity consumed in the last unfortunate expedition, has reduced us greatly. Pray forward it. The Indians insist on having provisions sent to them, or they must be starved. The loss of Governor Hamilton is a most feeling one to me: I find the burthen heavy without assistance. It requires, I confess, superior abilities, and a better constitution. I will do my best, however. I beg leave to repeat to you the necessity of a reinforcement being sent, as the consequences may be fatal. I send the Felicity with this pacquet, which, with the Angelica, already down, will convey part of the Troops, as some of the Indian Chiefs wait the return of the vessels to see if any notice is taken of their distress, or prove me a Liar. A letter to his Excellency's address, I send you. It came some days before the unfortunate affair from Post Vincennes by Lieutenant Du Vernet, who is returned. All the Canadians are Rebels, to a man. I shall wait your orders with great impatience, and am Sir, Yours, &c, (Signed) R. B. Lernoult. Lieut. Colonel Bolton 

James Patten to Clark, April 10, 1779.  Falls of Ohio Aprile 10lh 1779 Sir Last Sunday Wm Moyers Express was killed & scalped by a party of Indians who way-laid the road, about four miles up Beargrass, he was found yesterday Evening and I went out this morning expecting to find the Packet about him as he was not stripped, but found nothing on him only his Clothes; and found in different places through the Woods the following Letters which I forwarded by Express to Col° Bowman Viz. 1 Letter to his Excellency Pat: Henry torn in two & the seal not broke I Letter to Col° Arthur Campbell torn in two pieces & the seal broke 1 Letter to Peter Dierly Botetourt, entire I have not heard from Harrodsburgh since Captns Harrod & Williams set of with Mr Hamelton Wm Movers sent of an Express to inform you of his safe arrival here last Sunday The Boat who met you below the Saline River arrived here safe Seventy men with some Families arrived here a few Days ago from West Augusta & gave an ace' of a good deal of Mischief done by the Indians this Spring; they likewise say that several hundreds were almost ready to start for this Country when they came of. Fort Laurence on Tuskarowa was besieged & harrassed by a number of Indians commanded by John Montuer & almost starved out before they could be relieved, the Fort was commanded by Col° Gibson & a few men & they were relieved by 500 or 600 of the Militia. I am sorry that I am under the Necessity of sending you so much bad News I am Sir with the greatest Respect Your very humble Servt. James Patten To Col° George R Clark Illinois  To Colo George R Clark at the Illinois Pr Express  Captn Patten Ap 10-1779 

Robert George to Clark, April 19, 1779.  Fort Clark 19'h April 1779 Sir I thought it adviseable to send you this Express to Acquaint you of what Passes here, having Intelligence of Some Indians being about, I had the Persons who saw them Qualified, who took the Inclosed Oath, I sent out Ensign Girty (who I admited some days ago to his former Office) to Spy, and Intended on his return to give you an Account of my Proceedings, but an Express Arriving this Evening from the Falls of Ohio, by which we have hear'd that Wm Moyres, (bearer of your Express to Williamsburg) was Kill'd about five Miles above the Falls, occasions me to send Immadiately the bearer, that you may be apprised of what has happened, before you leave Kahos—and if any thing worth your Notice, should occur, either by the Spies or Otherwise, you may depend on immadiate Notice,—The Gentlemen of the Garrison Join me in wishing you safe home—In the mean time I beg you will believe me with much Respect and Esteem Sir Your very Obed' & most Hum Serv' Robt George Cp' P. S. I dont take the Liberty to Advise you, but you cannot be too Cautious on your way here, and your Presence is much required.  (on Public Service) George Rogers Clark Esquire Colonel of the Illinois Battalion & Commander in Chief of the Western Department &ca &ca &ca Kahokias Pr Express.  

Joseph Bowman to the Chiefs of the Potawatomi. To Mech Kigie Chief of the village of Chicago 20th April, 1779. I have received your letter of 12th of November and have read it. When our children listen attentively to their father, they hear what their father says, but, your ears are stopped; there is a way to open them: Listen— I say to all the savages as well as to you to stay quietly at home, to hunt, to support their wives and children, to treat well the French and traders who honestly come to them for their welfare and to pay them justly with goods, so that they come among them with contented hearts, and return with the same feeling. I say also that when bad people come among you with goods and other presents to try to excite you and incite you to war, they work therefore for your own destruction, and instead of being your friends, they are your most cruel enemies. To you I recommend that if any such are found in your village to take their goods and bring them to me, for which care you will be rewarded, or divide it among yourselves equally. The Bostonian always says the same thing; he does not ask that the savage make war for him, he does this for himself—so that the savage can rest quietly, I advise nevertheless that those who wish to fight for the English to sharpen well their tomahawks and to fight like men, for we love war—that is what my young men want without, however, demanding it. Let those to whom we have extended the hand not draw back. If any one fools us it is only once. Remember this, you and all yours—for punishment follows close the crime, treat well all the French for they are my brothers. Your good father if you are good children, Jo. Bowman, Major. April 20, 1779.

Clark to Nanaloibi, April 20, 1779. To Nanloibi, Chief of the Potawatomi, I always hear that the savages have no ears. I think that it would be well that I make an attack on them to give them some. Nevertheless I do not complain yet against you or your young men because I have been told that you do not wish to make war on the Big Knives. That is what decides me to-day to extend the hand and tell you, as your father, to remain quietly at home, as you have done until now, to warn all the savages who are your friends, to be no longer mad, to hunt in order to provide for the women and children, rather than to mix themselves up in war. Tell them in my name that I am as good a father as warrior and that if they exhaust my patience, they shall hear from me; if there are still some who wish to be mad, I warn them to arm themselves strongly for they will be unfortunate if they fail to do so. I have soldiers who are not afraid and who are also mad. I could not perhaps stop them myself, for they want only war and ask only to fight. Thus I repeat again that the savages be quiet. I do not wish them to fight either for or against me. If they have closed ears let them be pierced; have them told or tell them yourself that it has been long that I have warned them and that I am beginning to be tired of all the savages. I write to you and Mech Kigie only because I believe that a part of the others, my enemies, shall know me the first madness they commit. Do not listen to the bad birds who come to your village to take away the young men; regard always the French as your friends. Whoever does them harm does it to me. If anyone comes to raise the young men for the English, I order you if you are my friend to take all the property that they bring, and send it to me or divide it equally in your village. Those who ask you to go to war are your most cruel enemies. Thus believe me. Be quiet if you do not wish your families to be worthy of pity. This is my last warning. Signed G. R. Clark.

John Rogers to Jonathan Clark, May 6, 1779, Washington County. Dr Sir: I am so far on my way to Williamgsburg with Governor Hamilton and seven other Officers and a number of men that were made Prisoners at post Vincen in the Illinois Country by your brother Geore R Clark who was very well when I left him the 8th of March. he is determined not to be idle in that country while Detroit and Natchez remains in the hands of the enemy. He has had the greatest success that ever a man had with so few men. We made 101 prisoners and had only 130 men, 60 of which were French. There was seven men wounded in the fort and seven Indians killed that were coming in with two prisoners. I have seen Colonel Russel whom I have the Minutes of the whole expedition to whom I refer you to for informaiton of the affair together with other satisfactory accounts. We had one man wonded time is short and the scarcity obliges me to conclude and be leave to subscrive myself. Your very humble servant and ever well wisher. John Rogers. Remember me to your brother Johnny if in camp. To Major Jonathan Clark at Camp per favor of Colonel Russel. Endorsed: Captain John Rogers Washington Co: Va. May 6. 1779.

Captain Leonard Helm to George Rogers Clark, May 9, 1779. St. Vincent. Dr. Sr, I think my self In duty bound to Inform you of Every particular that Comes under my Notice it Gives me Great Satisfaction to think of your Intention against Detroit, you must Be the man to take that place, I have had Itelligence Since I wrote to you, there is not above one hundred men in the Garison, he says there is Expected, one hundrd men from Michillimackinac to reinforce, pray Neglect No time on your Expedition, as I am informd The Natchez  is abandoned, I know your activity To be Great, I think you may depend on The Greatest part of this Village to go with you, you may be assured your Name Strikes Terror to both English and Indians Send No man, But your Self If you think proper Of the Expedition Wea & Miami  is ready to receive you with Joy your Health and mine by the Whole Vilage before the Comd' officer and by many of The officers of the Garison, this I have from a man of Verasity and a true friend to our Cause He Farther Informs me that Buck Island has met with a fatal stroke at the Loss of a Very Considerable Loss He had this Intelligence from gen' who Informd him That there was a merch' that said he Lost six hd Dol" in silver which was burnt on board the angileck which he Expeced to have made great Advance by, the Letter you aquainted me of I never Recd, the Deleware Indians In this Quarter is Very Peaceable, but if you do not put some regularity with such Ill disposed persons as is the occation of these unhappy disputes or Elc I Cant pertend to Stay at this place I have nothing more but To Inform you that if their is not a stop put To Kiling Indian friends we must Expect to have all foes I am your obedient Humb Ser' To Comd Leod Helm N B there was a Considerable Quantity of goods aboard of the sam Vessel of the property Of the truest of our friends at detroit 

Richard Brashers to Clark, May 9, 1779.  May 9'h 1779 Dear Colo. I Shall take Every precautionate step that in my power Lays according to your Instructions so that I may be able to give you a just a Compt of my perceedeings Dureing my Station at this post I flatter my self that I might in form you that the grand armey that was imboded to Come a gainst us has been Scard by Some threats that has been Sent to them from this place But at the same time I Leave no Room for an advantage to be taken of us if in Case our information Should be Rong I Should be very happy if I Could only heare of your arrival at this post wanst moore And to percede on an Expedition that has Been So Long Caring on from Wester a guster  which at Last Cannot be Ended with out your Asistance I receved a Letter the other Day from a bove which gave me the folding a Compte  of the perceeding of the armey a bove and the perticulars is that O if we had Col Clarke to Command we Cold Do Some thing as well as other people. I should be Glad if you intend to go to that place you would gave me a small hint of it allowing me to make free with your In Rigard to a matter of importances of that sort as I may prepare my Self And Company for the same at the same Time no purson to be a Quainted with it but your humble Servent Who is Ready and willing to asist you in all and Evary Instruction that I may Receve from you and from one that Esteemes you more then tongeue Can Express and with all begs Leave to Subscribe him self your most obedient And Veary Humble Servent Rich" Brashears P. S Capt Helm will give you the perticulers of Indian afairs and Like wise from Detroit and all other places that Comes under our notice and at the Same time you will give me Leave to Trouble you with my Letters at all opportunitys that I may have from Dear Col° your most Obediant and Humble Servant to order Richard Brashears To Colo. Clarke Esqr Post Vincennes  Col. Clarke Esqr and Commandent of the western Departement at Kuskuskia pr Express

Clark to the People of Kaskaskia, May 12, 1779. Gentlemen Since your first declaration and attachment for the American cause, until the glorious capture of Post Vincennes, I had doubted your sincerity, but in that critical moment, I proved your faithfulness. I was so touched with the zeal which you there displayed that my desire at present is to make you happy, and to prove to you the sincere affection I have for the welfare and advancement of this colony in general and of each individual. The young men of this province have come back from Post Vincennes covered with laurels which I hope they will continue to wear. Although there are a few who did not have anything to do with this glorious action, I do not esteem them less, hoping they will take revenge if the occasion presents itself, During my absence they have with great exactitude, done their duty as guards of the fort. And I promise you that as soon as it is in my power you shall enjoy the liberty which the Americans enjoy themselves. Their blood runs in their veins for the welfare and defense of their native land and you, Sirs, may claim the same privileges. I have already told you and repeat it that the government protects you and will send a regiment of regular troops for your safeguard and defense. A civil lieutenant governor has been appointed to regulate and settle your affairs. In a short time you will understand the American system which you may think strange in the beginning but in the end you will find in it such peace and tranquillity that you will bless the day on which you espoused the American cause. You may be persuaded that we desire nothing so much as to render you happy and procure for you all the help possible. I present to you Colonel Todd, my good friend, as your governor. He is the only person in the state whom I wished to have fill this post in this colony. I am fully persuaded from my knowledge of his capacity and diligence that he will render you justice and at the same time make you happy. You are assembled here, gentlemen, for an event of the greatest importance which consists in the election of the most capable and enlightened persons to judge your differences. In this I am interested not only for your present welfare but also for your future. I pray you to consider the importance of this choice, to conduct it without partiality and choose the persons the most worthy of these offices and I hope that in a short time you will be convinced that you arc the freest people in the world. I shall once more address the young men who served under me in the glorious expedition and assure them that they will not be forgotten in all sections of our colonies for the good deeds and services that they have rendered. I have not forgotten to give a faithful account of their sincere attachment since the day of my arrival in this country to this day. It is with sincerity that I wish the advancement and prosperity of the inhabitants of Illinois in general. I beg of you to believe me with the sincerest attachment. Gentlemen, Your very humble and obedient servant, G. R. Clark. Fort Clark, May 12, 1779. 

Patrick Henry to Benjamin Harrison, May 19, 1779. I have enclosed a Letter, for the perusal of the assembly from Colonel Clark at the Illinois; this letter among other things, informs me of an expedition, which he had planned and was determined to execute, in order to recover Post Vincennes, which had been formerly taken from the British Troops, and garrisoned by those under the Colonels Command. This enterprise has succeeded to our utmost wishes, for the garrison commanded by Henry Hamilton, Lieutenant Governor of Detroit, and consisting of British Regulars and a number of Volunteers, were made Prisoners of War. Colonel Clark has sent the Governor with several officers & privates, under a proper guard, who have by this time arrived, at New London in the County of Bedford. Proper Measures will be adopted, by the Executive, for their confienment & Security. unfortunately the Letters from Colonel Clark, containing, no doubt a particular account of this affiar, were in the possession of an express, who was murdered by a party of Indians on his way through Kentucky to this place; the letters, as I am informed were destroyed. As the facts, which i have mentioned, are sufficiently authenticated. I thought it material, that they should be communicated to the assembly. I have the honor to be sir your most obedient servant. P. Henry

Captain Leonard Helm to Clark, May 31, 1779.  Fort Vincennes May 31" 1779 Dr Sir According to your Instructions I have proceeded in every perticular Circumstance of affairs at Detroit Mr Corney  arrived a few days ago and brings the following Intelligence Viz That he made this place in Eighteen days after he left Detroit, and that at his Arrivel and the Reception of your Letter Directed to the Commanding Officer he was Received with much Civility; the Commander told him if he could not get every perticular article agreeable to your Demand he would assist him to purchas them though he Expected you would bite him. But says he if the fortune of war Turns on Col° Clarks side and I am taken prisoner I had Rather be taken by him than any other person, Looking on your bravery generosity and knobleness of mind to be no disgrace and that if he had the honour to take you he would not think it small; Likewise Mr Corney took much pains to find how many Royalists were in the Fort that were true to the British Cause he thought there were three and not many more. Cap' Masonveal's  flag Staff was taken down in the Night by the Inhabitants of the Village his Staff was laid by the water side they took the flag Spit on it & and hung it up at his Door. he says its not safe for a person to spake despicably of the Americans that there is a Room for you and an other for me in every principle Gentlemans house in the Village furnished with Bowls and Glasses and Called Col° Clarks & Cap' Helms Rooms, he further says; that the Hogs that were in a pen for three years when they hard the News of Liberty broke out of the pen and made an Elegant Ball & drank Success to Col° Clark that he seen Children in the Streets with Cups of water drinking Success to Clack, that there was 600lb of Lead found on Hog Island three miles above the fort and given to the Commander the Inhabitants demanded one Calf a Barrel of wine and some Spirits to be given them in Return for it as there was no  Owner for it they then Repaired to the Island and made a large Intertainment most of the people were drunk and Spoke their minds freely they drank Success to Congress like wise to Col° Clark they are uncertain whether to put Confidence in the Indians a party arrived there before he came away with two Scalps Cap' Rinolt  sent to meet them and Ordered not to bring the Scalps to him but take them to Govrnr Hamilton who first taught them inhuman Murder. Matters in this place stand in as fair a light as can be Expected a present being Informed by men from your department that our Currancy is so much under valued by the Inhabitants there has caused much Truble and disturbance here, but with the Assistance of Major Lagraus  and Cap' Busron  we have Setled matters here better than could be Expected it has been Reported that our Currancy and yr Bill neither of them pass at Orleans I hope you will hurry Col" Todd to this place as there is a greater occasion for him hear than at your department knowing you more capable to manage your affairs than I am the Speeches that have been made since your departure I have sent you Excuse my not sending Express sooner as I waited for all Intelligance from Detroit and the Indians. I have purchased a very fine asortment of goods in partnership with John Cowan which we got from a Merchant lately from Detroit and Intend keeping them for the use of your Troops when they arrive at this place if you will let us know whether you will want them as there are not any goods to be purchased at this place Scarcely on any terms. Abraham Daniel, a Delaware Indian that went to the falls of Ohio with Mr Trig and Company Informs me by Intelligence from two men that lately arrived from the Dalaware Camp, and says that an Expedition is gone from the falls of Ohio against the Shawnah Towns & that the Army Consisted of Eight hundred men & that there was a Number of men Remaining yet at the falls and more coming dailcy. Mr Corney gives his Compliments to Col° Clark and Informs him that he proceeded according to his Instructions in every perticular at Detroit but could not get every Article sent for by you the were not to be got at any Store in the Village Inclosed you have an Invoice of the pcrticulars he brought. my Compliments to Madam Williams & The Gentlemen officers I coclude with a Longing desire to see you Yr Ob Hble Serv' Leod Helm To George R. Clark Esqr Col° Comd' of Illinois S' Vincent & its dependancies N B All the papers that William Moyers had with him when Killed were taken to Detroit and Delivered to the Commanding Officer Troops under Clark at Kaskaskia, June 2, 1779.  A provision Return for the troops at Fort Clark Under The Command of Colo G. R. Clark Commencing the 31 & Ending The 2 of June Both Days Included 1779
Joseph Bowman to Clark, June 3, 1779.1  Kahous, June 3d 1779 Dear Sir By the bearer Mr I have Just received the following Inteligence from Micha'M'anoy  who Informes me that he left that the 8h of April Last with permition to go as far as Labai with orders to Longloid & Gouchey from Majr Depoister forbiding them from Raising aney more Indians against the americans that Majr Depoister has but forty men and 100 at Detroit by Report, the Indians Informes them of our armey beeing near Detroit that in two days they Can fetch in a scalp from our People, he on his way here Receivd the kindest treatment from the Indians who seam Initrely disposd in our favor he has brought with him a large Quantity of goods that was Conceald to him by Mr Bentley who was to start in ten days after him in cace he could obtain A permitt otherways he wood make his Escape the best way he could I begin to be Impatiant to start and am In hopes by Next monday to make a move with Every thing from here with hoops of finding you all in Readiness for a start which I make not the least doubt of; if in cace your purchasers has been as buisly Imployd as we where, I Expect Mr Shannon back Every hour, The weather begins to grow warm & the waters Low so that no time Ought to be lost with regaurd to prepareing Every Necessary requird for our Expedetion, pray make Every officer Exert himself as I have been obligd to do, as much depends on Industery, their is maney Thanks to be paid to the Inhabitants here, as they have Spaird their Cattle & Horses past Expectation they have furnishd Every fifth head of Cattle in stead of the tenth, which amounts to 80 odd 40 odd Horses  The reason of not getting more flour from this Place is owing to the scarceity, as their has been sold out of this town since your Departure from here between twenty and thirty Thousand weight I am afraid that Unless you send up a boat for the flour I shall be disappointed I have had the offer of severl Bark boats but none of them in order, or strong Enough to trust a Load in, My respects to the Gentlemen officers whilst I Remain Dr Sr your most Obd' frind & Hum1° Ser Jos Bowman N B in my letter in stead of orders forbiding the Indians to be raisd against the Americans they are cauld for to MichaiM'anoy to a counsel  Col° George Rogers Clark Commandr in cheif of wes"" Depr' Kaskaskias pr Mr pravoe  Received 5ih June 79 Cap'n Bowman 3d June 1779 

Bills of Exchange Drawn by William Shannon, June 5, 1779.'  Exchang 7698 No 97 On sight of this My Exchange pleas to Pay Mons Capt Langtot or order the sum of Seven thousand Six hundred and ninety Eight Livres in cash for Peltrys furnished the State of Virginia for the use of Purchasing Provisions for said State as p account See. at fort Clark this 5th day June 1779. (Signed) William Shannon 

To Col G R Clark Esqr Accepted (Signed) G. R Clark  Reed the amount of the within Bill of Genl Clark one part by the hands of Mr Tazewell in officers Certificates and the Balance due by his bond of this date of the ******** 0£ two hundred and Seventy five pounds seventeen shillings and six pence. By power of attorney of Godfroy Linctot 7698 Livres (Signed) Ch. Gratiot 

CLARK TO THE TREASURER OF VIRGINIA Exchange 3836 2/5 On sight of this My Exchange pleas pay Capt Langtot or order the sum of three Thousand Eight hundred and thirty Six dollars and two fifths it being for the Peltrys received in your name and delivered to Mr Barkley on my arrival at Fort Clark this 5 day of June 1779. (Signed) William Shannon To G R Clark Esqr accepted (Signed) G R Clark  Received the amount of the within Bill of Genl Clark by the hands of Mr. Tazewell in officers Certificates by Power of attorney of Godefroy Linctot (Signed) Ch Gratiot Richmond december 22d 1783 3836 dollars Clark to the Treasurer of Virginia, June 6, 1779.  Ex. 200 Doll' Kaskaskia 6lh June 1779 On Sight of this my first of Exchange Second of same Tenor and Date not paid. Pay to Mad. Rocheblave or Order the Sum of Two Hundred Dollars being for Sundries furnished for the use of the Troops of this Garrison And Oblige Your Obedt Serv' G. R Clarke To the Treasurer of the State of Virginia March 21s' 1780 Accepted to be discharged in tobacco at twenty Five Shillings the Hundred. By advice of Council Thos. Jefferson

Clark to Oliver Pollock, June 12, 1779. Kaskaskas June 12 1779 Dear Sir Yesterday I received your Letter by Mr Mantonis dated 26 February. I am under many obligations to you for the advice from Pensicola and many other favors, a strong reinforcement to Florida is what has been for some time expected by us, from their Maneuvers about the Center of the American Shore. I shall Immediately send Copys of your Letters to me with my Oppinion thereon to the seat of Government, what measures they may take I do not know an Expidition was Intended against the Floridays on the Mississippi but I am now convinced that it is out of the Question without a greater force but I do not think (Although I suppose for the sake of a Breathing spell they have Crouded themselves in the most remote Corner of the Continant for that purpose) that they will be suffered to Enjoy their Peace long, for the Warr on our side has changed from a Defensive to an Offensive one. I have little or no news to Inform you of Mr Lindsay the Bearer of this Letter is a Gentleman of variaty and lately from the Settlements will give you the whole. You mentioned your writing to me the 15 February. I can heare nothing of the Letter nor by whom sent I have never received the scrape of a Pen from you before Except by Lieu' Harrison. I am sorry to learn you have not been supplyed with funds as Expected your protesting my late Bills has not surprized me. as I Expected it being surrounded by Enemies Mr Hamilton & his Savages being obligated for my own safety to lay in Considerable Stores. I was oblidged to take every step I possibly could to procure them unwilling to use force &c. I believe In order to get Bills on you they Refused to receive a Coppers worth of Continental money so that I expect by this time they are sorry that they Attempted to deceive me. I have by several Expresses wrote to his Excellency the Governor of Virginia Respecting you leting him know what I have long Surmised & the Circumstances now laid open in your letter before me. I act by his Authority and know that he will take every Step he possibly can to make you a remittance which I expected would have been the case before this time, I learn your Clerk is on his way up and hope it will then lay in my power, to settle all my Business in the Country respecting, altho' our Credit on the Mississippi at present appears to be low (perhaps our own faults). I am Determined not to wait untill some Person appears with a longer Sword than I have as for drawing any more bills on you. I have thought it fruitless Virginia State will never let you suffer long for what you have done for her and if it has not been in her power to send you supplys she bears it with a greatful Remembrance I am Sir with the greatest respect Your very humb Serv' (Signed) G R Clark Mr Lindsay will acquaint you of the State of Mr Hamelton the great Hair buyer To Oln Pollock Esqr New Orleans. 

Colonel John Bowman to Clark, June 13, 1779.  Harrodsburgh June 13th 1779 Dear Sir I Recd your letters by Duff the 9 of this Present Month, by Keller this Instant in Which you Desire the Assistance of this County to Joyn you on your Intending Expedetion, I am Sory to Inform you that the Adventurers that came out hear this last Spring, has Returned for their famileys to the Sittlement, at Present at the Old Stations, their is onley Part of the Old Standbys the onley Sufferers hear to a Man would turn out to Joyn you could we onley Get Men to Garison the forts at Harrodsburgh their will Remain 16 Men at Logans 25 at Boonesburgh about the same number at Bryans Camp 9 at Licken Station 12 at Elkhorn 8 which will be as few as I can think Leaving in the Garisons, Would time have admitted I woould have Gethered the people together and Sweard More Men to your Assistance but the time So Short has Ocasioned the Situation hear to be left as I have mentioned, had your Instructions come four weaks Sooner I had Gethered 296 Men and Marched them to one of the Shawnee towns and finding the Indians having fortified them selves in two or three Log cabbins and we having no Provisions wee Burnt the greatest Part of their town, the Plunder We Brought away with us amounted to £31666.14 I Recd a letter from Wm Linn at the falls three Days agoe where in he informs me that he has 100 Men Redy to March in order to Joyn you if so you will be Rainforced by One hundred and fifty Men or their Abouts. there is a Great Many Men come Down the River Lately but they are So Scattred the canot Possibly be colected to answer this Present Purpos News I have none, but a Report prevaling hear that Congress have sent an armey against Detroit and since the have Marched two Men are Come from Pensylvania here and say it is so. I am Obleged in a few days to Start for Wmburgh tho I am not Present with you in Person yet you have My hart and all my good wishes where Ever you go Ma god Bless you, and I Remain Dear Sir your Sincear friend and Hum Sen'1 Jonathon Bowman  On Publick Service To Col George Rogers Clark Commdr Cheiff of the Illionois country By John Duff Express 

Joseph Bowman to Isaac Hite, June 14, 1779.  Illinois Kaskaskia, June 14th, 1779. Dear Sr: I Received your Letter by Brother Isaac who Arived Saif at this Place the 10 of may Last which gave me the Greatest Satisfaction to hear from you & the rest of my friends so distinate from me, I am sorry that it is not in my Power to furnish Isaac With a Quantity of goods &c. agreeable to his Instructions from you as I should approve Of it much could they be had, but Believe me their is none in the Country as their has been no supplys brought from New Orleans Since Last Summer, by which means I was disappointed of Getting a Cargo I had sent for; the traiding Vessels at New Orleans has for some time Imployd themselves seaking Of traid Else where on the american Coasts. Money has become so plenty here with us by traiders from Difirent Quarters that it does not Rate at above half as High as it does aney where Else in the United states, so that their is no Chance of Purchaceing aney Commodity what Ever whereby a prophit might be had from it, at Preasent, and as the distance is two great for Isaac to Return without doing something I have Recommended him to Continue here and go with our'Ridgements, which Is to start in about four days for Detroit where I hope to find goods in great abundance. We have had Every Piece of Intiligence we could wish for from that Quarter and make no Doubt of our Success. Notwithstanding the Reinforcement by Colo. Mongomery and our own troops will not Exceed five Hundred men, but our men here beeing Accustomed to Success since our Arivel in this Country, and their Anxiaty so great, gives us the greatist Confidence of their Braverey and good Conduct. If we should be successfull on our Expedetion I Expect to Return with my Brother which will be some time towards Christmass. Kaintuckey is very strong several forts built their Laitley I am Inform'd that Brother John has March'd some time agoe with a bodey of troops from their against the Shawnees. I wrote to you in March Last giveing you A detail of our Last Expedition against Governor Hamilton at Post St. Vinsent but our Express Unfortunately got Kil'd Near the falls of Ohio and All the letters and Papers destroy'd so that I do not Expect you have had a true account as yet. Some time in December Last Governer Hamclton Came down the wabash from Detroit with about 800 men Includeing french English & Indians Retook St. Vinsent from us without the Loss of aney men of Either side. He immetliately sent off Belts and speeches to Sundray Nations to the North & westward of this In Order to Collect as maney as to Inable him to Retake the Islenoise Country Destroy Kaintuckey and drive all before him as far As fort Pitt, thus finding our situation without the Least Expectations of Succor Oblige us to fall On an Expedient Resolution, which was for a boate with two four Pounders & 4 swivels to be sent off Immediately with 50 (40)1 to Perceed by water to Post Vinsent whilst Col. Clark myself & the Rest of his forces Consisting of about 130 where to Conduct our selves by Land and meet our boat on her way within a few miles of that Place & then to Lay seage to the fort upon all avents. Accordingly on the sixth of February we started trough Rain Mud and mire Continueing our Rout the Distance About 180 miles and in Nineteen days arived at the Place, but no account of our Boat it beein kept Back by the High water, our men were almost Perrished to Death beeing 5 day without Privision and haveing the waters to waid the Cheifest Part of that time from their middles up to their Necks, mear Hunger then forced us to attact the Fort before the arivel of our boat which began about 8 oclock in the night with A brisk fire on both sides and Continued all night and the Cheifest part of the next Day Dureing which time ther Cannon Play'd on Us from Every Quarter of the fort but Done us no Damage we wounded sundray of their men through the Portholes which Caus'd them to surrender themselves and Garrison, to the great Mortification of Our Boats Crew who had not the Oppertunity of makeing use of their Cannon, the Chiefest Part of the Indians where sent out in Parties to war Some to Kaintuckey some to watch the Ohio &c Untill their main bodey could Collect for the Executeing the Plan they had Laid, so that we took but seven Indians which was Immediately Tomahock'd and between 130 or 40 Prisoners amongst whome where some french Troops which was Discharg'd upon Parole, maney Nations has since been in and treated for Peace; at the surrender of the Garrison we got One, sixpound Brass field Piece two four-Pounders of Iron & two swivels Likewise a large Quantity of Militery stores and Indian goods to the amount of Twenty Thousand Pounds, .... we have sent All the Officers with their attendance to Williamsburg the rest Destributed to the diferent towns in this Country If we could have had more men here then what we had there is no telling what we mought have done, but I am afraid that the Assembly has not thought this Country of so Great Importance as what it Raley is, Other ways their mought have been a finel Peace settled with the Indians by this time; and nothing but that alone Induces me to Continue as long as what I have done, as I Am Sensible, that the acting in a Publick Compasity Interfairs two much with our Private affairs the bearer stands waiting for my letter and have not time to write or Answer Other Letters that I receiv'd by my Brother for which I hope you'l Excuse me to all you heare Complain, my Compliments to aunt and All Enqureing friends not forgetting my Uncle John. whilst I Remain Dear Sr. your most Obed't friend & Humb Sarv't Jos. Bowman. N. B. Isaac Informes me that Ab'm has Quit the service If so I am in hoops he will Drive out our stock to Kaintuckey this fall. J.B. Clark to his Father, John Clark, June, 15, 1779.  Illinois Kaskaskias June 15th 1779 DrSr I Received your much Esteemed Letter by dicky who arive safe at this place. Happy to learn that all Friends, I have for a long time Injoyed a perfect State of Health under the greatest fatigues. my dispositions of Wr Hitherto have been Crownd with great success but must Confess that Circumstances appear more  at present than for some time past but I hope to Extricate myself as formerly no person Commanding on this Continent is in a more Critical Situation than I am Surrounded on all Sides by Numerous Nations of Indians with English officers among them Incouraging them to war but my Influance and Success of late hath been so great that I still keep the greatest number of them on our Side of the Question I dont doubt but you have before this time had a full account of my late Attact on post S' Vincents after an Ingagement of Eighteen Hours the famous Governor Hamilton and his Murdering Band fell into my hands nothing extraodinary has happened Since my Last to you by Cap'n Jack Rogers, I have Given Dicky a Lieutenants Commission if I Can get him to Imbrace the Air of an officer I dont doubt but he may make a good appearance in a short time I think he already improves. Expences in this country is amasingly high it has not Cost me less than twelve or thirteen Hundred pounds since I have been in it. I Can give no account when Shall See you but as Soon as possible. I instructed one Mr Randolph that does business for me to give you Ten Thousand Pounds to keep for me I expect he has done it before this Reaches you, if Dicky and myself should be both lost in this country it will be worth Seven years Trouble of my Brothers to Seek after my Fortune which at this time Cant be less than Twenty Thousand Pounds Sterling as my success in Trade has been Equal to that of war, for fear of actidents I have had Records taken of all my papers in the Clearks office in this town, you have for several years known the height of my ambition but I did not Expect to arrive at that so much determined Moment in so Short a time as I have done. Fortune in Every Respect as yet hath hovered Round me as if determined to direct me you may Judge Sir what Impressions it must have on a grateful Brest whose greatest Glory is to addore the Suppreme director of all things Sir it would give me the Greatest happiness to be assured that it was not a Doubt in your Brest but that you had in me as dutifull a son as ever Father was possessed of. My Dr Mother Brothers and Sisters have my is possesd of my sincear Regard I am Sr with Esteem yours G R Clark

End of Section. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
Section
7

CHAPTER IX CLARK'S RETURN TO THE FALLS OF THE OHIO AND EVENTS TO THE CLOSE OF THE YEAR, 1779 Distribution of the Illinois Troops—Clark Voted a Sword by the Virginia Assembly—Conflict between the Civil and the Military Authorities—Reasons for a Fort near the Mouth of the Ohio— Soldiers in Distress through Lack of Clothing and Food—Plan of Operations, November 16, 1779—Depreciation ok Continental Money in the West. Indictment of Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton.1  In Council, June 16, 1779. The Board proceeded to the consideration of the letters of Colonel Clarke, and other papers relating to Henry Hamilton, Esq. who has acted some years past as Lieutenant Governour of the settlement at and about Detroit, and commandant of the British garrison there, under Sir Guy Carleton as Governour in Chief; Philip Dejean, Justice of the Peace for Detroit, and William Lamothe, Captain of volunteers, prisoners of war, taken in the county of Illinois. They find that Governour Hamilton has executed the task of inciting the Indians to perpetrate their accustomed cruelties on the citizens of these states, without distinction of age, sex, or condition, with an eagerness and activity which evince that the general nature of his charge harmonized with his particular disposition; they should have been satisfied from the other testimony adduced that these enormities were committed by savages acting under his commission, but the number of proclamations which at different times were left in houses, the inhabitants of which were killed or carried away by the Indians, one of which 1 For a statement on Lieutenant-Governor Hamilton, see Introduction, ante, xxxvii. For Jefferson's view see post, 347. 337
8

 proclamations, under the hand and seal of Governour Hamilton, is in possession of the Board, puts this fact beyond doubt. At the time of his captivity it appears, that he had sent considerable detachments of Indians against the frontier settlements of the states, and had actually appointed a great council of Indians to meet him at the mouth of the Tanissee, to concert the operations of this present campaign. They find that his treatment of our citizens and soldiers, captivated and carried within the limits of his command, has been cruel and inhumane; that in the case of John Dodge,1 a citizen of these states, which has been particularly stated to this Board, he loaded him with irons, threw him into a dungeon, without bedding, without straw, without fire, in the dead of winter and severe climate of Detroit; that in that state he harrassed and wasted him, with incessant expectations of death; that when the rigours of his situation had brought him so low that death seemed likely to withdraw him from their power, he was taken out and attended to till somewhat mended, and then again, before he had recovered abilities to walk, was returned to his dungeon, in which a hole was cut seven inches square only, for the admission of air, and the same load of irons again put on him; that appearing again to be in imminent danger of being lost to them, he was a second time taken from his dungeon, in which he had lain from January to June, with the intermission before mentioned of a few weeks only; that Governour Hamilton gave standing rewards for scalps, but offered none for prisoners, which induced the Indians, after making their captives carry their baggage into the neighbourhood of the fort, there to put them to death, and carry in their scalps to the Governour, who welcomed 'John Dodge printed a pamphlet entitled: An Entertaining Narrative of the cruel and barbarous Treatment and extreme Sufferings of Mr. John Dodge during his captivity etc. (Danvers, 1780). This has been recently reprinted by C. M. Burton of Detroit. For the history of John Dodge consult the indexes of Alvord, Cahokia Records and Kaskaskia Records. From the facts known about Dodge, little credit can be given to his testimony, yet the present paper, so far as it charges Hamilton with acts of cruelty performed at Detroit, is largely based on his statements. Dodge wrote to a friend in July, 1779: "I am going to Williamsburg in a few days to prosecute Hamilton and that Rascal Dejean Lamotte, likewise Hominay Hay. They will all be hanged without redemption, and the Lord have mercy on their Souls." Later in September he wrote that he had had the pleasure of seeing these same men in irons in a dungeon and he adds, "they were put there for the usage they gave me at Detroit." Alvord, Kaskaskia Records (I. H. C, v.), 104, 122.
9

INDICTMENT OF HAMILTON,39 their return and successes by a discharge of cannon; that when a prisoner brought alive, and destined to death by the Indians, the fire already kindled, and himself bound to the stake, was dexterously withdrawn and secreted from them by the humanity of a fellow prisoner; a large reward was offered for the discovery of the victim, which having tempted a servant to betray his concealment, the present prisoner Dejean being sent with a party of soldiers, surrounded the house, took and threw into jail the unhappy victim, and his deliverer, where the former soon expired under the perpetual assurances of Dejean, that he was again to be restored into the hands of the savages, and the latter when enlarged was bitterly and illiberally reprimanded and threatened by Governour Hamilton. It appears to them that the prisoner Dejean, was on all occasions the willing and cordial instrument of Governour Hamilton, acting both as judge and keeper of the jail, and instigating and urging him by malicious insinuations and untruths, to increase rather than relax his severities, heightening the cruelty of his orders by the manner of executing them; offering at one time a reward to one prisoner to be the hangman of another, threatening his life on refusal, and taking from his prisoners the little property their opportunities enabled them to acquire. It appears that the prisoner Lamothe, was a Captain of the volunteer scalping parties of Indians and whites, who went out, from time to time, under general orders, to spare neither men, women, nor children. From this detail of circumstances which arose in a few cases only, coming accidentally to the knowledge of the Board, they think themselves authorized to presume by fair deduction what would be the horrid history of the sufferings of the many who have expired under their miseries (which therefore will remain for ever untold) or who have escaped from them, are yet too remote and too much dispersed to bring together their well grounded accusations against these prisoners. They have seen that the conduct of the British officers, civil and military, has in its general tenor, through the whole course of this war, been savage and unprecedented among civilized nations; that our officers and soldiers taken by them have been loaded with
0

 irons, consigned to loathsome and crouded jails, dungeons, and prison ships; supplied often with no food, generally with too little for the sustenance of nature, and that little sometimes unsound and unwholesome, whereby so many of them have perished that captivity and miserable death have with them been almost synonimous; that they have been transported beyond seas where their fate is out of the reach of our enquiry, have been compelled to take arms against their country, and by a new refinement in cruelty to become the murtherers of their own brethren. Their prisoners with us have, on the other hand, been treated with moderation and humanity; they have been fed on all occasions with wholesome and plentiful food, lodged comfortably, suffered to go at large within extensive tracts of country, treated with liberal hospitality, permitted to live in the families of our citizens, to labour for themselves, to acquire and to enjoy property, and finally to participate of the principal benefits of society while privileged from all its burthens. Reviewing this contrast which cannot be denied by our enemies themselves in a single point, which has now been kept up during four years of unremitted war, a term long enough to produce well founded despair that our moderation may ever lead them into the practice of humanity, called on by that justice which we owe to those who are fighting the battles of their country, to deal out at length miseries to their enemies, measure for measure, and to distress the feelings of mankind by exhibiting to them spectacles of severe retaliation, where we had long and vainly endeavoured to introduce an emulation in kindness; happily possessed by the fortune of war of some of those very individuals, who having distinguished themselves personally in this line of cruel conduct, are fit subjects to begin on with the work of retaliation, this Board has resolved to advise the Governour that the said Henry Hamilton, Philip Dejean, and William Lamothe, prisoners of war, be put into irons, confined in the dungeon of the public jail, debarred the use of pen, ink, and paper, and excluded all converse except with their keeper. And the Governour orders accordingly. (A Copy) Attest Archibald Blair, C. C. Williamsburg: Printed by John Dixon and Thomas Nicolson. Sir: I have the honor of writing this letter in order to inform you of my embarrassment. Major Bowman before leaving gave orders to Mr. La Croix to furnish me with all that I might need both in food and other articles which would be required in the service of the state. This he has not done, and I have been left in great embarrassment on account of the arrival of many tribes from all quarters and I have not a grain of corn for their reception. The news those savages bring is to our advantage. Their plan tends only to peace and to obtain the favor which they demand of us and which I have accorded them in your name. This appears to flatter them much. Many savages from Detroit who left that place twenty days ago report that the English are eighty strong including the merchants; that they always advise the savages to fall upon us saying to them that as soon as we become masters of the country we will poison them all. and I hope you will give orders concerning what I need to receive the tribes and to buy guns, since there are volunteers without them who ask me for some. Send me merchandise to the store-house and I shall be able to get guns, to which end I shall do my very best in order to accomplish my duty. I beg, sir, to believe me with great respect, Your humble and respectful servant, Linctot. Cahokia, June 16, 1779.  Mr. George R. Clark, Esquire, Colonel of the Illinois Battalion and Governor-General at Fort Clark. Clark's Proclamation on Deserters, June 19, 1779.  By George Rogers Clark Esquire Collonel of The Illinois Battalion and Commander in Chief of the American Forces in the Western Department &ca &ca &ca

SHANNON TO LE GRAS,43 Proclamation By Virtue of the Power and Authority to me given by his Excellency Patrick Henry Governor General of the State of Virginia &ca. Whereas great Disadvantages and Detriments have arrisen by harbouring the Deserters of Spain in this Department as also those from hence receiving Protection under the Spanish Government, In order therefore to Remedy, the Reciprocal damage and Detriment Suffered by both Parties on that account, I now do by these Presents, Proclame, and Declare, that no Protection shall be given to any Descriptor, from his Catholic Majesties Troops, and those that had heretofore Received Protection from me, are by this Proclamation Debared, and Deprived, therefrom, and Ordered to quit this Shore, And I do Further Order, every Officer, or Other Person, belonging to this Place to Confine Every Spanish Desertor, that shall hereafter be found, in this Country, or any Part thereof, Strictly forbiding, on Pain of Severe Punishment, every Person or Persons of what Station or Occupation soever, from harbouring, Crossing, or Permitting to Remain, undiscovered in any part of this Department, and if any should be caught, that they be immadiately Imprisoned, untill they can be conveniently remitted to their Corps. Given Under my Hand at Fort Clark this 19th June 1779 G R Clark  Proclamation about Spanish Deserters William Shannon to J. P. Le Gras, June 24, 1779.  Caroline July 7'h 1779 Dn SirI left your Brother at S' Vincent the Eight of March well and in high Spirits we got Certain inteligence of Hammeltons being In Possestion of S' Vincent the Second of February we Imediately prepared and marched against him on the Sixth and arrived and atacked the Fort the 23rd at Seven Oclock in the Eavening there being a very brisk fire on both sides for 18 hours we took the advantage of the Night and threw up an intrenchment within Rifel shot of one of their strongest Bateries from which we poured in so many well directed shot through their ports as to silence their Canon in a few Minutes. During the action there was a party of Fifteen Indians Coming in with two Prisoners which we got word of and sent a party who met them in the Comons of the Town and killed seven wounded two and took two prisoners which was afterward set at Liberty on makeing it appear that they fell in with the party on their way to the Town. There was Seven of the British Soaldiers badly wounded in the fort belonging to the Eighth or Kings Rigment after which the Garison surrendered Prisoners of War to the Number of 79 Upon the surrender of the Fort there was a party of fifty men Detached up the Waughbash River to intercept some provisions and Dry Goods that was comeing from Dctroyct to S' Vincent They got word of our success at S' Vincent but Doubted the truth of it they sent off two Spies to see if they Could Discover any thing the party encamped on the bank of the River with their stores to wait the return of their Spies which Luckly fell in the hands of our party on their way to intercept the above stores which they came up with and took 150 Miles above S' Vincent together with about Forty men Canadians when our Officer and his party Came on their Camp they saluted him and Cried out "Vive le Congress" that is Live the Congress the Mail from Detroyet to Govnr Hammelton allso fell in our hands by which we find the Canadians in the neighbourhood of Detroyet are not well affected to the Britons and are ready to revolt to the Americans when Ever a favorable opportunity offers: our Party was 130 strong when the atack was made on the fort about 60 of which was French Voluntears from the Vilages on the Massipia who behaved very well and spirited, we had only one man wounded in the atack; During our March we had Five days waiding to the Breast of the men through the Drowned Lands oblidged to make Conoes to take our amunition & provision in I was sent off with a part of the prisoners 26 in number Eight of which were Officers, the Remainder of the Prisoners was Detained in the Illenoy on account of our not having men to Guard them but the Canadians have taken the Oath of Nutrality. The Goods taken amounted to better than ten Thousand Pounds which was Divided among the Men we allso got a good many arms and warlike stores with one Brass Field piece Six Pounder Compleatly fixed two Iron four Pounders and two Swivels. your Brother Left a garison of 35 men in the Fort under the Command of Cap' Helm who was made Prisoner by Hammelton when he took S' Vincent but Released by us with five other prisoners, the Colonel is now at Kaskaskias a village on the Massippi I shall set out for the Illenoy the Last of next Month and should be glad to heare from you before myreturnyour Brotherwould be glad to hearc from you and would be glad to be informed of all the news Respecting our affairs in your quarter if you will write to him and Contrive the Letters to me I will take care to Deliver them if you send them by post Direct them to be left in the Post Office Fredericburg where I shall enquire for such Letters—your Friends are well I rest and Remain Your Aft Cousin John Rogers Proclamation. Since the service of the state demands immediately a considerable quantity of beef, and since the inhabitants of this village do not have enough to sell, not doubting their attachment to the service To better encourage the said inhabitants to provide some unless their families  1 Translation by the editor. I order the merchants  The price of horned animals  More than usual  Delivered within the space  to me for letters  will make the payment Vincennes, the 18th of July, 1779. G. R. Clark. Thomas Jefferson to Governor Guy Carleton, July 22, 1779.1  Sir, Your Letter, on the Subject of Lieutenant Governor Hamiltons confinement, came safely to hand. I shall with great chearfulness explain to you, the Reasons on which the advice of Council was founded, since, after the satisfaction of doing what is right, the greatest is that of having what we do approved by those opinion deserve esteem. We think ourselves justified in Governor Hamilton strict confinement, on the general principle of national retaliation. To state to you the particular facts of British Cruelty to american prisoners, would be to give a melancholy history from the capture of Col° Ethan Allen, at the beginning of the war, to the present day; a history which I will avoid, as equally disagreeable, to you, & to me. I with pleasure do you the justice to say that I believe 1 Published in Thomas Jefferson, these facts to be very much unknown to you, as Canada has been the only Scene of your Service, in America, and, in that quarter, we have reason to believe that Sr Guy Carleton, and the other officers commanding there, have treated our prisoners (since the instance of Col° Allen) with considerable lenity. What has been done in England, & what in New York, and Philadelphia, you are probably uninformed; as it would hardly be made the subject of epistolary correspondence. I will only observe to you, Sir, that the confinement, and treatment, of our officers, soldiers, & seamen, have been so rigorous, and cruel, as that a very great proportion of the whole of those captured in the course of this war, & carried to Philadelphia, while in possession of the British army, and to New York, have perished miserably, from that cause only, and that the fact is as well established, with us, as any historical fact which has happened in the course of the War. A Gentleman of this Commonwealth, in public office, and of known & established Character, who was taken on sea, carried to New York, and exchanged, has given us lately a particular information of the treatment of our prisoners there. Officers taken by Land, it seems, are permitted to go on parole within certain limits on Long Island, till suggestions shall be made to their prejudice by some Tory refugee or other equally worthless person, when they are hurried to the Prcvot in New York, without enquiring whether they be founded upon positive facts, be matter of hearsay, or taken from the reports of interested men. The example of enquiring into the truth of charges of this nature, according to legal principles of evidence has surely not been set us by our Enemies. We enquired what these Prevots were and were told they were the common miserable jails, built for the confinement of Malefactors. Officers and men taken by sea are kept in prison ships, in  from five to ten a day. When therefore we are desired to advert to the possible consequences of treating prisoners with rigour, I need only ask where did those rigours begin, not with us assur'dly. I think you Sir, who have had as good opportunities as any British officer of learning in what manner we treat those whom the fortune of war has put into our hands, can clear us from the charge of rigour as far as your knowledge or information has extended. I can assert that Governor Hamilton's is the first instance which has occurred in my own country, and if there has been another in any of the United States, it is unknown to me, these instances must have been extremely rare; if they have ever existed at all, or they could not have been altogether unheard of by me. when a uniform exercise of kindness to prisoners on our part has been returned by us as uniform severity on the part of our enemies, you must excuse me for saying it is high time, by other lessons, to teach respect to the dictates of humanity in such a case, retaliation becomes an act of benevolence. But suppose, Sir, we were willing, still longer, to decline the drudgery of general retaliation; yet Governor Hamilton's conduct has been such as to call for exemplary punishment on him personally. In saying this I have not so much in view his particular cruelties to our to our Citizens, prisoners with him, (which, tho they have been great, were of necessity confined to a small scale) as the general nature of the service he undertook, at Detroit, and the extensive exercise of cruelties which that involved. Those who act together in war are answerable for each other. No distinction can be made between principal and ally by those agnst whom the war is waged. He who employs another to do a deed, makes the Deed his own. If he calls in the hand of the assassin, or murderer, himself becomes the assassin or murderer. The known rule of warfare with the Indian Savages is an indiscriminate butchery of men Women & children. These Savages, under this well known Character, are employed by the British nation as allies in the war against the Americans. Governor Hamilton undertakes to be the conductor of the war. In the execution of that undertaking, he associates small parties of the whites under his immediate command with large parties of the Savages, & sends them to act, sometimes jointly, sometimes separately, not agst our forts, or armies in the field but the farming settlements on our frontiers. Governor Hamilton then is himself the butcher of men women & children. I will not say to what length the fair rules of war would extend the right of punishment against him; but I am sure that confinement, under its strictest circumstances, as a retaliation for Indian devastation & massacre, must be deemed Lenity. I apprehend you had not sufficiently adverted to the expression in the advice of the Council, when you suppose the proclamation there alluded to, to be the one addressed to the Inhabitants of the Illinois afterwards printed in the public papers, & to be affirmed  Proclamation, there alluded to, contained nothing more than an invitation to our officers and Soldiers to join the British Arms against those whom he is pleased to call Rebels and Traitors—In order to introduce these among our people, they were put into the hands of the Indians; and in every house, where they murdered or carried away the family, they left one of these proclamations. Some of them were found sticking on the breasts of the persons murdered, one under the hand and Seal of Governor Hamilton came to our hands. The Indians being the Bearers of proclamations, under the hand and Seal of Governor Hamilton (no matter what was the Subject of them) there can be no doubt they were acting under his direction; and, as, including this proof, the fact was cited in the advice of the Council. But if you will be so good as to recur to the address of the Illinois, which you refer to, you will find that, tho' it does not in express terms threaten vengeance, blood & Massacre, yet it proves that the Governor had made for us the most ample provision of all these Calamities. He there gives in detail the horrid Catalogue of savage nations, extending from South to North, whom he had leag'd with himself to wage combined war on our frontiers: and it is well known that that war would of course be made up of blood, and general Massacres of men Women & Children. Other papers of Governor Hamiltons have come to our hands, containing instructions to officers going out with Scalping parties of Indians and Whites, & proving that that kind of war was waged under his express orders further proofs in abundance might be adduced, but I suppose  the fact too notorious to need them. Your letter seems to admit an inference that, whatever may have been the general conduct of our Enemies towards the prisoners, or whatever the personal conduct of Governor Hamilton, yet, as a prisoner by capitulation, you consider him as privileged from strict confinement. I do not pretend to an intimate knowledge of this Subject, my Idea is that the term 'prisoners of war' is a generic one, the specification of which is 1s' Prisoners at discretion: & 2d prisoners on convention, or Capitulation. Thus, in the debate in the house of Commons of the 27ih November last, on the address, the minister, speaking of General Burgoyne (and in his presence) says he is 'a prisoner' and General Burgoyne calls himself 'a prisoner under the terms of the Convention of Saratoga.' intimating that, tho' a prisoner, he was a prisoner of a particular Species entitled to certain terms. The treatment of the first class ought to be such as is approved by the usage of polished nations; gentle & humane, unless a contrary conduct in an Enemy, or individual, renders a stricter treatment necessary. The prisoners of the 2d Class have nothing to exempt them from a like treatment with .those of the 1st except so far as they shall have been able to make better terms by Articles of Capitulation So far then as these shall have provided for an exemption from strict treatment to prisoners on  a right to be distinguished  certain causes antecedent thereto, tho' such instances might be produced, from English history too, and in one case where the King himself commanded in person. Marshal Boufflers after the taking of the Castle of Namur, was arrested and detained prisoner of War by King William tho by an article in the Capitulation it was stipulated that the Officers & Soldiers of the Garrison in general, and Marshal Boufflers by name, shold be at liberty. However we waive reasoning on this head, because no article in the Capitulation of Governor Hamilton is violated by his confinement, perhaps not having seen the Capitulation, you were led to suppose it a thing of course, that, being able to obtain terms of surrender, they would first provide for their own treatment. I inclose you a Copy of the Capitulation, by which you will sec that the 2d article declares them prisoners of War, and nothing is said as to the treatment they were to be entitled to. When Governor Hamilton signs indeed, he adds a flourish, containing the motives inducing him to capitulate, one of which was confidence in a generous Enemy. He should have reflected that generosity on a large scale would take side against him. However these were only his private motives, & did not enter into the contract of Col° Clarke. Being prisoners of War then, with only such privileges as their Capitulation has provided, & that having provided nothing on the Subject of their treatment, they are liable to be treated as other prisoners. have not extended our order, as we might justifiably have done, to the whole of this Corps. Governor Hamilton, & Captn Lamothe alone, as leading officers, are in confinement. The other officers & men are treated as if they had been taken in justifiable War; the officers being at large on their parole, and the men also having their liberty to a certain extent. (Dejean was not included in the Capitulation being taken 8 Days after, on the Wabache 150 Miles from S1 Vincennes) I hope Sir, that, being made more fully acquainted with the facts on which the advice of Council was grounded, and exercising your own good sense in cool & candid deliberation on these facts, & the consequences deducible from them, according to the usage & Sentiments of civilized nations, you will see the transaction in a very different light from that in which it appeared at the time of writing your Letter, and ascribe the advice of the Council, not to want of attention to the sacred nature of public Conventions, of which I hope we shall never, in any circumstances, lose sight but to a desire of stopping the effusion of ye unoffending blood of women & Children, and the unjustifiable severities exercised on our captive officers & soldiers in general, by proper severities on our part. I have the honor to be with much personal respect Sir Your most obed' & mo. hble Servant. Daniel Brodhead to Clark, August 2, 1779.  Head Quarters Pitsburgh Aug' 2nd 1779 Dear Sir Although I have not the Honor of a Personal acquaintance with you I take the liberty to congratulate you on your repeated Successes against the Enemy. I have 'till very lately been tied to a Defensive Plan by repeated Instructions but as I am now at liberty to act offensively against the Seneca's I shall set out on an Expedition against their Towns within a few Days. Captn George of late Captn Willings Compy has herewith my orders to March the Company with all the Deserters he can collect to this place & I shall be much obliged to you for affording him every possible assistance for that purpose. It is highly probable my next Expedition will be down the River when I expect to apprehend a great number of Deserters from the regular army. I have heard you had in contemplation an enterprize against the Shawnese, but this report is doubted by some. In future should it prove agreeable to you I should be glad to Correspond, & as much as possible cooperate with you in our Military Movements. I have the Honor to be with great regard your most obed' Daniel Brodhead Col° commandg W. D. Col° G. R. Clark  On public Service To George R. Clarke near the falls of Ohio—Pr Mr Garney  Col. Brodhead Aug" 2d 1779 Officers of the Illinois Battalion, August 5, 1779.  Copy from Genl Clarks a/c as settled Fort Patrick Henry 5'h Aug 1779 Return of the Officers belonging to the Illinois Battallion and their Rank, Vizt. Col° George Rogers Clark Lieut Col° John Montgomery Major Joseph Bowman Captains John Williams Lieut Roberts, resigned Ensigns Quirk Brashear Montgomery Resg*1 Evans Girault Williams Do Shelby Crocket, resigned Slaughter Jha. McCartey Wilson, Suspended kiled Todd Perault Taylor Bailey Resg" Worthington Ramsay, Resigned Kallar Calvit Clark Chaplin Artillery Capt Robert George Capt Lt Harrison first Lt Robertson 2 Lt Dollon,  resigned Clark's General Orders, August 5, 1779.1  Head Quarters, Fort P. Henry 5th Aug' 1779 G. O. Lieut Col° John Montgomery of the Illinois Battalion to proceed with the following Detachments under his Command to the Illinois Detachment for Fort Clark— Cap* John Williams, to be joined by Cap' Worthington's Comp5' Lieu* Brashear Lieu* Gerault Cap' Lieu' Harrison, of Artilery, now at F. Clark— Detachment for Cohos.— Cap' Richard McCarty, to be joined by Cap' Quirks Company. Lieu' Perrault Lieu' Clark The Garrison of Fort Patrick Henry— Cap' Shelby to be Joined by Cap' Taylor's & Cap' Kellars Companies Lieu' Wilson— Ensign Williams Cap' Robert Todd to be joined by Cap' Evans's Company Lieu' Dalton, of Artillery Ensign Slaughter 1 This has previously been printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 324, and, in part, in English, Conquest of the Northwest, 

CLARK'S GENERAL ORDERS,55 The Officers of the Artillery at the different posts and Garrisons, are to take Charge of the Artillery Stores &c belonging to that Department Major Joseph Bowman to proceed with the recruiting Parties, and to have the direction thereof—The Gen Officers out recruiting are to make reports to him, & receive orders and instructions from him Officers for the recruiting service Cap' Quirk Lieu' Roberts Evans Crocket Taylor Ramsay Worthington Calvit Kellar Ensr Montgomery Cap' Robert George, of the Artillery, Lieu' Robertson of the same, with their Company to go to the falls of Ohio with the Commander in Chief, where Head Quarters are to be Established Cap' Leonard Helm, Indian— Agent for Fort Patrick Henry & the Dep' of Wabache Monsr Gamelian of Ouyas, to fall under his Dep' to make report to Head Quarters at the Falls of Ohio, or to Kaskaskias to Lieu' Col° Montgomery or other Officer Commanding for the time being and follow such instructions as he shall receive from myself or any other his Superior Officer Cap' Linetot, Indian Agent for the Illinois River & all the western side of said River to the East of the Mississippi to make his report to, and receive orders from Col° Montgomery Commanding the Illinois &c. at Kaskaskias, or other Officer for the time being, Commanding there Cap' Linetot will appoint an Assistant for the upper part of the Mississippi in the Indian Department, near the Dogs plains,1 provided the appointment be approved of by Col° Montgomery, or the Commanding Officer for the time being. Signed Geo. R. Clark 1 Prairie du Chien. John Todd to the Governor of Virginia, August 18, 1779.' 2 Kaskaskia, 18ih Augt. 1779 May it Please Your Excellency—3 By letters which I had the honour of writing to you by Col. Slaughter dated early in July, I gave Your Excellency a full account of the situations of this Country, since which nothing important has happened here. Col. Clark I suppose is by this time at the Falls of Ohio and as the expedition against Detroit is declined he will probably wait upon you in Person. Col. Rogers has arrived from Orleans and will be the Bearer hereof or send it by the Earliest opportunity. I am uneasy in knowing that the accounts he will render concerning the quantity as well as the bad condition of the goods cannot be satisfactory—Who is to blame in it? The Batteau Masters who brought it up—the person in whose care it was left at St. Louis—or the Conductor of our Stores or all of them. I cannot determine—The taking and disposing of them was (perhaps necessarily) planned, and in part executed, before my arrival. The Conductors powers and Instructions were in no part derived from me, now was he answerable to me for any malfeazance in office—Col. Clark will, I doubt not, satisfy you in this matter. I wish the opportunity by Col. Rogers were safer. I have 15 or 20 thousand Dollars to send down on public account. I have required that all the money of the called-in emissions be sealed up, & stopped from Circulating of which I expect we have in the Country 20 to 30 thousand Dollars more. I have recommended that the People wait some future opportunity more safe for sending it down. The Resolns of Congress bears hard upon Illinois where the risque is so great. If Congress have not yet made provision for the Redpton of the Money, I hope your Excellency will apply to Congress—I shall be cautious that none of the called-in emissions be brought into the Country or  which may come 
7

TODD TO JEFFERSON,57 from any part of the States where the owner had an opportunity of Exchanging it. The uniting the different Districts of my charge has so engaged me that I have not had time to prepare Answers to the Queries delivered me by some gentlen of your Honb. Board. As to Indian grants it may be necessary immediately to inform you, that they are almost numberless, only four of them are very considerable, the smallest of which will be near a 1,000,000 acres, and the whole between 7 & 8 millions of Acres. The grantees all reside in Philadelphia, London, Pennsylvania, & Virginia and are between 40 & 50, Merchants chiefly. How far it may be proper to make such contracts binding upon the Indians I cannot say. I submit it to your Excellency, whether it is not necessary to prevent Indian grants by other methods than making void the purchase; I mean by fines, and at the same time to prevent underlines, &c. the making of any settlements within the charter Bounds of the State, except under certain Permission & Reservations. This I apprehend to be necessary immediately as some Land jobbers from the South side of Ohio have been making improvements (as they call them) upon the unpurchased Land on this side of the River, and are beyond the reach of punishment from me—with the arrival of new adventurers this Summer the same spirit of Land jobbing begins to breathe here. I expected to have been prepared to present to your excellency some amendments upon the Form of government for Illinois, but the present will be attended with no great inconveniences till the Spring Session, when I beg your Permission to attend and get a Discharge from an Office, which an unwholesome air, & Distance from my Connexions, & Language not familiar to me, and an impossibility of procuring many of the conveniences of life suitable: all tend to render uncomfortable. As to military affairs Col. Clark will offer your Excellency Observations on that Head, which I wish to defer being more his province. Perhaps an additional Agent for supplying the Indians with foods may be necessary. Mr. Lindsay's Commissions was for
8

 no more than 10,000 Dollars, which he will soon dispose of to the Indians & our Soldiers; who I suppose will expect their Cloathing from him. I have given a letter of Recommendation as an agent to a gentleman lately from New Orleans, who set off with Col. Rogers, Mon. Perrault. If an expedition should be ordered against the Natchez, There cannot be any great dependence placed on the Illinois furnishing more than 100,000 lbs of Flour, & supporting the Troops now here and Scarcely any Beef. I have not heard from Williamsburg since January. I am, with the Greatest respect &ct. JNO Todd J"  His Excellency the Governor of Virginia.  Copy of a Letter from Jno Todd, Jr. to the Governor of Virginia. Dated Kaskaskias 18th Augt. 1779. John Pace to John Todd, Jr., August 20, 1779.1  Wmsburg in Council August the 20th 1779. Sir Your several Letters of the 1st & 2d Ultimo by Colonel Slaughter this day were handed to me in the Governors absence—I laid them before the Board who were pleased with their Contents & expressed their approbation of your Conduct, & of your plan for supporting the Credit of the paper Money, but this must be submitted to the Consideration of the Assembly who alone can determine on or give Efficacy to that measure—The eight Draughts you mentioned have not yet been presented, but shall be duly attended to as the Gentlemen they are payable to are highly deserving of the grateful attention of Government. It is to be wished that more Troops had been sent into the Illinois at first, however so much has been done by the few there, as to redound greatly to their Credit, & that of their gallant Commander. We hope that the favourable Disposition of the 'Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 326; and Chicago Hist. Soc., Collections, iv., 320.
9
,59 Canadians & our late Successes to the Northward & Southward will pave the way for Col° Clarke to Detroit & make the acquisition of it easy, and that the Battalion which we are now raising to be marched into your County will enable him to surmount any obstacle which may be thrown into his way. The Board approve of your erecting the small Fort you propose, & giving the Command to Col° Slaughter. Being in haste I can only add that I am Yr Mo. obed' hble Serv' John Page L' Govr Thomas Quirk to Clark, August 22, 1779.  Sant Vinsent Fort Patrick August the 22d 1779 Dear Col A few days after your departer from this place, there came an Express for you, from Cap' Linctot at Ouios, myself and the Rest of the Officers thinking that there might be somthing Necessary to be known, for the Safty of this garrison, thought proper to brake it Open, And After Seeing the Contents, I Cald A Counsal of All the Officers belong to this Garrison and also the Officers of this Villiage, and we fell on the following Resolution As the Orders Sent to Cap' Linctot, And what I give to Majr Busron and Cap' Shelby will make you scensable of the plan we fell on To W' the Coppy of the Orders sent to Cap' Linctot. Sant Vinsent the 20th August 1779 Sir I took the liberty of opening your letter Derected to Col. G. R. Clark, thinking it might Contain somthing Regarding the wellfair of our Country in General, and more Espeically the Frunteer Inhabitants, as the Expedition against .detroit, is postpon'd at present, and the Col: Gon to the Falls of Ohio, to Consult the plan for Another, Which I Cannot Flatter Myself will be this Season, As I understand by your letter, you are in a Distress'd scituation in regard to provisions, in Consequence of which I have
0

 Send you Some Corn and Grease, which is the onley provisions that are in store at preasant that I Could Transport to you with Expedition;—in regard of what you mention Conserning the Indians Being Uneasy, provided no Troops Should procead to your assistance I have though proper to order Majr Busron & Cap' Shelby to Reinforce you with about 50 or 60 men and provisions &ca, at their Joining of you, if you and they should think it advisable to proceed to the English post you mentioned in your letter, I hope you will loos no time in Executing the plan you may fall upon; securing all the English you may find in Arms Against you as prisoners, what stors may fall into your hands Apply to the Use of the party, (excepting the Military stors) which you will apply to the Use of the State;—You may Expect Further instructions by Majr Busron, But your Knowledge of the Country, and Experiance in a Military life along with your Prudence will Teach You much better how to derect an Expedition against any of the posts in the Country where you are, then I or any other person whatsoever possable Could Being Strangers both to the Scituation and Circumstances of the Country. Sir I Conclud with Wishing you A Happy Issue of your Undertaking And Believe me to be with Profound Respect Sir Your most Obdt Hum1'1 Serv Thos: Quirk P: S: Col Montgomery is Stationed at Kaskaskias, Cap' McCarty at the Cahokias, and we are now lamenting the loss of the Worthy Majr Bowman who Departed this life the 19th Inst' T. Q. To Capt Linctot Provisions Furnished by the People of Kaskaskia for the Army, August 31, 1779.1  List of the Different Inhabitants that Consented to furnish the Troops Belonging to the State of Virginia, agreeable to a Calculation made by the Magistrats 31st Aug"' 1779. 'Printed also in Alvord, Kaskaskia Records (I. H. C, v.), 116.
1

PROVISIONS FURNISHED BY KASKASKIA 361 who Names of the Persons &ca Paid Flower £ Sieur Janist 6000 Ditto Plasy 4000 10000 Ditto Charle Charlevillc 6000 Ditto Vital Beauvaix Paid 5000 Ditto Antoinc Beauvaix do 5000 ditto Touranjour do 2000 ditto Joseph Brazeau do 3000 ditto Madame delisle do 0200 ditto Jaque Lasourse do 100 ditto Baptist Lasourse do 200 ditto Allixi Beauvaix do 100 do Rasine do 500 do Chale danne do 500 do Bapt" Cliarleville 2000 do Proveau 200 100 do Lemieux 200 100 do Jermin do 100 do Reneaux 500 100 do Bazillc Lachapelle 200 200 do Fortin do 400 do Quiquetc do 100 do Toulouse 100 100 do Bienvenue Son 1000 1000 do Charlo Lachapelle do 500 do 7000 do Lonvall do 200 do Madame Brazeaue S' Jem Beauvaix do do 100 do Bienvenue Father 6000 do Cerri do 400055200 Total Pds Flower 54600 1600 DehV in Store
2

 John Beckley to Clark, September 4, 1779.  In the House of Delegates Saturday the 12lh of June 79 Resolved that the General Assembly have a high sense of Col° Clarkes important services in the reduction of Fort S' Vincents. That the Governor be requested to transmit to him by the hands of Lieu' Rogers an elegant Sword in the name of the Gen Assembly & in Testimony of y merit of his Services and that the Treasurer pay for the same. Resolved that the Treasurer be directed to pay two hundred pounds to Lieutenant Rogers as an Acknowlegement from the general assembly for y active & distinguished part he has taken in the expedition against S' Vincents Copy Jonathon Beckley C. H. d.  Col° George R. Clark Pr Captain Rogers.  U Govr Page Sep' 4 1779 1778 and 1s' Vote of Thanks & 2d Do with a Sword Captain James Shelby to Clark, September 8, 1779.  Letters wherein he Rote Pressingly for a releef of Provisions and Amminition, by the advice of Capt. Helms Col: 'Sec English, Conquest of the Northwest, n., 871 et seg., for a discussion on the two swords presented by Virginia to Clark in 1779 and 1812. Still another account is given in the Draper MSS., 10J204. Dr. Draper wrote: "He had drawn on Oliver Pollock of New Orleans, as the agent of Virginia to pay for provisions he had purchased of Charles Gratiot, the father of General Gratiot, & that draft was protested, & the protest & the sword reached Clark about one & the same time. Clark was soured, took the fine sword, walked out on the bank of the river with none present but his servant, thrust the blade deep into the ground, & gave the hilt a kick with his foot, broke it off & sent it into the river, & sent word to the Governor of Virginia, that he would have no such hollow-hearted insignias while they refused hisstarving soldiers the common necessaries of life."
3

OFFICERS OF THE ILLINOIS REGIMENT 363 Lcgraw  and Major Bursow  it was thought advisable to send all the Releef of Men and other Nessery as he informed that a Quantyty of Indians ware flocking in Every day to Treet, Major Bursoe and sum of Militia Joynd me with thirty of our men & Came to this place whare a large Quantity of Indians ware assembeld and Cuming from from all Quarters. Capt. Lantoe have Settled them with his Good Talks I believe better then any other person Could Considering our Poverty—I hope youl look upon the Capt as a pirticular frend and Settle His Accte" to his sattisfaction as Your Senseble this Jurney has Been Exstravigently Expensive to him. I Refer you to Capt Lantoe for the Nuse as he Can Inform you Bettor then I Cen by Righting I hope Youl Right Me by Every opportunity as I long to heare from you I am Sir Your Most Umble Sarvt James Shelby  Cap' Shelby to Col° Clark Sepr 8th 1779. Arrangement of the Officers of the Illinois Regiment, 1779. ' The Referees have had under Consideration the Matters to them referred by the Officers of the Ilinois Regiment & having all the necessary Papers & Vouchers under Examination have agreed upon the following arraingment, towit, Captains 1. Jonathon Williams 2. Tho. Quirk 3. Jesse Evans 4. Ja" Shelby 5. Richd McCarty 6. Rob. Todd 7. Isaac Taylor 8. Edwd Worthington 9 Abram Keller 'This document was written by John Todd, Jr.; the signatures are all original. It is evidently of earlier date than list on ante, 353.
4

 Lieutenants Brachiers & Roberts to settle their rank at Sl Vincenes 3 John Girault 4 Antho. Crockett 5. Tho Willson 6. Michael Perrault 7. Joseph Ramsey 8. Joseph Calvert 9. Richard Clark Ensigns 1. Jonathon Bailey 2. Abram Chaplain 3. James Montgomery 4th. Ja" Kinkead 5th Jarrett Williams Jonathon Todd jr George Slaughter Robt George W Shannon Henry Crutcher   To Geo. R Clark Esq Commandr in Chief of the Virginia Forces in the Western Department Clark to Thomas Jefferson, September 23, 1779.' (B. M., Add. MSS., 21.844, f. 115.] Louisville Septm 23d 1779. Dn Sir I am happy to find that your Sentiments Respecting a fortification at or near the Mouth of Ohio is so agreable to the Ideas of Every Man of any Judgment in this Department it is the Spot that ought to be strongly Fortified and all other garisons in the Western country depend' on it if the Ground would admit of it but the Misfortune is their is not a Acre of Ground near the point than four Miles up the Ohio but what is often Ten Feet under Water About twelve Miles below the point their is a beautifull Situation as if by nature designed for a fortification (by every observation that has been taken lays a Quarter of a degree within 

SEPTEMBER 23, 1779 365 the State of Virginia) its Ellevation is such that a Small Expence would Render it very Strong and of greater advantage than one four Miles up the Ohio in Case you have one built a few years will prove the Propriety of it it would Amediately become the key of the whole Trade of the Western country and well Situated for the Indian department in General Besides Many Salutary effects it would Rendr during the War by Awing our Enemies the Chicasaws and the English posts on the Mississippie the Strength of the Garison ought not to be less than two Hundred men after built, A Hundred Families that might Easily be got to Settle in a Town would be of great advantage in promoting the place I am Sensible that the Spaniards would be fond to Settle a post of Correspondence opposite to it if the Ground would admit but the country on their Side is so Subject to Inundation that its Impossible—for the want of Such a post I find it absolutely nessesary to Station an armed Boat at the Point So as to Command the Navigation of Both Rivers to defend our Trading Boats and Stop the great Concourse of Toryes and deserters that pass down the River to our Enemies. The Illinois under its present Circumstances is by no means able to Supply the Troops that you Expect in this department with provitions as the Crops at S' Vincines was so Exceedingly bad that upwards of Five Hundred Souls will have to depend on their neighbours for Bread I Should be exceedingly glad that you would Commission Some person to furnish the Troops in this Quarter with provitions as the greatest part must Come from the Frontiers for the Ensuing year as I cant depend on the Illinois for Greater Supplys than will be Suffitient for two Hundred and fifty Men their is an Easy Conveyance down the Tennessee River and provitions More plenty on holston than the Neighberhood of Pittsburgh—Co Jonathon Campbell who promises to deliver this letter to your Excellency I believe would undertake the task at a Moderate Sallery and a Gen' of undoubted Veracity but pray Sr order as much provition down as will Serve the Troops you Intend Sending out at least Six months I am Sr with the Greatest Respect your Servt G R Clark His Excellency Ths Jefferson.
6

 NB. by my Letters of the 24'h of August youl be made acquainted with my late disappointment in my Intended excurtion up the Ouabach I have now a detachment of about two Hundred and fifty of French Volunteers Indians and a few Regulars on their March to attack a British Post at Sl Josephs near Lake Mechigan Comd by a Lieutenant and party whare their is very Considerable Stores deposited for the purpose of Imploying Savages the party is Commanded by Captn James Shelby their is no doubt of his Success as their Rout is Such that their is but little probability of the Enemies being apprised of them untill its too late, his orders is to demolish the Fortification and Return with the Stores &c. I am with Respect G R C N. B. Serjeant Chapman reports that when Mr Shellby endeavoured to raise his Volunteers they said they had no Shoes and therefore would not go to S' Josephs. A' S: De Payster Major Clark to Daniel Brodhead, September 24, 1779.  Head Quarters Falls of Ohio Sepr 24'h 1779 DnCoL I Received your favour happy to find that you have got your Liberty and a Sufficient Body of Troops to enable you March against the Savages, I dayley expect to hear of your Success which I prey for, Cap'n George that you ordered to pitsburg has taken a Commission under the State of Virginia it appeared that he was at Liberty to do it and I cant thing  but you will be glad of his promotion their is but five Troops in this Department belonging to the Contineltal Redgments I Shall be Carefull that all that Can be taken Shall be sent to Pittsburg by the First opportunity Numbers have passed down the River to our Enemies 1 This letter fell into Major de Peyster's hand>; and the note was added by him. For Fort Jefferson, the name of the fort erected the next year, see Introduction, ante, exxi et scq.
7

GEORGE TO BRODHEAD,67 in Floriday to prevent which and many other Evils I Shall Station a Small Floating Battery at the Mouth of Ohio as soon I Can get it Built I could wish to keep up a Pistilary Conferance with you as It undoubtedly would be of an advantage to the Publick you Mentioned in your Letter that you had Some Expectation of being ordered down the River if So I hope that youl lay it in my power to be of some Service to you Co Campbell has Seven prisoners with him favour me so far as to furnish him with provitions to send them to Frederick County. I am Sr with Respect your Very Serv' G R Clark Comdr I.CVT.W Depe  1779 Letter from G R Clark to Co" Broadhead. dated Falls of Ohio 24th Septr Recd 24'h Nov Copied 29th Octr 1779. Robert George to Daniel Brodhead, September 25, 1779. ' Falls of Ohio 25th Sep' 1779. Sir. Your favour of the 2Ult° I have been honored with immediately on my arrival at this Place, which happened about ten days ago. You'll be pleased to consider that when I joined Capt. Willing I was commissioned rather in the Marine than the Land Service. That on my return from New Orleans I had positive written orders to join Col. Clark in the Illinois or the Commanding Officer there who was to give me orders for my future Destination. These orders I received from Mr. Pollock Agent for the United States and also from Capt. Willing. I have consequently complied and Col. Clark has divided the men under my Command into Detachments which he has stationed at Sundry places, so that there is not at this time above ten or twelve with me at this place. Besides since my arrival in this Country I have accepted of a commission under the State of Virginia and consequently conclude myself more immediately under Col. Clark's orders. My orders from 1 Captured letter.
8

 Capt. Willing was to enlist all my recruits for one year or during the cruize and now their times are chiefly expired, and with Death Desertion &ca. I have but very few of those which were brought from Fort Pitt, and even their times are expired generally and I believe will not go up to join the Regt. or Company they may have originally belonged to. As to Deserters I have had several in my Hands belonging to the 8'h Penna Regiment and the 13'h Virg But the Spanish Territory so convenient to afford them protection has put it out of my power to secure one of them in such a manner as to be of any service, but I shall do all in my power to secure such as may be found and send them to their respective Regiments, with the rest. Severall of those brought from Fort Pitt have engaged on Board the American Vessel stationed at New Orleans and many others left in the hospital at the Apalachias on the Mississippi so that in short the whole are greatly divided— & those in the Spanish Territory cannot be taken without their Consent but I have sent a Lieut, down into that Country who will bring as many as possible out of it. Col. Clark desires his Compliments may be made acceptable to you. I have the honor to be Sir Your most obedient & Very Hum. Serv' Robert George. Capt. Com. the Artillery in the Illinois Country. Col. Daniel Brodhead, Command* in the Wes' Dep. Fort Pitt.  1779 Letter from Cap. George to Col. Broadhead. Dated Falls of the Ohio 25th Octr R. 24'h Novr Clark to Silas Martin, September 30, 1779.1  By George Rogers Clark Esqr Co of the Illinois Battalion Commander in Chief of the Virginia Forces in the Western Department &c &c &c Whareas a Fort is Intended amediately to be Built near the 1 Printed in Col. of Va. State Papers, I., 331, and English, Conquest of the Northwest, n., 667.
9
,69 Mouth of Ohio and a number of artifitiers wanting to Carry on the Works as well as other Inhabitants. I do by the Virtue of the power and authority to me Given Authorize you to Raise any number of Persons that you Can get to become Settlers at Said Post the whole to be under pay as Melitia as long as Nessessary you are to Rendezvou, at this place by the First Day of December next given from under my Hand Head Quarter Falls of Ohio Sep' 30th 1779 G R Clark To Cap™ Silas Martin Comd Militia John Todd to Clark, October 3, 1779.1 [Draper MSS., 49J77.—A. L. S.l Kaskaskia 3rd Oct. 1779 My dear Col. I lately took a trip to Kohos where I was seized by a fever which reduced Me to the lowest Condition imiginable—I returnd last night to this place but find myself so week that it is impossible to take full advantage of the present Express by writing to Wm"burg. I lately made a purchase (tho' upon Terms which do not please me) of 21,000 lb Peltry with which I shall always have it in my power to purchase provision here—I think it best at present that the Troops be supplied otherwise—I wd be glad of your advice herein. Your Br is well—Madame Leyba is dead—Madam"0 Terese still a Maid &° &° &° If I could get an Oppy of sending you some thing good to Toast your Sweet Heart in I would—perhaps I may Shortly—by Mr Bowman. 1 Printed also in Alvord, Kaskaskia Records (/. H. C, v.), 128. 'Refers to Mile, de Leyba, sister of Governor de Leyba. Colonel Clark is said to have become betrothed to her. She afterwards entered a convent in New Orleans.
0

 Complts to Capt. George My Brother Bob—& all your Officers I am Dr Col. with regard Your mo Obed' & hble Serv' Jonathon Todd J" Col Clark  Geo. R. Clark Esq; Col. of y* Ilinois Reg' &c Falls of Ohio Pr Express  Col. Todd 3 Ocr 1779 James Shelby to Clark, October 10, 1779.  Post St Vinston Octr 10th 1779 D" Colo., Reed yours by Mr Bealey  Which Renderid Much Sattissfaction to the People in Gen have Recd No Late au'y from Kiskasky nor no Sepplys  of Provisions Sence your departure which Renders Much Confution having no Salt have Rendored at leest Two thirds of the men incapible of duty, the Gentlemen of this Villege have Continued fornishing Beef but now Say it is out of their Power to furnish aney more. We are in an Exceeding Bad Condition at Present & am afeard that Nesessity will oblig avacuation of this Post with out sum Speedy Releif Sence I Returned from Ouia have sent Two Differint Expresses to Colo. Montgumry and have not yet Recd an answer. I Can Send no huntars out for meet by Reeson of haveing no salt I hope when you are Bettor Informed of our Condition by the Gentlemen now Going to the falls which I Refer you to for Pirticalars that you will be kind anough to Send me amediate derections in what Mannor I am to act for which I Shall Wate with the Greatest Impatiant Dr Colo No More But wish all Good fortain to attend you I am Your Most obt Umbl Servt James Shelby Capt Comd S' Vincenes N B Remember My Best Complyments to all the Gentle & & & & JS  To Colo. G R Clark falls of Ohio favd by Mr Bealey  Captn Shelby Ocr 10'h 1779
1
,71 Robert Todd to Clark, October 16, 1779.  St. Asaph Octr 16 1779 DrSir I have by chance heard of the disaster of Col. Rogers and the supposed loss of two Boats which has roused & alarm'd them here not a little, & the people wish much that you would take the command of them in an expidition against these rapacious murderors of our Country—1 believe the majority of the inhabitants of this County would join you, heart & hand Your affixing and limiting me to a certain price to offer for meat has put it out of my power to procure any, as they give a much higher price for it green at the Garrisons here than I was authoriz'd to offer, I should have been on my way or at post Vincent before this time had it not been that I wanted to prove my right as a Settler in this County (to the Commissioners who are now sitting,) and have taken the liberty to stay some what longer than I wished I am Dr Sir with every sentiment of respect Your Most Obet & Hum1n Serv' Robt Todd  Col. Geo. R. Clark Ohio Falls Pr Mr. Martin  Captn Todd 1779 Benjamin Logan to Clark, October 17, 1779.  October 17th 1779 Saint Eseph Dear Sir from the alarming news we have received of the defate of Col° Rodgers & Campble I have thought proper with the advice of Col° Fleming Col° Barbour & Col° Lyon  to write to you requesting you to give us some intilengence of your designs this 'Robert Todd, brother of John Todd, Jr., assisted in the defense of McClelland's Fort against the Indian attack, December 29, 1776. He was one of the wounded in that affair (see Clark's Diary, ante, 20). He became a captain under Clark anJ for a time served as acting paymaster. In General Wayne's campaign, he was a brigadier-general.
2

 present fall hoping they may be against our present enemies the Shawnes, as Col° Bowman is not in the County it apears at present I have the Command, at your request I am willing to assist you as far as in my power or as far as the Law will derect if your intention is against the above Mentioned enemy if you think of Carrying on an expedition shortly it apears to me there will be a great number ot men in this Country in a very short time tho numbers may return back as the are not Call'd into the Militia servic & provitions are deficult for strangers to get I think men may be ingaged for a short expedition, as for provition we have none only corn men might be marched to Licking Station where meat is plentifull & there be suplied with your assisting them with salt I have not heard of Col° Bowman on his way out or I should not have wrote I am with much Regard your Very humble servant Benjamin Logan To Col° Georg R. Clarck  To Col° Georg R. Clarck in the Country Service by Express  Letters from Col" Fleming Logan Line & Barber John Rogers to Clark, October 17, 1779.  Williamsburg October 17th ten OClock Evn«  D" Sir I have just Sit of an opportunity to Write to you to Inform you that I am here Waiting on the Governor and Councel for an Order to receive the Men Raised by the Last Act of Assembly which are Intended to Join you but how many of them I shall Get I cannot say as the Counties have been but slow in raising them beside them I shall bring out Men for a Troop of horse which are to be furnished with horses in the Illenois, I saw Capt. Keller here this Evening who Informed me that your Troop" have been paid off with the Calld in Omissions of Money since the la' of June for which reason they Cannot git it Changed unless they Could make Oath that it was in their Possession on the said First Day of June,
3
,73 the Best and only way then is for them to return it to Col Montgomery who had it in his Possn on that Day and Let him send it down Certifiing the same by Oath before the First Day of January when the time for receiveing it is out, I intend to state the Case to the Assembly and Petition them to Do something in the matter if Possible Notwithstanding there has been this Day a petition from the Back Inhabetants some what Similar to this Case Voted out by the Committy of Propositions respecting their Calld In Omissions I come now to Inform you that I found all friends and Neighbours alive and well Except Mr Wm Rogers Mr Jonathon Estes and his Wife who were all Dead I left your Father and all Friends well four Days ago and thiss day received A letter from your Brother Jona'h dated Camp in New York Sepr 16th when he was well and wishes to heare from you. your Brother John is still a prisoner, the Land Offs was Opend yesterday when there was A Number of people ready to Purchase Kentuckkey Lands which are held in great esteem, one would think from the Discoarse that is Generally heard among the People that half Virgina Intend'd to Kentuk. I am in hopes to set Off this Month to Join you which will give me great satisfaction. Remember me to your Brother Richard and tell him I received his Letter by Fav. of Col Slaughter but have not time to write to him now so hope he will Excuse me I rest and remain Yours & his Ever wellwisher and Hum'e Sirvt John Rogers To Col. Clark  Col. George Rogers Clark Comand' Illenois P'Favour of Mr Henry  Cap'n Rogers Dated Williamsburgh Capt Rogers Octobr 17th 1779 Riceived Decr 14'h 1779 Jonathon Rogers to Col Clark Levi Todd to Clark, October 18, 1779.  Sir I understand Lieut. Col. Logan has wrote to you with Regard to carrying an Expedition against the Shawnese Nation, the
4

 Commanding of Militia at Times is disagreeable but I am not a little pleased that you should be Invited to take the Command of those who deem it an Honour to have served under you before & hope you will readily agree to be the Instrument of annoying our Enemies & introducing peace to a Country which has too long suffered by constant Depredations & Murders. Our Number here daily encreases & I believe Men would readily engage on the Exped° If you determine agreeable to our requests. Oblige me so far as to write a few lines to me. I am at your Service & proffer the Service of a Company. I can assure you without flattery That you are the Man a Majority of Kentucky Militia would choose to command them. I desire to be remembered to friends & subscribe myself your Sincere friend & most Obed' & Hb° Scrv' Levi Todd Harrodsburg Octobr 18th 1779  On publick Service To Col. Geo. R. Clark Falls of Ohio  Levi Todd 1780 Clark's Commission to John Donne, October 20, 1779.  By George Rogers Clark Esq. Colonel of the Illinois Regiment and Commander in chief of the Western Department Department, etc, etc, etc. John Donne, Esq. By virtue of the power and authority to me given by his Excellency the Governor of Virginia, commander in chief, etc, etc, etc. I do hereby nominate and appoint you John Donne Deputy conductor of stores, etc, of all stores whatsoever belonging to the Commonwealth of  in the Western Department, to bear this commission during the pleasure of the commander in chief, you arc carefully to do your duty at all times in the said 'Levi Todd was a brother of John Todd, Jr., and served as a lieutenant under Clark at Kaskaskia. He was sent as one of the men to conduct Rocheblave to Virginia. During the remainder of his life, he was prominent in Kentucky affairs.
5

COUNCIL OF WAR,75 office of Deputy conductor and you shall be subject to the regulations of the commander in chief or the conductor General of the Department for the time being. Given under my hand and seal at Headquarters at the Falls of Ohio this twentieth day of October 1779. G. R. Clark Council of War Called by Clark, November 16, 1779.1 "At a council of war held at the falls of Ohio, this 16th November, 1779, by order of Colonel George Rogers Clark, colonel of the Illinois-Virginia regiment, and commander-in-chief of the western department, viz.: "Present, Captain Robert George, president; Captain Thomas Quirk, Captain Edward Worthington, Captain Richard Harrison, Captain John Bailey. "The following propositions being presented from the colonel to the council, to wit: The gentlemen officers of the Illinois regiment present are requested to assemble in council at Bachelor's hall, at twelve o'clock, for the consideration of the following propositions, and give in their opinions thereon, to wit: "1st. What number of troops would enable us to reduce Detroit or the Floridians on the Mississippi? "2d. How are those troops to be supported with provisions? "3d. If those troops are to draw their subsistence from the Illinois, what would it require annually? "4th. If by tobacco lodged in French or Spanish posts, what quantity would be sufficient? "5th. What fortifications necessary for the Illinois, and where, their strength, etc.? "6th. What provisions might be furnished by the inhabitants of the Illinois? "Falls, November 16th, 1779. "(Signed) G. R. Clark. "Which propositions being duly considered, the council came to the following resolves thereon, that is to say: 1 Printed from English, Conquestof the Northwest, n., 698 et seq. Used by permission of the publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company.
6

 "In answer to the 1st proposition, 'what number of troops would enable us to reduce Detroit or the Floridians on the Mississippi?' the council, considering the present state of Detroit and the well-affected dispositions of the adjacent inhabitants, do conceive that that post might be reduced by a few welldisciplined troops, but as these troops have a long, tedious and fatiguing march all the way through a hostile country, exposed to frequent interruptions and attacks from the savages, our natural enemy, as well as many unforeseen accidents, consequently attendant on long marches, they are unanimously of opinion that not less than one thousand troops would be requisite for effecting that purpose—which number they conceive would be amply sufficient, as well as for holding the same The reductions of the Floridians on the Mississippi the council conceived to be by no means either of so difficult or dangerous a nature as that of Detroit. When they consider that there are few or no savages to encounter with, the descent speedy and rapid, without fatiguing the troops, the inhabitants being finally well affected towards us; the great probability of the enemy being much weakened for want of the necessary supplies and re-enforcements. Add to all, the certainty of war being declared between Spain and Great Britain, and of the enemy being blocked up or narrowly watched at Mobile and Pensacola, from whence all the supplies and re-enforcements, if on the Mississippi, must come. These considerations induce them to be unanimously of opinion that the Floridians would become a safe and easily conquest with five hundred troops, well disciplined, who would also be sufficient to protect a country, etc. "In answer to the second proposition, 'how are those troops to be supported in provisions?' the council are of opinion that supplies of bread kind can be furnished from the Illinois country; but as to the meat species, it must come from some part of the Ohio or waters east thereof. "The council are unable to ascertain the sum it would require annually in case the troops should draw their subsistence from the Illinois as mentioned in the third proposition, because they do not think the Illinois can furnish a sufficiency of the meat species, besides the price of provisions, as well as all other necessaries in that country, is so variable, fluctuating and uncertain.
7

COUNCIL OF WAR,77 "The fourth proposition, 'if by tobacco lodged in French or Spanish ports, what quantity would be sufficient?' has been answered by the foregoing, as the council know of no standard price for either tobacco or provisions to make just calculations. "To the fifth proposition, 'what fortifications for the Illinois and where, their strength, etc.?' the council (say) that 'tis their opinion three fortifications are sufficient, viz.: one at Kahokia, one at Post St. Vincent, one at Auabache, and one at or near the mouth of the Ohio, in the most convenient place on the banks of the Mississippi, each fortification to be one hundred feet square in the clear within the walls, to be built of earth dug out of an entrenchment ten feet deep, with earth thrown upon the inside of said entrenchment, must form a wall of ten feet high and eight feet thick, which with the entrenchment, which will form a wall of twenty feet perpendicular, on the top of which they conceive it necessary there should be a wooden wall of sawed or hewn timber ten feet high, twelve inches thick, with bastions at each corner so proportioned that one shall clear another. The garrison at Kahokia to consist of one hundred and fifty troops, and the garrison at Post St. Vincent of one hundred and fifty troops, and the garrison at or near the mouth of Ohio, two hundred troops. "The sixth proposition inquires, 'what provisions might be furnished by the inhabitants of the Illinois?' to which the council answer as their unanimous opinion that the Illinois inhabitants might supply five hundred troops in provisions of the bread kind yearly, but as to the meat species they can not conceive that any dependence can be placed on them for that article." John Baley Cap' RD Harrison Cap' Edwd Worthington Cap' Tho" Quirk Cap' Robt. George Cp' Presid'
8

 Clark to John Girault, 1779.  The State of Virginia D to John Girault Cap' 1ll' R' 1779 To Bounty of Seventeen Men Inlisted for the war—a 750 Dollars ea 12750 To Ditto of two Men Inlisted for One Year at 50 Dollars ea To premium for enlisting the above 17 Men for the War a 150 Dr" 2550 15400 900BallaW due J Girault Dollar.-; Cr By cash receiv'd of Col° George Rogers Clark in part the Above 14500 58988602 By so much Receiv'd of Co Montgomery in Bills DoU" G R Clark Clark Appeals for Funds, 1779.  Whereas the Expences of Government require a far greater qantity of money, than I am at present supplyed with, and persons entitled to the preemption of Land will be obliged to send their Money to the Registry of office, which will be attended with risque —this is there fore to notify all persons that I will Borrow on behalf of Government Such sums as they shall be disposed to Lend, giving the lender such certificate thereof as shall entitle him to
9

DEPRECIATION OF CURRENCY IN 1779 379 receive the same sum in Williamsburg without delay, from the Treasury on application to his Excellency the governor (Signed) Geo. R Clark Borrowed of. A B one Thousand Dollars to answer the demands of Government in my department, which is by contract to be repaid him by the Treasurer on demand Given under my hand and Seal at Head quarters, at the falls of Ohio this day 1779 (Signed) G R C State of Depreciation of the Continental and State Bills of Credit in Illinois, 1779. {Journal of the House of Delegates, May Session, 1783, p. 73.] From the 1st of May till Col. j Montgomery's arrival about I At Kaskaskia S' Vincenes Kohokia the 10'h of June, one silver [from 5 to 6 3f 4 dolls. dollar worth in paper From 10th of June, till about 10th July, while the regiment was at Kaskaskia, & on way to S' Vincenes Prom 10'h of July to the middle of August—stood at 10. from 4 to 8 6.... From 15th of August till 1"' October—rose 10 to 15. from 8 to 12 8.... From 1" of October to 15'h November—rose 15 to 30. from 12 to 15 10 I hereby certify that the above Table of depreciation, made out by Col. Todd, is just, as far as I can recollect; that all bills which were drawn by me on New Orleans were passed at the rate of a hard dollar for every one named in the bill, and all which were drawn on the Governor, or treasurer of Virginia, were for paper dollars, and understood to be at such state of depreciation as prevailed at the time and place of drawing. The draughts in livres were at 5 livres to a dollar, to be paid in silver if on New Orleans or in depreciated dollars as above, if drawn on Virginia G R Clark (A copy) Archibald Blair from 6 to 10 4.

End of Section. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
Section
0

CHAPTER X ESTABLISHMENT OF A POST AT THE MOUTH OF THE OHIO AND DEFENSE OF THE WEST UNTIL AUGUST 1. 1780 A Post to he Established at the Mouth of the Ohio—Jefferson Instructs Clark Relative Thereto—Conflict between the Military and Civil Authorities at the Illinois Posts—Conditions in Kentucky During the Spring of 1780—Petitions to Clark for Relief— Clark Favors an Expedition against Detroit—British Plans to Capture the Illinois Posts and St. Louis—Clark Constructs a Fort at the Mouth of the Ohio—Establishment of a Court at Louisville—Invasion of Kentucky—Colonel de la Balme—Conditions at Fort Jefferson—Conditions at Vincennes. Clark to William Mayo, January 8, 1780.  Answer to the within Letr Louisville Jany 8.1780 I Received you Letr Respecting the Lands Mr Jones was to get for your father and I believe my self named in the Ingagement the J80
1

JANUARY 16, 1780 381 Copy being lost with Jones I am at a loss to know terms exactly, but I think Sir part of your Letr to me very Inconsistant except you conceive the person that became Mr Jones security and my self to be two different persons or other way you are an utter stranger to the part that I have acted since that Ingagement for you could not have Conceived that my principal was so bad as to neglect the Interest I owe my country and Indeavour to fulfill a Bargain that was Impossible in time of Indian war (which could be Compleated afterwards) for the Sake of a Triffling personal advantage neither could I have thought that you would have desired it if I am to Jude  from the Character you Represent but in order to have done with it I have purchased that Quantity of Improvement on Cumberland and Inclose a memorundum the Best Land in that country as they war first Chose I you should hereafter find it nessesary to write to me you can direct to the Illinois I am  Col° George R. Clarke Kentucky Mr Wm Mayo Virginia Clark to Jonathan Clark, January 16, 1780.  Louisville Jany 16th 1780 DB Brother I had the Pleasure last Spring of perusing a Letter you favoured me with which being the first and only one I have Recd from you since I saw you last I was at that time allarmed at your displaying the universal loss of publick Virtue on the Continent and since find its too true I am in too Remote a part of the world to make many observations but the few that come under my notice and Common fame Convince me that that Valuable principal only survive in a few, my Greatest happiness will hereafter be to find it shine forth in our Family with double lusture, Merit is not generally Rewarded by a Government that is lost its Virtue Consequently In dangers the Commonwealth as for my part I have no Right to suspect the one I serve from their Treatment to me as they have continued to Confer Honour on me greater than I could
2

 have Expected, Consequently enlivens my ambition to perform services adequate to them. It gives me the greatest pleasure to hear of your being universally esteemed in the Contineltal Army which is Justly due to Virtue. Courage and fortitude will always Command it in the Brests of those whose Interest is only Valuable to us, My Resolutions hath long been fixed on that head that of Conducting my self so as to defy the world to sensure me Justly, by which I shall make undesigned Friends of those that would wish to be my Enemy, for a few such to ya Virtuus Brave, is often of service to him, by Rhe doubling the Lusture of his Character by striving to Ruin it which from Common observation will be found often to be the case I have had great suckcess in the Department I act in Considering the few Troops I had but little Satisfaction for every Conquest Paved my way to a greator and for the want of a few more Troops, with Regret obliged to View the Enemy at a distance without dareing to attact, Du Troit would have been Mine last Spring Could I have disposed of My Valuable prisoners to advantage otherways than being obliged to keep near half my Troops to Guard them (untill the Valuable Moments of action expired) having not a third more Troops than I had prisoners to count the whole that had been in action against me their was but Ten differance but those of them that was wavouring in sentiments I was glad to treat in such a Manner as to win them to our Interest and seemingly not to Consider them as prisoners. Many of them hath been serviceable to me since I am supprized at our superiours suffering those Triffling garisons about Du Troit to exist knowing the Mischief they do by exciting the Indians to war and Runing us to Enormus Expencies but I am too Remote from Government and my Intiligence too seldom to be a proper judge of the propriety, this I know that 500 Men when under the walls is able to take it, untill which we may Continue to Expect depreciations from Many Nations of Indians If the orders of the Governor of Virginia Could have been fullfilcd in sending supplies to me last spring I should have fell before Du Troit or made it my own in the Fall The Capture of Governor Hamilton was the greatest Check to the Indians above half of them have since laid down their  But many still persist and will Continue untill that source of
3
,83 Influance is Removed, Carrying out armies and destroying their Town is little or no use when they Can get four fold for what they loose from the English, Consequently all the advantage that derives to us is the few we kill in Battle (if they chuse  us) and the Expencies the English are at in Making up their losses, which I doubt is triffling when Compared to Enormous Expence we are at in doing of it, my proposition would be to Make a bold push Reduce those Garisons and no peace with the Indians, only on our own terms, and never after suffer arms or amunition to go among them which would effectually bring them to our Feet but Sir their is few Nations on Earth that's possesed of so Much Virtue as to withstand the temptations the Indians Receive; you may take it for granted that the Custom of giving goods in small portions at Du Troit to Indian Warriors is laid aside; Jonathan Clark Esqr Majr in the Continental Army Head Quarters George Meriwether to Clark, January 24, 1780.  Louisa Jany 24th 1780 D" Sir. After much fatague of travel and bad weather I reached home two days before Chrismas & had the pleasure of finding my family and concerns well, tho the weather still continues colder than was ever known by the oldest man amongst us. I have Just returned throh it from Wmsburg, there I learnt that Hampton Road & the bay almost to the Capes is Frozend up, many Vessels
4

 are sunk by the Ice & more expect the same fate, a number of people at different places have perished by the Cold & Ice, tho this calamity of our navigation being stopt secures us from a Visit from the English Fleet that we stood much in fear of and expected about the time the frost first put in; I hope you have had better weather & have not had such intense frost in your settlements. I hope to see our paper money rise in its value quickley, for Congress have lately effected a loan of two million of dollars (and may have eight more) in Urope, whch with the asstanse  of the Taxes which have been increased by the last assembly, I think cannot fail restoring its value in a great degree. I expect that Goverment are cutting out more business for you by what I learnt from the Governor, oh! that peace would wonce more vissit our Country & "let every one sit under his Vine and under his Fig Tree and no one to make him afraid;" happy would it be for this part of the State but more so for that where you are, the Interest of which I assure you I have much at heart— and only want oppertunity to manifest my attachment thereto, and when I was with you I thought my acquaintance Mr Randolph was likewise attached to the Interest of the Kentuckey settlements but I am sorry to inform you that I have reason to believe the contrary for on looking over the books in the Land office I found a Certain Mr Bealls had taken out warrants to the amount of 140,000 Acres of Land at least, part of which was enterd assigned to Mr N. Randolph now is this consonant with the doctrine he held when I was with you, and is it consistant with the Interest of that Country to assist a man (and a speculator too) in locating such a body of Land (& I suppose to of the Richest sort) when he will never see the Country or if he did, the portion is to large—no man can hesitate a moment to pronounce that it is not the Interest of the back Country. The evil tendancy will so fully appear to you that I will quit the subject & say nothing more about it. I shall move out some of my people with my stocks next fall & the summer after I shall bring my family with eight or ten more families to settle at or near the falls, and I could wish it was in my power to come out sooner, tho am preparing as fast as I can. I could wish that you would patronize a petition to have the town

JEFFERSON TO MARTIN,85 on Conelleys Land established & have it sent with a plan of the Town to the Assembly in May, for was it established (& I think it would be of advantage to the whole Country by drawing trade) I would build some good houses on lotts as would likewise my friends that I purchased lotts for, & would settle there if the place should not be to sickley. Prosperity attend the Country & health & happiness attend you Dr Col° is the wish of Yr Hble Svt Geo. Meriwether  Col° George Rogers Clark at the falls of the Ohio Kentuckey  George Meriwether. Jany 24lh 1780. Thomas Jefferson to Joseph Martin, January 24, 1780.  Wmsburg Jany 24, 1780 Sir We are very desirous of having a fort at the mouth of Ohio which together with other posts meant to be established on the Ohio may form a chain of defence for our Western frontier and at ye same time protect our Trade with New Orleans.2 but the ground at the Mouth of Ohio on the South side belonging to the Cherokees we would not meddle with it without their leave. We wish you therefore to treat with them for as much as will do for this purpose and for a few settlements round it for the support of ye post, indeed if they should show a disposition to part with it you may treat for all their lands between the Mississippi, Ohio, Tanissee & Carolina boundary the whole being of but small extent. I think not exceeding 20 miles square if reduced to that form. If they do not discover a willingness to part with the whole, get ground for a fort & as much as you can round about it to make corn, furnish wood &c Obtain them on as good terms as possible to be paid for in goods, which we will have provided for them the whole when sold at our Land Office price will not bring in more than three thousand pounds Sterling. I think the goods must be got from New Orleans. I am in hopes they will not insist on 1 John Connolly located land on the site of Louisville. : Major Joseph Martin was at the time Indian agent.
6

 our not beginning the fort till the delivery of the goods, but if they do we must submit to it. Make your bargain, if you can, subject to our approbation or disapprobation, because this matter having never been proposed to the Assembly we should wish to have it in our power to decline it if they should so advise. Communicate without delay what you do to Colo Geo Rogers Clarke at Kaskaskias or the falls of Ohio & also to Sir Your very hble Servant Th Jefferson Majn Martin Thomas Jefferson's Instructions to Clark, January 29,1780.1  Wmsburg Jan 29th 1780 Sir. Your letters of October 26th & 28th and Novbr 6th came safely to hand & lastly that of August 24th. I am glad the proposition of establishing a post at or near the Mouth of Ohio is likely to answer as well in practice as to us to us who judged on theory only, it seemed likely to do. I have therefore written to Messrs Walker & Smith as you will see by the enclosed copy of my letter to them, to take observations of the Latitudes thereabouts that we may proceed on the surest grounds. You will please to furnish assistants, Guards, & all necessaries. I expect the description of the cliffs &c will be so minute as that when you see them you will know them in the plat & of course know their Latitude, the choice of the ground for your Fort must be left to yourself. It should be as near the Mouth of Ohio as can be found fit for fortification & within our own lines. Some attention would be proper also to the circumjacent grounds as it will probably become a town of importance. The nature of the defensive works & their extent you will accomodate to your Force. I would recommend your attention to the wood of which you make your stockades, that it be of the most lasting kind, from the best information I have 1 Printed also in Alvord, Kaskaskia Records (I. H. C, v.), 144. The copy here printed was made from the original in the hands of General William Clark of St. Louis, on May 2, 1831.
7
,87 had I take for granted that our line will pass below the Mouth of Ohio. Our purchases of the Cherokees hitherto have not extended Southward or westward of the Tennessee, of course the little Tract of country between the Mississippi Ohio Tennessee & Carolina line (in which your Fort will be) is still to be purchased from them before you can begin your works. To effect this I have written to Maj. Martin our Cherokee Agent of which letter I enclose you a copy If the new Fort should fall within this teritory & it can be purchased we may grant lands to Settlers who will fix round about the fort provided the Assembly should approve of it, as from its reasonableness I think they will. The manner in which the Lots of Land are laid off about the French Villages I have thought very wise & worthy of imitation perhaps besides guarding your promises of Lands to Settlers with the conditions above mentioned it would be well to add also the mode of laying them off. I send you recruiting instructions for having your Battalion filled up with men to be enlisted for the War as I wish to avoid receiving any on any other terms Your instructions for recruiting which were communicated to us by some of your officers in the fall we took in and gave them such as are nowsent you, instead of County money I send you three Hundred Land Warrants, for Five Hundred & Sixty acres of Land each which at Forty pounds the Hundred being the Treasury price amounts to the Bounty allowed by Law. these we think more likely to induce men to enlist than the money itself. I also send you twenty four blank Commissions which will be necessary to Officer eight companies the present plan of the Continental army having that number in a Battalion and a Captain Lieutenant & Ensign only to each company. The officers of your Battalion when commissioned will stand on a footing with the Officers of the other State Battns The State of the Public Finances obliged the late Assembly to reduce very much their Military Establishment from what they had proposed at their session in May. they discontinued raising both the additional Eastern Battn' & one of the Western. So there will be one Battalion only to send to you to which is to be annexed Major Slaughters Hundred men who have already marched as I expect for the falls of the Ohio. I wish that one Battalion may be
8

 raised in time to join you in the Spring, very few returns having been made to me I cannot say what number is raised probably not more than half. However, whatsoever number may be raised by that time shall march as soon as the season will admit. By them we will send such stores as to us occur to be necessary, such as Powder, Lead, Flints, Hoes, Axes, Saws, Gimblets, Nails, Hammers, Augurs, drawing Knives, Froes & camp Kettles. If there be any other articles necessary I must get you to write to me on the Subject also to settle the best route of sending those articles hereafter there being no Guards to be had but Militia for conveying them from the Frontiers & no dependence on collecting Militia. Cannot you point out to us some place on the Frontiers where they may be safely lodged from time to time & from whence you can send for them with a proper escort? I would wish you also to inform me to what post I shall order the Battalion which is to join you. We received letters from Mr Pollock in the fall informing us of our debts at New Orleans & his distresses. We had just taken measures by shipping Tobacco to France to procure necessaries for our army having no other means of releiving Mr Pollock we were obliged to give him draughts on France which took the whole of that Fund & has distressed us exceedingly. The demands of Col Legras & Capt Lintot coming on us now & it being impossible to raise hard money to discharge them we are utterly at a loss what to do with them, indeed we shall not be able to determine them absolutely as to the sum we shall pay them till we know from you what proportion of the Dollars for which they have draughts were expended at the depreciated prices or in other words til we know from you what sum in hard money would reimburse their advances for which your draughts on us were made which we should be glad you would inform us by the first opportunity and send a duplicate by some second conveyance the difficulty of answering demands of hard money renders it necessary for us to contract no debts where our paper is not current it throws on us the tedious & perplexing operations of investing paper money in Tobacco, finding transportation for the Tobacco to France repeating this as often as the dangers of capture renders it necessary to insure
9
,89 the safe arrival of some part & negotiating Bills besides the expensive Train of Agents to do all this & the delay it occasions to the creditor. We must therefore recommend to you to purchase nothing beyond the Ohio which you can do without or which may be obtained from the East side where our paper is current. I am exceedingly glad you are making such timely provision of your next years subsistence. A Commissary for the Western Deptmt: was appointed in the fall with orders to purchase provisions on the Frontier for one Battalion his instructions shall be enlarged & a notification sent him to comply with your requisitions besides this we leave to yourself to Commission Mr Shannon to act as Commisary of purchases Issues Stores, Quarter Master or whatever else you may find him useful in. I suppose you will employ him principally about the Posts while the one acting in the Frontiers will be providing thereabouts. We shall use all our endeavours to furnish your men with necessary clothing but long experience renders it proper to warn you that our Supplies will be precarious You cannot therefore be too attentive to the providing them in your own Quarter as far as Skins will enable you to do it in short I must confide in you to take such care of the men under you as an economical householder would of his own family doing everything within himself as far as he can & calling for as few supplies as possible, the less you depend for supplies from this Quarter the less will you be disappointed by those impediments distance & a precarious foreign Commerce throw in the way for these reasons it will be eligible to withdraw as many of your men as you can from the West side of the Ohio leaving only so many as may be necessary for keeping the Illinois Settlements in Spirits & for their real defence. We must faithfully attend to their protection but we must accomodate our measures for doing this to our means perhaps this idea may render doubtful the expediency of employing your men in building a fort at Kaskaskia such Fort might perhaps be necessary for the Settlers to withdraw into in time of danger but might it not also render a surprise the more dangerous by giving the enemy a means of holding a Settlement which otherwise they could only distress by a sudden visit & be obliged to abandon Of this you must be ultimately the judge We approve very much of a mild conduct towards the
0

 inhabitants of the French Villages It would be well to be introducing our Laws to their knowledge and to impress them strongly with the advantages of a Free Govcrment the Training their Militia & getting it into subordination to proper Officers should be particularly attended to We wish them to consider us as Brothers & to participate with us the benefits of our rights & Laws We would have you cultivate peace & cordial friendship with the several tribes of Indians (the Shawanese excepted) endeavour that those who are in friendship with us live in peace also with one another against those who are our Enemies let loose the friendly Tribes The Kickapoos should be encouraged against the hostile Tribes of the Chickasaws and Choctaws and the others against the Shawanese with the latter be cautious of the terms of peace you admit an evacuation of their Country & removal utterly out of interference with us would be the most satisfactory. Amunition should be furnished gratis to those Warriors who go actually on expeditions against the Hostile Tribes As to the English notwithstanding their base example we wish not to expose them to the inhumanities of a savage enemy. Let this reproach remain on them, but for ourselves we would not have our national character tarnished with such a practice. If indeed they strike the Indians these will have a natural right to punish the aggressors and we none to hinder them it will then be no act of ours but to invite them to a participation of the  is what we would avoid by all possible means If the English would admit them to trade & by that means get those wants supplied which we cannot supply I should think it right provided they require from them no terms of departing from their neutrality, if they will not permit this I think the Indians might be urged to break off all correspondence with them to forbid their emissaries from coming among them & to send them to you if they disregarded the prohibitions, it would be well to communicate honestly to them our present want of those articles necessary for them & our inability to get them to encourage them to struggle with the difficulties as we do til peace when they may be confidently assured we will spare nothing to put their Trade on a comfortable and just footing in the mean time we must endeavour to furnish them with amunition to provide Skins to clothe themselves, with a disposition to do
1
,91 them every friendly office & to gain their Love we would yet wish to avoid their visits except those who come with Capt Lintot We have found them very hard to please expensive & troublesome and they are moreover exposed to danger in passing our western counties it will be well therefore (especially during the War) to waive their visits in as inoffensive a way as possible. In a letter to you of the 1st inst: I supposed you would in the ensuing Summer engage either in the Shawanee war or against Detroit leaving the choice of these & all other objects to yourself I must also refer to you whether it will be best to build the Fort at the Mouth of Ohio before you begin your campaign or after you shall have ended it, perhaps indeed the delays of obtaining leave from the Cherokees or of making a purchase from they may oblige you to postpone it till the fall I have received letters from Captains Shelby & Wortherington the former acquainting me he had received your instructions to raise a Troop of Horse the latter that he had raised one from the date of your letter to Shelby I knew you could not have been apprised that the Assembly had authorised us to raise a Troop for you & that we had given a commission to Rogers by whom you sent us information of the capture of St. Vincennes, Rogers accordingly raised his men got all accoutrements & marched to join you in the fall. As to Capt Wotherington who-sais he has raised hisn men you must state to us the necessity for your raising two Troops, that we may lay it before the Assembly who alone have a power of giving sanction to the measure the distress of the Public Treasury will be a great obstacle so that it will be well for you to take measures for reserving to yourself the benefit of Capt Wotherington's men in some other capacity if they should be disapproved of as Horsemen I am Sir Your very humble Serv' (Signed) Th Jefferson  Letter of Instructions from Thos Jefferson to Genl George Rogers Clark (1780) copy Wm P C
2

 Thomas Jefferson to Thomas Walker, January 29, 1780.  Wmsburg Jany 29th 1780 SirAs we propose this spring to take possession of and fortify some post as near the mouth of Ohio as the ground will admit, it becomes very important for us to know the exact latitude thereabouts. I take it for granted that your present Line will be stopped before you get there by unpurchased Lands. We therefore wish extremely that one of you would take a trip to the mouth of the Ohio with your instruments immediately upon finishing your present work. I Suppose it will be best for you to go to the falls of the Ohio where Col° Clarke has orders to furnish you with Assistants, an escort and all necessaries. You will first find the point at which our Line strikes the Missisippi or Ohio, and fix it by some lasting immovable natural mark if there happen to be any on the spot, or if not, then by its course or distance from some such natural mark, noting such course as corrected from the errors of variation, and the distance reduced to horizontal measure, the reason of requiring this accuracy in fixing the point where our Line strikes is, that in future, with common instruments it will be easy to find it which may perhaps be of importance. When you have found this point if it be on the Missisippi run from thence along up the river to the mouth of Ohio, and by protraction fix the point of the forks, or if it be on the Ohio, run up that river to where good Clifts for fortification shall make in and as you go along note the high grounds points or Clifts on the river which appear to you capable of Works of defence and at the same time to command a view of the river. This done I would ask the favor of you to return one plat of your work to Col° Clarke and another to me. Col° Clarke has in his eye a particular Cliff on the Mississippi which he expects is the nearest good ground for fortification. This he will describe to you, and you will please to note it particularly. I am in hopes that it will suit one of you to undertake this business. We think to have the fort begun, which cannot be till we are assured that the ground we should pitch
3

REGISTRATION OF CLARK'S LAND GRANT 393 on is within our own Country. The disappointment will therefore be of the greatest moment should you decline the Service. I am Gent with the greatest respect Your most obed' Hmble Serv' Messrs Thomas Walker & Daniel Smith Grant of Land to Clark, January 29, 1780.  We the Publick auditors of the Commonwealth of Virginia do certify that George Rodgers Clark hath delivered to us the Treasurers receipt for Sixty-seven thousand two hundred pounds paid into the Treasury of Virginia—and that he the said George Rogers Clark, his heirs or assigns, are entitled to one hundred and Sixty eight thousand acres of waste or unappropriated lands within this Commonwealth pursuant to an act entitled "an act for establishing a Land office, and ascertaining the tearms and manner of granting waste and unappropriated lands." Given under our hands this twenty ninth day of January, 1780 (Signed) Thos Everard James Cocke Edward Archer Registration of Grant of Land to Clark, January 29, 1780.  Virga Land Office. Richmond 25th Jan'y 1820 On the Register, No. 1, of Land Office Treasury Warrants issued at this Office, there are registered three hundred warrants, of five hundred and sixty acres each, numbered from 2087 to 2386, both inclusive, issued on the 29th day of January 1780, in favour of George Rogers Clark. At the foot of the registry of said 300 Warrants is a note in these words, viz:"The above foregoing "three hundred warrants, five hundred & sixty acres each, were "issued to Colo. George R. Clark for the purpose of recruiting his "Battallions, in lieu of the bounty of seven hundred and fifty "dollars." The document filed in this office as a voucher for said
4

 warrants is in the following words, viz:—"We the Publick Audi"tors of the Commonwealth of Virginia, do certify that George "Rogers Clarke hath delivered to us the Treasurer's receipt for "sixty seven thousand two hundred Pounds paid into the Treasury "of Virginia, & that he the said George Rogers Clarke, his heirs "or assigns are entitled to one hundred & sixty-eight thousand "acres of waste and unappropriated lands within this common"wealth pursuant to an act entitled, "an Act for establishing a "Land Office, and ascertaining the terms & manner of granting "waste and unappropriated lands." Given under our hands this "twenty-ninth day of January 1780. "Thos. Everard "James Cocke "Edward Archer." Which document remains on file in this office Wm. G. Pendleton, Regr Pierre Prevost to Clark, February 20, 1780.'  Sir: It is fitting that I should acquaint you with what is happening here against the United States of America. Two collars and two Bostonian scalps have been brought to the Sauk and Fox by the Potawatomi of Detroit who say to these people that if they do not attack you, war will be declared upon them by all the other nations and by the troops of the king. But 1 Printed in translation in Wis. Hist. Coll., xvm., 404. On Prevost see Alvord, CahokiaRecords (/. H. C, II.), Index. as they are not yet assembled together they have decided nothing as yet and have put off their response until they meet at the river Des Moines, where they are invited by a certain Calvée, a trader and an employee in the service of the king for the tribesmen. This man has also brought a collar from Michillimackinac which he has not yet spoken upon, consequently one does not know what he intends to say. Since, however, until the present he has always been opposed to you, there is every reason to believe that he still designs plotting in the same way, especially as it is true that since the savages have seen this man they have made threats of plundering us of our goods. Whatever you may think, this sort of an employee for the King to speak to the tribesmen is a bird of bad omen. I have nothing more to say on this matter. I have the honor to be with respect, Sir, your very humble and very obedient servant Prévost Salt River,1 February 20, 1780. 1 Pike County, Missouri. I have just learned at the present moment that the people from Michillimackinac who are at the river Des Moines tell the savages that they regard you as the meanest of wretches, saying everything against you and all the people of the Illinois and they advise the savages to pillage all those who come from there; consequently I have not yet gone from here. I could not probably withdraw without losing money, because of the counsel of these rascals.  To Monsieur G. R. Clark, Commandant in Chief of the Troops of the United States of America in the Department of the Illinois, at Kaskaskia. Conditions in Kentucky, March 10, 1780.  Boones Borough March 10 Sir— It is with the greatest concern that we find the Indians have again come out against us. They on Wednesday Last kil and scalped Col° Calaway and L' Pemberment Rollins, and Either killed or took two negro's. They are still in our woods, and we fear will do more mischief before they Return. In short. Sir, we think that there will be no Living in this Country without Carrying on an Expedition immediately against them; and to that
7
,97 End have unanimously come to a Resolution of falling on some method for that Purpose—we think that nothing will so well answer the purpose as to Obtain the Concurrance of Col° George Rogers Clark. If he can be prevailed on to take the command, and Assist us with his guns there is no Doubt of Success, and if he shou'd be otherwise engaged or Can't be prevailed on to go in person, We think of Col° Linn as the next in place who wou'd answer the purpose. Upon the Whole, Sir, we think the necessity so great that no time ought to be Lost. Therefore have Come to a Resolution among ourselves to furnish as many fighting men from this place as posible and in order to Effect it have agreed to give Every able Bodied man who will turn out on this occasion fifteen Bushels of Corn which we think sufficient To bread them the Next season. This bounty with the prospect of plunder and their anxious Desire of Revenging past injuries and preventing future will we Dont Doubt Cause as many of our young men to turn out as can be spared or by any means ought to go. We further propose in this necessary Enterprize that Every man shou'd find his own provision and be under the Command of Col° George Rogers Clarke or some other gentleman to be Choosen by themselves Bound by the solemnity of an oath to observe the Commands of their superior officers and submit to any punishment which may be inflicted by a Court Martial in case of Disobedience. This, Sir, is our plann which we hope you will Divulge to the inhabitants] of your Station and the other Neighboring Stations Round you Whose concurrence we hope, at least we expect, They will join in an Expedition: And as to the smaller matters Relating to the Business we surely Cant Differ We beg you will Lose no time in communicating this matter on our part nothing shall be wanting with Respect to the settlements on this Side the River as Low as Harrods b'gh and have no Doubt as to Raising the men. A Boat of Col° Henderson's is setting off To morrow or next Day for the falls by which we sha'l send an address to Col° Clarke To superintend this matter and Obtain his answer as soon as possible Mr Henderson's Boat will be at Lees town on Tuesday next and will be Convenient for you to send by; and it will be needful that Col° Clarke should Receive something Like an address from every principal Station. It is surely needless to
8

 urge anything on this Occasion we have all been Too long sensible of the necessity and must be Confident that the well-being of this Country Entirely Depends on this or some similar Exertion and that a few weeks (if not Days) will or may be fatal we are with Esteem Dr Sir yr most Obed' Serv' David Gess P. S. we Expect that Col° Clarke will give us an answer Speedily by which we will be inform'd whether he will undertake and when and where he will appoint a Rendevouz or meeting of all the soldiers Who can be Raised. March 10'h 1780. At a full meeting of the inhabitants of Boonsb'gh Collected on the melancholy Occasion of the foregoing Letter it was unanimously agreed that the sd Letter Shou'd be Written which was accordingly Done, and Capt David Gess Direct'd to subscribe his name Thereto for and in Behalf of the Whole. Certified under my hand this 10th of March 1780. Rich" Henderson. Petition from Inhabitants of Boonesborough to Clark. March 10, 1780.  Boonesborough 10ih March 1780. Sir Nothing less than the preservation of these settlements and to insure from utter ruin the many Families in this Country could have induced us to trouble you with an address of this kind. The few among us who have long experienced the intolerable hardships of maintaining our Post against the Barbarous savages. Derive very little consolation from the vast addition of Numbers now scattered through the various Parts of this Country The almost incredible number of Distressed and defenceless Families settled through our woods for the sake of sustinance instead of adding to our strength are in fact, so many allurements, and must become a daily sacrifice to the savage brutality of our inhuman enemies; who from their unavoidable success will be encouraged to reitterate their attemps and Render this Country a Mere scene of Carnage and Desolation—These our Apprehensions are by no
9

BOONESBOROUGH PETITION,99 means the offspring of Pusillanimous fear or fanciful immagination, our Diffused situation which cannot be altered without a famine render these disasters Practicable, and we have nothing to hope from the fears or clemency of the Indians—This day was Buried in one Grave the Late Colo. Richard Callaway and Lieutenant Pemberton Rawlings both of this Place, who were killed and scalped day before Yesterday almost in sight of Town; the Indians at the same time either killed or took Prisoners, two Negroes, and were seen Yesterday near the same Place—we are also informed that some of them were Discovered about Licking Station on Tuesday last, and that several Horses are already stolen from that Quarter This early and Tragical Scene we think portends very little good to that Settlements and unless something can speedily be done, must be attended with the most serious consequences to the Inhabitants in general—In this Critical and alarming situation we beg leave to implore your Assistance—-We are fully persuaded that nothing less than a Vigorous expedition against the Shawanee Towns will Put an end to their Depradations, or secure the Peace and safety of these Settlements. It is now too late to expect that relief or succour from the state which the nature of the case requires and we must Remain Destitute of every Prospect of success without your immediate Assistance—We are strangers to your secret orders from Government, but hope that they are not such that will Restrain you from taking the command of a sufficient number of Volunteers who will most cheerfully turn out on this interesting Occasion, and could not fail of success under the command of a Gentleman whose experience and abilities Justly entitle him not only to the command, but the entire confidence of a willing and grateful people—In our Plan for Carrying on this expedition, we propose among other things, that the men shall find their own Provisions and be under the solemnity of an Oath to obey their officers (who are to be chosen by themselves) and subject to Martial  Disobedience &c. We know the distrest situation of the Inhabitants in general, to whom we have communicated our scheme and make no doubt but you will receive similar Applications from a large majority in a few days—you Sir, can more easily immagine than we describe our anxious concern on this Occasion; Destitute of every other
0

 hope, the Inhabitants of this Country look to you for Protection should your indispensible duty Render your Personal Assistance incompatible with this undertaking, may we not hope that you will so far befriend our enterprize as to Permit the use of such artillery ammunition &c as may be needful to effect the business. Among the many difficulties attending an expedition of this kind the article of salt is very considerable; a small matter would do, as the Different Companies would be Obliged to the woods and Prepare as much Jerk as will answer the Purpose If you could Assist us in that peticular and Honour our interprize with your Presence and Command you would have the consolation of redeeming from Destruction a Scattered divided & Defenceless People who have no other Probable source of defence but through your means. We say, through your means, for without your Presence or the use of some artillery there is no prospect of success—In all events we are drove to the Necessity of going to the Towns if Possible, and must beg your interposition with Colo. William Linn to accept the command in case we are so unfortunate as to be deprived of your assistance From the importance of this address we cannot doubt of your attention and hope you will condescend to give us a Speedy and Favourable Answer We are with the greatest Respect Sir your most Humble Serv,s The Inhabitants of Boonsborough As we have no regular officers to attest or certify the Publick doings of this Town, Capt" David Gass and Mr John South are by unanimous consent Desired to sign their Names for and in behalf of the whole David Gass John South  Col° George Rogers Clark at the falls of Ohio Favr Major Smith  Petition from the Inhabitants of Kentucky
1

PETITION FROM BRYAN'S STATION 401 Petition from Bryan's Station to Clark, March 13,1780. [Draper MSS., 50J20.—A. D. S.l Elkhorn, March 13th 1780. It is with the greatest concern That we, the Inhabitants of Bryan's Station, inform you that the Indians are again Doing mischief in our Country. Last Thursday William Bryan,1 a young man Belonging to this Station, was killed and scalped, as he was Coming in from hunt8, and Two horses taken from the Company, and on Fryday the old Station of Licking was attacked fiercely. They Began Early in the morning and Continued till Late at night. Two of our men was wounded in the attack, and The Indians Carried off all the horses belonging to the station, except 2 or 3 which were in the fort, and killed almost all their cattle. We are sure that we cannot Live in any tolerable degree of satisfaction, unless we Endeavour to carry on an Expedition against them, our Countrymen of every Station will give all the Assistance in their power, we believe; and we shall not be Backward to assist in so necessary an Enterprise. The more to facilitate the undertaking, we find ourselves Constrained to present this our address to you, Reposing special Trust in your patriotism, Courage and good Conduct. Beg you will head our men, and assist us with your great guns, with which we think we shall be able (under God) to Expel them from our Country. We need not Exagerate on the Cruelty and Devastation with which their foot steps are marked, as you are perfectly acquainted with their savage nature, and Every day almost produces to us fresh instances of their Rapine, and our unhappy Countrymen by them slain, are Irrefrageable proofs of their malicious intentions. Therefore we Entreat you by all the ties of humanity to give us a helping hand, To take the Command of our men and your great guns, and march to the Towns of the Enemy, and Destroy them from the face of the Earth, if possible. We from this station will send as many men as wc can possibly spare, who will find themselves provision &c; and we Believe Every 'For a discussion of whether the name was Bryan or Bryant, see R. T. Durrett, Bryant's Station, in Filson Club, Publications, xn., 20; Mo. Hist. Review, v., 150.
2

 station will do the like, and We Believe we shall Be able to raise a Respectable Body in the Whole, which we think, by the Blessing of God, will be able to check their ravages, and we shall live in peace in satisfaction. We beg you will take this matter into your Consideration, and give us an answer as soon as possible, as much Depends upon the Expedition of this matter, no time ought to be lost in the prosecution of it, as a few weeks, if not days, may prove fatal. Am, Sir, Your most obed' Serv'  The inhabitants of Lexington having met together to consult on the contents of the above Letter this moment received from the Inhabitants of Bryan's station (situated on the North Fork of Elk-horn) it was unanimously agreed, that Col° Clarke be supplicated to give his kind assistance to head our Men against those savage robbers who are again plundering our Country. You, Sir, are therefore earnestly requested by us to take the Command, to appoint a place of rendezvous, and we on our part will not be backward to give you all the assistance the strength of this garrison can possibly spare. Signed in behalf of the inhabitants of Lexington. Francis McConnell, John Morrison, James Nourse. P. S. Since we received the above, two men arrived at the fort chased by the Indians, which were plundering within six miles of this garrison, and a company of us are now going to march against them; but we think an expedition against the towns will be the most likely means to prevent further mischief.  The Inhabitants of Bryans Station Mar. 13th 1780 Thomas Jefferson to Colonel Preston, March 21, 1780.  Williamsburg Mar. 21, 1780. Sir I am sorry to hear that there arc persons in your quarter so far discontented with the present government as to combine
3

JEFFERSON TO PRESTON,03 with it's enemies to destroy it. I trust they have no grievance but what we all feel in common, as being forced on us by those to whom they would now join themselves, had any such grievances existed complaint & refusal of redress should have preceded violence, the measures they are now taking expose them to the pains of the law, to which it is our business to deliver them. we must therefore avoid any irregularity which might give them legal means of withdrawing themselves from punishment. I approve much of your most active endeavours to apprehend the guilty & put them into a course of trial, the carrying them out of the county before an examining court is had on them, if their safe custody requires it must be ycilded to; but if they can be kept safely without it, I should rather approve it. I suppose this may be done by strong guards of militia, which must be summoned, & subsisted & paid at the public expence. you seem to expect that writings may be found about them which will convict them of treason, should your evidence however not be such as the law requires in cases of treason where the punishment is capital, perhaps it may be sufficient to convict them of a misprison of treason which is punishable by fine & imprisonment at the pleasure of the court. I suggest this to you that you may not suppose them absolutely cleared if the evidence will not support the charge of treason. I think it necessary that you should take the most immediate measures for protecting the lead mines. for this I know none so likely to be effectual as your calling on a sufficient number of the newly recruited soldiers (no matter for what service engaged) from the counties round about, which you are hereby authorized to do, rendezvousing them at the lead mines and putting into their hands the arms taken from the malcontents. the commissary in that department will subsist them. should you find it necessary a guard of militia must be called on in the meantime, harrassing the militia however is what I should wish to avoid if possible, by the time these new recruits are wanted to join their corps I am in hopes the danger with you will be over. Nothing which I have heard gives me reason to fear any disturbance in your quarter with the Indians. Colo Clarke will be employed this summer in preserving peace with them. he will aid vou if called on cither in the case of invasion or insurrection.
4

 should the Indians molest you, your militia must be embodied according to the invasion law, till Colo Clarke can go to your assistance. I am Sir with great respect Your most obed' humble ser' Th Jefferson  Government Letter 21st March 1780 Clark to John Todd, Jr., March, 1780.1  Louisville March 1780 D" Col By the Act" from Every Post in the Illinois So nearly Corresponding I make no doubt of the English Regaining the Interest of Many Tribes of Indians and their designs ags' the Illinois (Perhaps on Govr Hamiltons plan) and without some speady Check may prove Fatal to Kentucky and the Total loss of the Westn country on the Mississippi I am not Clear but the Spaniards would fondly Suffer their Settlements in the Illinois to fall with ours for the sake of having the opportunity of Retaking Both I doubt they are too fond Territory to think of Restoring it again. Although there is but few British Troops on the Lakes defitiency is fully Replaced by the Immence Quantities of goods they have the effects of which among the Savages you well know not being aprehensive of a Visit I make no doubt of their having planed Some Expedition of Importance against our Posts which if they gain may be attended with the greatest Consequences than I have Hinted at they have greater opertunities of knowing our Cituation than we have of theirs which you know they Could not deprive us of, you well know the difficulties we have laboured under with our Joint Efforts to Maintain our Ground and Support our Interest among the Savages in that Dep' and the reasons why which is now greater than Ever as the bad Crops and the Severity of the winter hath Rendered it Impossible for the Towns in the Illinois to make any further Suppley untill next Harvest the Troops 1 This letter, somewhat modified, is printed in the Col. of Va. State Papers, I., 338 et seq.; English, Conquest of the Northwest, a., 668; and Chicago Hist. Soc., Collections, iv., 325.
5

CLARK TO TODD, MARCH, 1780 405 being Intituled to a discharge in a few weaks, Except those that have Reenlisted when Joined by Cap'n Rogers when armed will not amount to more than one hundred and fifty which is too few under our present Circumstances to think of Deffending the different post we now Occupy. Letters from his Excellency and a promising Ac' from our Recruiting officers may perhaps soon alter our Apparent Circumstances but as yet Receiving no advice from Either already meeting with many disappointments in my Expectations much to the disadvantage of the Dep' a few weaks Hesitation may be productive of long future disadvantage. I think it best to act as though we had no Expectation of being assisted Either with men or provitions. Your Councell not only necessary but which you know I prize is what I want. If we ware Tolerably formadable at any one post that we could Subsist at it might have a great and good Effect as I Hinted to lay aside all Expectation of a Reinforcement I see but the one probable Method of Maintan* our Authority in the Illinois which is this by Amediately Evacuating our present posts and let our whole force Center at or near the Mouth of Ohio which will be too Contemtable to answer the good effect proposed without fall upon some Method to draw of a Considerable Reinforce from Kentuck of Militia Families would be of the greatest Service as they are always followed by two or three times their number of young men they would with their Store of provitions be able to Victual great part of our Troops in porportion to their numbers which if only one Hundred by the Ensuing fall would be able to Victual a Redgment besides Establishing a post that his Excellency is very Anctious for (the Reason I amigine we are boat Acq'*1 with) and the Interest of all the western country Call for one Hundd Families their followers the Troops we have already Ingaged, those whose time of Service is or Shortly will Expire that would Remain at the place when Joind would be Considerable the Report of which by the time it Reach our Enemies would be Augmented perhaps to Treble our numbers as such Intelligence is always agravated by the Indians and I dont doubt but that it would put a stop for some to their proceedings as I know it would greatly Confuse the Indians they are like to win from us as our force with the French Militia probably Counting the Spaniards would be
6

 too Considerable for them to Temper with our only Chance at present to save that country is by Incourageing the Families but I am sensible nothing but land will do it I should be Exceedingly Cautious in doing anything that would displease government but their present Interest in Many Respects obvious to us boath, Call so loud for it that I think Sr that you Might even Venture to give a Deed for Forty or fifty Thousand Acres of Land at Said place at the price that government may demd for it it Interfears with no Claim of our friendly Indians the greatest Barriour to the Inhabitants of the Illinois against the Southern Indians Security of the Gen Commerce and perhaps the Saving of the country to the State and probably in a few Months inable us to act again on the Offensive. I should be against Suffering families to settle promis,y in any part of the Illinois at present but the Establishment of the said post is so necessary and as it cannot be Compleat without the Families I think it your duty to give the afforcsaid Incouragement and such Instructions as would confine the people to a fort for sometime before you could Consult Government it might be too late Sustenance for some time will be procured with difficulty but I cannot think of the Consequence of losing possession of the country without a more determined Resolution to Risque every point Rather than suffer it (for they the English Cannot execute any Matter of very great Importance Among the Savages without it I know your Concern to be Eaqual to mine if you Concur with me in Sentiment let me know Amediately or Such Amendment as you might think more advantageous I am Sr with Real Esteem your very Humble Servt G R Clark Col Jonathon Todd
7

APRIL 4, 1780 407 Clark to William Fleming, April 4, 1780.  Louisville Ap 4th 1780 DrSir your much Esteemed Letter of the 16th Marh is now before me I am hartily sorry for the great loss of Blood and property Sustained by the Kentuckyans.  I expected they have sent me Repeated & Spirited Petitions for an Expedition against the Shawonee Towns, let us not Triffie with Matters of Such Moment the one proposed would be so far from giving us Peace that it would only Agravate the war by destroying an Expedition already planed by his Excellency the Success of which depends much on the Kentuckyans and which will give them an Amediate and Permanent Peace with the Savages I have Such Confidence in their Resolutions that I count at least one Thousand of them for the Expedition and am Making provition accordingly if they have not peace by the Fall it Shall be their own Faults and not governments as Every step possible to Render them so hath been taken Since my Residence at this place and find by his Excellencies Let" that I am likely to gain my wishes A piece of  the Best I could possibly Inform you of is that Provition of Bread kind is so plenty at this post that Corn fell from 130 to thirty five Dollars in a few days and now no Market for it. I have appointed a Gentlmn to purchase the whole and Expect to get a sufficiency for one Thousand men for five Months at least without the want of Money should disappoint me, Could not the Court of Commissioners fall on some plan to assist me with Thirty or forty Thousand pounds by taking in the peoples Money and give them a Bill for it which would answer a greater purpose to them as they would Receive double Service by it, workmen is now Ingaging to build one Hundred Boats at this place to be Compleat in two Month for the Transportation of our provition into the Hart of the Indian country I am obliged to promise Money and have not a farthing (as yet from the Governor) pray Sir fall on the plan I propose for you to assist me and if you have  let Captn James F More, Dep' Comy G1 of Purchases have twenty Thousand pounds taking his Receipt for
8

 it perhaps our future Happiness at Least for a year or two-May" depend on the above Supply I am Dr Col with Real Esteem your Very HB Serv' GR Clark  Col. Wm Fleming Harrodsburg  General Clark Daniel Brodhead to Clark, April 4, 1780.  Fort Pitt April 4th 1780. Dear Sir I am honored with your oblidging Letter of the 22d December last—The intelligence you have from Detroit is interesting and your proposals very pleasing. I have wrote to his Excellency the Commander in chief to inform him of the Contents but have not yet received his answer, when I do shall take the earliest opp'y to communicate to you such parts as from our local situation & circumstances may be adviseable. I think it is probable that before next Winter I shall have the pleasure of taking you by the Hand somewhere upon the Waters of Lake Erie. The Delawares at present continue their professions of Friendship towards us, but I am convinced there are many Villains in that Nation. If I am enabled as I expect to carry on an Expedition against the Shawnese the Delawares may afterwards be ordered as I may find most conducive to the public good. From the Newspapers it appears that the Spaniards are in possesion of the Natchez & Manchack if this report is true you will have very little to do upon the Missisippi further than establishing a small post or two to hold our possession on this side. I have given Captn Rogers an order to take into his possession all Water Craft belonging to the United States below Wheeling which may perhaps prove serviceable to you, but I must entreat You to have the best care taken of them that circumstances will admit and send as many to this Place as you can find convenient safe opportunities to forward by. I am amazed at the return made by Captn George of the men belonging to the Continental Service which were sent down the
9
,09 River under the Command of Captn Willing it differs much from the return I received from Capt" M° Intire—He alledges that some of those Mens terms are expired & that they do not incline to return to their respective Corps, but admitting their Terms were really expired (which is denied) they ought to have proper Discharges from the Command officers of their Corps and must be considered as Deserters untill they obtain them I wish you to inculcate this principle and order those men under some proper officer up to this place that Justice may be done them & the public. Mr Bentley (who has lately made his escape from Canada) accompanies Captain Rogers and intends to bring up some Goods & peltry to Fort Pitt and he I dare say will give the Company a clever compensation for bringing them under Convoy for him— Should it prove inconvenient to spare an officer from your Corps and the Men could be collected at the Falls, I would send an officer from your Corps and the Men could be collected at the Falls, I would send an officer & party to bring them from thence. Captain Rogers is so oblidging as to take down the names & Description of many Deserters and I hope you will afford him your Countenance & the necessary assistance for apprehending them— Such as return to their Duty voluntarily will be pardoned by authority from the Commander in chief. I sincerely wish you great success & shall be glad to hear from you by every safe Conveyance I have the Honor to be with great regard Dear Sir your most Obed' Serv' Daniel Brodhead Col° command" W D Col° Geo Rogers Clark Charles Mynn Thruston to Clark, April 7, 1780.  Dear Col° I hoped to have seen you before We parted, but going so soon as you do, it will be impossible. My Son tells Me of your politeness to him, & shewn Me his recruiting instructions, but without
0

 the Money has little chance of collecting the Men without your indulgence. This places him in rather an uncertain situation, but I trust in full confidence to your patronage of him. Cap' Rogers has between sixty & seventy men enough to make up two troops of horse, which I think the law limits to 30 or thereabouts. A considerable proportion of these were drafts, & not recruits; so that it will be in your power to assign to whom you please the residue, after Capt. Rogers's troop is compleated. But I will add no more, trusting to your Friendship to advise & direct him; and considering that He is but a youth, without parent or adviser. May I, without expecting anything unreasonable hope this from you? If not, then I must beg you will excuse the freedom, by attributing it to the solicitude of a parent about to part with a favourite Son. Dear Sir, farewell! and believe it as a certain truth that I am with great esteem & affection, Your mo obed' Scrvt C. M. Thruston Floyd's Station 7° April 80 N. B. My Son resolves to engage in the service during the War, and waits to come down with Cap' Rogers C M T. To the Honorable George Rogers Clark, Esquire, Colonel and Commander in Chief of the troops of the State of Virginia in the County of Illinois & its dependencies. 'Charles Mynn Thruston, Jr., married Frances Eleanor Clark, the youngest sister of Colonel Clark. 2 Printed also in Alvord. Sir, In the deplorable situation in which \vc find ourselves at present, we have deputized M. Charles Gratiot, one of our citizens, to represent to you our distress and the calamitous situation to which the savage nations on all sides of us reduce us. We arc on the eve of being attacked in our village by considerable parties of savages and can not work at the cultivation of our grounds, if we have not prompt assistance. For this reason we take the liberty of addressing you, having confidence in the kindness and affection you have always manifested for us. But that which afflicts us the most is that in case you send us many ])eople we would not have the provisions necessary for them. M. Gratiot can readily inform you of the resources of our village and we have charged him to confer with you on that subject, having entire confidence that you will labor in concert with us to procure us peace and tranquility. And we will never cease our prayers to Heaven for your preservation and prosperity. Recd of Col: Ge° RClark this 11th day of Apr 1780 Six land Warrants Containing five Hundred & Sixty Acres of Land Each for which Warrants I promise to Delliver Col. Clark one Able Bodeyed Soldier for Each Warrant, pr mr Jonathon Thruton Will Shannon Sullivan 'These men constituted the magistrates elected for the court at Cahokia. Francois Trottier was president at the time. Charles Gratiot was a member ot the court at the session of February 18, 1780, and also at the meeting of Jun*. 9. For the records of this court and its history, see Alvord, Cahokia Records (/. H. C, II.), 13 et scq.
SHANNON TO BAKER,13 Recd of Col: Ge° R Clark 12th day of Aprile 1780 four land warrants conts five Hundred & sixty Acres Each for which I promis to Recruit four Able bodeyded Soldirers Durring the war to serve in Col Clarks Reg' Abrm Kellard Will Shannon Recd of Col: Geo R" Clark 12th day of April 1780 twenty land warrants Containg five Hundred & sixty Acres Each for which I promis to return him twenty Able bodeyd Soldiers to serve during the war in his battalion bud worthington Will: Shannon. William Shannon to Evan Baker, April 12, 1780.  Falls of Ohio April 12, 1780. Sir, Agreeable to orders of this day to me given by the Commander in Chief of the Western Illinois Department I am directed to draw on you for Six Months provisions for one thousand men, to be at the Mouth of Ohio or near that place by the first of next June—at which place there will be a Store fixed, & proper Persons appointed to receive the same, and receipts properly given either by myself or some of my Deputies. I need not caution you that the provisions ought to be sound and wholsom and of a good Quality. We shall probably have occasion to draw on you in August or Septr next for a large Quantity for which 'twould be well to prepare, & as I expect the Quarter Masters Store will be put under your Direction I beg you to forward them with all possible expedition, as they are much wanted as well as the Provisions. I expect that proper necessaries of all kinds will be provided and sent for the use of the Officers, such as Liquors, Coffee, Tea, Sugar &ca. as no supplies of the same kind can be had in this Department,
4

 & if you have not already been furnished with Instructions for that purpose I beg you will not fail to apply to Government. I am Sir respectfully Your mo. Obed' hum Serv' Will: Shannon Condr Gen W. Depart. Illinois Mn Evan Baker Be pleased to Forward a letter of Col. Clark's to Govern' as it will fall into your Hands  To Mr Evan Baker Commissary of Washington County Virginia. Thomas Jefferson to Clark, April 19, 1780.  Richmond April 19. 1780 Sir, Your Letter from Louisville of February 22'd—80 came safely to Hand. In answer to your Observations on the Spot proper to take Post on at the Mouth of Ohio we can only give our cordial Sentiments leaving the ultimate Determination to"your Prudence on view of the Ground, as we can neither make the particular spot we would elect to be what we should wish nor recommend to you to take Post on it if Nature has rendered it unfit. The Point of Land at the Mouth of the Ohio on the south side is the precise spot which would have been preferred had nature formed it capable of Fortification but this we were apprised was subject to inundation. How deep the Waters, may occasionally be there, wc arc quite uninformed and therefore are unable to decide on your Proposition for banking them out as at New Orleans. In general, undertakings of that nature are expensive, and not without great Danger that Floods of unexpected Magnitude may overwhelm the Works and Garrison, or that an enterprising Enemy may find Means to let in the water. Yet if those Lands lie so high as to be very little under Water, those objections become small in proportion, and may perhaps be less than that of taking the Post
5
,15 at a situation less favorable for vigilance over the Trade of the two rivers. Of this you will judge when you see the Lands and know the height of Inundation they are subject to. If this Place should be rejected, and we were to decide between two Posts one of which should be on the Ohio, the other on the Mississipi below the Mouth of Ohio equally near the Mouth, and equally proper in every other respect, we should prefer the one on the Missisipi because it would command a greater Part of the Trade than the other; for I take for granted more trade will go down the two Rivers to Orleans than down one river to the Mouth and up the other. If the question is between two Situations on the north and south side of the Ohio, equal in other respects, the one on the south side would be greatly preferred. Indeed this circumstance would weigh against a good Degree of other superiority for Reasons which cannot be trusted to a Letter: Yet it would not so far weigh as to prefer a Post which cannot be made tenable to one which can. You describe a high Ground on the north side of the Ohio three or four miles above its mouth, yet the Missisipi, so near in that Part as that a Town might reach from the one to the other and a small river mouthing at the same place and forming a commodious Harbor for Vessels. This indeed is tempting, as in such a case the navigation of both rivers would be under your Eye as effectually as at the Mouth of Ohio, and holds out such advantages as may get the better of the objections to its being on the north side. However you must finally decide on view of the whole. As to the kind of Fortification I imagine you proposed in the first Place to build a Stockade for temporary Purpose. The Post is so important really as to merit Works of the best kind, but on this it would necessary to consult the Legislature who would be to provide for the Expence. In the mean Time I imagine you will think it well first to plan & lay off the good works you would propose, and then build your temporary Fort so as to encourage them and protect those who should be working on them, or, if this would be too large to be manned by your Force, the temporary Work might be built within the Lines laid off for the good. When you shall have determined on your spot we should be glad to receive a minute
6

 description of it with a plan of the good Works you would propose to erect not meaning however thereby to suspend the temporary Works. I am Sir Your very humble serv' Th. Jefferson  Colo. George Rogers Clarke at the Falls of Ohio  son April 19'h 1780 Thomas Jefferson to Clark, April 19, 1780. tted are not specified in the Information, the extent of the mischief  extensive combination. Incertain whether you were near enough at Hand to afford relief, and indeed rather expecting from your last Letter received that you are now at the mouth of the Ohio, satisfied at the same time that any Plan of enterprize determined and minutely directed here would prove abortive from want of Information and unforeseen Difficulties and Events, I have directed the Lieutenants of the Counties of Washington, Montgomery, Botetourt, Rockbridge and Green-Briar to assemble and concert, and immediately with a Portion of their Militia carry an Expedition into the Indian Country. To communicate their determinations to the Lieuten's of the Counties Northward of them between the Blue-ridge and Allegany who arc also to assemble, concert, and execute similar offensive Measures with their Militia either by concurring in the same, or undertaking a separate Expedition; and those again to call for aids from the Counties West of the Allegany. They are to give Notice of their Plans to yourself, and should the combination of the Enemy appear still formidable for their Force I have desired them to ask such Assistance as you can give them, and in such way as you shall Think most effectual. Since the Conduct of the Indians has precipitated our meditated Chastisement of them, it
7

APRIL 20, 1780 417 seems to have determined on which of the Objects formerly submitted to you the first Efforts of the Campaign are to be directed. Nothing is more desirable than the total suppression of Savage Insolence and Cruelties, and should your Affairs be in a condition to admit your going in Person, and taking command of the whole expedition—The object is of sufficient Importance to require it, yet unacquainted as I am, with the present State of your forces, where they are, and how employed, I am afraid that your distance from the scene of action, or other unknown circumstances might produce a greater Measure of Injury to the Public by interrupting your present operations than they might derive of good from your co-operation. I therefore leave to your Discretion and Zeal for the good of your Country to determine whether, and in what manner to concur in this Expedition, still considering it as so important as to  to you, if very great Injury to the public may not attend the cutting you off on that Business. I also write to Major Slaughter (as ho is probably so distant from you) to lend his Aid if called on in the Manner I have mentioned to him. I have it not in my Power to give you precise Information of the numbers recruited for Col. Crockett, or time of their March. I experience Mortification on every enquiry by  that every Inquiry lessons my Hope both as to Numbers and dispatch. Nothing shall be left undone to forward them, and I do not Despair all together of their participating in the projected Expedition. I am Sir Your very humble scrv' Th.Jefferson P S inclosed is an answer to your's of Feb. 22.  Colo George Rogers Clark at the Falls of Ohio  Received at yFalls July 11th 1780 Clark to John Dodge, April 20, 1780.  Mouth of Ohio, April 20, 1780. I yesterday arrived at this place, & wish you immediately to convey all your stores to this post; I hope you have got what little furniture I wanted; I have not any, nor a seed for my garden:
8

 Pray, procure them and convey them in a few days. If you cd. procure me a few of those beans the French plant to make shades with, I shd. prize them much. Capt. Bentley will give you the news. I am, dr. Captn. yours G. R. Clark Batisst to Clark, April 29, 1780.  Fort Clark Aprile 29th 1780. Sir I am Glad to here of your Safe arivel at The Mouth of the River & take this opportunity To Express My Zele for you informing you that I allways have kept your Counsel and intends To Com and See you as soon as Col° Montgomery is Redey to Com & Wish all the happiness your Station Can aford & am Sir you dutifull son untill deth. Batisst the king  Colo G R Clark Commander of the Virgeney trups the Western depcrtment Clark to Oliver Pollock, May 11, 1780.  Camp Jefferson Mouth of Ohio May 11th 1780 D" Sir A few days past I arrived at this place to Execute the orders of my Superiors for the Establishment of a Post, for the Conveniency of Trade and other purposes, I have but little knews worth relating to you we have heard the Spanish forces have taken Pensicola and am Impatient for a Confirmation of it, the Illenois Settlement arc much threatned by the British Gentlemen at Detroit they Count S' Lewis their Seat of Government probably they will meet with the fate they have Once Experienced if they attempt it I must confess I am not a Sufficient Statesman to Comprehend the Policy 1 Batisst was chief of the Kaskaskia tribe. The handwriting is that of John Montgomery.
9
.10 of the Spanish Gentlemen, Protecting the Deserters of a People so fond to serve them as we are at a time when both Nations are at Warr against the same Enemy it cannot be good Policy at this time for nothing saves both Spanish & American Illenois from the hands of the English but the Troops we have and would keep in that Country if it was not for the aforesaid Protection as we have fallen on the Method of Drawing our supplies from the States thro' the Channell of the  the Deserters by no means add to the strength of the People they fly too but rather to the Contrary for reasons I dare say you are sensible of. I have to request of you Sir to make intercession with his Excellency the Governor Galvez to suffer Lieutenant Robcrston whom I expect is at Orleans other ways some person whom you will be pleased to Commission to take the Arms & Cloathing (the Property of the States) from the Deserters at Natches and other settlements in your Quarters a list of them I inclose Print  and Party on board of Brashears who has also run off with considerable property of other persons) is exceedingly well cloathed except Shirting I have nothing more to add but remain with esteem Sir Your very Humb Scrv' Signed G R Clark Oliver Pollock Esqr New Orleans Daniel Brodhead to Clark, May 20, 1780.  Head Qurs Fort Pitt May 20th 1780. Dear Sir I have for some time past had in contemplation an Expedition against the Shawnese Towns but I find it is quite impracticable for want of resources. It is some time past since I was honored with a Line from his Excelly the Commander in chief, but I have no reason to expect a reinforcement from him. I dont know how far it may be in your Power to make an attack upon the Shawnese & their allies but if it can be done with a probability of success I hope you will attempt it, because I am persuaded that they are the most hostile of any Savage Tribe and could they receive a severe chastisement it would probably put an end to the Indian war. The people who pass this way towards
0

 the new Settlements will doubtless give you all the assistance in their Power, they are numerous and well supplied with provisions. Major Slaughter will do me the Honor to forward this Letter to you. his detachment consists of about one hundred Men which I am persuaded he will join to aid you upon any attempt you may think proper to make against his troublesome Neighbours, the Shawnese. I will endeavour to write you again after I receive his Excellencies answer to the proposed junction of our Forces and shall be happy to hear from you by every safe conveyance. I have the honor to be with much respect Dr Sir Your most obed' Scrv' Daniel Brodhead Col° command W D  Col° Geo. R. Clark Command15 the Virg State Troops Ilinois (Public Service) Hond by Majcr Slaughter. Pierre Dorion to Clark, May 31, 1780.  To George Rogers Clark, Colonel of the Illinois battalion and Commander in Chief of the troops of Virginia and of eastern Illinois and its dependencies. Sir: Pierre Dorion has the honor of stating humbly that having taken oath of fealty to the United States of America and wishing 1 Translation bythe editor. to give a token of it to-day, he desires to remove all his property which is at St. Louis on the Spanish side and to transport it to Cahokia. The petitioner has the honor of stating that he would be sorry to harm any person to whom he might be in debt on the other side. He wishes to pay all his creditors even before he removes anything to this side. The petitioner has the honor to beg of you, sir, to be kind enough to intercede with M. de Leyba, commander of Spanish Illinois, so that he may be permitted to remove here all that he possesses on the other side after having paid his debts if he has any. He will continually pray for your preservation and prosperity. Pierre Dorion. Cahokia May 31, 1780.  from Pierre Dorion requesting permission to remove from St. Louis to Illinois.
2

 John Todd, Jr., to Thomas Jefferson, June 2, 1780.1  May it Please you Excellency On Consulting with Col° Clark we found it impracticable to maintain so many petty posts in the Ilinois with so few men & concluded it better to draw them all to one post The Land at the Junction of the Ohio & Missisipipi was judged best Situated for the purpose as it would command the Trade of an extensive Country on both sides of each River & might serve as a Check to any Incroachments from our present Allies the Spaniards whose growing power might justly put us upon our guard & whose fondness for engrossing Territory might other wise urge them higher up the River upon our side than we would wish. The Expences in erecting this new post & victualing the men would have been Obstacles unsurmountable without a Settlcm' Contiguous to the Garrison to support it whose adventurers would assist the Soldiers in the heavy Work of Building their fortifications I therefore granted to a certain Number of Families four Hundred Acres to each family at a price to be Settled by the General Assembly with Commissions for civil & militia—offices & the Necessary Instructions. Copies of the principal of which I herewith send you The Others being agreeable to the printed forms heretofore delivered me by the Governor & Council Lest the withdrawing our troops from S' Vincenne might raise suspicions among the Citizens to our disadvantage: I have sent to Majr Bosseron the then district Commandant blank Commissions with powers to raise one Company & put them in possession of the Garrison with assurance that pay & rations shd be allowed them by the Governm' I inclose you also a Return of the Cloths &c. which I sent down by Mr Clark to Capt. Dodge who I appointed Agent agreeably to your Excellencys Letter as Mr. Lindsay desired to be discontinued. When Col. Clark left the falls his Officers & Men to the Amount nerhaps of 120 were well Cloathed except in the article of Linens Mr Lindsay had not arrived the 8th of May last from Illinois & I have not heard whether the Goods from Orleans were yet arriven. Capt Dodge was also to receive them from Lindsay 'Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 358, and Chicago Hi.st. Soc, Collections, iv., 328.
3

CALL FOR MEN,23 Mr Isaac Bowman with 7 or 8 men & one family set off from Kaskaskia the 15th Novr. last in a Batteau attended by another Batteau with 12 Men & 3 or 4 families in it bound to the falls of Ohio. I judged it safer to send to the Falls many Articles belonging to the Commonwealth by Bowman than to bring them myself by Lf nd Bowmans Batteau fell into the Hands of the Chickasaw Indians & the other arrived in March or April at the French Lick on Cumberland with the Account that Bowman and all the men except one Riddle were killed & taken I inclose your Excellency a List of such Articles as belonged to the State as well as I can make out from me Detached Memorandums. My Books & many necessary papers being also lost. Many necessary articles of Intelligence yet remain unmentioned. I will enjoy no Leisure untill I shall have fully acquainted you Excellency with the Situation of Ilinois. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect Your Excellency Most Obedient & humble Servant Jonathon Todd jn Richm" 2nd June 1780 Call for Men from Western Counties, June 8, 1780.  Extract from the Minutes of the advice of Council for calling a certain number of Militia from the Western Counties. "The Board advise the Governor that posts be taken at the mouth of the little Kanhaway, Great Kanhaway, Sandy & Licking, that the little Kanhaway be Garrisoned with so many of the Militia from the Counties of Yohogania, Monongalia, & Ohio as the County Lieutenants of those Counties shall think proper to be furnished proportionally from their Militia. That great Kanhaway be Garrisoned with 164 Men, Sandy with 100, and Licking with 200. That for these purposes 254 Militia be raised from the following Counties and in the following proportions. Viz. Bottetourt 22. Rockbridge 18. Green Briar 16. Augusta 43. Rockingham 15. Frederick 30. Hampshire 30, Berkley 30. and Kentucky 50. that the Garrison at Great Kanhaway be composed of Militia from Hampshire, Frederick, Berkley, Rockingham Augusta &
4

 Green Briar. That at Sandy of Militia from Bottatourt, and a Detachment from Col° Crocketts Battalion and that at Licking of the residue of Colo. Crocketts Battalion & the Militia from Kentucky. That a Post be taken at Kelleys  the Great Kanhaway to be Garrisoned with 26 Men from the County of Shenandoah. That these Militia remain in Service until releived from their respective Counties. That the whole of these Garrisons be subject to the order of Colo. Clarke, and that it be recommended to him to draw from them from time to time when circumstances shall render it proper so many as are not essentially necessary for the preservation of their Posts with such Volunteers as he may engage, and proceed on such active enterprizes against the Indians & particularly the Shawaness as the force shall be adequate to. They also advise that a Post be taken at or near Martins Cabbin in Powells Valley to be garrisoned with 30 Militia from the County of Washington and 20 from the County of Montgomery to continue until releived in like manner as the former garrison that so soon as Col° Crocketts Battalion be ready to March he be directed to proceed by the way of the Great Kanhaway." June 8, 1780. On the 23d of June the numbers mentioned above from Augusta and Rockingham were altered. Viz.: Augusta to furnish 35 men and Rockingham 23. Arthur Campbell on the Invasion of Kentucky, June 13, 1780.  Goodwood June 13, 1780 Sir Every account from Kentucky represents the indecision and consternation there occasioned by the apprehensions of the meditated Invasion, some consoles themselves that if Col° Clarke returns in time matters will take a turn. Beef is much wanted and Ammunition is scarce among the Inhabitants in the upper Forts. Three Companies of the Militia of this County rendezvous at Mr Bakers the 26th Instant principally with a view to escort out a supply, but I am just inform.d that there is but little Lead there. and no Flints. I must therefore request the favour of you to
5

PETITION FOR NEW COUNTY,25 assist us in furnishing these Articles, I expect you can give an order on the Manager for any quantity you think proper under 2000 lb of that order.d for the Expedition, and to have the Flints (if not in Montgomery) sent from Col° Flemings, at least as far out as Mr M'Gavocks. Cattle are a gathering in, and PackHorses enough I believe will be readily got. Our Militia generally turns out without grumbling, so I think the Companies will be full. I anxiously wish that one or two Companies could join us from your County: What would it be to try the head of Reed Creek, it would divert their minds from a worse employ, and I have reason to believe, several of the Germans would engage in this Service. Butler it is said comes against Kentucky in great wrath, he boasts he will give no Quarter, indeed what can be expected from a Man, that at Wyoming give up his Brother to be tortured, and unfeeling enjoyed the Sight. I am Sir Your very Humble Ser Arthur Campbell P. S. about the last of this Month the Enemy is expected at the Falls Petition of Trustees at Fort Jefferson for New County, June 13, 1780.  Clarksville 13th: June 1780. Sir, We the Trustees elected for the Borough of Clarksville, convinced of your unbounded friendship & good will towards our young Settlement, beg leave to communicate to you some circumstances, which thro' your Interest we would wish to have laid before Government. Viz.— That Our present Settlement being form'd by your permission only, causes an anxiety in the Minds of the People lest Governm should not give it the necessary Sanction. That Gov' is at present unacquainted with our Situation, Circumstances and Necessities, which 'tis requisite should be made known to them.
6

 That for Want of Proper authority, the regulations made by the Trustees, have not their due weight with the People. That we conceive it necessary our Settlement should be erected into a Corporation, or Separate County distinct from Kentucky, & proper Magistrates and other Officers Commissioned for executing the Laws, which would be a means of preventing that Confusion likely to take place for want of such authority. Finally, we beg leave to refer you to Col° Walker whom we have personally made acquainted with our Wishes & wants, & whose Friendship we cannot too much commend. He has promised us all the assistance in his power, & as we make no doubt you will think it advisable to consult him respecting our Affairs, we could wish you to make application for us by that Gentleman. We submit all our wants to you, satisfied that you are as well acquainted with them as ourselves, & request you will lay them before Government in their proper light. We sincerely wish you success in your present as well as every other undertaking, and a Speedy return to our little Settlement of which you are the Patron. & beg leave to Subscribe ourselves with the utmost Respect—Sir Your most obed & very hum Serv*~*: James Pigot Ezekiel Johnson Henry Smith Joseph Hunter Mark Iles To Col° George Rogers Clark &ca We farther request that in Case Government should be pleased to erect our Settlement into a Corporation or County, you would recommend the officers allready elected among us, and Such other persons for such officers as you may think necessary, in order for their being duly Commissioned.  To Col° George Rogers Clark, Colonel of the Illinois Battalion and Commander in Chief of the Virginia Forces in the Illinois or Western Department now at the Falls of Ohio favoured by Col° Walker.  Inhabitants of Clarksburg on Mississippi.
7

JEFFERSON TO THE HOUSE OF DELEGATES 427 Thomas Jefferson to the Speaker of the House of Delegates, June 14, 1780.1  In Council June 14th 1780. Sir, In a Letter, which I had the Honor of addressing you on the meeting of the present General Assembly, I informed you of the necessities which had led the Executive to withdraw our western troops to the Ohio, since the date of that Letter I have received the inclosed of the second instant from Colo Todd communicating the measures he had adopted in Conjunction with colo Clarke to procure such a Settlement contiguous to the post which shall be taken as may not only strengthen the garrison occasionally, but be able to raise provisions for them. as the confirmation of these measures is beyond the powers of the executive, it is my duty to refer them to the General Assembly, it may be proper to observe that the grant of Lands by colo Todd was made on a supposition that the post woud be taken on the north side of the Ohio whereas I think it more probable it will be on the south side in the Lands lying between the Tanissec Ohio Missisippi and Carolina boundery. These Lands belong to the Chickasaw indians, who from intelligence which we think may be relied on, have entered into war with us. The expenditures of the Ilinois, have been deemed from some expressions in the act establishing that county not subject to the examination of the board of Auditors As the auditing these accounts is very foreign to the ordinary office of the Council of State, would employ much of that time and attention which at at present  called to objects  general importance and as their powers would not enable them to take into consideration the justice and expediency of indemnifying Colo Todd for his Losses and services as desired in the inclosed 1 Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 360, and Chicago Hist. Soc, Collections, iv., 329.
8

 Letter from Him of the thirteenth instant they beg leave to submit the whole to the consideration of the General Assembly. I have the honor to be with great respect & esteem Sir Your most obedient & most humble ser' Th: Jefferson Proposed Grant of Land to Clark, June 30, 1780.  Mr. Strother reported, from the committee of Propositions and Grievances, that the committee had, according to order, had under their consideration, the petition of Col. George Rogers Clarke, together with an Indian deed to him, for a certain tract of land therein mentioned, to them referred, and had agreed upon a report and come to several resolutions thereupon, which he read in his place, and afterwards delivered in at the clerk's table, where the same were again read, and are as followeth: It appears to this committee, that the said Col. George Rogers Clarke, hath rendered great services to this Commonwealth, not only in reducing the British posts at the Kaskaskies and St. Vincent's, and engaging the inhabitants there to become citizens of this Commonwealth; but also in defeating the machinations of our enemies, by attaching to our interest, many heretofore hostile tribes of Indians, and thereby saving the inhabitants of the western frontiers of this and the neighboring States, from a cruel and destructive Indian war, meditated by the British officers against them. It also appears to this committee, that the said Indian tribes inhabiting the country upon the Obache, and the adjacent waters of the Ohio, as a testimony of their great regard for the said Col. Clarke, and their friendship to Virginia, and the other United States of America, made him a deed of conveyance, bearing date the sixteenth day of June, one thousand seven hundred and seventhnine, for a certain tract of land at the falls on the northwest side of the Ohio river, of seven miles and a half square, containing about thirty six thousand acres, which is registered in the records of the court of St. Vincent's; that, although this Commonwealth hath the undoubted right of pre-emption from the Indians, of all
9

PROPOSED GRANT OF LAND TO CLARK 429 lands within its own territory, and the said deed not being valid in law, Col. Clarke disclaims any title under it unless the same shall be confirmed to him by the legislature. Yet this committee, upon considering the allegations in the said petition, are of opinion, that the said tract of land ought to be granted to the said Col. Clarke, for the consideration money of twenty pounds for every hundred acres, reserving for the public use one thousand acres thereof, in the most convenient part, for a fort and town. Whereupon, your committee came to the following resolutions: RESOLVED, That the said petition is reasonable; and that the register of the land office, ought to be empowered to grant unto the said Col. George Rogers Clarke, upon the auditor's certificate of the payment of the sum of seven thousand pounds current money, into the treasury; a special warrant directed to the surveyor of Kentucky county, authorising and requiring him, to lay off and survey, for the said Col. Clarke, the said tract of land, to contain thirty-six thousand acres, according to the following bounds, viz: beginning on the northwest side of the Ohio river, opposite to the middle of the first Island below the falls, and extending thence, up the said river, according to the several courses and meanders thereof, so far as upon reducing the same to a straight line, will measure seven miles and a half; thence into the woods by a course at right angles, with the said reduced lines, so far as by running a line parallel with the said reduced line, seven miles and a half; and from thence to the beginning, will include between the back line and the meanders of the river, the aforesaid quantity of thirty six thousand acres; and upon the return of the plat and certificate, of the said survey, into the land office, and payment of the legal fees, that the Governor be empowered and required to make a grant for the same, unto the said Col. George Rogers Clarke, his heirs and assigns, with a clause or clauses therein, expressly excepting and reserving, for the public use and benefit, the quantity of one thousand acres of land, bounded as follows: beginning on the river side, one hundred and sixty poles below the lower part of the falls, or greatest fall of water; and running thence up the river, according to its several meanders, one hundred and sixty poles above the hammock of drift trees, at the upper end of the said falls; and from thence into the woods by a course at right
0

 angles, from the courses of the river, reduced to a straight line, so far as by running a line parallel thereto, and of the same length with the said reduced line; and from thence a line at right angles to the begining, will include between the back line and the meanders of the river, the said quantity of one thousand acres. RESOLVED, AS THE OPINION OF YOUR COMMITTEE, That the said tract of land ought to be exempted from the payment of taxes, until the adjacent lands on the same side of the Ohio river shall be settled, which is at present prohibited, and taxes imposed on them. The first resolution was read a second time, and disagreed to by the House. The second resolution was read a second time, and disagreed to by the House. Petition of the Inhabitants of Vincennes to the Governor of Virginia, June 30, 1781.l Petition of the inhabitants of Vincennes to the Governor of Virginia. The undersigned have the honor to present to your Excellency, the very serious grievances to which they have been exposed, since the arrival of the Virginia troops in this country; and especially since Colonel Clark left this town have we experienced most horrible treatment from a people who professed to be friends and 1Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, n., 192. * Translation by the editor. A translation is also given in Cal. of Va. State Papers, II., 192. whom we generously received as such. But conditions have totally changed since the departure of that officer. He left in command Colonel Montgomery who, with his officers, has failed to carry out his friendly policy. We have zealously furnished provisions and goods as far as was in our power. Colonel Clark has paid by drafts on the treasurer of Virginia which remain unpaid. The accredited officers of finance and others have assured us that continental money was of equal value with coin, and we accepted the same in good faith. When the Virginians gave us cause to be suspicious of their money, we remonstrated with Colonel Clark and the officers of the garrison, who, notwithstanding this fact, claimed for this money its value in Spanish coin. Mr. John Todd with Captain Leonard Helm, commanding the fort at this town, has caused to be published that this money be received as of equal value with specie, threatening with punishment all who refused it. As soon as we had furnished provisions and goods for this money, the Virginians appeared to think they could take by force our property, our supplies, and even the little we had reserved to keep ourselves alive. Your Excellency must also be informed, that after these first injuries, they have perpetrated others of a more serious character, by killing our cattle in the fields, and our hogs in our yards, taking our flour from the mills, and the corn in our granaries, with arms in their hands threatening all who should resist them and the destruction of the fort we built at our own expense. When they left the town they carried off the artillery, powder and balls, thereby depriving us of the only means of defending ourselves against the fury of the savages whom they have excited against us. This, then, is the manner in which the Virginians have acted in this country. This is the exact truth which your Excellency will hardly believe. This is what we charge M. Vaucheres to lay before you in our behalf and to demand of your Excellency to render us the justice which is due to subjects who believed themselves citizens and friends of the States, and to make adequate return for the money we have received as of the value of specie. Wc beseech your Excellency to give your command to the troops in order that they put an end to the injuries which still continue. We are unwilling longer to submit to these strange exactions incident to their lawless proceedings, and his Excellency will see that the Virginians have entirely ruined us already; and if it be thus you treat your friends, what treatment do you reserve for your enemies? We must ask that your Excellency put an end to our misfortunes, and render us the justice our patience deserves. Assuring you of our profound respect. We have the honor to be &c J. M. P. Le Gras Lieut: Colo. Israel Ruland. Geoffrey Linctot Mjr. Phillibert F. Bosseron Mjr. Pierre Gamelin Pierre Cornoyee Pierre Guerier Legrand Pierre Mallet Dagenet Moses Henry P. Barron L. E. Delisle Francois Barrois Jean Baptists Wallaite Vincennes, June'30, 1781.s

 Thomas Jefferson to Colonel William Preston, July 3,1780.  Richmond July 3J 1780 Sir The measures you have taken for the preservation of the Lead mines by calling in the militia of Montgomery Washington and Botetourt are as wise as could have been advised, and as effectual as in the present State of things can be administered. The distress of the Western Frontier is much too general to confine Crocketts battalion to a single part. It is indispensably necessary that he proceed to aid in taking posts to cover the Western Country & occasionally to join Col° Clarke, as little are we able to send any assistance from below the blue ridge as from that Country 5000 Militia are marched and to be marched to Carolina. It is in our power therefore only to approve of your calling on the militia of the Counties before mentioned; and in order to enforce your calls I write to the Lieutenants of Washington & Botetourt. Col° William Campbell is lately gone up to undertake an expedition of another kind. As it now appears more necessary to turn his arms against our internal enemies, I write to him to do so, former experience having proved him very equal to such a duty. In this as in other cases generally active offensive enterprises are to be preferred. It will probably be better to seek the insurgents & suppress them in their own settlements than to await their coming, as time and Space to move in will perhaps increase their numbers. however at this distance we cannot pretend to give precise orders, but leave the direction of proper measures to the discretion of those who will be in command. Should exigencies require it you will extend your call of Militia to such other Counties as may be necessary. I am Sir Your very humble servt Th: Jefferson  Governours letter July 3d 1780 came to hand the 18th July

DODGE TO JEFFERSON.35 J. M. P. Le Gras to Clark, August 1. 1780.  ST Vincenne Is' Aug 1780. Sir It seems by Mess" Lajeunesse & Gamelin's reports to me that you have refused to give them a Certificate concerning my bills of exchange. The Governor & Counsel of Virginia have refused to pay me for want of such Certificate, they are in doubt if your intention was to draw for hard Cash or for limber dollars; it is very hard after what trouble I had the quantity of money I have spended to retrieve my own that I must be yet in danger of losing all; I have nevertheless furnished this very day one hundred weight of flour to discharged soldiers going to the Falls of Oyo not knowing who shall pay for it; and I am every day obliged to pay Sums of Money to different people for which I was Security for the State I have the honor to be with respect Sir Your most obed' and most Humble Servant J. M. P. Legras P. S. having advanced all my fortune to the State I will be obliged to go again to Virginia, if not paid, or go and hide myself in Some remoted part of the world, not being able to pay my debts; this I hope you will take into consideration, and be my friend. Col° G. R. Clark Esqr  To Col° R. Clark Commandant falls of Oyo  Col Legras Vencennes John Dodge to Thomas Jefferson, August 1, 1780.  Fort Jefferson August 1st 1780. Sir I think it my indispensable duty to lay before you a true state of our situation in this Country since my arrival, which probably may throw some lights on the various reports, which may reach
6

 you through channels not so well acquainted with its real wants as I am. On my arrival at the Falls of the Ohio, Col° John Todd gave me instructions to proceed to Kaskaskies, in order to take charge of the goods when arrived, which were purchased by Mr Lindsay for this department, with farther orders to divide them into two parcels, one of which for the troops, and the other to be disposed of to our friendly indian allies: considering it better to sell them on reasonable  than dispose of them in gifts—Horses and ammunition, being articles much wanted for the Troops, I contracted for and received a quantity of lead and some horses, before the arrival of the goods, and having discretionary powers, was constrained to accept of orders drawn on me for provisions which could not otherwise be obtained. Since the goods came into my hands, the troops and Inhabitants at this place not having received the expected supplies from Government, and being well assured that without some timely relief, the post and settlement must be evacuated, I was also constrained at divers times to issue quantities of the goods intended to be disposed of to our indian allies, in order to furnish them with the means of subsistence. The few troops that are now here are too inconsiderable to guard themselves: nor are the inhabitants much better, notwithstanding they remain in great spirits in expection of relief from Government, and have with great bravery defeated a very large party of Savages who made a regular attack on the village, at day break on the morning of the 17ih ult°. Col° Clark has divided his few men in the best manner possible so as to preserve the Country, the apprehension of a large body of the enemy in motion from detroit towards the falls of Ohio, has called him there with what men he could well spare from this Country, before he had well breathed after the fatigues of an expedition up the Missisippi—and Col° Crockett not arriving with either men or provisions, as was expected, has really involved both the troops and settlers in much distress, and greatly damped the spirits of industry in the latter, which till lately was so conspicuous—I see no other alternative, from the present appearance of our affairs, but that the few goods I have left, after supplying the troops, must all go for the purchase of provisions
7

DODGE TO JEFFERSON,37 to keep this settlement from breaking up: and how I shall ever support my credit, or acquit myself of the obligations I have bound myself under, to those of whom I have made purchases for the troops before the arrival of the Goods, I know not—Our Credit is become so weak among the French inhabitants, our own, and the Spaniards on the opposite side of the Mississippi, that one dollars' worth of provision or other supplies cannot be had from them without prompt payment, were it to save the whole Country —by which you will perceive, that without a constant and full supply of Goods in this quarter to answer the exigencies of Government, nothing can ever be well affected but in a very contracted manner. I observe that the distance the settlers, who come in general, to this Country, have to travel, impoverishes them in a great degree. They come at the expence of their all, in full hopes and expectations of being assisted by Government. Were these hopes cherished and supplies of necessaries of all kinds furnished them in the manner of the neighboring Spaniards, to be paid in produce such as might answer for the troops or for exportation, many good consequences would be attendant, emigrants, on such encouragement, would flock to us in numbers instead of submitting to the Spanish Yoke—the principal part of their new settlements would join us. all those from the Natchez in particular, only wait the encouraging invitation to remove themselves and their properties to our settlement, preferring the mildness of our laws to the rigours of the Spanish, which they detest, notwithstanding their great offers. Such encouragement would be a spur to industry which would never die. The troops would in a little time, be solely furnished in provisions by our settlers, and in process of time, a valuable trade might be opened with the overplus. These hints I beg leave to offer to your own better judgement conscious, that if they are worthy of notice you will direct their proper uses. I have got a party of the friendly savages of the Kaskaskie tribe to hunt and scout for us—they are of singular service, as the provisions in store, are totally exhausted, and indeed their hunting tho', it may afford an useful, yet it is a very precarious supply. As to the general disposition of these indians in alliance with us,
8

 it appears at present to be very peaceable; but as poverty is always subject to temptation, I fear their good intentions may be seduced by those who have it more in their power to supply their wants, being well convinced of the necessity of having proper supplys for them, which will not only keep them in our interest, but even afford us a very beneficial traffic. The bearer of this travels to the falls of Ohio, thro' the wood. I am uncertain what the fate of my letter will be, as I know he has a dangerous and tedious journey before him—however, by the next opportunity I shall do myself the honor of writing to your Excellency a few more of my observations, begging leave once more, to remark the necessity of keeping at all times, full supplies of goods in this remote quarter, in order to forward the service of Government encourage the settlement of the frontiers, supply our troops with necessaries, provisions &c, and finally open a very profitable and extensive trade in little time. Forgive the freedom of my remarks, which you will please to do me the honor to correct. I have the honour to be Your Excellencys' most obedient and most humble servant <S:c &c. John Dodge Memorial of the Inhabitants of Vincennes to the French Minister, Luzerne, August 22, 1780. 1 Memorial addressed to his Excellency M. the Chevalier de la Luzerne, Minister Plenipotentiary of His Most Christian Majesty to the United States of America by the inhabitants of the Post Vincennes, August 22, 1780. 1 Translation by the editor. For the declaration of the people of CahokL-v see Alvord, Cahokia Records (I. H. C, II.), 535 etseq; and for a similar declaration from the people of Kaskaskia, sec Alvord, Kaskaskia Records (I. H. C. v.), 18') etseq., lOT etseq. From the bottom of their hearts and with the frankness which characterizes all good Frenchmen, the inhabitants of the Post Vincennes, formerly faithful subjects of the king of France, dare to avow to your Excellency, that they are ready to join the troops of this monarch their former and most worthy lord to act sincerely against his enemies whoever they may be. Nothing could conform more to their desire, to the vows which they have made for it and for their liberty. Finally they swear by all that is most sacred to men, to live and die with these principles. It is important to acquaint your Excellency that we are in intercourse with the French established at Detroit, and these with our relatives and friends, the Canadians; that they wait unanimously for us to commence hostilities, because we are no longer under the dominion of the English, and because a large number of Indians wish to join us. That is why we look upon this with favor; but find ourselves entirely without ammunition and the goods necessary for gifts to the Indian nations who are allied to us; our good will in this respect has no effect. It is still more unbearable for us to lack means on such a favorable occurrence to our plans and even to our interests, that our friends of Detroit hope each day to see us arrive among them to deliver them from a slavery which is becoming more and more unbearable. Their tyrants crush them with taxes; they force them under severe punishment to go to war against the American allies of France; finally we learn that they are so abused, and their condition is so hopeless, that from the moment they see the least help, they will take up arms at once, and with them mamIndians whom the French were careful to win over in as far as their scanty means allowed. It is well to warn your Excellency, that it is not on the assistance of the United States troops that we count to break the yoke which oppresses us. Besides the fact that the Indians can not bear them and their aversion towards them seems unbreakable, we all believe that the best policy would be not to receive them in our lands, where English blood is already too abundant. We do not wish the Indians who have a common cause with us to be dominated; they abandon the cultivation of their fields to us, and on our side we wish to help them in their need by our works, our industry, and our commerce with them. When we shall have expelled our tyrants and France shall have recognized our absolute independence, her allies shall be ours; and, since we have nothing more in our hearts than to show proof, not doubtful, of the respectful and tender affection which we have kept for the King of France, our former ruler, and since we place ourselves entirely under his protection, his wishes shall always be our rule. Your Excellency surely knows that the French established on this continent have suffered extremely, that they have had a large amount of obstacles to surmount, that they have been a hundred times innocent victims and prey of wars undertaken by the English jealous of the prosperity of our trade with the Indians. Free, we can put one hundred thousand men in the field, the Indians two hundred thousand for the same cause; consequently, aided by the assistance which we ask now from the King, our common father, to give to us as the events may require, we hope in a short time to become a power and count among the European nations established on this vast continent. From that moment we shall enjoy the works and sacrifices which our predecessors made, we shall be more worthy of the name French, which we bear with pride, and for which we are ready to undertake everything. Perhaps your Excellency has not been well informed concerning the kind of service which the United States troops rendered us in this war; it will be well to give your Excellency a brief outline of it. At the head of a small United States army, General Montgomery arrived starving in Canada; far from making the least resistence the inhabitants received and supported officers and soldiers, and even asked for arms to act unanimously against the English; but this was refused; they wished to have all the glory, to gather all the laurels, and to conquer. What happened? A sudden appearance, a retreat too prompt not to be called a flight, considerable debts which are not yet paid, the misfortune of several families which exiled themselves, and the British becoming more watchful over us. On the other side Virginia acting with a zeal too ardent for our interests, this zeal which can legally be called indiscreet, sent us about two hundred men half naked like the graces. The warriors thus equipped, marched under the orders of Colonel Clark, who came to free us and capture a few officers upheld by a small detachment of English soldiers. Your Excellency will sec hereafter the result of this officious undertaking. These troops, said they, came on behalf of the French and of Congress. From that time no one thought it best to resist; on the contrary, all joined them; we met them half way and enrolled under their colors; we helped capture the English; we restrained the Indians who wished to resist; and finally; we gave up all for a people who claimed to be allied with France. Gratitude has always been a virtue. Your Excellency will see how the Virginians honor it. They hastened to flood this country with their paper money, which they said was equal in value to the metal coins and we were good natured enough to accept it as such. They bought all our goods, our horses, our provisions with the pretended money; and when we could not furnish them with any more, they had the audacity to go armed into the public mills and into the granaries of different houses to take away by force flour or grain destined for our food. Not satisfied with this violence, they thought they had the privilege of a different sort of abuse. They went and shot our cattle in the fields and our pigs in the streets and in the yards; and what is worse, they menaced and struck on the cheek those inhabitants, who wished to stop these strange extractions. By these revolting proceedings therefore it has come about that the Virginians have entirely ruined us, and have brought war on us with several lake tribes, from which about twenty unfortunate inhabitants arc already victims. They have left us without means of defense by taking away the arms and ammunition which they sent to their forts, so that the Indians of the Wabash who are faithful to us and are our bulwark, tribes to which we can no longer furnish anything, are obliged to hunt with the bow. They have caused more than one hundred young men to leave us, who have gone to find resources in another place. They have forced us to abandon the cultivation of our fields, partly through fear of being killed by parties who come there to surprise us as a fox, and they have been the cause of the death of a great and intrepid Indian chief who was killed in avenging our people, an irreparable loss which we mourn as well as the tribes attached to us. Ho Virginians! if it is thus that you treat the former and faithful subjects of the great King, your ally, if it is thus you wish to enrich us, to free us, to make us happy, leave us to the rigor of our fate! If it is thus, finally, that you act with your friends, what treatment do von have for vour enemies! This is what in the name of the French, our ancestors, we have been able to bear till now without a murmur. This is the exact truth which your Excellency will have trouble in believing. This is what we can not and will not suffer in the future, and this is what we ask the Virginians, who depart from this land to go to their own homes, to make known from us to their governor. After the too long but indispensable narration which your Excellency has just seen, we hope that far from disapproving our conduct, you will honor us with your favor, so that the state of Virginia may give back that which the troops carried off against all right, and present to the king of France the respectful homage of former subjects who ask justice with confidence. In the address which the Count d'Estaing has sent us, he promised us a support which we merit by the sentiments which we cherish; but when they refused in France to help former countrymen (a thing which we are far from believing) we dare to say to your Excellency that strong political reasons and reasons of interest demand it. It can not be denied, without doing violence to truth, that it was not advantageous to France to be able to dispose at pleasure of a numerous people, whose liberty and attachment for her has been beyond expectation and who have always been ready to join her flag on the least signal when the occasion demanded it. The great trade which we have with the Indians for which we have in return skins, building wood, dried fish, flour, and tobacco superior to that grown in Virginia and Maryland, horses, coal, different metals which the recently discovered mines furnish and which we can easily work. These are articles of commerce from which, we dare say, France would annually derive more profit than she could from the commerce which she will make with United States of America. We ask pardon of your Excellency for the length of this writing and the slowness with which we made known to you our true sentiments. Since his arrival at Vincennes Colonel de la Balme was right in calling our silence on this matter a crime; he wishes to justify us towards your Excellency by bringing you our request. The ardent zeal of this French officer, whom we wish to stay among us, makes him spend all his time in our favor in order to drag us from the danger which meances us; he has made several Indian tribes promise to join us to fight the English and they have all asked him as their supreme chief to present their affections to the King of France, their father, and to intercede for help for which they have urgent need. Therefore we join ourselves to the troubles and sentiments of the old men and Indian chiefs which make them have a claim on M. de la Blame; we have entire confidence in that officer. In a short time he learned to fathom our hearts; he will make us known to your Excellency. As for us we promise not to belie the proofs that he may give concerning the pure and unalterable affection that the former subjects of a King full of goodness have kept for him, from the time when they were forcefully abandoned to their enemies. This is what the inhabitants of Vincennes pray your Excellency to believe, and receive as sincere the profound respect which they feel for your Excellency, Very humble & obedient servants Joseph Andre Antoine Lefevre Dagenet Joseph St. Marie Fr. Mallet Chalbonneau Etienne St. Marie Olivier Jautier Marcot «Phillibert » Legrand Gabriel Raulon Louis Mallet J. M. Le Gras, Junior Jean S. Miliette J. Huberdeau Pierre Gamelin I, Etienne Phillibert dit Orleans declare that all the above signatures are veritable and signed by the aforesaid. I, notary royal at the Post Vincennes, declare it signed for and in the name of all by their own will. Phillibert, notary, signed for and in the name of all.  Petition of the inhabitants of Vincennes to the Chevalier Luzerne, Minister Plenipotentiary to the United States of America, the 22d of August 1780. Received at Quebec the 4th December, 1780.



CHAPTER XI CLARK'S EXPEDITION AGAINST THE SHAWNEE AND EVENTS TO THE CLOSE OF 1780 Re-enforcements to be Sent from Virginia—Expedition against the Shawnee, August 2, 1780—Distress of the Inhabitants at Fort Jefferson—Similar Conditions at the Other Western Posts. Clark to Governor Jefferson, August 22, 1780. 1 Louisville, August 22d, 1780:2 "By every possible exertion, and the aid of Col. Slaughter's corps, we completed the number of 1000, with which we crossed the river at the mouth of Licking on the first day of August, and began our march on the 2d. Having a road to cut for the artillery to pass, for 70 miles, it was the 6lh before we reached the first town, which we found vacated, and the greatest part of their effects carried off. The general conduct of the Indians, on our march, and many other corroborating circumstances, proved their design of leading us on to their own ground and time of action. After destroying the crops and buildings of Chillecauthy, we began our march for the Picaway settlements, on the waters of the Big Miami, the Indians keeping runners continually before our advanced guards. At half past two in the evening of the 8th, we arrived in sight of the town and forts, a plain of half a mile in width lying between us. I had an opportunity of viewing the situation and motion of the enemy near their works. 1 This document was published under the title, "Gen. Clark's Campaign, 1780.—Official Letter. Richmond, (Virginia) Oct 4 Extract of a letter from Col George Rogers Clark to his Excellency the Governor, dated Louisville, August 22d, 1780." The present copy is from the transcription by Dr. Draper. 2 Compare this account of the expedition against the Shawnee with that given by Henry Wilson, post, 476. 451
2

 I had scarcely time to make those dispositions necessary, before the action commenced on our left wing, and in a few minutes became almost general, with a savage fierceness on both sides. The confidence the enemy had of their own strength and certain victory, or the want of generalship, occasioned several neglects, by which those advantages were taken that proved the ruin of their army, being flanked two or three different times, drove from hill to hill in a circuitous direction, for upwards of a mile and a half; at last took shelter in their strongholds and woods adjacent, when the firing ceased for about half an hour, until necessary preparations were made for dislodging them. A heavy firing again commenced, and continued severe until dark, by which time the enemy were totally routed. The cannon playing too briskly on their works they could afford them no shelter. Our loss was about 14 killed and thirteen wounded; theirs at least triple that number. They carried off their dead during the night, except 12 or 14 that lay too near our lines for them to venture. This would have been a decisive stroke to the Indians, if unfortunately the right wing of our army had  been rendered useless for some time by an uncommon chain of rocks that they could not pass, by which means part of the enemy escaped through the ground they were ordered to occupy. By a French prisoner we got the next morning we learn that the Indians had been preparing for our reception ten days, moving their families and effects: That the morning before our arrival, they were 300 warriors, Shawanese, Mingoes, Wyandotts and Delawares. Several reinforcements coming that day, he did not know their numbers; that they were sure of destroying the whole of us; that the greatest part of the prisoners taken by Byfd, were carried to Detroit, where there were only 200 regulars, having no provisions except green corn and vegetables. Our whole store at first setting out being only 300 bushels of corn, and 1500 of flour; having done the Shawanese all the mischief in our power, after destroying Picawey settlements, I returned to this post, having marched in the whole 480 miles in 31 days. We destroyed upwards of 800 acres of corn, besides great quantities of vegetables, a considerable proportion of which appear to have
3

AUGUST 23, 1780 453 been cultivated by white men, I suppose for the purpose of supporting war parties from Detroit. I could wish to have had a small store of provisions to have enabled us to have laid waste part of the Delaware settlements, and falling in at Pittsburg, but the excessive heat, and weak diet, shew the impropriety of such a step. Nothing could excel the few regulars and Kentuckyans, that composed this little army, in bravery, and implicit obedience to orders; each company vying with the other who should be the most subordinate." Clark to John Clark, August 23, 1780.  Dr Sir This will be handed you by Mr James Sutton who has accompanied me on a late succesful Expedition against the Shawanees in which he done himself much honour the particulars of the Expedition he will give you also the fate of poor Joseph Rogers who lost his Life in the Moment it might have been his power to Rendered his Cry great service—his fate was fixed no pbility of saving him the Shawnees have at last got Defeated and their country laid waiste I have been so Ingaged in the war this Summer that it has been out of my power to pay any attention to Lands so that I can give you no Inteligence on that head The partizans in these Cuntries are again Soliciting me to head them as ir Governor General as all those from foreign States are for a new Government but my duty obliging me to Suppress all such proceedings I consequently shall loose the Interest of that party. I learn that the scale of fortune has been against us to the Southward but we are so Inperfectly Informed that we hardly know what to credit. I Refer you to Mr  news, after my Complements to] all Friends I beg leave to subscribe my self Yr Dutifull Son G R Clark Louisville Augst 23d 1780  Mr. John Clark Caroline Co. Va. 
,55 Thomas Jefferson to Clark, September 8, 1780.  Richmond Sep 8th 1780. Sir Your Letters of July by Mr Randolph came safe to hand. In a former letter to you on the Subject of this summer's operations (which I hear you never received) I informed you that the County Lieutenants to whom I had referred to determine on a plan of co-operating with their militia had estimated the expence at 1,995,000 pounds a greater sum that we had in our treasury, could every other demand of money for government have been suspended, this of course negatived the attempt on a large scale for this season: and indeed no wealth of which we have a prospect will enable us to undertake an expedition on their estimate, while the war continues to the Eastward. I have no doubt whatever but this estimate might by a judicious hand be greatly abridged. Thus disappointed of our first wish, we determined to order 280 militia out, with Col° Crockets men, who tho' principally intended to be stationed at posts, were yet made subject to your orders & expected to be employed by you in active enterprises as long as the season would admit. Colo Crocket will now march within a few days. in order that you might be supplied with provisions from the inhabited country between the blue ridge & Ohio a Commissary & Quarter master (Mr Boush) was appointed at Winchester and another (Evan Baker) in Washington with orders to forward their provision to you. from the former I have heard nothing, the latter is preparing necessaries for Col° Crocket's march. Our late misfortunes to the Southward will be related to you by Mr Randolph, they occasion great calls on our militia & will compleatly disable us from further strengthening you this season. I am to ask the favor of you to countersign all demands for money which arise under you. We have been obliged to decline many, which very possibly might be just, because they were drawn by persons unknown to us, & for services perhaps not authorized by you. The Militia accounts incurred in the expedition you are now engaged in must come to the auditors authenticated in the same way. Some Draughts brought by Mr Randolph have been rejected for this reason. Yours & Major Slaughter's are duly
6

 honoured: there happened an unlucky circumstance for the owners of the latter, the Assembly had raised the price of land by a law which was not to take place but on my receiving a certain matter of information & then proclaiming it. I happened to be from this place a fortnight, during my absence this information came, as did Mr Randolph, he had occasion to leave town. I returned & withheld the proclamation two days waiting for his return that the peoples orders might be paid off and their money laid out as they had directed in lands at the old price. Unluckily he did not come for several days, & we were obliged to proclaim the law, which put it out of our power to relieve them. As to the choice of the situation on the Mississippi we leave it still, as before, to yourself altogether. I wish it were possible to engage the Piankishaws in war against the British Indians. Should the ammunition sent and to be sent this year to the Westward be insufficient, we will send a further quantity if desired by you. I am Sir with great esteem & respect Your most obed' hble Servant Th Jefferson Col° Clarke John Montgomery to Clark, September 22, 1780.  Fort Clark, Sept 22th 1780 Dear Colol Sir—1 had the pleasure of Receving your Letter By Mr Glen & Exceeding hapey to hear of your Sucses & Espeshiley of your safe ARivel and now By Express send you Cap' Georges Letter Which will Give the nues as Nothing Elce has hapened Elce Where in this part of the country But at his post.1 The second nite after the atact Begun, he sent Me an Express By Jack Ash & an indian Came To Me in four dayes at Kaskaskia Where I had Just arived from kohos. I had no Trupes With Me But three officers that Came to ascort Me down I aplied to the Militia to Goin Me to Go to the Assistance of That distresed post But there answer Was they thot it thier dutey to Stay and Take Care of their Wives and 1 Captain Robert George was in charge at Fort Jefferson.
7
,57 Children: I then had No Other Shift But to Aply To the kaskaskia indians to Go With Me as I thot it imprudent to Wate until The Trupes Could Come from kahoe I then Amediately imberked With som provision ten White Men & Sixtey five indians With a determination to fite our way into The fort But Expected to lose our provision as the thorrowfair is Dried up and not adraup of Mesepie  With in half Amile of the fort but When We Got there the Enemye had Quite their Atact The inhabitunts semed Much discurraged and Were all prepering their Botes to start of But I preveled on them to Wate untill next Morning When I Assemleld them to Gether Telling them the Bad Conse-quence of Going to a strange please With out aney Thing to purchase provision & Living under a despotick Goverment as Liberty wos What the had Contended For telling them that Evey promis you had Mead them that I then wos Redey To proform in your Absence the Answer they Maide Me Wos, how Cold I Expect them or Request them to stay When their Stockes Wos intirely Lost Theire Cropes destroyed & worst of all A great part of there Fameleys Gone To the Grave of all Silance With Sickelyness; &, Sir knowing that to be a truth as Everey day I Remeaned there one two or Three Wos Buried Which threw Humanity I Could not Compell them To stay But prevelled on som of the principal inhabitents to Remean & som others to take the Rout up to this post and the Remender went Down, as soone as I Got Matters alittle Setled I Came up to purchase a Quantity of provision as I had the The Oppertunity of purchasing a Quantitey of Goods that Mr Pollock Offered us the Refusel of at A most Exorbetent prise But you know Needs Must When the devel drives As We Could not Git one Mouthful on the Credit of the state the Goods I have deposited in Capt Dodges hands With in structions to purchase Alarge Quantitey of Corn flower & Salt But I Much despair in his Giting The Quantitey desired as theire Cropes Wos Mean, I Expect to start in a few Dayes with the Ballance of the trupes From Kaho to Campt Gefferson Except Capt Rogers Companey ho I have orderd To Remean untill furder orders Sir it is imposible to Geve you a full deteall as it Would take a Quire of peaper But hope soone to have the favour of seeing you at 
8

 Thomas Jefferson to Clark, September 27, 1780.  Richmond Sep 27. 1780 Sir Mr Randolph having been prevented by sickness from setting out for the Westward, gives me an opportunity of sending you by him my last orders to Col Crocket. I am with great respect Sir Your most Obed' Serv' Th: Jefferson Thomas Jefferson to Joseph Crockett, September 27, 1780.  Richmond Septr 27th 1780. Sir, I suppose Mr Baker must by this time be in readiness to do his part towards moving your battalion to the Westward, as soon as he is so, you will please to proceed with them, let your pay rolls be made up to the day of your march, as so far they will be chargeable to the continent. The inclos'd advice of council pointing out your destination & that of the quotas of militia call'd from the Western counties, with Gen Lewis's letter also inclos'd, containing his sentiments as to the best manner of executing the intention of the Executive, renders it unnecessary for me to take up that part of the subject. You know that our dependance is on you to direct the march & route of those Militia, and their mode of proceeding to establish themselves. I have further to add, that as soon as you have an opportunity you are to give notice to Col° Clarke of your movements, numbers of regulars, success in collecting the militia, progress in making your establishments & general prospects, and afterwards from time to time whenever opportunities occur to give him like information. The purpose of this is to put it in his power to leave you to pursue the plan chalked out by the Executive, or to take up any other, or call you on any different enterprize which he shall think better, our intention being to submit the disposal of this force perfectly to the will of Col° Clark whose knowledge of the Country to be defended,
9

Mccarty to todd, October 14, nso 459 of its weeknesses & resources, enables him to form the best plans for preserving it under its actual circumstances, and whom we do not mean to trammel in the execution of his plans by any positive instructions to you. those therefore which have been & now are given, you are only to pursue till you receive contrary directions from him. I wish you to be speedy in your departure & subsequent movements, & health and success in your undertakings & am with great esteem Sir, Your most obed' hum Serv' ThJ Colo Crockett  From Government to Col. Crocket Thomas Jefferson to Clark, October 12, 1780.  Richmond October 12, 1780 Sir We have this moment learnt that there is in possession of Col° Gibson at Fort Pitt or his Pay-master a quantity of Clothing fit for Soldiers: As Majr Slaughter's Corps we know is in want, and yours may possibly be I have given Majr Moore an Order to receive it, and deliver it to your order I am with great respect Sir Your most obed' humble serv' Th: Jefferson Col° Geo. R. Clarke  Colo George Rogers Clarke Louisville.  Tho" Jefferson Octr 1780 Richard McCarty to John Todd, Jr., October 14, 1780.'  Cascakia, 14th Oct'r 1780 Sir: Where shall I begin to Appologize for the Different light and Oppinion, I saw, and had of you when hear last Year, and now; the spirit of a free subject that you inculcated thro' your Better 1 Printed also in Cat. of Va. State Papers, I., 379; Chi. Hist. Soc, Collections, Iv., 336.
0

 knowledge of things was hid to me; In short, Honnor requires of me to render you the Justice you deserve, and at the same time to inform you that the reason of altering my notions of things.1 I then thought the Troops hear would be duely Supported by the State and the Legal Expence for them paid to the people Justly; I then thought the Duty of an Officer who had any Command was to see Justice done his soldiers and that they had their Rights without wronging his Country; I then thought it was also his Duty to foresee and use all manner of Occonomie in Laying up Provisions for the Soldiers, to carry on any Opperation that his Suppiriours should judge Expedient to order him on without any regard to any Private or Particular Interest Whatever but for the Good and General Interest of the State he served, I then never Immagined that an Agent would be sent hear to Trade in Connection with a Private Person to Purchase the Certificates from the People at such rates which must appear Scandalous & Dishonorable to the State.2 to the Conterary of all which I am now Convinced by Occular Demonstration; in Short we are become the Hated Beasts of a whole people by pressing horses, Boats, &c, &c, &c, Killing Cattle, &c, &c, &c, for which no valuable Consideration is given; even many not a Certificate; which is hear looked on as next to nothing. I have Sent Colo Clarke in an Extract from my Journal,3 the proceedings as far as I kno' of One Colo. Dela Balme and his raising a party to go against Detroit,4 not being a Commander I can not say whither he has proper Authority to do so or not, or by whom authorized so to do; the people have sent by him memorials to Congress or the french Envoy at Philadelphia setting forth all the Evil we have done. I think Government should be informed of this as the people are now entirely Ag'st us; he has told Indians french Troops will be hear in the Spring; I have no Right to find 1 For his opinion of Colonel Todd, September 19, 1780, see Alvord, Cahokia Records (I. H. C, II.). 615. 2 He accused John Dodge and Thomas Bentley of purchasing these certificates. Ibid., 621. 3 Printed in ibid., 618 et seq. * For a history of De la Balme, see ibid., Index; also C. M. Burton, "Augustin Motin de la Balme," in 111. Hist. Soc, Transactions, 1909, p. 104.
1
,61 fault or Blame My Suppiriours, yet I have a right to see plaine, and wish for the credit of the State that Government had Eyes to see hear as Plaine as I do. I am Sir With Esteme & Consideration Your most obedient & Humble Servant Rich'd McCarty. To Jno. Todd, Esq'. Robert George to Clark, October 28, 1780.1  Fort Jefferson, 28th of October, 1780. Dr. Col°: Our present distress puts me under the necessity of informing you by Express the absolute necessity of your presence at this place we are Reduced to a Very small Number at present occasioned by Famine, Desertion and Numbers daly Dying; we have but a Very Small Quantity of provisions at present Col'o Montgomery on his way to New Orleans call'd on us, he says that Capt. Dodge has purchased one thousand Bushells of Corn and Ten Thousand Lb. of Flower which is all that is to Shew fromaaCargoe of Eleven Thousand hard dollars worth of goods Sent by Mr. Pollock to You together with about five or six thousand Dollars worth from this place. We are informed they are Intirely Expended I Expect Capt. Philip Barbour up Every day with a Quantity of Goods for this State and Should be glad of Directions from you that they may not be Exhausted in the manner we have reason to doubt the rest was Its rather tedious to mention the Conduct at the Illinois since your departure as nothing but your presence can Rectify it If necessity detains you from us pray send and express as soon as possible, The Inhabitants is chiefly gone down the River and what there is left is Very much distressed Lieut. Clarke Sett off to Kaskaskias this morning to know the Certainty of the provisions being purchased, It appears there was a parogue Sent down Sometime ago loaded with Corn and Fower with Eight Men who deserted with it Down the River. I doubt the greatest part of this Batallion will soon Turn Merchants all for the want of your 1 Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 382.
2

 Presence here. If there is not Some Step taken to prevent it Lieut. Daltin is gowin down the river with Col. Montgomery in order if possible to  Capt. Williams has arrived here with Col. John Montgomery and assum'd the command which I Refused to give up without further orders from you, Major. Harlin is out hunting but is at a loss for want of Horses. I have sent for all the State Horses at Kaskaskias but it appears there is but few, what is gone with them God knows but I believe there will be a Very disagreeable Accompt Rendered to you of them as well as many other things when called for The poor distressed remains of this little Borough Joins in prayers for Your presence once more at this place I am Sir Your most Obe. & Very Humble Servant, Robert George, Capt. Command'r of Fort Jefferson. I have letters from Mr. Pollock to you which I omit sending for fear of Miscarriage. To Colo. George Rogers Clarke. Falls of Ohio. Robert George to John Rogers, October 27, 1780.  Fort Jefferson 27th Octr 1780. Sir Lieu' Clark goes up in order to bring us down some provision, I hope you will be of as much Assistance to him as possible; our Craft lies on Dry Ground, & we are not able to put any in the River. I have wrote to Capt. Dodge to hire a Boat (if can do no better) which if he does, You will send down as many Men as will Take her back again— & hope you will see that Good & holdsome provision is sent You may be Assured that we are in great Distress, You will therefore Assist us all you can. Mr Clark will give You all the News that we have, hope therefore You will Excuse the shortness of my Letter & am Sir Your Obdt Serv' Robt George
3
,63 NB. Mr W. Clark presents bis Compliments to Cap' Rogers & hopes, that the want of paper will appoligize for not sending a Letter  Cap' John Rogers at Kaskaskias favd by L' Clark  Capt. Robert George to Rogers 27ih Octo. 80 John Williams to Clark, October 28, 1780.1  Camp Jefferson 28th of Oct. 1780. Sir: On the 23d of this Instant I arived at this poast by order of Colo. John Montgomery to take the Command but from the Carrector he at present bares Capt. George did not think proper to give him or any other person the command at this poast untill he being properly Releav'd by your order, I for my part, Seeing times so precarious and what might Insue from the least contest or Umbridge between Capt. Robt. George and myself Am determined to Remain as Retired as possible untill your arrival here. I commanded at Cahokias Since the Expedition up the Mississippi till ordered to this post and here I found both the Soldiers as well as the Inhabitants in the most dissolate Situation Immaginable not So much by Reason of Sickness as for the want of good provisions. there is a quantity of provisions purchased at present but the difficulty we Labour under now is Sickness and lowness of water prevents us getting any provisions down at this time by which Reason we are kept Constantly Starveing, As I am Convinced before the reception of this you are satisfied from Government in Regard to my Majority I would be glad you'd Give me Instructions by the first oppertunity in what Manner to Act. I Expect to see you shortly at this place for other News. I refer you to Capt. Robert George's letter, and Remain with the greatest esteem, Your very Humble Servant, (Signed) John Williams, Capt. In Illinois Battalion. 1 Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 383.


 Leonard Helm to George Slaughter, October 29, 1780.1  Fort Jefferson, Oct. 29th, 1780. Dr. Col. Siting by Capt. Georges fire with a piece of Light wood and two Ribs of an old Bufloe which is all the meat We have Seen this many days, I congratulate your Success Against The Shawanahs but their never doubts when that brave Col. Clarke Commands, we will know the Loss of him at the Ilinois, I expect he is well aquainted with the Conduct of some Gen't at that place by Capt. Georges Letter, our situation is malancholy but has not time at present to acquaint. I received the Agreable Balsom you sent by Maj. Harling which all that I have had this Summer the Gen't at Keskais Could not spare us about 8 or 10 Gal. Out of about 6 or 7 Hogsheads sent by Mr. Pollock to Col. Clark, the Use it was apl'd to with many other things Expect Col. Clarke will be made acquainted with if we have the hapiness to see him once more at this place, I wanted badly to Come to your parts but at Capt. Georges request waits the return of Express Excuse hast as the Lightwoods just out and mouth watering for part of the two Ribs, tell Capt. Todd Henry Croucher produced Accts. against him for more than he had against him. With compliments to Madam Slaughter and all Aquaintances am with Esteem Yr. Obeident & Humble Servant, Leod Helm. N. B. Capt. George gives his compliments but has neither Ligh nor paper To Colo. George Slaughter. John Todd, Jr., to Thomas Jefferson, November 30, 1780.*  Lexington, Nov. 30, 1780. May It Please Your Excellency. We have been for sometime past & are still dreading an Invasion from the neighbouring Northern Indians. Intelligence by 1 Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 383. 2 Printed in ibid., 393.
7

TODD TO JEFFERSON,67 the way of St. Vincent informs us that late in Oct° a great number of Indians and English were at the late-destroy'd Shawnese Towns waiting the rise of the waters to make a Descent either against the Falls or this place. I have order'd upon duty part of the Militia of this County (Fayette) at three of the most exposed forts and I am purchasing up a quantity of Corn. The people seem fond at Present to sell to the Country and Corn will be almost the only article which Government may expect from the Quarter. I expect to procure between one and two thousand Bushels by giving certificates to be settled by the Auditors or agreed upon by the Commissary for 40 or 50 Barrel or 2-6 hard money. I hope I have not acted amiss in this Respect Altho' I have no Instructions As the Assembly at Session recommended the plan laid by the several County Lieutenants there is a certainty of a vigorous attack next Spring I conclude that a Delay for Orders is unnecessary. The Indians are annoying us every week in small parties. Two small detachments of Militia are now in pursuit of Some who stole Horses two nights ago from McConnells Station. A cargo of Goods I have heard is arrived at Fort Jefferson for the Use of the State said to be consigned by Mr. Pollock to myself as Co. Lieut, of Illinois. I purpose writing to Capt. Dodge to store them up until further Orders from your Excellency as soon as I shall an Oppertunity & the Report shall be authenticated. I hope to be excused in expressing my Desires that your Excellency may have in Contemplation an Early Expedition next Spring against our savage neighbors. I will venture to assure you that any Orders which ma tend to that purpose will be executed with the greatest alacrity by Officers and Men. Capt. Quirk I hear is on the way with 30 or 40 men and I can hear nothing from Col. Crockett. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect your Excellency mo. Obedient & humble Servant, John Todd, Jr. P. S. Dec. 4th. Since writing the above I hear that a Lieut. Montgomery with 24 Men the whole of Quirk Co. have arrived the other side of the River. J. Todd.
8

 Richard Harrison to Clark, December 7, 1780.  Falls of Ohio 7th of December 1780 Dn Col° From the accounts we have had from Fort Jefferson, that place Being allmoast destitute of Men and Officers, occasioned by the Chief of them turning Merchants, and others Going down the River, I have thought it my duty to Repair to that poast Immediately. I propose leaveing this place the day after Tomorrow with my artillery and her Stoares. Cap' Shannon is Likewise Takeing down a Quantity of Corn with him I hope we Shall Soon Releave them there of their distresses. I am Informed by the Express from there of Cap' Phil. Barbours Comeing Up with a Very Large Cargoe for this State I Expect he is at the Mouth of the River by this time. The Indians are Still Troublesome to us here. Takeing of horses Killing and Takeing off prisoners from this and other adjasent Stations, we have had No arrivals as Yet from above Mr Randolph and Cap' More are not Yet Come we are as You Left us Cap' Worthington is Still at Harrodsburgh. I am of oppinion he do Not Intend Going down this winter, If there is No Great Necessity for my Remaining at Fort Jefferson I propose being here again in the Month of February in order to Receive any Instructions You may Send forward to this place. I am Informd what few of the Inhabitants that are left at Charksville are desireous of Your Moving them down to the Iron banks or Your Order for So doing as in time of low water it is Intirely dry Between the forts and Island which makes that place Very Inconvenient what few that is there when I go down I will do all in my power to Incourage them in order to Keep up the place for I Shall always be of the Oppinion that Some where about there will be one of the first places in this State in a very few Years I am Dr Col° Your Most Obedient and Most Humble Servant RD Harrison Ps Pensacola is not as yet Taking by Reason of the Despute Between Governor Galvez and admiral of the Spanish fleat Governor Galvez had orders from the Court of Spain to have the

1 Vincennes, December 1, 1780. Sir, It is with regret I inform you of the melancholy defeat that our Frenchmen encountered at the Miami, Colonel de la Balme having started with about eighty men in order to take Baubin; and not having found this infamous scoundrel, our Frenchmen plundered the goods belonging to him. In returning they were attacked by the Miami nations who killed the bravest of them and retook the goods which belonged to the king. Colonel de la Balme was killed as well as M. Duplasy, Milliet, Cardinal, Joseph André and a number of other volunteers. Doctor Ray is a prisoner. This affair has thrown us into a good deal of consternation, for there is a great scarcity of provisions and 1 Draper MSS., 50J77, but with a few changes. ammunition. I pray you, if you can, to send us a barrel of powder in order to be able to sustain the honor of the state as we have done until now. I arrived from Illinois a few days since where I suffered every possible disgrace. I had accepted several notes for the provisions that you received from the inhabitants—those gentlemen took no share in the sacrifices I was making for the United States. They fell upon me, which has taken away my last resources. I as well as Major Bosseron offered your bills of exchange which they refused. I had sent them to New Orleans as they are drawn upon Mr. Oliver Pollock. They returned unpaid. I beg you if you can to send me in place of this same bill of exchange, one of the same amount as those which are sent you from the treasury of Virginia for seventeen hundred and sixtytwo dollars in order to procure me some means of ministering to my pressing wants, whilst waiting the reception of those I left at Williamsburg. Mentions the Defeat of Col. De la balme who went in pursuit of Baubin—The Col. on his Return took possession of his Goods but afterwards lost them being defeated by a party of Miamis & the Col. & others named herein fell in the action—he entreats Gen Clark to send a supply of powder & money to purchase necessaries—Mr Pollock at new Orleans sent back Gen. Clark's Bills unpayed Be assured of my sincerity for the interest of the States, and that I will be for life Your very humble and very obedient servant J. M. P. Le Gras. Major Bosseron joins me in respects to you. As he has heard that you have some bills of exchange ready made on the treasury of Virginia and as he is in want in order to pay his debts, he would beg you to send him to the amount of twelve thousand  piastres in order to fulfil the obligations he has become security for the States—and he will return to you the same quantity to make up the amount of the said bills of exchange that you may send him. J. M. P. Le Gras.

 George Slaughter to Thomas Jefferson, December 8, 1780.  now no Shirts, Hats, Blankets or Breeches not having drawn Cloth for that purpose, Shoes, Stockings or Mocasons. so that they are totally unfit for duty. The Indians still are Troublesome to us having Visited us four or five times since Col° Clark left this place, & have killed and taken 5 or 6 Men and Wounded 3 others. I am Sir Your hum Servant Signed George Slaughter. His Excellency Thos Jefferson Governour of Virg* Copy
3

SHANNON TO JEFFERSON,73 William Shannon to Thomas Jefferson, December 11, 1780.1  Louisville, 11th Decem. 1780. Sir: As things are at present circumstanced in this Country & being so remote from the Seat of Government, must beg leave to intrude so far on your Excellencies good nature as to give satisfactory answers to the doubts I am at present in and such other Instructions you may Judge best. I would therefore be glad to know the nature of my Commission from Col'o G. Rogers Clarke on my return from Government last Spring, & must inform you that it is very difficult to execute the business I am entrusted with for want of money owing to a report prevalent that our Bills on the Treasurer have been protested which renders the Credit of the State very Trifling. The Army in this quarter destitute of all kind of Military stores and none to be purchased; no provisions to be had except Beef, Corn & Salt and all those at most extravagant prices. Inclosed you have the Amount of the Bills Drawn on the Treasurer this Spring & Summer. Money is much wanting to discharge the present contracts which are payable this first day of March next as also to pay the expences of the late expedition. I have as far as in my power supply'd Col° Slaughter's Troops and shall still continue to do so, untill further orders. I am much at a loss how to act relative to purchasing and Issuing provisions not knowing the proper allowances Accounts from the mouth of the River say they have been distress'd in a most extraordinary manner for want of the common necessaries of life which has occasioned many desertions From Orleans we have Accounts that the Spaniards have not taken Pensacola owing to a dispute wch arose between Governor Galvis and the Spanish Admiral relative to the Command of the Forces and neither giving up the point the Siege was laid aside and the Land Force are now at Mobille under the Command of Galvis. 1Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 396.
4

 I expect Boats down the River dayly and intend purchasing Flour for the Troops at Fort Jefferson, Corn & Salt have sent, Shall continue to draw bills for provisions till ordered to the contrary. Your Excellencys Instructions by the earliest opportunity will much oblige Your Excellences Mo. Obt. & Humble Servant Will Shannon. To Thomas Jefferson. Colonel John Gibson to Clark, December 17, 1780.  Fort Pitt, December 17, 1780 Col° George Rogers Clarke, Commanding the Troops Virginia on the Ohio. Sir I received a Letter from his Excellency the Governor of Virginia wherein he informed me that Col° Campbell had told him that I had a quantity of Cloathing which I received last summer for the men of my Regm' and that I had no immediate use for it as he expected we should be supplied by the Continental Store, upon which his Excellency wrote me and ordered me to deliver it to Cap' Moore for the use of the Troops on the Ohio. I am extremely sorry I am reduced to the necessity of not complying with the order, as my men are quite naked, and there is now one hundred & odd drafts on their road to join my Reg'. I have not the least prospect of getting a single stitch from the Continent. I intend setting off in a few days for Richmond, should the Governor and Council adopt any method of furnishing Cloathing for you I shall use my utmost endeavours to have it Transported to you; Permit me to refer you to Cap Moore for the news in this Quarter. I have the Honour to be your most Ob' and very Humble Servant Jn Gibson Col° 9th Vir. Reg' Fort Pitt Decr 17, 1780. Col° Clarke.
5
,75 John Dodge to Oliver Pollock, December 23, 1780.  Kaskaskias, 23 Decemr 1780 Sir Altho I have had not the honor of Receiving Answers to my three last Letters which I wrote you & our Credit being so weak Amongst the Inhabitants here that we cannot get any thing without prompt Payment which we have not our Soldiers dying every day for want of the means of Subsistance and Medicine which occasions me to Inclose you the Memorandums which if you have any regard for the Troops in this Departments you will exert yourself to procure them for us, if it should happen that you could not procure the whole try to send part By the bearer of this and I will settle with him for his trouble no news but what the bearer can inform you of. I have no more to add only your Compliance with the above will render the State a Singular service and much oblige Sir Your humb Serv' (Signed) John Dodge Oliver Pollock Esqr Thomas Walker to Clark, December 25, 1780.  Dear Sir Your favour of July ye 15 came to hand & merrits my warmest thanks. I most cordially congratulate you on your success against the Shawneese & hope it will keep that nest of hornets quiet for some time When I was at Richmond our finances & foreign credit appeared in such a state that no plan occured to me practicable for supplying you & your Troops in the manner wished by me; therefore, nothing was in my power but describing the merits of your Case & I flatter my self that I was not wanting in that so far as my abilitys enabled me. I hope you may have been able to do something in that way
6

 On your return hope for the pleasure of seeing you at this place, it is possible I may wait on you at your respectable Fathers house next month, if I do & you go out in a short time we may contrive to travel as far as Washington County together. Pleas to tender my compliments to your yor Father & Mrs. Clark, that Providence may protect & grant you success is is the ardent prayer of Dr: Sr: Your most Humble Serv' Thomas Walker Castle Hill December ye 25'h 1780 P: S: A happy Xmas to you all  Col° George Rogers Clark To the care of Mr John Clark in Caroline  Docr Walker The Account of the Campaign against the Shawnee Indians by Henry Wilson.1  ; There were 200 men in Col. James Harrod's reg\ mostly dressed in hunting shirts & breech clouts, some linen & others buckskin. The mouth of Licking was the place of rendevouz. Harrod's men went via the Falls of Ohio, where they were detained a week or two for the boats to get in readiness, & then take them to the mouth of Licking with which for the army to cross the Ohio. While waiting & getting pretty close for provisions, the men had permission to make a two days hunt at the mouth of Kentucky—game was getting scarce there—killed but 2 buffaloes & 6 or 7 deer, scarcely enough to supply their wants while out. Two or three old keel boats & several skiffs & perogues were finally collected together & the troops proceeded up the rivers to the mouth of Ky. & there united with Harrod's men, who had been hunting. With Gen. Clark & the boats were Col" Floyd's & Linn's regls 1 Henry Wilson was in John Allison's company which constituted a part of Colonel James Harrod's regiment. He was born in Virginia, and in 1779 came to Kentucky. After the attack on the Shawnee, he served as a spy and in the militia for the remainder of the war. He took part in the Battle of the Blue Licks in 1782.
7

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE SHAWNEE 477 [Every man was to furnish his own provisions. In Harrod's reg' every six men formed a mess, & had a pack horse, to carry blankets, kettle, the axe, parched corn meal and salt. The boats proceeded up from the Falls along the Kentucky shore, made such a noise that all the game was scared away. A portion of McGary's & Ellison's companies, some 30 in all, with McGary at their head, agreed to cross over upon the northern shore & hunt along up. They crossed near the mouth of Ky. They had proceeded some four or five miles when they discovered a large Indian camp upon the bank of the river, the Indians immediately fled before McGary's party had a sight of them, leaving a couple of bark canoes at the margin of the river, & some half grained deer-skins & jerked meat in camp. As four fires were burning it was evident that the Indians had but just left, & were perhaps waiting in the bushes for the approach of the whites. McGary from the smallness of his party, thought it best to return to the southern shore & join the main force, & ordered Wilson who was already in possession of the smaller canoe—the larger one having been scuttled by some of the men—to cross & get several boats to convey his men over. Two large pirogues were brought over and while the men were putting in their guns & in the act of getting in themselves, without a sentinel on bank, the Indians finding they were not pursued ran up & fired on McGary's men. 9 were killed & wounded. Some of the men, whose guns were at hand, returned the fire. When fired on, some of the men jumped into the pirogues—some behind prostrate timber or logs on the bank. One man was seen to jump out on one of the pirogues, wade ashore & take down the river, & was pursued by an Indian with a spantoon or spear elevated & aimed in hand. After following some 20 or 30 yards, the Indian stopped & cast the spear which entered the man's back between the shoulders & penetrated through, the point sticking out of his breast—he fell forward, when the spear dropped from the wound. He soon scrambled up & crawled to & crept under some driftwood, which had been cast ashore by some preceding flood. He was shortly afterwards conveyed to the boats. The Indian, who wounded him, made his escape. 'In MS. is written, "my informant, L. C. D.
8

 One Byr n had his thigh broken, and swam to Wilson's frail pirogue some 30 yards from the northern shore—Wilson held him up, until a larger boat came & took him from the water. This was all the work of a moment—the Indians fled. The dead were brought over and buried. The man wounded with the spear, died just before night, & was buried on shore. Byr n & others wounded, were at evening sent back to the Falls. Byr n subsequently died; another struck or wounded in the head afterwards died. This little check put a stop to hunting on shore. The men were now on half allowance of parched meal, & almost despaired of continuing the campaign. Near the mouth of Licking, a flat bottomed boat was met, loaded with corn, & destined for the Falls of Ohio for market. This was impressed & divided among the men, according to their necessities, some getting but three quarts each while others got as many as seven. This was used thus. The big ax was taken from the pack horse by some one of each mess, a small white oak sapling about 6 or 7 inches through was cut down, and a stick secured about two feet in length, the butt end was cut off square, & then tapered down like a cone to a point. This was the hominy block. While this was making, another with his tomahawk would make a wooden pestle two or three feet long. The hominy-block was driven into the ground, and a strip deer skin, dried while green, would now be wound around the top of the block, extending some 8 or 10 inches above its top, & made fast with a strong string or tug below — the flesh side of the skin within. Here a pint of corn wd be beaten into coarse meal at a time — three pints of this, cooked into a broth & salted, would suffice for a meal for a mess. A little parched meal would answer for dinner eaten as they marched along. No jerk either going or returning. Logan's regt from Boonesboro, his own & Whitely's stations, went across the country to the mouth of Licking, & reached the day after the other troops. Logan's was the largest reg\ Boone was with him. There were some 1200 men altogether. Crossed & built a cabin 16 ft square & roof, opposite mouth of Licking & near the old stone mill, left a guard to watch boats—cabin was subsequently burned by Indians. Marched on up the valley
9

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE SHAWNEE 479 of the Lit. Miami, nothing occurred, until within five miles of Old Chillicothe, when the spies returned, gave information that the Indians appeared to be moving off from the town. The army now commenced a run, kept a good smart trot, but when they reached the town about mid-day, they found the Indians had all gone & burnt their own town. Some pots were found over the fires, boiling green corn & snaps. The troops found a great relief in green roasting ears & string (snap) beans. That afternoon was spent in feasting & recruiting themselves. The next day the corn was all cut up, except five or six acres reserved for roasting ears on their return. Marched on to the Piqua town on the Big Miami, reached there about 8 o'clock in the morning, crossed half a mile below the town, water but knee deep. (It shd be remarked, that 18 days before, that a fellow stole a horse at Bryan's Station & fled to the Indians & gave them due notice. At the mouth of Licking, unable to get his horse over, rafted himself over leading his horse behind. The troops found the horse there, & the place where the traitor had camped.) Soon after had crossed, passing through a prairie, there met a large body of Indians chiefly behind a fence and in a piece of woods. Came second to the woods, the Indians fired, the whites returned it, & then the former broke & run 200 yards and again rallied & formed on a hill covered with timber. To the right along the stream & just before reaching the woods, was a large corn-field, along the margin of this field & parallel with the river ran a pole fence, behind which were the main body of the Indians — they fired upon the troops but fifty yards as they ran along through the prairie, a little before the party fired in the woods, then fled through the corn, and took a circuitous rout & gained their position with the others on the elevation. Clark halted the troops in the woods for a few minutes, got the men in order, who had in crossing the__river & running through the prairie, become disarranged, and[ordered the men in attacking the Indians to press upon them & not suffer them to fire twice from behind the same tree. Thus far none, as was known, were killed on either side, one white had a ball pass thro' his hat & graze the skin on the top of his head. (Capt Haskins) Then marched on up the elevation & attacked the Indians, took trees, pressed warmly upon them, & *
0

 after a few fires the Indians found themselves so closely pressed, that they would detach some of their warriors to attack the rear, these would have to be met by simply wheeling upon, & a fire or two wd drive them off. The Indians finally retreated a hundred yards off, to a couple of large oak trees wh. lay prostrate in a parallel line, on the top of these were placed chunks and poles stretched along lengthwise on their top forming a very good breast work with something like port holes between the pole & main body of the tree. Here some fifty Indians posted themselves undiscovered to fire upon the advancing whites. Capt Joseph McMultry, when within thirty steps of the Indian breast work, without knowing that Indians were there, seeing some Indians quite a distance ahead, rested his rifle against a sapling & tumbled over his Indian, who however immediately arose & ran on. McMultry had his horn up filling his charger, when the Indians behind the oak trees all fired nearly at the same time, & though the large body of the men were not more than 200 feet off, but a single man was hurt, & that was Capt McMultry. A ball completely cut off his right hand fore finger, passing on through the top of his powder horn, shivering it to pieces, & entered his left breast. Four men—Henry Wilson among the number—remained with him. McMultry expecting he was mortally wounded began giving some directions about his affairs & some word for his wife. Wilson wished to mount him on a horse they had with them, fearing the Indians might gain their rear. The wounded Captain desired not to be moved, as he shd not live long, "about as long as a deer shot through the lights." Wilson thought they had better examine the wound & not take it for granted, without knowing, that the wound was mortal—felt the bullet lodged against the breast-bone. McMultry inserted his thumb & finger in the wound & flirted out the ball, which has been flattened in passing through the horn, & before entering the breast, making a large wound, it had nearly spent its force. His finger was done up with a handkerchief & then all dashed on & overtook the troops a quarter of a mile off. Wilson, being thirsty, & seeing a spot where he thought might be water, & near the troops ran there, but found none, he then saw three Indians dodging through the bushes —one with a cocked hat on, at whom he aimed & shot through the
1

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE SHAWNEE , 481 belly & fell, skulked through the bushes to a tree top nearby, leaving his military hat where he fell. As Wilson was picking up his booty, Capt Wm McAfee came running to his aid, & both ran up to the tree top, & looking for the Indian, who drew up & shot McAfee through the body less than ten feet off. A soldier now ran up, When the Indian was pouring powder into his rifle without measuring it—& shot him under the arm. The other two Indians were also shot, & all scalped. McAfee lived to be carried to the mouth of Licking on a litter, & thence by water to a friends on Bear grass near the Falls of Ohio, his wife was sent for & reached him two days before his death. The Indians were driven from tree to tree, and stand to stand, first in one direction two miles from town, & then in another till finally, about 3 o'clock P. M., they retreated gradually to their fort in the lower part of their town. It was a triangular stockade, covering perhaps half an acre—a new one, just made for the expected invasion of Clarke. Their women & children had all been sent off some twenty in all, & all the warriors collected in from far & near. By this time the brass Six-pounder, taken by Clarke at Vincennes, was brought up & first put into requision. The men were formed on an elevation above the fort into a hollow-square, excepting Logan & his reg1, who were despatched over the river, to prevent their escape in that direction, or over a ford at the upper end of the horse-shoe. The cannon was fired a dozen or 15 times from the hollow-square, the balls shivered the stockade wherever they struck. This hot work, & Clarke's being beyond the reach of their rifles, induced the Indians to divide their men— altogether about 1500—one half secretly left the fort, entered the cornfield which came up close, undiscovered, & thus gained the woods in Clarke's rear. The other half opened the only gate of the fort which fronted Clark & marched out & took position on the flat below, & formed into a single line. It was a novel movement & Clarke ordered the cannon to cease firing, thinking they had got tired of fighting & were about to propose to treat. A few minutes dissipated this delusion—a heavy fire upon the rear now opened from the woods along the whole Indian line, this was briskly returned. The Indians on the flat came running in line, & fired when within gun shot. Clark gave strict orders for the
2

 men to reserve theirs until the Indians should come close—some of the soldiers along the line, hollered "let them come near enough before we fire that we can singe their eye-brows." When within forty steps Clark's front some few treed, when near a tree—showered a volly upon the Indians, which mowed them down terribly, & which checked their advancing, & the second fire caused them to retreat. In this action a cousin of Clark's on his mother's side, named Rogers, was mortally wounded, & crept behind a stump. Some of Clark's men were shooting at some of the wounded Indians crawling off, when Rogers hollered out to them not to shoot him for he was a white man. Some 3 or 4 ran down to him, said he was own cousin to Gen. Clark, & wanted to see the General. Clark soon rode up, & remarked he was sorry to see him in that situation, & expressed an opinion that as he knew that army was coming in time to have escaped & joined his countrymen, he shd have done it. He said he had no opportunity, & couldnt. He was taken into the rear & died in an hour or two after. He had been taken prisoner two years before at the mouth of Big Miami. Logan, hearing the heavy fire, crossed at the upper ford & came quickly to their aid. Thus the chief pass was left unguarded, & the Indians availed themselves of it & escaped. Logan, having nothing to do, & hearing so obstinate a firing, was not at all blamed for re-crossing under the circumstances. The Indians in the woods in the rear, protected by trees—and so were Clark's party— stood about four rounds before they scampered to the woods. A few Indians fled to the fort & showed themselves to divert attention, while the main body escaped through a corn field on the flat to the upper ford & crossed. The cannon played upon the fort 4 or 5 shots — the men then rushed to the fort, but the few Indians there, having gained their purpose, scud away through the corn & sought safety in the woods. It was now dark; the army camped in & around the fort—nearly one half were on duty— no countersign given—with orders to shoot at every noise or suspicious object. The next morning a council of officers, decided not to pursue the Indians—they had already a large number of wounded that required their attention; not men enough to leave to protect wounded, it wouldnt do to take them along. Concluded to
3

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE SHAWNEE 483 destroy the town & corn, & return. The previous day had been one continued fight from 8 o'clock till night—had lost 20 killed, double that number wounded—had taken 73 scalps from the enemy—some of their dead & many wounded, were doubtless carried off. The greatest loss on both sides was in the action in the town above the fort. Two days were now spent in destroying corn & village—it was estimated that 1000 acres were destroyed. Some thirty or 40 horses were taken, sold at auction at the mouth of Licking where Covington now is; there, too, the army disbanded, & the men scattered to hunt—the roasting ears got on their return at Chillicothe had given out. Camped no supper that night—left next morning. Some of them well nigh starved before reaching the settlements. No commissaries, no baggage waggons to convey regular rations, &, but too often, day after day without a particle of food, or if any but a sorry pittance of jerk, parched meal, or green corn, snaps or pumpkins—never all these luxuries at once-j-these were the conquerors of the West, these the protectors & saviors of the country. J ^ At Chillicothe on return the corn was found scanty & was apportioned. Some few ears of corn to each & some fortunate ones perhaps a small pumpkin or two, went some half dozen miles & camped. As usual, half the army was on sentry, & so every night until they reached Licking & disbanded. There was only a common sentry on the outward march until they camped at Old Chillicothe, then commenced the half army sentrys, one half of each company one night, & the other half the next and thus, alternately. Prior to burning Piqua, the dead were buried in the cabins, & then the houses burned over the graves to avoid their discovery by the Indians—but even this precaution was not sufficient, for the Indians found, disinterred, & scalped them. It was subsequently ascertained from whites returned from captivity, that the Indians after their defeat in town, made a stand the next day about half way beween Piqua and where their squaws & children were, & if beaten there, then to sue for peace and save their squaws & children from captivity. No prisoners were taken that campaign. Thinks no Indians could have been killed, as represented by Col. Jef. Patterson,
4

 tho' he dont recollect the horse-adventure of an Indian, yet thinks it may have occurred. Addenda: After cutting down the corn at Chillicothe, marched towards night & had proceeded about a mile when a heavy shower suddenly came up, all got all wet, though sheltered under trees—lasted near an hour, when near dusk it ceased raining —the men were formed in a hollow-square, & ordered a company at a time to fire off their guns—the men had taken better care of their guns during the rain than Clark had expected, & not over one fourth but went off. Reloaded, & ordered to camp for the night—marched all next day, & the subsequent morning reached Piqua. The story of the white woman, as told by Col. John Johnston, being the first discover the whites at Piqua, must be erroneous—it may apply to Chillicothe—for the Indians abandoned & burned the latter, & fled & gave notice to the other towns, & even then, the women must have adressed one of Clarke's spies. Such of the wounded as could rode; the others were carried on litters.

End of Section. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
Section
5

CHAPTER XII JEFFERSON AND WASHINGTON AGREE TO CO-OPERATE IN SENDING AN EXPEDITION AGAINST DETROIT TO BE LED BY CLARK. Clark in Virginia and Plans for a Formidable Expedition against Detroit—Jefferson Promotes the Plan—Clark Serves in the Eastern Army under Baron Steuben—Washington in Favor of an Expedition against Detroit—Clark made Brigadier-General— Difficulties Encountered in Securing Men for the Expedition— Colonel Brodhead Unwilling to Co-operate with Clark—President Joseph Reed of Pennsylvania Ready to Give all Possible Assistance—Clark Appeals to Washington—Washington's Reply. Thomas Jefferson to Clark, December 25, 1780.1  To Colo George Rogers Clarke, Richmond december 25th. 1780 Sir. A powerful army forming by our enemies in the south renders it necessary for us to reserve as much of our militia as possible free to act in that quarter, at the same time we have reason to believe that a very extensive combination of british and indian savages is preparing to invest our western frontier to prevent the cruel murders and devastations which attend the latter species of war and at the same time to prevent its producing a powerful diversion of our force from the southern quarter in which they mean to make their principal effort and where alone success can be decisive of their ultimate object, it becomes necessary that we aim the first stroke in the western country and throw the enemy under the embarrassments of a defensive war rather than labour under them ourselves. we have therefore determined that an expedition shall be under taken under your command in a very early season of the approaching year into the hostile country 1 Printed also in Jefferson, Works (fed. ed.), in., 383. 485
6

 beyond the Ohio, the principal object of which is to be the reduction of the British post at Detroit, and incidental to it the acquirg possession of Lake Erie, the force destined for this enterprise is the Ilinois battalion. Colo. Crocket's battalion, major Slaughter's corps, with detachments of militia from the counties of Fayette, Lincoln, Jefferson, Ohio, Monongalia, Hampshire, Berkeley Frederic and Greenbrier making in the whole 2000 men. necessary garrisons only to be deducted our desire is that the execution of this may be so timed as that you may have the advantage of that interval of time, which intervenes between the breaking up of the ice in the wabache, and in the lake so as that you may avail yourself of the navigation of the former the moment it is open for the transportation of your Men and baggage and still find the latter blocked up and the vessels of the Enemy therein of course liable to be destroyed. That you may be fully possessed of the means which are to be in your hands for the purposes before mentioned, you are furnished with Copies of the orders given to the Lieutenants Commissaries & Quarter Masters in the Counties before enumerated; the substance of them is as follows—Mr Rowland Madison is employed to carry 1000lb of Rifle powder from New London & 1500 lbs. of lead from the lead Mines to Montgomery Court house, to purchase 300 pack horses with pack Saddles Halters and Bells ready and to lay in subsistence for them and for 137 Militia from Greenbriar County, who, by orders given to the Lieutenant of that County are to rendezvous, at Montgomery Court House by the 20th day of February there to take under their escort the ammunition and packhorses before mentioned and to be with them at the Falls of Ohio by the 15ih day of March Mr Madison is furnished with Money to purchase the horses and furniture and to lay in subsistence and forage from Montgomery Court House to the Falls of Ohio, where his duties cease. Forty bell tents, 40 common tents, a Chest of Medicine, some Summer clothing will be sent from this place; 1000lb of Rifle powder from Staunton 400 Camp kettles from Fredericksburg to the County Lieutenant of Frederick who is ordered to send them with 285 of his Militia to Pittsburg at which place they are to be the first day of March.
7
,87 The County Lieutenants of Berkley and Hampshire are ordered to send the former 275 and the latter 255 of their respective Militias to be at Pittsburg by the first day of March. Proper instructions are prepared for such persons as each of the County Lieutenants of Frederick Berkley and Hampshire shall appoint to act in the joint offices of Commissary and Quarter Master to Pittsburg where their Offices determine and Money is sent to each for the purpose of subsistence and transportation. The County Lieutenants of Monongalia and Ohio are ordered to rendezvous one fourth of their Militia at Pittsburg by the first day of March. All these Militia are ordered to go under proper Officers well armed with Arms suitable to western service and to serve during the continuance of the expedition as herein described. Colo. Crocket is ordered to be with his battalion at Pittsburg by the same day, and Money to enable him to proceed is sent to him. An Agent is sent to Baltimore and Philadelphia to purchase four tons of Canon powder and to send it to Pittsburg by the 1st day of March. Application is made to Gen Washington to lend us of the Continental Stores at Pittsburg, 4 Cannon, six pounders mounted on field Carriages with ball suitable, a mortar with Shells, 2 Howitz, grape shot and other necessary furnitures, 1000 Spades, 200 pick axes, 500 axes, a travelling Forge, Ship Carpenter's tools, and Boats for transportation down the river should we fail in having a sufficient number in readiness and to send us skilful persons to manage the Mortars. John Francis Moore who was sometime ago sent to purchase in the vicinities of Fort Pitt provisions for the Western Posts, is now ordered to extend his purchases to 200000 rations of Beef & Flour, and to provide 100 light Barges fit for transporting Men and Stores either down or up stream. These to be all in readiness by the 1s' of March as we are not certain whether he may not be gone down the river, these powers were directed to himself, or in case of his absence to any Agent he should have appointed and if he appointed none, then to Mr William Harrison of Monongalia. At Pittsburg we depend on orders to be given by you for the removal of Men and Stores to the Falls of Ohio by the 15 of March.
8

 The County Lieutenants of Fayette, Lincoln and Jefferson are ordered to rendezvous at the Falls of Ohio by the 15 March 500 of their Militia, to be furnished between those Counties in proportion to their numbers, & to have ready at the same place and by the same day 50 Canoes each: Money is sent to pay for these. In those Counties you inform us you expect 100000 rations will be provided for you, you will of course order them to the falls of Ohio. All the preceeding orders (except as to the numbers of Men from each County) are submitted to any alterations you may think necessary, and you are authorized to supply any deficiencies in them. The Staff Officers are submitted absolutely to you, and on removal of any of them by you or their death, resignation or declining to act you are to appoint others. The County Lieutenants are desired to keep up a constant correspondence with you, & the Staff Officers to inform you from time to time of their progress and to receive your orders. Thus you will perceive that we expect all to be in readiness at the Falls of Ohio by the 15. of March. What number of Men and whether of Regulars or Militia you shall leave to garrison the Posts at the falls & Mouth of the Ohio, is left to yourself. As the latter however is exposed to attack from an Enemy against whom this expedition will be no diversion of force, and as it is distant from succour, it is recommended to you to leave it surely garrisoned, and to take measures for its being supported from the Spanish side of the Missisipi should it be necessary. You will then with such part of your force as you shall not leave in garrison proceed down the Ohio and up the Wabache or along such other route as you shall think best against Detroit.— By the construction of a fort or forts for retreat at such place or places as you shall think best, and by such other cautions as you find necessary, you will provide for the ultimate safety of your men in case of a repulse. Should you succeed in the reduction of fort Detroit, and a hopeful prospect open to you of acquiring possession of Lake Erie, or should such prospect open during the investiture of the fort you are to pursue it. As soon as you shall have accomplished both Objects of the fort and Lake, or
9
,89 shall have accomplished the one and find the other impracticable jj or as soon as you shall find that neither is practicable you are to consider your expedition as ended, and to withdraw your whole force if you attain neither Object, or, if you acquire one or both of them, to retain for a Garrison at Detroit so many of the Illinois & Crockets battalions as you may think necessary and to send the rest back accross the Ohio; in the event indeed of declining to attempt the reduction of Detroit you are at liberty to consider whether some enterprize against the hostile Nations of Indians may not be undertaken with your force, and if you think it can, and that it will be expedient for the public good and eligible on view of all circumstances you will undertake it and detain your force 'till you shall have finished it. In every event, the Militia on their return are to be marched back to their Counties under their own Officers and there to be discharged. Should you succeed in the reduction of the Post, you are to promise protection to the Persons and property of the French and American Inhabitants, or of such at least as shall not on tender refuse to take the Oath of fidelity to this Commonwealth. You are to permit them to continue under the laws and form of Goverment under which they at present live, only substituting the authority of this Commonwealth in all instances in lieu of that of his Britannic Majesty, and exercising yourself under that authority till further order those powers which the British Commandant of the post, or his Principal in Canada hath used regularly to exercise: To the Indian Neighbors you will hold out either fear or friendship as their disposition and your actual situation may render most expedient. Finally, our distance from the scene of action, the impossibility of foreseeing the many circumstances which may render proper a change of plan or direliction of object, and above all our full confidence in your bravery, discretion, and abilities induce us to submit the whole of our instructions to your own Judgment, to be altered or abandoned whenever any event shall turn up which may appear to you to render such alteration or abandonment necessary; remembering that we confide to you the persons of our Troops and Citizens which we think it a duty to risque as long as no longer than the object and prospect of attaining it
0

 may seem worthy of risque. If that Post be reduced we shall be quiet in future on our frontiers, and thereby immense Treasures fo blood and Money be saved, we shall be at leisure to know our whole force to the rescue of our eastern Country from subjugation, we shall divert through our own Country a branch of commerce which the European States have thought worthy of the most important struggles and sacrifices, and in the event of peace on terms which have been contemplated by some powers we shall form to the American union a barrier against the dangerous extension of the British Province of Canada and add to the Empire of liberty an extensive and fertile Country, thereby converting dangerous Enemies into valuable Friends. (Signed) T. J. Geoffrey Linctot to George Slaughter, January 11, 1781.  "Opost" January 11th, 1781. Godefroy Linitot, to Col° Slaughter at Falls of Ohio. Setting forth the "good Disposition" of the Indians in that region, and the manner in which they had conducted themselves: on which account begs they be furnished with as much powder and lead as they need, to enable them to live, this is due them for having risked their lives in defence of the Americans, and for having refused to receive presents from the British on account of their attachment to the State, had they chosen, their towns might have been full of merchandise and ammunition, concludes "I just heard the news that is certain, that the British is making great preparations to take the Different Stations at the falls and Opost Vincent. I believe the only method to Stop them if they have a minde to do, is to go against Detroit before they could come to you. I beg of you to Send me as Sone as posible you can what i ask you for, for those Indians being the only fence we have to stop the Ennemy. Sir when I arrived i was told the news that Col° La balme was gone to take the Artillery that the British had left at the lick on
1
,91 the River demie to take the opost and the falls, and he was killed and thirty men with him, witch gives us and the Indians a great deal of trouble." Sir, i am your most humble and obedient Servant. General Steuben to Clark, January 12, 1781.  Battersea 12'h Jany 1781 7 oClock P. M. Dear Sir I have not heard a Sylable from you since our parting I am exceeding axious to hear what has become of the Enemy—and have to desire you that you'l send me the best account of them possible, as soon as you can obtain it. I can inform you that the Pennsylvania Line is on their way to the Southward, the first Brigade arrived at Fredericksburg the 8ih jnst t^g 2d Brigade was escorting a Train of artillery Destined for the Southern Army, and was expected at Frederickburgh in two Days after the first Brigade's arrival there I am Dear Colo, your most Obied' Steuben Maj. Genl.  Col° Clarke Cabbin Point  Steuban M. G. 12 Jan" 1781 Thomas Jefferson to Clark, January 13, 1781.  Richmond Jan 13 1781 Sir I received last night from General Washington a letter on your subject in which he has complied with my request, as every movement will depend so much on yourself in the Western quarter I leave to yourself to determine whether you should not as soon
2

 as possible repair hither & take the ultimate measures which are necessary.1 I am Sir Your most obed' serv' Th Jefferson Colo Clarke  Col° George Rogers Clarke on command under Baron Steuben Geoffrey Linctot to George Slaughter, January 13, 1781.  Opost Vicent Januy 13th 1781. Sir Just as the Pilot was on his way to return to the falls news came that about one hundred and thirty Brittish came to Omei with Cannon Mortars and other ammunition it now is high time if possible to go before them. The Brittish have burnt fort Viya all the French men that was at Miame is gone back to Detroit: twenty french men that went from the Illinois to go to war against St Joseph was killed by the Indians this news is confirmed for certain Sir I am yr m° humb Servant (copy signed) Godfrey Linctot 1' gn To Commanding Officer at Louisville J. M. P. Le Gras to George Slaughter, January 13, 1781.  Sir I received with pleasure your Compliments by Major Linctot, I thank you kindly, and yours will remember to shake hands together, I beg of you as I proffit by the same occasion to pass a few Letters to Philadelphia. I hope that your complesence will be so good as to send them by the first opportunity that is safe by 'See Introduction, ante, cxlvi. See Jefferson, Writings (Washington ed.), I., 257, 259. 2 Refers to the defeat of De la Balme; see Alvord, Cahokia Records (I. H. C. II.), lxxix et seq.
3

SLAUGHTER TO JEFFERSON,93 their directions, I hope that you will be persuaded that anything that lyes in my power I will do it for you with great pleasure. I am Sir Yr m° humb Servant J. M. P. Legraw Col° Sir As I have sent to Col° Clarke for ammunition I beg of you if he did not receive my letter if it is in your power to send me some I have a great occasion for itt To Col° Slaughter Falls of Ohio George Slaughter to Thomas Jefferson, January 14, 1781.'  Louisville Jany 14th 1781. Sir I have the Honour to inclose to your Excellency letters from two Gentlemen at Auposte and copys of several others from Kaskaskias directed to Col° Clark & Col° Todd. I have taken the Depositions of three persons which coroborates with the copies of these letters & have inclosed them also, for the consideration of your Board. The contents of the letters from the two French Gentlemen being a request for ammunition & understanding they apprehended an attack'd upon that post, I gave orders for Cap' George to send to Kaskaskias one hundred weight of powder & four hundred w' of Lead, with directions for Cap' Rogers to lend what aid he can in getting across the country to Auposte & shall endeavour to send a small supply to that place immediately from here. That I thought it necessary to do as I consider it of very great importance to this place the keeping the Auposte in our favour. With respect to Cap' Dodge the complaints against him are so general & have so good authority for his having misapplied the publick goods, and apprehending that he may possibly be collecting a cargo of Peltry for the New Orleans market that I have given Cap' George Orders to make enquiry as to his conduct & if any thing of this sort appears, to seize his person & what goods he may be possessed of & secure them 'till further Orders. 'Printed in Alvord, Kaskaskia Records (I. H. C, v.), 215.
4

 The letters now inclosed with those sent some time ago will so fully inform you of the state of Affairs in the Illinois that I shall not enlarge on the disagreeable subject. I now beg leave to mention the mismanagement of the person appointed to superintend the making salt with the countrys Kettles.  here about 50 or 60 bushels is all that has been received from the persons who has work'd them, when private adventurers has been making near 10 times the Quantity with Kettles not boiling more than one fourth as much Water, owing principally to the indolence of the man who is appointed to carry on the business. If Sir your Board should think proper to appoint Col° Floy'd or myself to take the directions of the Kettles I am persuaded a sufficiency would be made for the Troops in this department. I am with much respect Your Excellencys Most obd' & very Hble Serv' George Slaughter The two letters from the French Gent, of the Auposte was by a Mistake inclosed to Col° Clarke who will no doubt lay them before you. I cannot Omit Mentioning two you the three Bills which I drew late in October last in favr of John Williams Province one for 2205 Dollars one other for 286 Dollars & another for £2120. which I hope will be paid Y" as before G. S.  To His Excellency Thomas Jefferson Esqr at Richmond  Majr Slaughter to Govr Jefferson Daniel Brodhead to Thomas Jefferson, January 17, 1781.1  Fort Pitt Jany 17th 1781 Sir I am honored with your favor of the 12th of October last and am thankfull for the Contents. 'Printed as an abstract in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 439.
5

JANUARY 18, 1781 495 I have received information from Detroit that the Indians are in a grand Council there, and it is expected that they are meditating with the British to attack these frontier posts, as soon as the Season will permit. Your Excellencies Instructions to Mr. James Francis Moore, to make so large a purchase on this side the mountain as 200,000 Rations if actually made, will effectually distress the Troops under my command, and probably, greatly disappoint his Excell'y the Commander-in-chief, if he has not been consulted respecting the measure It is with great sincerety I profess to entertain the greatest respect towards your Excellency, but circumstanced as I am it appears to me, that I can by no means be justified in suffering the Provisions which are designed for the Troops under my command, to be transported down the river, unless I am instructed so to do by the Commander in chief. Colo Gibson takes down the arrangement & Return of his Reg' and will have the honor of waiting jupon your Excellency with this Letter. He can inform you particularly of the circumstances of this District, wherefore I beg leave to refer to him, I have the honor to be with the utmost Respect & esteem your Excellencies most obedt Servant Daniel Brodhead. His Excellency T Jefferson Eqr Clark to Thomas Jefferson, January 18, 1781.  Richmond Jany 18th 81 D" Sn I have examined your proposed Instructions I dont Recollect of anything more that is Necessary Except the Mode of paying the Expences of the Garison of Dutroit, in Case of Success, as supporting our Credit among strangers may be attended with great and good Consequences and my former Experience Induce me to wish it to be the Case whare I have the Honour to Commd I would also observe to your Excellency that I could wish to set out on this Expedition free from any Reluctance which I doubt I cannot do
6

 without a Satisfactory Explination of the treatment of the Virginia Delegates in Congress to me in objecting to an appointment designed for me, which your Excellency Cannot be a Stranger to I could wish not to be thought to solicit promotion and that my Duty to myself did not oblige me to transmit these Sentiments to you The Treatment I have Generaly met with from this State hath prejudicd me as far as Consistant in her Interest and wish not to be disturbed in the Execution of her orders by an Continental Cor that may be in the Cuntries that I have Business in, which I doubt will be the Case although the Orders of the Commander in Chef is very positive I am Sir with the Greatest Esttem Yr Excellencies Very Hbl Serv' G R Clark PS I hope to be Honoured by a line from your Excellencie, as before G R C Robert George to Oliver Pollock, January 1, 1781.  Fort Jefferson 1st January 1781 Sir I herewith send you this As a Letter of Advice, with two Sets of Exchange for two hundred and thirty seven thousand three hundred And twenty Dollars in favour of Captain Philip Barbour, who has furnished us with a Large Cargoe of Licours and Dry goods which have been the Saveing of this Poast, Otherwise we Could not have Supported it for want of Necessaries, the Sum may appear to you to be large, but I Called a Council of my Officers And Consulted them upon the matter After haveing Receiv'd An Invoise of the Cargoe And they with myself thought it a Reasonable Sum Considering the Deficulties he had to surmount in geting up to us when heard of Our Distresses the season was far spent and the Enemy (Indians and English) surrounded us on Every Quarter but Notwithstanding he broke through fire and Ice and Came to our assistance, the Necessaries he has brought 'On January 22, Clark was made brigadier-general upon the advice of Governor Jefferson and the consent of the Virginia Council. See post, 500.
7

MONTGOMERY TO JEFFERSON,97 us supply our Immediate wants And Articles to purchase provisions for sometime which Our paper Currency would by no means do. therefore most Earnestly beg you may pay the above in Gold or Silver Coin this being done it will Inable him to supply us in future, Capt Barbour will give you all the News we have in this Remote hole, hope these few Lines will suffice till we shall have something of more Importance or Clever to write You, And am sir your Obedient Humble Servant (Signed) Robert George Capn Commandant Fort Jefferson To Olaver Pollock Esqr Ag to the Independant States of America at New Orleans John Montgomery to Thomas Jefferson, January 8, 1781.  New Orleans January 8th 1781 Sir This is to Represent the distressed situation of Fort Jefferson and the impossibility of mentaining said Post without some Speedy Relief First the Inhabitants in Gen are leaving the Settlement for want of Subsistance and continually Harrassed by an Unmerciful Enemy the Loss of their Corn and Stock and we not being able to suport those Adventurers by reason of our Credit being so far Reduced for want of Funds Secondly the certainty of our Soldiers deserting as numbers has already for want of provisions &c. &c Thirdly Experience fully Shews me that if the late Attack had held a few days longer, all our Stores and Ammunition must fall into the hands of the Enemy, by reason we had nothing but Corn in the Garrison & no more then what would support us for Six days longer, it was impossible for us to Repulse the Enemy, their Force being Superior to Ours if they were certain of our Situation, we being above half a mile from the Missisippi and that thorough a Thick Wood Except where the Channel Run when the Missisippi
8

 was high, it's well known the impossibility of Transporting provisions that way to the Fort in time of an Invasion all these Reasons are Evidence to Every person the different advices Received of this place Minaced with Attacks from diff' Quarters and Nations and the long time we have had no advice from Governm' makes me represent to You the inavoidable Loss that must happen to this place if continued as it now is and the great loss to Government not only of this place with the Stores but all the Illenois Country was this Post to Fall, I further think it highly necessary that this Post may be removed to some place where an Open Communication may be kept up with the Missisippi or to remove all the State Stores Amunition &c. with the Troops where they can be provided for, They Establishing a Settlement agreeable to their intention as the Situation of this can no ways answer having no Communication with the Missisippi for better then half a Mile for one half the Year, The Bearer hereof Cap' Robison can inform You the Particulars, and had it not been for the Assistance Of Mr Oliver Pollock with whom I am now present, we must undoubtedly evacuate that Post, He well knowing that Govern' having to heart the Setling a place of so much Consequence and from those good principles he hath always Shewn Sent us Relief from time to time both Amunition and Goods in our Greatest distresses until he has Sent his All & is Still Striving to send Us further Supplies I am fully Convinced it will not be in his Power to Send further Supplies without Relief I am in hopes You will take the Speediest Method of Sending him Remittances or Providing a Fund for our future Relief, as I can See No other Method for the Preservation of the Illenois Country Pray Excuse me for takeing Such Libertys it being the true State of our Situation and in Colonel Clarks absence I think it my duty I am Sir With Respect Your Excellencies most Obed' Humble Servant Jonathon Montgomery
9

JANUARY 21, 1781 499 Thomas Jefferson to Clark, January 20, 1781.1  Colo Geo: R. Clarke In Council January 20 1781 Sir Having cause to entertain doubts from several Letters transmitted me whether Mr John Dodge who was appointed to conduct a commerce with the Indians on behalf of this state has not been guilty of gross misapplication or mismanagement of what has been confided to him and the distance between him and us rendering it impracticable to call the examination before ourselves you are hereby authorised and desired either by yourself or such persons as you shall appoint to enquire into any part of his conduct which you may have reason to suppose unjustifiable and if it be found so to remove him from his office and take such measures as may be most effectual for bringing him to account and indemnyfying the public against such malversations. Should he be removed we think it unnecessary to appoint another in his stead. I am Sir your most ob' humble servant Th. Jefferson Colo G. R. Clarke  Colo George Rogers Clarke Clark to Thomas Jefferson, January 21, 1781  Richmond, January 21st, 1781. "Sir, There is some probability of my demands on the Treasury being answer'd so as to Inable me to set out to morrow if the necessary papers from your Excellency do not detain me, which I should be glad to know, as the Days are pretious. I am with Esteem, Your very Hble Servant. , G. R. Clark Printed in Alvord Kaskaskia Records (I. H. C, v.), 219.
0

 Clark to Thomas Jefferson, January 21, 1781.  Richmond, January 21st, 1781. "D" Sir, Excuse ye liberty I take in writing to you on a subject that you might think would not concern me so much as it Really does, as great part of my forces will be from Kentucky, the appointment of the County Lieutenants is an object worthy my attention. I this day Learnt that Col: Christy hath resigned the Lieutenancy of Jefferson County I would beg leave to recommend to you Col° Jonathon Floyd an Inhabitant of the County, as a Gentlen that I am convinced will do Honour to the appointment and known to be the most capable in the County, a Soldier, Gentleman, and a scholar whom the Inhabitants, from his actions have the greatest confidence in. I hope Sr that you will not put any unfavourable Construction on this Letr, and beg leave to subscribe myself, your very Hbl servant." G. R. Clark Thomas Jefferson to Clark, January 22, 1781.  In Council Jan 22, 1781. Sir I do myself the pleasure of inclosing you a Brigadier General's commission the laws having given us power to appoint a general officer only for special purposes and not a perpetual one, has obliged us to express the particular occasion of the appointment, besides this I thought it necessary to give you an exemplification of your former commission which was perpetuel.1 I wish you in every circumstance all possible success & felicity, and to beleive me to be with very sincere esteem Sir Your most obed' & most humble serv' Th Jefferson  Brigadier General Clarke Richmond 1 See Introduction, ante, cxlv
1

A PETITION TO JEFFERSON,01 The Commonwealth of VIRGINIA To George Rogers Clark Gentleman, greeting: Know you that our GOVERNOUR, with the advice of the Council of State, doth constitute and appoint you a Brigadier General of the forces to be embodied on an expedition westward of the Ohio. In Testimony whereof, these our Letters are sealed, with the Seal of the Commonwealth, and made Patent. Witness THOMAS JEFFERSON, Esquire, our said Governour, at Richmond, the twenty second Day of January in the Year of our Lord One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty one. Th Jefferson (Seal) Petition to Thomas Jefferson from the Officers of Berkeley County, January 25, 1781.  Berkeley Co., January 25th, 1781. Phil: Pendleton Col: 1st B. Militia, John'Morrow Co1° 2d Militia, Robert Carter Willis L: Col: B. M—William Morgans Lt: Col° B. M—G° Scott Major 1s' B. B. M—to the Governor of Va: "Sir, Col: Swearingen the Lieut: of this County laid before us some time ago, your Excellency's Orders of the 24th December Directing Two Hundred & Seventy five of the Militia of this County under proper Officers, to march Immediately to the Falls of the Ohio, to join Col: Clarke in an Expedition from thence. We beg leave to represent to your Excellency, that we have seventy men now on duty from this County, now in the Southern Army, which with the 68, we are to raise for the Army and the 275 now ordered into service will make near one half of the Militia of this County fit for duty—from these circumstances and the immense distance from here to the falls of the Ohio, being by the way of Fort Pitt, little less than a thousand miles, we are sorry to inform your Excellency that we have the greatest reason to believe that those whose Turn it now is from this County will suffer any punishment rather than obey our orders for their march. So general an Opposition to orders of Government from such a number we think
2

 of too much consequence at this crisis, for us to proceed without informing your Excellency of the difficulties with which the execution of those orders will be attended. We beg leave further to inform your Excellency that notwithstanding the great reluctance the People in general discover in complying with this order of Government, yet there are many young men in this county who having connections in the Kentucky Country, would turn out as Volunteers in such an Expedition, were they assured that they have no prospect of enriching themselves with the substance of a number now called as militia, who will give everything they have to Substitute, rather than undertake such a Tour. Would your Excellency, therefore dispense with the militia on this occasion, and empower us to raise Volunteers, we think it would be in our power to procure such a number of men as would render their Country greater service on such an Expedition, than the Two Hundred and seventy five taken from the classes of the militia. We wish your Excellency to believe, that it is exceedingly disagreeable to us to delay for a moment, the Execution of your Orders, but we natter ourselves, your Excellency will upon examining the Gentleman, who will deliver you this, fully Justify us" We have the Honour to be Yr: Excellency's mo: Obt Hbl servants. Petition from the Officers of Greenbrier County to Thomas Jefferson, January 29, 1781.  Greenbrier Co. January 29th, 1781. Andrew Donnally, Saml: Brown, and Andw Hamilton to Gov: Jefferson: "Sir, A Letter from your Excellency of the 24"' of December, directing that 137 Men of the Militia of this County shou'd forthwith be raised & sent to the County of Kentucky to join Col° Clarke, and serve under him this ensuing Summer, on an Expedition against the Indians; in Consequence of which, we have given orders to Draft that number together with proper Officers to Command them, amounting to 146 effective men. So large a
3

TODD TO JEFFERSON,03 number out of a Militia scarcely 550 strong, lying in a County exposed to the daily inroads of the Indians, fill us with much uneasiness about the dangers we are like to suffer, from this weakening of our Militia: especially at a time when we cannot expect to be reinforced from any of the interior Counties, should any such danger arise, how much more then, must our apprehensions of Danger increase, when we find that by an Act of Assembly we are to furnish 34 Men more for the Continental Army. It is with the utmost reluctance we address ourselves to your Excellency on this occasion (at a time when the necessities of the State require the utmost exertion of its members in its defence) to request that you will prolong the Term in which we are to furnish sd recruits, 'til the return of our Militia from Col° Clarke, or at least 'til such time as they have got into the Indian Country, & may have drawn their attention to his operations. Assure yourself Sir, we wou'd not have made this request, but in consequence of the entreaties of the inhabitants here & the imminent danger to which we think these frontiers exposed, by drawing away the Militia We shall continue to use all means to have the Militia ready as speedily as possible, shou'd you think it improper to grant us our request. We are sir, your most Obed' Hble Servants." John Todd, Jr., to Thomas Jefferson, February 1, 1781.l  Lexington 1st Feb 1781. May it please your Excellency Accounts from all Quarters lead us to expect vigorous Measures from our Enemies the next Campain. I have just received Duplicates of Letters sent from our officers of Illinois to others at Louisville which inform that the Spanish & American Ilinois Settlements are preparing defensively for heavy attacks. The Original Letters I hear are sent forward to your Excellency On Conferring with Colo Bowmans & Trigg we concluded it expedient to send 150 Men to Garrison the Mouth of Licking 1 Printed in Col. of Va. State Papers, I., 481, and Chicago Hist. Soc., Collections, iv., 341.
4

 until Crockett shall arrive which we shall expect weekly. We apprehended the Expence w'd be less to Government than to wait until the enemy arrive at our settlements & better conduce to the security of the people. Inclosed are Recommendations for certain Officers in this County. Would there be any Impropriety in sending out some blank Commissions as formerly? I w'd engage that no abuses be commented. There are many vacancies for other Officers than those recommended whose Ranks are as yet unsettled. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency's Most Obedient & Humble Servant, Jn. Todd, Jr. Clark to Thomas Jefferson, February 10, 1781.' Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.] Winchester Feby 10th 1781 DS" Before my arrival at this Post I met with Mr Randolph from Pittsburg Co W. Harrison is Exerting himself to Compleat the Purchase ordered, Great Incouragement given by Most Persons of Note N of the Allegany Pensylvaneans, as well as Virginians Co Crawford now with me says their is no danger of their not turning out or a failiour of provitions but no possibility of its being Ready by ye time appointed I am Extreamly Anstious to get to Pittsburg but doubt it will be Some Days before I can leave this place am Sorry that some of the officers of Berkely Cty appear to be backward in furnishing men before this Reaches you you must have Received a Petition from them I guess the purport by Letters from their Lieutenant they want arms men they have the officers of Frederick appear Rather desirous to Incouraging the Expedition but I doubt Cannot arm their men I have Learn' that a number of Rifles lay in Philiadelphia If they Could be procured they might be brought to this place in a few weaks by the Cty Lieut Receiving orders in Consequence Its Truly surprising to 'Printed in Col. of Va. Slate Papers, I., 504.
5
,05 me that those Gentn Should undertake to dictate for Government or Remonstrate against her orders I wish we may not hereafter feel the fatal effects of such Conduct Col Crawford who will hand you this is Capable and hath already been of great service to us in the Dep' of Pittsburg whare we have a pleasing Prospect at present I wish it was the Case here there would but little doubt of Suckcess I begin to fear the want of men but the Idea of a disappointment is so disagreable to me that if the Authority and Influence that I have with every Exertion that can be made will Carry my point I shall Certainly do it without your orders for the Enterprise is Countermandd or a failiour in the supplies I am to Receive which I hope will not be the Case I am Sr your Very Hbl Servant G R Clark Thomas Jefferson to Clark, February 13, 1781. 1 In Council Feb. 13, 1781. Sir Still having at heart the success of the expedition at the head of which you are placed, we have obtained leave from Baron Steuben for Colo J. Gibson to attend you as next in command, and of course to succeed to your offices in the event of your deeth or capture which however disagreeable in contemplation yet as being possible it is our duty to provide against. I have further added my most pressing request to Colo Broadhead that he permit Colo Gibson' regiment to be added to your force for the expedition, a request which I hope will be successful as coinciding with the spirit of Gen Washington's recommendations. Colo Gibson is to go by Baltimore to see the powder conveyed to Fort Pitt. The articles which were to be sent from this place to Frederic county were duly forwarded a few days after you left us. I wish you laurels & health & am with esteem & respect Sir Your mo—ob. hble serv' Th. Jefferson 1 Printed also in Thomas Jefferson, Writings (Ford ed.), II., 450; English, Conquest of the Northwest, n., 709; and Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 511.
6

 Robert George to George Slaughter, February 15, 1781.1  Fort Jefferson, 15th Feby 1781. Dr. Sir:I have the Honor to acknowledge the rec't of yours of the 23rd January last, & am happy to find that you are so abundant as you express—as out of your great abundance I shall expect to receive frequent and large Supplies—more especially in the Commissary way. The Small Supplies you have sent us, have been of infinite Service, & if you frequently repeat them they will be of singular advantage as we look to you for it, but the supplies I beg may be of a better Quality than what is yet come to hand. The Beef is really of the poorest kind—ill-cured, and not half salted—the Barrels being bad, the pickle became wasted, if ever any had been put in, and tho' the Meat does not absolutely stink, it wants little of it. The approaching Season being warm more especially require that the Troops should be victualled with the wholesomest diet. You well know the ill Consequences of bad Provisions in an Army. I shall therefor only request you w'd not put the State to the Expence of transporting any more provisions to us, as I shall not suffer such for the future to be recieved. 'Twere well if all that you send was first inspected. Major Harlan will give you the News of the place I As have to purchase Supplies in the Illinois it draws away the Liquor from me fast, besides I have to send a Supply to the Opost, & Major Linetot has made a heavy Draft on me for 6 Hogsheads & the half of my Amunition for use of the Indian Department and three Hogshead more to purchase Eight Months Provisions for 25 Men which I have sent for the protection of the Opost and under the command of Capt. Bayly—The Credit of the State is so bad that nothing can be had either there or at Kaskaskia without prompt payment, & when our little Stock is exhausted I know not what we shall do, except you take some Care of us. Send us as much Whisky as you please as we are forced to expend our Taffia for Provisions. The Enemy are approaching the Opost, & fortifying themselves at Miamis, so that the Inhabitants of the 1 Printed also in Col. of Va. State Papers, I., 521.
7
,07 Opost have Petitioned me for an Officer & Men to uphold the Honor of the State there, which I have complied with In the Month of January I have the pleasure to inform you we were able to drink brandy, Taffia & Wine—with your good assistance Whisky too; but it has not made us so saucy, but we can drink all the Whisky you can send us. I send under the care of Major Harlan for the use of Mr. Slaughter & Mr. Roberts one hundred wt. of sugar 12 lb soap and fifty weight of coffee &c agreeable to the enclosed bill. I have the Pleasure to drink your Health in a bumper of your good Whisky and the Honor to be your most obed. & very humble Servant, Robt. George. I have taken notice of your Song and learned it. It is so good I wish you had sent more of it. Col. George Slaughter. I am under the necessity of putting a Stop to the Mens Rations of Liquor in order purchase provisions. Please send us a little paper by the first oppertunity as we can hardly carry on business for want of that Article. Thomas Jefferson to Clark, February 19, 1781. 1 Richmond Feby. 19. 1781 Sir I received your letter on the subject of the backwardness of the Militia of Berkely & Frederic to proceed Westwardly and had before received representations from the Counties. This circumstance was the more mortifying as we were informed from various quarters that should we persist in the order it would produce an open disobedience. Many circumstances concurred to render it prudent to avoid this. the presence of two armies of the enemy within the State induced us to wish to prevent anything like commotion or opposition to Government in every part of it. As therefore the representations were accompanied with hopes held out of raising a respectable number of volunteers, the board 1 Printed also in Jefferson, Writings (Ford ed.), n., 460.
8

 thought it prudent to accept of that offer, these two Counties were relied on for 560 men; on view of this disappointment we obtained an order from Baron Steuben for Col° John Gibson with his regiment & Heth's company (about 200 regulars) to be added to your command: an addition of more worth of itself perhaps than those Militia, more especially if any number of volunteers should go. I hope too you will receive greater numbers from Kentucky than we counted on, & aids from the french settlements; we are apt to hope what we much wish, & perhaps this is my case. The inclosed papers give us real concern as they hold out reason to apprehend great abuses in the Western quarter. I transmit them to you to have strict enquiry made (not by yourself for your time is otherwise better engaged, but) by such persons of known integrity & Character as you shall appoint. We do not know what to do with the bills of which Major Slaughter speaks, indeed I wish such an enquiry could take place and that the persons you appoint would give their sanction to every bill. The suggestions against the Gentleman who went to Kaskaskias under promise of availing you of it's resources & strength are of such a nature as to merit attention & delicate enquiry. I am sure you will keep your attention alive as to everything of this kind and will use decision where decision is found necessary. I am with much esteem & respect Sir Your most obed' & mo: hble serv' Th. Jefferson. Endorsed:] From Government, Govr Jefferson Feby 19, 1781. Colonel John Gibson to Clark, February 23, 1781.  Dear Sir, By the letters which I now transmit you from his Excellency Governor Jefferson, By Cap' Sullivan, you will Be informed that I with the men of my Reg' now at Fort pitt am ordered to join you on the intended Expedition to the Westward. I am now on my way to Baltimore in order to forward four tons powder for your depar' and shall delay no time in repairing to Fort pitt as soon as

,09 I can send of the Same, as I woud wish to Remain some time at Fort pitt in order to regulate my affairs, should be happy if my Reg' coud be the rear of the whole that goes down the river. Permit me to refer you to Cap' Sullivan for the News in this quarter. I am, with sincere regard your most Obd' humble Servant Jonathon Gibson Col° 7'h Vir Reg' Falmouth Feby 23d 1781 Brigadier Genl Clarke  Public Service Brigadier General Clarke Fort Pitt honoured by Cap' Sullivan  Col Jonathon Gibson Daniel Brodhead to Clark, February 24, 1781.  Fort Pitt Feby 24'h 1781. Dear Sir I am honored with your favor of the 18'h instant, together with instructions from his Excelly the Commander in chief relative to an Expedition which you have the Honor to Command. I sincerely wish you may be properly supplied & supported, in any operation you undertake; and you may rely on every "supply" I am authorized to afford, to facilitate your Expedition. When you can make it convenient to come to Pitt, I beg you will consider my quarters as your Home except only for a bed, which I have not to give you. I have the honor to be with great respect Dear Sir your most Obed' Serv' Daniel Brodhead Col° G. R. Clark.  (on public service) Col° George R. Clark Stewarts Crossings  Col Brodhead
0

 Daniel Brodhead to Clark, March, 1781.  Fort Pitt March—th 1781. Dear Sir I have just received two letters by Capn Montour from the Moravian Towns. Inclosed are Copies of them, and I believe the intelligence communicated by them to be authentic. The revolt of the Cooshocking Delawares induces me to believe that we may now expect a general Indian war. I have wrote the County Lieutenants &c to meet at my quarters on the 15th instant to consult on means to protect our Settlements & annoy the Enemy. If it may be agreeable to you, to be here at the Same time, I should be happy to have your advice & assistance. With perfect respect & esteem I am Dear Sir your most Obed' Serv' Daniel Brodhead P. S. will it not be proper to send copies of the inclosures to the Govrof Virga? Brign Geo Rogers Clark Joseph Crockett to Thomas Jefferson, March 14, 1781.'  Shephards Town 14th March 1781 Sir By Orders received from Col Clarke we have just return'd from Frederick Town, to this place in hopes to get the Regiment equip'd for the western expedition. I must beg leave once more to mention to your Excellency, the great distress the Regiment is in for want of cloathing. the Soldiers being almost naked for want of Linen, and intirely without Shoes. Col Clark informs me he expects a Considerable quantity of linen at Winchester, of which we shall have a part as for Shoes, I know not where to apply. This will be handed your Excellency by Cap' Cherry, paymaster to the western Battalion, who will wait on the Treasurer 1 This has been previously printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, I., 573.
1
,11 for a Sum of Money due the Officers, agreeable to a late act of Assembly, and also will with Cheerfulness obay any Command your Excellency may please to lay on him, in order to serve the Regiment, in forwarding Cloathing Money &C I Have the Honour to be your Excelly most obt & very Hble Serv' Joseph Crockett Isaac Craig to Clark, March 18, 1781.  Fort Pitt 18th March 1781 Sir Having the Honour to be Put under your Command as Commanding Officer of Artillery it becomes my Duty to Enquier into the State of the Ordnance & Stores—and as no Suplys can be Obtain'd from any Magezine or Founderey after the Troops have left this Place, it is therefore Necessary that Propper Provision be now made—this Consideration has led me to take the Liberty of Adressing A Line or two to You Sir on that Subject, the Ordnance Ordered for your Intended Expedition Naturealy Points out to an Artillery Officer the Necessary Apparatus—in Shells & fixed Ammunition I have Adheard to the Number and Quantity Required by Governor Jefferson—and from a General Estimate of Ordnance Stores &c that are Absolutely Necessary I have Deducted every Article that Can be furnished at this Place—the Inclosed Indent will Show what is Still wanting—as it is of the utmost Importance that these things be Precured as Soon as Possible, and least the Publick Service or My Caracter Should Suffer by a Want of Timely Attention. If you Sir Aprove I will take the Trubl of Going down and having them Brought 'Isaac Craig was born in Ireland, and came to America with his parents in 1765. The family settled in Philadelphia, Isaac becoming a carpenter. At the outbreak of the Revolution he entered the navy, but after ten months' service, joined the army and was present at the battles of Trenton and Princeton. In 1777, he was made captain of artillery. Early in 1781, he was ordered to Fort Pitt with artillery and military stores. He accompanied Clark down the Ohio to the falls, but towards the close of the year returned to Fort Pitt, where he remained in active service until the close of the war. On account of his bravery and ability he was advanced to the office of major. After the war, he continued to reside at Pittsburg and for a number of years was in the employ of the government in a military capacity.
2

 up—the Weak State of My Company and A Necessity of Aplying for two or three Artillery Officers is an Inducement to my going to Philadelphia as I Shall there have it in my Power Bring up a Part of my Company that is at Present there and two Officers— if this Proposal Sir meets Your Approbation Please to give me Your Instructions as Soon as Possible—it will also be necessary to aply for nine or ten Artillery Artificers and as Bringing over the Mountain Such heavy Articles as fixed Ammunition is attended with Some Expence A Part of which can be Saved by Bringing Tin Solder flannell Cartriges &c and One Tin Plate Worker from the Laboratory, in order to fix the Ammunition here as A Considerable Number of unfixed Rond Shot and Grape Can be found here which may be Spaered from this Post—I have Mentioned my Proposal of going down for the above Purposes to Col Broadhead and his Opinion is that it is Absolutely Necessary. I Am Sir with Esteem Your Obedient Hbl Serv' I Craig Capt Artillery Gorge R Clarke B. General Isaac Craig to Clark, March 18, 1781.  Fort Pitt 18th March 1781 Ammunition & Apparatus Necessary for the following Ordnance in Addition to that already Here viz One Eight Inch Howitzer 4 Shell Tunnells 202 Eight Inch Shells 12 lb of Kitt 220 Eight Inch Fuzes 4 Kitt Brushes 400 Eight Inch Tubes 3 Copper Drudging Boxes 400 Empty flannell Cartriges 6 Fuz Wrasps 13 lb of Mealed Powder 1 Pair of Limbers 8 lb of Quick Match 2 Setts of Drage Ropes
3
,13 Three Six Pounders 6 Tube Boxes 610 Pound Shot fixed with 10 Guners Belts & Horns Flannell Cartriges Compleat 340 Case Shott fixed with Do 2 Guners Quadrants 200 Empty Flannell Cartriges 1 Perpendicular 800 Six Pd Tubes 4 Darke Lantherons 4 Light Do. One Three Pounder 200 lbs of Slow Match 44 Round Shot fixed with 12 Dozen of Port Fiers Flannell Cartriges 60 lb of Salt Petter 150 Case Shott fixed with Do 40 lb of Sulpher 100 Empty Flannell Cartriges 2000 Spunge Tacks 400 three Pound Tubes 6 Sheep Skins Dressed with Wooll on Two Royal Howitzers 6 Tannd Hides 140 Case Shot 5| inches 10 Setts of Mens Harness 30 Royal Tubes 2 Coils of 2\ inch Tarred 6 Setts of Drage Ropes Rope 400 Empty Flannell Cartriges 10 Hanks Marline 25 lb. of Pack Thread Indent of Ordnance Stores I. Craig Capt Artillery  George R Clarke Esqr B. General
4

 Daniel Brodhead to Clark, March 19, 1781.  Fort Pitt March 19'h 1781. Dear Sir I am honored with your favor of the 8th instant and am glad your Sentiments & my own coincide, respecting the minds of the Indians, and the mode of defending the Settlements. I should be happy to see Col° Crockets Reg on this side the Mountain, as it might be very usefully employed in covering the frontiers of Ohio & Monongalia Countys from Fort Henry. But I cannot promise a full supply of Provisions, with certainty. An Indian Man has just brought in a letter which was sent by some of the inhabitants to the Enemy at Detroit with information that about one hundred of them were ready to join them so soon as they could be informed that they should be received by the Commanding officer there. Captain Craig has made out an indent of ordnance & Stores which he conceives will be essentially necessary upon your enterprize and he alledges that he hath not half Men enough to work his pieces. I conceive that neither will be obtained until he is permitted to make a personal application And therefore if you approve he may have leave of absence untill such time as you expect to proceed down the River. I am with perfect respect & esteem your most Obed' Serv' Daniel Brodhead Col° commandg W D Brign Genl Clarke At Stewarts Crossing John Gibson to Clark, March 21, 1781.  Dear Sir I arrived here a fortnight ago, and notwithstanding every exertion have not Been able as yet to send off the powder, the kaggs in which it was sent from Philada to this place were so Bad, that I was obliged to have new ones made, that with difficulty of providing waggons has detained me so long here. I am to set off on Monday next at farthest.
5

MARCH 23, 1781 515 The English have taken all the  French vessels at Statia,  from the Southward are that Cornwallis had retreated as far as Hills Bourough, that Genl Greene was pursuing him, Being joined by Co Campble and two thousand of the Militia from the Back Counties of Virga, Gen Sumpter and the Militia of the Carolinas are in the front, so that his fate is looked on as inevitable, and that it is impossible for him to Escape. A french fleet it is said is arrived in Chesepeake Bay, which if true, must determine the fate of the infamous Arnold, this place does not afford a single newspaper or I should have sent you them. For news permit me to refer you to the Bearer Cap' Elliot and Believe me to Be with utmost respect Dear Sir, your most Obedt Humble Serv' Jonathon Gibson Carlisle March 21at 1781  Brigadier General Clark Fort Pitt Honored by Cap' Elliot Clark to I. Craig, March 23, 1781. [Draper MSS., 27CC30. Printed slip from Pittsburgh American, December 3, 184S.■1 Crosings,1 March 23d, 1781. Dr. Cap'tn: Yours of the 18th came safe to hand. I much approve of your going down in order to take measures to Compleat yourself in stores wanting for your Dept., not only nessessary for the interprise, but to enable you to gain those Laurels I could wish to put in your power. I am sorry to find by the indent you Honored me with the great defitiency of stores at Fort Pitt but am in hopes it will be in your power to procure them in time, you may Rely upon all nessessary assistance from his Excellency Genl. Washington if you should be obliged to make application to him. It would be advisable to get what artillery men and artificers You could below; we must indeavour to make up the defitiency (if any) otherways; there is a few pretty well trained in the Illinois thats on their way to Join you. I could wish you to be as Compleat as 1 On the Yohogheny River.
6

 possible and am in hopes you will meet with no difficulty in procuring what you want. I am happy you have Consulted Col. Brodhead on the subject, by a Letter he honoured me with; he approves of the plan as Highly advisable. I hope that you will have sufficient length of time between this and the first of May to compleat your Business. I hertily wish you success. Am with much erteem y'r very Obt Serv't G. R. Clark. Clark to.Thomas Jefferson, March 27, 1781.1  Yough, 27'h March 1781 Sir I Received your dispatches by Cap'n Sullivan, that part Respecting the Bills Countnd by Majr Slaughter and Letters of advice is something curious its supprising to me that Majr Slaughter as an officer of the State would suffer those persons to persevear in their Villany was he as he hints truly sensible of ye principal that actuated them you know my sentiments Respecting Sevrl persons in our Imploy. those he accuses are genly men of fair Characters. I have long Since determined to Conduct myself with a particular Regour towards every person under me, they Shall feel the Stings of Remorce (if Capable) or the Sweats of publick applause either as they demean themselves, but to Reflect on the steps I have been obliged to make use of to prosecute a war for these several years there is an indignity in it that often Hurt me, but a zeal that is unaccountable to me Carry me to length that I sometimes Regret, those gentlemen Majr Slaughter points at with himself may Expect to undergo the Strictest scrutiny in a short time as orders are prepared for that purpose, Mr Jonathon Dodge & others of the Illinois also, the whole proceedings shall be Transmit to your Excellency, the Bills Signed by Maj° Slaughter I think out to be paid those poor persons may otherways suffer the Estates of those alluded to if guilty is a Sufficient security I have Received Inteligence that Col Montgomery hath gone of to New 1Printed in Col. of Va. State Papers, I., 597.
7

MARCH 27, 1781 517 Orleans on some pretence or other.1 I have dispatched of Letters to that post desiring him to Return to a tryal for his Conduct and desiring no person to Credit him on Ac' of the State if he should Return by the way of Richmond I hope Sr you will put him under an arrest and order him to the Western Dep' to answer for those accusations that may be laid to his Charge its a very allarming circumstance to me that of the Frederick Berkely and hampshire Militia being excused from the Western Service I make no doubt that good policy might Require it I suspected it, but 6 or 7 Hundred men deducted from two Thousand is very Considerable, I shall never think otherways than that the Militia of those Counties would have marched with chearfullness had they not been incouraged to ye Contrary Co Gibsons Regiment will make some amends but far from filling up the Blank perhaps we may do it by Voluntiers from this Quarter, I feel the distresses of my country and shall devote myself to its interest but Sr if any misfortune should happen I have the Consolation to hope the cause will not be misplaced my situation is truly disagreable the most daring, attempt would be agreable to me was their nothing but Death to fear, but more I conceive to be Depending at present, to be flung into my Situation by a Set of Men that are not Honoured with the Sentiments of a Soldier is truly disagreable I hope those Gen alluded to will live to Repent of their Conduct contious of the Rectitude of the orders of Government agravate the Guilt of those persons in my Ideas and Cannot Refrain from giving those my Sentiments though it may Refflect no honour to me I am flattered by the purchasers in Gen to believe that their will be a suffitiency of Flower and Boats prepaired though much later than could be wished for Co Gibsons Regiment is of great worth to us I am happy in his appointment If its in your power to Honour Majr Harrisons Draft for money I hope you will do it the greater our Supplies the greater probability of suckcess the money I brought with me I have yet and would wish to keep it as the last Resource I hope Sir there will be no disappointment in the Stores ordered for the dep' as it may be attended with the worst of Consequences I have the Honour to be with Esteem your very Hbl Serv' G. R. Clark 'Alvord, Cahokia Records (I. H. C, n.), xcix.
8

 Geoffrey Linctot to George Slaughter, April 2, 1781.  St. Vincennes April 2nd, 1781. He feels compelled, for the good of the State, to send Sergeant Simon Fletcher, express, to inform him of the condition of that Country, and the disposition of the Indians, in order that some remedy may be applied. The expedition to Detroit was a failure, and aid is now needed to keep their Indians faithful. He must rely upon Col: Slaughter's known generosity and friendship, to interest himself in behalf of a people and Country threatened with dire calamity unless promptly succoured. He trusts his Express will meet with due compensation at his hands for the service he renders. He awaits with anxiety an answer; and begs leave to add his grateful remembrances to Mrs. Slaughter, and to the gentlemen at the Falls, as he can never forget the kind offices done him, &c. Geoffrey Linctot to Thomas Jefferson, April 2, 1781.  Vincennes April 2nd, 1781. The Commission granted him on account of his sincere attachment to the cause of the United States by his Excellency, has enabled him to carry out the policy of maintaining friendly relations with the "Orebache" Indians and other tribes; but for the future maintenance of this state of things the transmission of goods, powder and other articles will be necessary. These Allies now remain true and faithful, but unless their wants are supplied, the English, who may afford them relief will succeed in engaging them on their side—The attachment of his Excellency to Virginia and her honour and interests should not permit those people to remain daily exposed to massacre on account of their fidelity to the State, for want of the necessaries of life, arms, powder &c:— On this account he earnestly prays, in behalf of them, and the honor of the State, that they may not be left to a cruel and uncertain fate.
9

COMMISSIONERS' REPORT,19 Commissioners' Report on an Examination of William Shannon, April 13, 1781.  At a Meeting of the Commissioners appointed by Brigadier General Clark the 13 day of April 1781 for the purpose of inquiring into the Conduct of Capt. William Shannon & Cap. Ja. Francis Moore purchasing Commissaries in the Western department on the complaint of Major George Slaughter. Present John Floyd Isaac Cox William Oldham and Robert Todd Gent—The said Slaughter being Called appeared & Exhibited a Charge against the said Moore for purchasing several Articles of Commerce last Spring in partnership with a certain James Sullivan & in payment passed a bill on the Treasury of Virginia setting forth therein that the same was drawn for a Quantity of Corn furnished by the said Sullivan for the use of the State. The said Ja" Francis Moore denying the Charge the Board proceeded to Examine the Witnesses that were called on for & against the said Moore whereupon it appears that Col° George Rogers Clarke purchased a quantity of Corn from the said James Sullivan and directed the said Moore to receive the same & give Bills on the Treasury for payment that sometime after the said Moore purchased a quantity of pott metal in partnership with a certain Andrew Hinds and borrowed one of the bills given in payment as aforesaid in Order to pay for the Pott Metal. The said William Shannon being Charged by the said Major Slaughter with having refused to purchase whiskey of a certain Richard Masterson at the price of 45 £ p Gallon & afterwards gives Sixty pounds p Gallon to the said James Sullivan for the same Whiskey Denyed the Charge upon Examination of the Witnesses for & against the said Shannon it appears to the Board that the said Shannon had Offered to purchase the whiskey of the said Masterson & proffered Bills on the Treasury in payment the said Masterson not Chosing to take Bills of the said Shannon sold the said whiskey to a certain Daniel Sullivan in partnership with the said James Sullivan and they afterwards sold the same to the said Shannon for Sixty pounds p Gallon it also appears to the Board that Sixty pounds p Gallon was the Current price of Whiskey at that time
0

 The said William Shannon being also Charged by the said Slaughter with having refused to purchase corn at 40 Dollars p Bush, afterward giving 60 Dollars to the said James Sullivan for the same Corn upon Examination of the Evidence for & against the sd Shannon it appears that the said Shannon had Offered to purchase the said Corn of a Certain Wm. Pope at the price of Thirty dollars p Bushell and thought that he had Engaged it at that price but sometime after when the said pope applyed for bills in payment he insisted that the price agreed upon by him was Fifty Doll—p Bushell & refused to take Less that the said Shannon give this as a reason for not purchasing the Corn of the said pope at the last mentioned price, it also appeard that the said James Sullivan purchased the Corn of the sd Pope at Forty five Dollars p Bushell and gave in payment his Obligation for the Money payable in a short time at the falls of Ohio & that the said Shannon purchased the said Corn of the said Sullivan at Sixty Dollars p Bushell J Floyd Isaac Cox Will Oldham Robt. Todd John Todd, Jr., to Clark, April 13, 1781.  Lexington 13th April 1781 Dn Sir. Your much esteemed letter of Jany arrived safe with orders from his Excellency the Govr for drafting my proportional p' of 500 men which amounts to between 70 & 80, He informs me you have liberty to make any alterations you chuse in this matter The Smallness of our strength pleads strongly for us on the N°  side beside above One Hundred of our Militia have fled from this side to the South Side New Garrisons have been made from such refugees & others much strengthened. At a time when our distress called for their Assistance they withdrew the aids sent us on Account of a few scattering Cherokees. I have again made application for men in vain. We have rbout 20,000 lb dryd Beef & 2000 Bus1" nearly of Corn public. ,o guard here & at
1

EXPENSE OF FORT AT LEXINGTON 521 Bryants. The Corn I expect you'll not want this spring. My drift in mention this is to induce you to permit my Militia to join you at the Mouth of Licking or shd you take any other Rout to adopt some plan by which we may not be exposed in the meantime. We have here an excellent new fort which 20 men may defend against any number almost in a Healthy Situation. I purpose to reposit therein what Corn you will not want & will engage for find comfortable Nourishm' for any Invalids you may choose to leave with me during the Expedn I wish to hear from you immediately I am with respect your mo obed Hble Ser' Jno Todd Jr  publick Service Brigadier Gen Geo R. Clark at the Falls of Ohio Mr Welsh Express Expense in Building Fort at Lexington, April 13, 1781. [Clark MSS., Va. State Archives.l The Commonwealth of Virginia to John Morrisson on account of Expenditures for Work done at the New fort, Dr March & Days Doll April David Mitchell 11 SO 550 1781 W"> Mitchell 15 Do 750 Levy Todd 14 D° 700 Wn> Hayden 11 D° 550 Benjamin Hayden 14 Do 700 James W Genty 13 D° 650 John Todd 14 D» 700 W« Neblick 8 D° 400 Benjamin Brigg 1 D° 050 John Williams 5 D» 250 Sam'l McMullen 9 Do 350 Charles Seamon 6 D° 300 Caleb Masterson 8 Do 400 John Clarke 4 Do 200 John Neil 3 D» 150 Doll 134 6700 Joseph Turner & team 10 100 1000 144
2

 Robert Patterson Acoumpt of work David Vance 14 4 Francis McDurmed 144 Francis McDurmed Jur. . . 13 J Tohn Borrance 6 Henny McDonald 10 Robert Stanhope 134 Archer Dikerson 6 Stephen Collins 10 John Wymere 5 Nicolas Brobston 8 James Hayden 3 John Stephenson 2 James Masterson 6 James Wason 9J" Paw Owens 2 Francis Patterson 1 124 J Horse Higherc— Wm Hayden, Team Wm Robertson 1 Horse... 2 John Wymer 1 Horse 2 ]as Wason ID0 3 VV'm Mc Conal 1D° 1 Peter January 1 D° 1 at Newfort 50 725 Do 725 D° 675 D" 300 Do 500 I)» 075 Do 300 Do 51M) Do 250 Do Kill Do 150 Do 100 Do 300 Do 475 Do 100 D" 50 100 25 50 Do 50 15 75 !)o 15 Do 2 5 Wm McConals Act 0£ Work N fourt Mitchel Warwick 15 Francis McDonal 8 John Nappirs 14 Ratty Boom 5 James Boom 5 ]ames Morrow 9 John Fitzgaral 10 W» Shannon 10 John Casey 10 James Wittch 5 James Haden 8 Francis Harper 5 Josiah Collins 3 James M Conals 8 Sam January and Team. . 10 115 100 325 50 750 Do 400 Do 700 Do 250 [> 250 [> 450 Do 500 Do 500 Do 5011 D° 250 D° 400 Do 250 Do 150 Do 400 1000 6225 325 6750 383J Caried Over. 3834 Dollars 21000 21000
3

EXPENSE OF FORT AT LEXINGTON 523 Wm Martin in Ac' of work on the New Fort Saml Martin 14 SO 700 Wm Martin 15 D° 750 John Martin 13 D° 650 John M=Donal 9 D° 450 Hugh McDonal 11 D° 550 James McDonal 11J D° 575 Danil Mt=Clean 6 I> 300 Levy Todd 3 Do 150 Alexander Maclean 7J D° 375 John Clarke 4 D° 200 Hugh Martin 9 D° 450 Caleb Masterson 1 D» 50 Hugh Thompson 10 Do 500 Wm Dearmon & Son 2 Do 100 Rob' Stanhop 1 Do 50 John Todd 1 D° 50 198 5900 501i © 50 Horse Hire 125 Sundry Men 8 50 400 To 4 Over lookers 4000 Morrison Patterson McConnel & Martain 4400 Gate Expences Wood workMcBride Torrence & M Conall 31425 Doll 1200 for Iron 80 D. Smith work 100 D 180 Magazine Expence To 3 Men 2 Days Cutting Timer 50 300 300800 1000 To 2 Men 3 Days Riving & Cutting. . . D° 4 Square flooring a 200 D To Team for Hauling timber 10 100 Liquor given to the men at sundry times 21 Quarts a 100 D John Little for Drum2100 400 6280 37:700 Doors for Magazi ue 11311.10 £ 11341.10The above Ace Examined & approved 30 Jn Todd April 15th 1781
4

 George Slaughter to Thomas Jefferson, April 13, 1781.l  Louisville April 13th 1781 Sir As the inclosed copy of the proceedings of the Commissioners appointed to examine into the conduct of Captain James Francis Moore purchasing Commissary for this department by which you will observe that I have not proved the charge against that Gentleman I have nothing to say in justification of my conduct more than that I have put too much confidence in the information whom I before thought were men of the strictest varacity and honour but as I have been inadvertently led to make those charges, in Justification to Cap Moore's character am in duty bound to make him all the satisfaction in my power therefore hope that no part of the information recited in my Letter of the 17th January last respecting that Gentleman will injure him in your esteem I am Yr Excellency's Mo. Obt. Hum Serv' Geo: Slaughter George Slaughter to Thomas Jefferson, April 14, 1781.  Salt River 14th April 1781 Sir From the Copy of the proceedings of the Commissioners appointed to examine into the Conduct of Capt. William Shannon Commissary &c. in this Departm' you will see that I have not proved all the charges Exhibitted against him by my Letter to you of the 17th Jany last—I have nothing farther to say in Justification of my Conduct than that I had put too much confidence in information received from Gentlemen whom I before thought were men of strict veracity & Honor, and as I have been inadvertently led to make those Charges I am in duty bound to do that Justice to Cap' Shannons Character which appears to be due 1 Printed in Col. of Va. State Papers, n., 38.
5

VAN METER TO JEFFERSON,25 from the proceedings above referred to, & hope that no part of the information formerly given by me will further injure him in your esteem. I am Sir with the utmost respect Your Excellencys M. Ob Serv' Geo. Slaughter Garret Van Meter to Thomas Jefferson, April 14, 1781.  Hampshire County April 14th 1781. Enclosing "Return" of Two Battalions in that county—Instructions had come from Genl: Clarke not to march the militia until further Orders—He has issued the order for the full number required by the Draft, but, adds, "I am afraid they will not be complyed with, by Reason of the disaffected people amongst us. (A Collector of one of the Divisions for making up the Cloathes and Beef was Interrupted in the execution of his office). A certain John Claypole said if all the men were of his mind, they would not make up any Cloathes, Beef or Men, and all that would join him shuld turn out. Upon which he got all the men present, to five or six and Got Liquor and Drank King George the third's health, and Damnation to Congress,) upon which Complaint was made to three Magistrates. Upon which there was a warrant Issued for several of them, and Guard of Fifty men with the Sheriff. When they came to the place they found sixty or seventy men embodied, with arms—After some time they capitulated, the Sheriff served the precept on the said John Claypole, but he refused to come with him or give up his arms; but agreed to come such a time, which time is Passt—Inclosed you have a Copy of a Letter they sent me, and the answer I sent them—I was Informed there was one hundred and fifty of them to Gether the next Day. I am informed there are several Deserters amongst those people, Some from the English Prisoners. Some Eighteen Months men, and some Eight Months men, which they support and conceal." Refers his Excellency to Mr. Woodson the bearer for further particulars.
6

  "Sir, Having consulted the Majority, it is the Desire of the, that their Conduct that has past Lately may be forgiven, as a great part of it was occasioned by Liquor, and as there is things that is Laid to the Charge of Sum, that is clear of the Charge, but moreover we acknowledge our behaviour was not Discreet, if you would Please to pass it by, we will submit to pay our Tax as the Law directs; and are willing to pay our District tax of Beef & Clothing if they can be purchased, and likewise to be Complyable to the Laws of the State, as far as our ability will allow. At the Request of the majority I have hereunto set my hand. From Sir, yr: humble Servant JOSIAH OSBURN." To Colo. Van Meter—April 3d 1781.  April 4th 1781. "Sir, I rec'd yours dated the third Inst: and am very Glad to hear the Mutineers Begin to see their Folly, they may Depend I shall shew them all the Lenity the circumstance of the Case will admit of, but those chargable with breaking the Law I cannot clear, as I am but an Individual, unless they who are in the warrant Comes in and Clears themselves—from your friend, while you are friends to yourselves and the United States. Garret Van Meter." to josiah osburn. John Todd, Jr., to Thomas Jefferson, April 15, 1781.'  Lexington 15th April 1781 May it please your Excellency, Your letter of the 24 Dec. as also that of the 19th Jany last inclosing sundry papers came safe to hand a few days ago. By the 1 Printed in Col. of Va. State Papers, II., 44, and Chicago Hist. Soc, Cot-lections, iv., 342.
7

TODD TO JEFFERSON,27 best Accounts I can procure from Jefferson & Lincoln the Militia of the whole three Counties at present amount about 1050—Fayette 156 Lincoln 600 & Jefferson 300. I have just made a Draft of 78 from this County for Col Clarke & if the other Counties draft proportionally your Demand will be fully satisfied. I hear nothing as yet of Col. Clark but I concieve I have just cause of expostulating with him on account of this County its true state being probably unknown to your Excellency when the Draft was required to be proportioned to the Militia Exposed at every Fort & weakened by daily Removals of its Strength to the South side of Kentucky we are scarcely able to keep our Forts. Should Col Clark take his Rout by the Shawnese Nation all cause of Complaint must cease as the Enemy will thereby be drawn off from our Forts Being unable just now to spare Labourers & Guards at a distance from our Forts for making Canoes I have sent Mr Lindsay to Lincoln for Assistance which I make no doubt of procuring I fear I shall meet with some difficulties in conveying the Stores at Lexington & Bryants to the Canoes for want of Horses ours being nearly all taken by the Indians & Col. Bowman does not prove so friendly as I think he ought to be in giving me necessary Assistance. Our Circumstances have received so material a Change within twelve months that a Draft of 18 Militia for the Continental Army at present wd be singularly oppressive upon Fayette or Jefferson Happy shd we be & readily wuld we spare them if our Situation were but as the Legislature expected There is scarce one fort in the County but once a month seems upon the Eve of breaking for want of men to defend it Such Residents as had most property & Horses to remove their Effects have retreated to Lincoln one half of the Remainder are unable to Remove, We have no Tax Commissioners in the County & almost nothing to tax All which Circumstances plead I hope in Excuse sufficiently for the Militia at present. Whenever our Circumstances will admit of it the people will Im satisfied inlist voluntarily in to the Continental Army from a Genius they possess for war as well as the Greatness of the Bounty.
8

 A Letter sent to your Excellency this Winter mentioned the Strenth of the County perhaps it never reached you neither did the Requisition menid in yours ever reach me. The inclosed Draught of the County may better Serve to give you an Idea of our Situation & position with regard to each other than any Description. I also inclose you a letter from Mr Pollock. I still receive Complaints from the Ilinois that Department suffers I fear through the Avarice & prodigality of our Officers they all vent Complaints against each other. I believe our French Friends have the justest grounds of Dissatisfaction. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect Your Excellency's Most Obedient & very humble Servant Jn Todd jr James Sullivan to Clark, April 15, 1781.  Beargrass April 15'h 1781 Sir I have an Opportunity by Express of writing you Concerning the business in my Hands. The Boats I were to have built for you is so difficult a task for the hands that can be had in this Country that I fear the Quantity cannot possibly be had but shall leave nothing in my power that can be done towards Accomplishing them. The Letters you gave me for fort Jefferson I have sent by Express. I have the Disagreeable news to tell you that through Neglect (but of whom I know not) One Hundred thousand Weight of meat is Spoiled. A repetition of Bad news is not desirable but I have to inform you that Mr William Pope is recommended as Lieutenant Colonel for this County by the Court of which Court he himself made one three others Only being present his appointment to that Commission will greatly injure this County as the Generality of the people is much averse to serving under him No more at present from Your Most Ob Hb Servt James Sullivan
9

FLOYD TO JEFFERSON,29 N B. I inclose you a copy of the Articles Between me & Shannon which would be glad you'd transmit to Government with a Copy of Slaughters Letters  To Gen. Geo. Rogers Clark at Stewards Crossings  dp'11 Sullivan Beargrass 15ih April 1781 John Floyd to Thomas Jefferson, April 16, 1781.  Jefferson Co., Ky. 16th April 1781 Sir, About the first of January last Commissions were delivered me, one appointing me Colo, of the Militia of this County, one other appointing Isaac Cox Lieutenant Colo., also a Major's Commission for William Lyn; five Capt: Commissions together with the Comm'n of the Peace, &c. directed to four of the said Officers, who are Inhabitants of the County, and to three others, one of them being also appointed Sheriff, the other two being in very distant Countys & who have not been in this since their Appointment—I had sometime before the receipt of these Commissions, heard of the Appointments & foreseeing the Evil which must arise from their not being Magistrates in the County to qualify the Militia Officers, wrote to Your Excellency requesting more Justices to be added to the Commission of the peace & that blank Militia Commissions might be sent me—And I repeated this request soon after the Receipt of the Com'n but have received none others since; nor did I ever receive a single line from you till the 4th Instant when, your two letters, one of the 24th of December & the other of the 19th of Jan: were delivered me. I shall always endeavor to perform the duties of any Office which I undertake, faithfully; and in this particular instance, have done more than my duty required of me. You write me that you had, six months before required of me a proper Return of the Militia of this County; but as the division of Kentucky did not take place 'till November last, your instructions must have been dated before this County took place—But had that not been the case, and had your Letter come to hand, it was out of my Power to comply with it, as we have only four Magistrates in the
0

 County, one of whom was so infirm that he could not attend Court at all 'till March last, and then the Officers could not qualify, they being the Justices also; nor is this inconvenience likely to be remedied in a short time as Capt. Sullivan is just returned from Richmond without any Commissions for this County. And as the recommendations made by this Court have not yet been sent away, I fear we shall not get the Commisns. 'till late in the Summer; and until this happens no regular return can be made for want of Officers; Two of the Captains who had Comns. sent, refused to accept of them; one other I never yet have seen, nor can I get him to Court to Qualify. I have endeavored to collect the number of the Militia and find from the best information I can get, they amount to 354, between the ages of sixteen and fifty including officers. You require the Act of Assembly for recruiting the States Quota of Troops to serve in the Continental Army to be carried into execution here, but for the reasons before mentioned it must be postponed; and when your Excellency is informed of the true situation of this County, I am persuaded you will think the Law ought not to have extended to it. We are all obliged to live in Forts in this County, and notwithstanding all the Caution that we use, forty seven of the Inhabitants have been killed & taken by the Savages, Besides a number wounded since Jany. last—Amongst the last is Major William Lyn. Whole families are destroyed, without regard to Age or Sex— Infants are torn from their mothers Arms & their Brains dashed out against Trees, as they are necessarily removing from one Fort to another for safety or Convenience—Not a week passes & some weeks scarcely a day without some of our distressed inhabitants feeling the fatal effects of the infernal rage and fury of those Execrable Hell hounds. Our garrisons are dispersed over an Extensive Country, and a large proportion of the Inhabitants, are helpless indigent Widows & Orphans who have lost their Husbands and fathers by Savage Hands, and left among Strangers, without the most common necessaries of Life. Of those who have Escaped, many have lost all their stocks, and have not any Land of their own, nor where withal
1

FLOYD TO JEFFERSON,31 to purchase—Our dependance to support our familys is upon getting wild meat & this is procured with great difficulty & danger; and should it fall to the Lott of some in this County who are thus situated to serve as Regular Soldiers according to Law, their familys must inevitably starve. Our Garrison at the falls is made sufficient to stand an attack with light Cannon, but our numbers which will risk themselves in it, will by no means be sufficient to defend it from an Army which we are frequently threatened with from Detroit—Our Inhabitants being so dispersed that they could not be collected to any one place in the County in less than fifteen days—The Confidence of the People here have in General Clarke's vigilance; his enterprising Spirit & other Military Virtues, together with their inability remove, have been barely sufficient to keep this County from being left entirely desolate—Major Slaughter at the Falls of Ohio, has about 500 pds: of powder & Lead in proportion, which is all the Public Ammunition in this County; none of that delivered to Col: Bowman last Winter, having been sent me, and there is very little in the county of private property. There is not at this time, I am informed & believe, more than fifty thousand Lbs. of Beef in this County, Fayette & Lincoln; upwards of one hundred thousand Weight of that laid up in this County being entirely rotten & lost—Corn is plenty in Lincoln & Fayette but there is no flour in any of these Counties. The men you order for Genl: Clarke's Expedition will be raised without much difficulty, notwithstanding all the disadvantages the County is under—The Canoes also shall be ready in time, tho' one fourth of the Militia must guard while they are on hand. Salt may be had here sufficient for an army of two thousand men Six months, and perhaps more. I am Your Excellency's most Obt. Humb Servt. Jno: Floyd.
2

 John Floyd to Clark, April 16, 1781. [Draper MSS., 51J39.—A. L. S.l Jefferson April 16th 1781. Dear General—Your favour of the 21 Jany I received the 14th Inst and the next day htose of the 20th of March came to hand by Capt Sullivan, the contents of which I sincerely thank you for, and to which I shall pay the greatest attention. Those things which make the greatest impression on my mind I shall mention to you first which I fear will embarrass & perplex you exceedingly. All the Beef which was laid in at Squire Boons except about sixteen thousand weight being entirely rotten & thrown away. The quantity I dont exactly know, but it was considerably more than One Hundred thousand, whose fault it was I know not; but as I have given notice to all the Officers & desired them to write by this Express, I hope you will receive proper information. The Beef was to have been pickled at Boons, & poor Evan Hinton who was much engaged about it, was captured by the Indians with two other men as they were going from Lyns with a Waggon Load of Barrells for the purpose of saving the meat. This happened about the 6th of Feby I gave notice to as many of the Commissioners as I could in so short a time to attend for the purpose of enquiring into the charges exhibited by Major Slaughter against the Commissaries, & I herewith enclose you the proceedings; as there was only four met it was with some difficulty that this alone could be done, tho' they both were very desirious that farther enquirys should be made, but Cap' Oldham being called upon as a Witness prevented it, he being one of the Board. Every person seems willing & desirous to forward the Campaign all in their power. Our proportion of the men for your Army will readily be raised although we are constantly invaded, & among the slain is your old acquaintance Major Lynn, a loss I sincerely lament. Our Garrison at the Falls is finished nearly as you advised. The work was done by Chenoweth last winter, & for which Capt Shannon in behalf of the States is to pay him £15000. You are greatly wanted here by all Denominations of people; & the
3
,33 Expectation of your coming with an army, and the inability of the Inhabitants by losing their Horses, has kept this County from being left entirely waste. Beargrass can hardly turn out half the number of men it could last year. What with Boats & Canoes I expect this County will furnish its full proportion or rather more. Salt is plenty enough, and I hope we shall be able to procure some Beeves from Lincoln, and some Butter & cheese will be got in all the Counties. Corn is tolerably plenty in the upper Counties & it is not scarce here, but this is a poor dependance. I have been more infortunate in my little hunt last Winter than the rest. I hired seven or eight men, went to Lees Cabbins with Horses Loaded with Salt, gave £1000 for the Building Canoes, killed & saved 54 Buffaloe 4 Elk & 2 large wild Hogs & brought it down safe to between Goose Creek & Beargrass where my Vessells were overset by a Gale of Wind & sunk my whole Cargo to the bottom. Besides the Meat Tallow &c I lost five Guns, my saddle Bags Surveying affairs Warrants Field Books & all my Memorandums about Land for seven years past, (and as the people say in their Advertisements) & many other articles too tedious to mention— This is my second defeat at Sea; but I am yet alive & hearty. As I have left the Governors Letter open for your perusal it is needless to inform you any thing it may contain and it being all the intelligance I at present recollect. A Recommendation of Officers &c will soon be sent down recommending Pope as Lieut Col° of Militia I had a hint from Sullivan that this would be very disagreeable to you if so, I shall be heartily sorry and perhaps a line from you to the Governor may not be amiss. as I know you to be a better Judge of any persons Military abilities than any one of our Court. I am Dear Sir with sincere affection Your most Ob' & Most Hble Serv' Jn Floyd P S please to seal & send the Govr Letter and use your Interest to
4

 have the Draft for the Continental Army dispensed with in these three Counties. The three men Cap' Hardy Hill, Peter Coleman & Edwd Welsh whom I send on this Occasion to you, I have made no agreement with but leave the matter to your Judgm' Yours sincerely Col J Floyd Clark to Jonathan Clark, April 19, 1781.  Stewarts Crossings Ap 19ih 1781 Dr Sir A few Days past I was agreeably Supprised by The reception of a Letter from you by which I was informed that you ware in Caroline on parole, pleasures of this nature are only Susceptible to Elevated minds Consequently you must be Judge of those Ideas of Future happiness which must have Occured to me on the supposition that I should one Day or other Injoy in you all the Sotial Virtues a Brother Friend & Companion. I am (unsolicited) Raised by my Cuntry to an Exalted Station with all the powers nessessary to Support me in the Rank I now bear but how long I shall be able to Claim a Continuation of the Lawrels I have already won is quite uncertain, one unlucky stroke may Reduce me in the Eyes of the world, Virtue is lost, pray Sir keep up a Constant Correspondence with me. I have Received a number of Letters from you as often wrote but doubt you never Received my Letters I am Dr Sir, with Esteem Yours &c G R Clark Col. J. Clark  Co1° Jonathan Clark Caroline City Virginia Captn. Elliott To the particular Care of Mr Jonathon Clark of Caroline County.
5

WASHINGTON TO THE BOARD OF WAR 535 Washington to the Board of War, April 20, 1781. ' Head Quarters New Windsor 20ih April 1781. Gentlemen Inclosed is an estimate of Military Stores which will be necessary at Fort Pitt, it is formed partly upon the requisition of the Commanding officer of Artillery there; but chiefly upon a presumption that a considerable quantity of the larger species of Stores will be expended by Col° Clarke in an expedition against Detroit.4 At the request of the State of Virginia, I gave an order upon the Commandant of Fort Pitt for the Artillery &c. necessary for the undertaking. I would wish the Articles might be forwarded as expeditiously as possible. The Marquis de la Fayette has informed me, that he had sent Col° Barber to Philada to make application to the Board for light Clothing for his detachment, previous to knowing that I had sent from hence 1200 shirts, 1200 linen Overalls, 1200 pair of shoes, 1200 socks and 100 Hunting shirts purposely for them, and about 900 Hunting shirts and 300 pair of socks for the southern Army in general. The Deputy Cloathier has likewise ordered about 4000 pr. of shoes which were in Jersey to be sent to Philad* for the Southern Army. But notwithstanding these supplies I would wish the Board to forward all the light Cloathing and shoes that they can possibly procure, and with the greatest expedition, as by the last accounts from General Greene he was exceedingly distressed for those Articles. Inclosed you have the returns of the Officers of Rawlins's Corps and Heths independent Company which were reformed by the late arrangement. Col° Proctor of the 4ih Reg' of Artillery having resigned the Command of that Regiment by the present mode of promotion will devolve upon the eldest Lieu' Col° in the line of Artillery. 1 This same letter is in Box 46, fol. 69, and the following additions are from this rough draft. '"Ammunition" crossed out in Washington's draft. '"Which" crossed out in original draft. 4 "Fort Pitt" crossed out in original draft. 1 "Who" crossed out in original draft.
6

 I think Lieu' Col° Carrington but this you may know by referring to the Register. Col° Proctors Resignation bears date the 18'h■ Ins1. I have the honour to be &c G Washington.1  Stores necessary to be sent to Fort Pitt, supposing those of the same species now there will be expended in an intended expedition. Vizr 200 — 8 inch Shells. 40 — 8 inch case shot. 250 . . fuzes for the shells full length. 300 . . tubes. 250 . . flannel cartridges. — empty. 400 . . 5i Shells. 60 . . 5J inch case shot. 500 . . fuzes full length. 500 . _. flannel cartridges. 500 . . tubes. 300 round shot for 3 pounders, fixed with flannel Cartridges, paper caps and cylinders. 60 Case shot for d° fixed as d°. 500 .. . tubes. 400 round shot for 6 pounders, fixed with flannel Cartridges &c. 100 . . . case for d° fixed as d°. 600 .. . tubes. 800 ... 6 pound loose round shot. 200 ... d° grape d°. 1000 . . . empty paper cartridges. 300 lbs slow match. 10 dozen portfires. 1 In his letter to Jefferson of December 28, 1780. see Washington, Writings (Sparksed.), vn., 341, Washington says: "I am so well convinced of the general public utility with which the expedition, if successful, will be attended, that I do not hesitate a moment in giving directions to the commandant at Fort Pitt to deliver to Colonel Clark the articles which you request, or so many of them as he may be able to furnish."
7

WASHINGTON TO THE BOARD OF WAR 537 20 pounds mealed powder. 600 fuzes for hand grenades. 12 lbs kitt. 4 kitt brushes. 100 lbs sulphur. 20 Skeins Marline. 20 lbs brown thread. 4 Lanthorns. 6 Gunners belts complete. 6 tube boxes and belts. 1 perpendicular. 2 Gunners quadrants. 2000 Sponge tacks. 15,000 musket and Rifle flints. 2000 Screws for bullets. 12 Sheep skins. 6 Tanned hides. 12 Sets men's harness. 24 sets drum cords. 200 Rifle Muskets. N B A considerable number of the above Stores are requested by the Commandant of Artillery at Fort Pitt, with the approbaton of the commanding Officer at the Post. also two carpenters two wheelwrights, and two Blacksmiths, with their tools, which will be necessary for the repairs of carriages, platforms &ca in that department Park of Artillery 19th April 1781. H. Knox. By a late return from the board of War, there are 15000 lbs powder at Fort Pitt; which will be sufficient to supply what may be wanted for the intended expedition, and for the Articles mentioned in this estimate.
8

 Thomas Jefferson to Clark, April 20, 1781.  Richmond April 20th 1781 Sir, I am happy to find that you are persevering thro' your difficulties and hope it will have a fortunate Issue. I think not only our future quiet to the Westward but Eastern events depend much on your success. The enemy at Portsmouth have received since you were here a reinforcement of 1500 Men under Major General Phillips. They are at this time under way up James river but to what place destined we know not. The bills mentioned in your Letter are paid on your countersignature. We lately had a great bundle of Draughts from Col° Montgomery; They were rejected and the holder informed that if he would satisfy you they were for articles or services really for the State, you would countersign and we pay them according to their true value at the time of drawing. You will have received the two hundred thousand pounds sent you by Captain Cherry. We now send Major Harrison three hundred thousand pounds by L Bradford. All the Stores have gone which were to go for you from this place. A delay was occasioned to the march of the Greenbriar Militia by an error in sending some Articles hence to Frederic which should have gone to Fort Chiswell, however they will be in time I hope for the Movements from Fort Pitt. I have just received a Letter from the President of Pennsylvania informing me that on learning that Col° Broadhead had restrained some purchases within their Limits for your Troops he had immediately given orders to have the restrictions taken off and that none such should be laid on any future occasion. I hope that an equal liberality on both Sides will facilitate the future operations of both Governments. I wish you every success & happiness & am with great esteem & respect Sir Your most obed' & mo. hble Servant Th. Jefferson Brigdr Genl Clarke Fort Pitt
9
,39 Joseph Hunter to Clark, April 20, 1781.  Fort Jeferson April 20th 1781 Dear General It gives me the Greatest satisfaction to hear of your Advancment and that your usual Good Fortune hase attended you thro all your Enterprizes since we hade the pleasure of seeing you hear. At the same time that I Recived so much satisfaction; in these particulars I Cannot Avoid Expressing; the uneassness I feel at the prospect of Our Litle Settlement; being Broak up; and that Chiefely for want of the personal presence of its first founder and Benefactor. I doubt not your great Good Will towards us; but since a new Field is now opened for you; wherin to Exercise those Great talents; you are Possessed of; which must Invitable take off your Attention from an object so Inconsiderable; as the Incouragement of this Settlement already Broak; and Labouring under more Impediments thin if it hade never been Attemted—I am far from Reflecting the Least Blaim on you; but with Chearfulness Strugled Against Evrey Vissitude my Lonley Circumstances Exposes me unto hear; I lost almost all my Stock Grain &c—Nevertheless I doe not Repine; hoping through your Influence that Goverment will not Overlook me; as I may say I have born the Burding and heat of the day; what Grain I Reasd the Troops have used—tho I Cannot but in Justice Say that Cap" George hath done the part of a Good Offcir; and Likewise all the other oficers hath Treated me with all the possible Marks of Esteem; but if his Excelency General Washington Was to Comand hear; he would not please all the people—its my sincear wish that success may attend you through all your Interprizes and that God by his kind providence may preserve you from your Cruel Enimes and Crown your Endevours—and that I may be so happy to se you Return hear to se a Good settlement at the Ironbanks I am dea General with the Greatest Esteem your most Obedient Humble Sv' Joseph Hunter  The Honble Brigadier Gen Clark Falls of Ohio or Fort Pitt  Joseph Hunter F' Jefferson
0

 John Todd, Jr., to Clark, April 21, 1781.  Lexington 21st April 1781 Dn Sir, Your letter with the Dispatches from Government arrived here about three Weeks ago. The Alteration in the State of our provisions makes it necessary to send you an Express Not that I doubt of a Sufficiency being in the Country but being in live Stock whether it may not Make necessary an Alteration in your plan in Marching &c Mr Lindsay will herewith transmit you a State of the provision in this Quarter which will prove your greatest Dependance I expect the Whole of Jefferson will not raise perhaps more than 15 thousand lbs Dryed Beef. The whole of our Fayette Stores are laid up here & at Bryants. An Early Attack from our Enemy made the intended removal of those at Bryants to this place exceedingly difficult. But I can mention nothing to discourage you. The Spirit of the people is such that they will, & they must, spare out of their Stock for the Men who are to defend not their Liberty but their Lives I have written to you at the Falls in behalf of the people of this County the Draft is Made & the Men ready to march but our Forts of this County are all Frontiers & reduced by removals to the South Side to 150 Militia scarce enough to defend the Forts or pursue a small party of the Enemy but shd you take your last years rout you may I expect get 7 or 8 Hundred from these Counties I have built at this place a new fort proof agl 6 pounders big enough for 200 Men defensible by very small Force shd you be troubled with invalids, to defend it we could afford them good Nourishm' & Care & Spare the more young men on their Account. We abound more in provisions than any p's of the Country as you'll experience I Hope Could you not take a Tour by this place &c to the Falls from Limestone run? I have the Honor to be with respect your mo. obedL Servant Jonathon Todd jr  Publick Service To Brigr Gen Geo. R. Clark  Col. Jno. Todd County Lt. Fayette Dated Lexington 21st april 1781
1

FLOYD TO JEFFERSON,41 John Floyd to Thomas Jefferson, April 24, 1781.  Jefferson April 24th 1781 Sir. I wrote you about eight days ago upon the Subject of our affairs in this County, but as many accidents may happen to prevent the conveyance of Letters such a distance, I have taken the liberty to trouble you with a second. The want of Militia Officers prevents my getting any kind of duty done by the Militia of this County, and has been the means of many lives being lost. I have but one Captain & not a single Officer below that rank qualified to execute his office as the Law requires. We have but four Magistrates, and three of those are also three Militia Officers which prevents what few we have Commissioned, from qualifying. I have made several applications to you that more Justices might be added to the Commission of the peace, & that blank Militia Comns might be sent; and untill this is done no regular return of the militia can be made. I have endeavored to collect the number of our militia, and find from the best information I can get, they amount to 354 including what few Officers we have. You require the Act for recruiting this States Quota of Troops to serve in the Continental Army to be put in execution here, but for the reasons above mentioned it must be defered, and when your Excellency is informed of the true situation of this County, I am persuaded you will be of opinion that that Law ought not to have extended to it. The small number of Inhabitants here is one reason that we are obliged to live constantly in Forts and notwithstanding all the Caution that is made use of forty seven of the Inhabitants of this County have been killed & taken by the Savages since the first of January last, and many more wounded; and of those who have escaped many have lost all their Stock. There is no way here to support a Family but by wild meat, and this is procured with very great difficulty and danger. Indigent Widows and Orphans make up a great part of the Inhabitants of this County who are bereaved of their Husbands and
2

 Fathers by Savages and lef among strangers without the common necessaries of life. Many have already removed out of the County; and nothing but the dependance the rest have in Gen Clarkes being enabled to defend them; & their own inability to remove; have prevented this County from being left entirely desolate. The Garrison at the Falls is made sufficient to stand an attack with light Cannon, but those who will risk themselves there will not be able to defend it against any Army from Detroit which we are constantly threatened with, and I think the last report may be true, as not an Indian has made his appearance in thise Counties for ten days past, which is very uncommon, & which our informer observed would happen some Weeks before a General Invasion of our Country, the Inhabitants here are dispersed in small Forts over an extensive County and cou'd not be collected any one place in less than fifteen days; yet I hope General Clarks preparations at Fort Pitt will prevent our little Settlements from being destroyed. Our Store of provisions for an Army will be very inconsiderable here to what was once expected, upwards of one hundred thousand weight of Beef which was laid up being entirely rotten and lost; owing I think in some measure to one of the principal managers being captured by the Indians last February. I cannot understand that there is more than fifty thousand weight of dried Beef left in Fayette, Lincoln & Jefferson. Corn is tolerably plenty in the two upper Counties but we have no Flour in any of them. Salt may be had in this County for 2000 Men half a year & I believe longer There is no publick Ammunition except about 500 lb. of powder which Major Slaughter has at the Falls, and Lead in proportion. I expect to furnish Gen Clarke with my proportion of the Militia ordered to join his Army, notwithstanding all the disadvantages the County is under for want of Officers. The Canoes also shall be ready in time if there is not a general Invasion of our County before any reinforcements can arrive. The last recommendation made by this Court for Officers & Majestrates being but lately sent away, I fear we shall be in the same situation for several months to come. Mr Willis Green the
3
,43 only representative from this County can inform your Excellency how much I am in want of Officers properly authorized to act, and of several other things which I may have omitted. I have the Honour to be your Excellencys most obed' Hble Serv' Jn Floyd John Floyd to Clark, April 26, 1781.  Jefferson April 26th 1781. My dear General. About ten days ago I dispatched Hardy Hill, Peter Coleman, and Edward Welsh to you with some Letters, but as there has scarcely been one fair day since, I hardly believe they can get over the Waters by the way of Licking and Sandy Creeks which is the rout they took, and never did I see such floods in small Watercourses as since they went away, and as an opportunity now offers by Mr Jameson it may not be amiss to write again. I have not one word of good news to tell you, but bad as it is I think you ought to know it before you come down. At a moderate computation I think there was one hundred and fifty thousand weight of Beef laid up in this County last Winter for the use of your Army, out of which quantity I believe not more than sixteen thousand is saved the rest being entirely rotten where it lay in Salt, while every one appeared to be engaged in doing what they could to forward this business, and seemed desirous to lay in a large Store of provisions against you come out, the whole bustle is come to what I mention. Mr Lindsey I hear has saved some very good dried Beef, but by what I can learn there is not more than fifty thousand weight of dry Meat in the three Counties. a good many Cattle will be bought in Fayette and Lincoln, and a plenty of Salt will be laid in here. Some dried Beef, Butter Cheese &c will be furnished by all these Counties, as every one appears willing to spare every species of provision they can from their Families. I Lately saw a short Letter from Major Lanctot at Saint Vincents by which he seems to express great doubts those Tribes of Indians who have hitherto been friendly to us will soon be our
4

 most inviterate Enemies, unless something is done for them by Government, I apprehend in the way of clothing &c Every person seems to wait for your arrival with the greatest impatience and anxiety. Not an Indian has made his appearance here for several Weeks a circumstance which is very uncommon, and supposed by some to be a bad Omen, the old Women are all afraid and indeed so are the men two, that a Campaign from Detroit will come against the Falls before you can get down to their relief. If you bring no Men at all it seems your presence will do the business. Forty seven of the Inhabitants of this County have been killed & taken since the first of January last, and among the slain is your friend Major Lynn, a loss I really lament. The Garrison at the Falls is at last put in a posture of defence as you desired. All the Militia of Jefferson at present amounts to three hundred and fifty four. Great emigrations have been made from Beargrass since you left us for fear of an English Army. I am Dear Gen with due respect your affectionate & obl Serv' Jonathon Floyd P. S. Men, Boats, and Canoes, will be all ready for you. J F April 29th 81 I make my draft tomorrow for 130 Men for you from this Coty I had a return from Fayette & Lincoln yesterday. Bowman has drafted 300 & Todd 70 I have just heard that the late deluge has swept away 100 Bushells Salt from Bullets Lick, but I believe there is enough yet left for your Troops. I am about to employ hunters to save Meat at Drinnens Lick which the Canoes from Lincoln & Fayette will take in as they pass by God Bless you adieu Jn Floyd  On Publick Service To Brigadier Gen Geo. R. Clarke Yough. or Fort Pitt
5

ROGERS TO JEFFERSON,45 John Rogers to Thomas Jefferson, April 29, 1781.l  Harodsburg, 29th April 1781 Sir, Since my arrival at the Falls of Ohio I have been much surprised to find that some Persons have wrote assertions against my Character during the time of my Comand at the Illinoys last Winter.2 Rich'd Winston & Rich'd McCarty I am informed are the Persons. in order to give you a proper Idea of those Gentlemens' Characters I must inform you that McCarty has ever since Sept. last been under an Arrest for Treason the former tho Deputy County Lieutenant for the Illinois County opposed me in all my demands for provisions for my Men & encoraged the Inhabitants at all times to refuse my requests notwithstanding my repeated applications for that purpose tho my Men were even dying for want. Colo' Montgomery having left several of his Sick men under my Care some of which died for want of wherewithal to support nature When I found the People so lost to Humanity & that I was likely to see my men starved in a Cuntary abounding in Plenty I was under the Necessity of killing now and then a Beast for their support & that but seldom as Mr. Bentley Merch' at Kask's supplied me with the greatest part of meat as well as every other necessary requisite towards reestablishing my Men in Health who were all very sickly when Col'o Montgomery left me the Comand there & as Mr. Bentley is now on his way to Government I should do an injustice to his Character was I not to recomend him to your good Graces for the Essential Service he has rendered me and my Men in behalf of the State as he ever cheirfully furnished everything in his Power to procure—Influencing the Inhabitants at all times as far as in him laid to supply us & offering himself as security for their Payment in Hard Money on allowing him to go into Gov' but was always counteracted by the two aforement'd Persons who Spirited the People so 'An abstract of this letter is printed in Cat. of Va. State Papers, II., 76. * For a discussion of this episode, consult Alvord, Cahokia Records (I. H. C, II.), c et seq.
6

 against him that they refused him the Benefit of recovering his Debts to put it out of his power to Supply me that I might be obliged to quit the Country. The Expedition under Brigadier General Clarke being on foot prevents my waiting on you at this time in order to cleare up everything that can have been laid to my charge which I flatter Myself I can do & doubt not but you will anticipate my Innocence as was the case with reguard to Col'o Calloways Charge in 1779. I am informed they Charge me with haveing shot down and barbiqued the Cattle on the Commons—a Charge no less villinous than false in order to convince you of the Malignity & villany of such a Charge I send pr Cap't Dodge my Cornet & Comesaries Affidavits and have all my Letters to Mr. Winston & the Inhabitants with theire answers which I hope to produce to you at a proper time when you will see those people in their proper Colours, I can not conclude without informing you that tis my positive opinion the People of the Illinois & Fort Vincenes have been in an absolute State of Rebellion for these several Months past & ought to have no farther Indulgence shewn them & such is the nature of those People the more they are indulged the more turbulent they grow— & I look upon it that Winston & McCarty have been principle Instruments to bring them to the Pitch they are now at I request the favour of you to satisfy yourself with reguard to my conduct at the Illinois by every person coming from thence & to omit no opportunity to forward Copies of all Letters to my Prejudice to General Clark that I may have it in my Power to cleare myself as soon as may be as I ever hope to prove myself worthy of my present Trust & any farther favours which Government may hereafter be pleased to Confer on me having the honour to be with the utmost Respect Your Excellencys Most Obedient and Most Hum Serv't Jn'o Rogers 2These letters are printed in Alvord, Kaskaskia Records (I. H. C. v.), 206 et seq.
7
,47 Isaac Craig to Clark, May 3, 1781.  , Philadelphia 3d May 1781. Dear General—I Arrived here the 14th ult and immediately waited on the Board of War, the Board found it Necessary to State my Business to Congress, who after three days Deliberation, Ordered the Stores Aplyd for to be furnished, but So 1ll Suplyed are our Labortory With Men & Money that I have been detained till this time, assisting in fixing the Ammunition—I found it Exceedingly dificualt to Precure Waggons, however the last Setts off tomorrow Morning, & I shall follow next day with two Artillery Officers Six Men of my Company & Order for Eight Artillery Artificers to be taken from Carlisle and if I am not detained there by the Q Mastor in Providing Waggons, I Shall have the Pleasure of Seeing you the 18th Instant. I am Sorrey to Inform you the Money I Reed of You will not Pass here neither can I get one Dollar of it Exchanged—the Pennsylvania Troops Yesterday began their March to the Southward, the Enemy have got Possession of Alexandria and are Fortifying themselves—the States of Holland have Declared Ware against Great Britian—the Confederacey Loaded with Clothing for our Army is taken and Carreyed into New York. I am Dear General with much Esteem Your Obed' Hble Serv' I Craig Capt Artillery George R Clarke Esqr B General  George R Clarke Esqr B. General Stewarts Crossing Honrd by Co Hays. Colonel John Gibson to Clark, May 6, 1781.  Dear General, I reced yours of the 23d ul'° not until the 3d ins' which prevented my answering it sooner, since Col° Brodheads return from the Indian Country, I waited on him and Shewed him Govenor Jeffersons letter, and told him that I Expected from that to
8

 join you with my reg' down the river.1 he informed me that his orders from the Commander in Chief was to form a Detachment from his and my Reg" not to exceed a Majors or Cap" Command to join you. I coud have wished you had Been here to have settled the matter with him, Before he went down the Country, But as he has promised to Call at Co1° Crawford's and deliver this I hope you will settle it Before you part. I am now left here in command until farther orders may arrive,2 and you may depend on my Exertions in every thing in my power, for promoting the Entended Expedition. I was sorry to find that the plan was made so public, on my arrival at this place, But I have endeavoured since to make them Believe that the Indian towns was the object. No person has yet offered in the way of raising Volunteers. Be assured, Dear Sir, it shall always be my study to render my self worthy of the esteem and good opinion that you and our worthy patron, Governor Jefferson have Concived for me, and shoud be glad to have the pleasure of seeing you here as soon as  as I shoud think, in case Col° Brodhead still refuses to let the reg' go with you it woud Be necessary to send an Express immediately to the Commander in chief. Please present my most respectful Compliments to the Gentlemen and Ladies of Stewarts Crossings. I am, Dear General, with Singular Esteem and Regard, your most Obedient humble Servant Jonathon Gibson Fort Pitt May 6th 1781.  Brigadier General Clarke at Stewarts Crossing, honoured by Col° Brodhead 1 Early in the spring, the Ohio Indians began their depredations against the frontier settlements. The Delawares in the region of Coshocton were particularly active for they had declared for the British. Colonel Brodhead organized an expedition in April and proceeded against them. The Indians were surprised and defeated. The troops secured large quantities of stores and then destroyed the town. See Craig, The Olden Time, 388 et seg., for the correspondence of Colonel Brodhead on the reasons for this expedition. 2 Colonel Brodhead returned to Philadelphia May 7, on public business.
9
,49 Archibald Lochry to Clark, May 11, 1781.  12 Mile run ye 11'h May 1781 Dn Genl I Wass honred with your favour of the 8ih May By the hands of Mr Rice Nothing Could Give Me Greater Pleashure than assisting you in the Intended Expadition—Contious there is no other way of retaliating On the savages But By Entring their Cuntery. the People On this fruntear is so harraced and Destressed this sumer that there is Very Little to Be Expected from them. Besides I have Got Orders from his Excellancy the Presedent of this State to Rease A Company of Raingers for fore months for Our Protection there is Likewise a Company Raising for the same Purpose During the Ware 20 of which is arived. the officers are Buisey Recruiting—I flatter my self these Companys will soon Be Nearly Compleet this is the first Business I Must attend to But I think an Order might Be obtained from the Presedent for these troops and of Concequence a number of Volentears to join you on the Expadition. I shall Endeavour to satisfy the PeoPle of their Mistake in your Route and And will Do Every thing in my Power for your assistance I have the honour With Great Respect And Esteem Dr Genl. your Very Humble Sarv' AD: Lochry L: W:C To BrigGenl Clark  To The honrable Brigadear Genral George Clark favrd By Mr Rice  Dated twelve mile Run 11th May 1781 by Cola Lochry
0

 Joseph Reed to Clark, May 15, 1781.  In Council Philadelphia May 15th 1781. Sir I received your letter of the twenty third of March, a considerable time after its date. The Enterprize you refer to, has never been officially communicated to us, but from common report we learn, that an expedition under your command is destined against detroit. We are very sensible of its importance to this State, as well as Virginia, and there is no Gentleman in whose abilities and good conduct we have more Confidence, on such an occasion. After this it seems unnecessary to add, that it will give us great Satisfaction if the inhabitants of this State chearfully concur in it, and we authorize you to declare, that so far from giving offence to this Government, we shall consider their service with you, as highly meritorious. At the same we must add that from the exhausted state of our Treasury; from the great demends made upon it by the Congress, and General Washington, and other Contingencies, we are no condition to answer any demands of a pecuniary kind, and therefore do not mean by any thing we have said, to raise an expectation which we cannot answer. We have above two Months ago wrote to Colonel Broadhead, most earnestly requesting him to forward your views, informing him that they were highly approved by us. We shall be much concerned if we should be disappointed in this respect. We have had a correspondence with Governor Jefferson on this subject, and explained our sentiments to him very fully. We have also sent forward by our Member from Westmoreland, encouragement to the people there, to co-operate with you in all respects, and hope it will be attended with good effect. Wishing you success equal to your Merit, and good intentions, I remain Sir Your obedient and very humble Servant Jos: Reed President  Joseph Reed Presed' Pensyla Dated 15th May 1781. Approving Detroit Expedition. Reed July 3d 1781, Yougheogania C. H.
1

MAY 20, 1781 551 Richard Peters to Clark, May 17, 1781.  War Office May 17. 1781 Sir We were honoured with your Letter by Cap' Craig which contained the first official Information we received either of your Expedition or its Objects or Preparatoins. You will receive a Return from Cap' Craig of the Articles furnished which were in our deranged Situation every thing we had in our Power to send. They are near the Amount of your Demands & we hope they will arrive in good Order. We wish you every Degree of Success in your Enterprize I have the Honour to be very respectfully Your obed Serv' Richard Peters By order Brign Genl Geo. R. Clarke  On public Service Brigr Gen George Rogers Clarke Pittsburg (War Office)  Richd Peters Secy Board of war Dated war office 17th May 1781 Bard of war 17 May 1781 Clark to George Washington, May 20, 1781.  company to Join my forces, An addition he suposd of more worth than the malitia we were disapointed of, On consulting Col° Broadhead he could not Conceive that he was at liberty to suffer them to go as your
2

 Instructions was pointed Respecting the troops & stores to be furnished by him, From your Excellencies letters to Col° Broadhead I conceived him to be at liberty to furnish what men he pleasd, Convinc'd he did not think as I do or other ways he would have had no objection, as he apeard to wish to give the Enterprise every aid in his power—The hopes of obtaining a grant of those troops has Endued me to address your Excellency myself as it is too late to consult Governor Jefferson farther on the subject, Wishing to set out on the Expedition Early in June as our Stores of provisions are nearly compleat, If our force should be Equal to the task proposd I cant Conceive that this post with a very small garrison Even of malitia will be in any danger as it is attach'd to a popular country and during our time in the Enemies  McEntosh and weelin  will be useless or might also be garrisond by small parties of malitia, Those I know to be your Excellencies Ideas, If you should aprove of the troops in this department Joining our forces tho they are few the acquisition may be attended with great & good consequences as two Hundred only might turn the Scale in our favour, The advantages that must derive to the States from our proving successfull is of such Importance that I think deservd a greater preparation to Ensure it, But I have not yet lost sight of Detroit, nothing seem to threaten us but the want of men, But Even should we be able to cut our way thro' the Indians and find they have Receivd no Reenforcements at Detroit we may probably have the assurance to attack it though our force may be much less than proposd which was two thousand as defeating the Indians with inconsiderable loss on our side would almost Ensure us success, Should this be the case a valuable piece  with them will probably Ensue, But on the contrary should we fall through in our present plans and no Expedition take place it is to be feard that the consequences will be fatal to the whole frontiers as Every Exertion will be made by the british party to Harrass them as much as possible and disable them from giving any succours to our Eastern or Southern forces, The Indian war is now more general than Ever, any attempts to appease them Except by the sword will be fruitless, Cap' Randolph waits on your Excelleny for an answer to this letter which I flatter myself you will honour me with Immediately, Col° Gibson
3

MAY 21, 1781 553 who Commands in the absence of Col° Broadhead will keep the troops ready to move at an hours warning conducting myself as though this Request was granted,—Impatiently waiting for the happy order It is with gratitude I thank your Excellency for the honour you have done me in your several letters. The greatest Earthly happiness I could possibly Enjoy would be to conduct myself with such propriety as to be Entitled to your Esteem I have the Honr to be Your Excellencies most Devoted & Humbe serv' G R Clark B G Clark to George Washington, May 21, 1781. [Letters to Washington, xlix.' f. 237.—Library of Congress. Pittsburg 21" May 1781 Sir, I this moment Receivd yours of the 25th of april the Intelligence is by no means alarming to me, it corresponds with my former suspicion, I have for several years kept up a constant chain of Intelligence from the Lakes through the channell of the Illinoise inhabitants— And a few hours after yours I Receivd dispatches from the missisippi S' Vincent River & the whole a confirmation of your Excellence" Hint, Except that part of their coming by the way of the allegany River—But Rather through the western pass as more Immediately among the Indian nations whom they would wish to have with them, And what greatly favours the Idea is that upwards of one thousand Ouabash Indians have again declard themselves in our favour and of course will draw their attention that way for some time, for fear that our troops in that Quarter Reinforcd by those Indians should make a diversion on the lakes while they had drawn of their forces to pitsburg, For in part it has been the Influence of our posts in the Illinoise and Ouabash that have savd the frontiers and in a great measure baffled the designs of the Enemy at Detro" If they get possession of them they then Command three times the number of Valuable warriors they do at present and be fully Enabled to carry any point they
4

 aim at Except we should have a formidable force to oppose them I am well acquainted with Col° Connely and should be happy to meet him on Equal terms, If his dependence is principally on Indians and we should fortunately get into the field before him he will probably meet with a disapointm' But should he be Independent of them our circumstances will be truly deplorable, Excep we had other means of drawing the Inhabitants of this this country to the field besides persuasive arguments which is too much our dependence at present, I wrote to the governor of pensylvania on this Subject but Receivd no answer, I cant think any thing of Importance is to be Expected by the way of the winango but much to be apprehended from the other Quarter, I refer you to Cap' Randolph for the news of this Quarter I have the Honr to be yr Excell" Devoted Serv' G R Clark, B G 1 Pittsburg 20h 21" May from Brig. Gen Clarke Ansd 8h June by Cap' Randolph— William Shannon to Clark, May 21, 1781.  Sullivans Station, 21th of May. 1781. Sir. Your express by Cap' Sullivan, to fort Jefferson, I forwarded as soon as it came to hand, the return of which you have inclosed. I learn by letters from that post, that they are in a starving Condition, & am sorrey to inform you, that it is allmost out of my power, at present to relieve them, Majr Slaughter having used the provisions purchased for that post, and injured our Credit, so much in this place that I find it allmost impossible to purchase any thing without money, about three weeks ago, I sent a boat to Post S' Vincent with three hundred Gallons of whisky, to purchas the skins you wrote for, & expect the return of them by the time you are here. Yesterday I sent Cap' Moore with two other Gent1™ to the Countys of Lincoln, & Fayatte, with instructions to purchase what Beef Cattle, Dry, & pickeled Beef, Butter, Cheese, corn, &c. they possibley could, on the Credit of the state, 1 As seen above, this endorsement covers also the letter of May 20.
5
,55 Asuring them that the money woud shortly be paid—I shoud have went myself but Detained in hopes of purchasing One or two hundred bushels of Corn, for the relife of fort Jefferson, which I intend emedetly to send With about eight or ten thousand weight of Beef which Slaughter has not yet got into his hands.—Cap' John Rogers of the Light Dragoons, arrived here about six or seven weeks ago, from the Illinois with his whole Compny, in good helth, there ware with him Messars, Dodge. Dejean. & Bently on there way to Goverment, with several Indians, of which Battist the Kaskaskaia Chife wase One. I can procure any quantity of salt you may want for your present expidition, it being the only article that can be purchased here on the Credit of the state. I most sincearly wish that you woud inform Government, that in Case they woud furnish me with money I Could purchase provisions in this Department, at allmost half the sum, I can for Credit, Instance corn & salt, If Cash, corn can be had at forty Dollars pr Bushel, & for Credit eighty, or one hundred, If Cash salt, can be had at five or six hundred Dollars Pr Bushel, and for Credit eight hundred or One thousand, and the same case with every species of provisions, since you left this place. I think If you wase to inform Government of this that they woud remeedy it, as the state is run to Double expence, in not having money to purchase with,—As Col° Floyd writes you I shall refer you to his letters for neuws, Cap' Sullivan will write you the Difficultys he labours under with regard to being furnished with the Necessary Gaurds & fattaugs  for the men he has Imployed to build the state boats. I am Sir With due respect. Your most, Obed' Humble Serv' Will. Shannon Commissi Gen I..D. P. S. please present my best Compliments to Cap' Benjn Harrison & inform him that, I should be happy in his showing himself once more in the mess W. S. N. B. Mr Veech who is Imployed to convey the present express is refered to you for pay W. S.  On publick service To The Honb Brigadeir Gen Clarke at Pittsburgh or Elsewhere Pr express  Captn Shannon Provisions 1781.
6

 James Sullivan to Clark, May 22, 1781.  Sullivans Station 22d of May 1781. Dear Sir. Since my last by Col° Floyds express, I have engaged a sufficient number of hands, to compleate nearly all the boats you wanted, but I am much Distressed, for want of the necessary Gaurds and fattaiegs , Mjr Slaughter refusing, to furnish either which put me under the necessity, of applying to Col° Floyd, for a Guard from the Millitia. I wish you woud Consider us, and send some good man in his place, as you may Depend nothing can be done for the good of the State untill he be removed. After eating up allmost everything, I furnished he & his Lousey Corps is near starving, & so shall remain for me. I hope you will bring Coarking for the Boats as there is none to be had here, My kind love to Collonells Craford & Harrison, & there good fameleys, I hope you will believe me to be sir, Your most Obed' Humb Serv' James Sullivan P. S. please present my Compliments to Cap' Ben: Harrison & family J. S.  The Honb Brigadier Gen Clark at Pittsburg pr express John Floyd to Clark, May 22, 1781.  Beargrass May 22d, 1781. Dear General As Mr Veech is going immediately to the neighbourhood of Fort Pitt, I thought it might not be amiss to write you again although I have nothing of much importance to communicate since my last. The Commissaries are gone to Lincoln to purchase Cattle & other Stores for the Campaign. Mr Lindsay is getting a quantity of Beef dried in Fayette, where the Buffaloe are yet exceedingly numerous. He has also bought some Beeves in that County, and I think one hundred at least will be got in Lincoln, and some few in this County. The old Women seem much engaged in making Butter and Cheese for the Army.
7
,57 M" Floyd tells me to inform you she has about 200 lb of fine cheese for you & desires that you bring her a piece of Linen. Corn is very plenty in the upper Counties, & although it does not answer for a Campaign, it may do to send down to the Iron Bank Station, where I am informed them poor fellows are in almost a starving condition. I am about hiring some hunters to go to Drinnens Lick to lay up some Beef from whence I expect it can be brought in the Canoes from the upper Counties, as I am informed one hundred are to be furnished from those Counties. Salt is plenty, and many articles might be purchased with money, & for want of it the price of every article is almost double which is bought for the State, and its Credit here is really at a very low ebb. Nothing can be purchased for the Troops on Credit at Illinoise where I hear they have plenty. Dodge is gone to Richmond and I hear has all his accounts well authenticated. None of your Troops are yet come out by Land, I had a Letter from Gab Madison in which he says the Greenbrier Men would not march till the middle of April owing to the Tents, Bags, & Linen for the pack saddles being sent to Fort Pitt by mistake. The Indians have this year suffered us to plant corn on Beargrass unmolested; the reason of which I expect, is owing to the little Expedition you ordered against some of their Towns early this spring, which has attracted the attention of other Tribes also: not one has made his appearance here for many Weeks till last Friday, they killed one of the Guard near the Falls where they were preparing Timber for the Boats—Ned Mordock was killed some Weeks ago on the West side the Ohio a little below Salt river. The lower McAfee's Station was attacked a few days since by a about thirty Indians, they were reinforced from the neighbouring Garrisons and Sallied out & attacked the Indians in the Woods: they got three Scalps wounded several, with the loss of Nathan Lynn & one other man whose name I have not heard. Squire Boon who was badly Wounded at his Station this spring, is likely to get well. It is with much difficulty I can get any thing 1 This doubtless refers to the expedition sent out by Colonel Brodhead, see Introduction, ante, clii.
8

 done by the Militia, and all for want of Officers authorized to sit on a Court Martial. Do endeavour to have some blank Militia Comn" sent me from Governm' if possible, as I am greatly perplexed for want of them. I have several times wrote to Goverment on the Subject to no purpose. Canoes & Boats I believe will be made but not without some cursing and wrangling. I wish I could hear from you as often as possible. When may we look for you here? The Drafts are made in these Counties for the Expedition, and I expect nearly ready to March. The number of Militia in this County is 354 in Lincoln 732 & Fayette 160 This at present is the whole strength of Kentuckey, and our numbers seem to decrease, as I have ordered the Surveying in this County to be stopped till the Expedition is over—I found it impracticable to complete the business of the Draft without making this streach. May the Heavens bless & preserve you Farewell Jn Floyd  General Clark Clark to Thomas Jefferson, May 23, 1781 Va. State Papers, n., 116.] Yohogania, C. House May 23d 1781 Sir A few days past I Receivd dispatches from the Illenois Kantuck &c of a late date, I am sorry to Inform your Excellency that near 100000 lb of Beef at the Kantucky is spoilt by the persons who Engaged to procure it About the same Quantity on hand Excellent good and 250 Head of Cattle promis'd by the inhabitants, The Indians have done considerable damage there, The Enclosd copies are all that is worth your notice from the Illenois but what you already know of by former letters from the country, You will see the measures that have been taken Respecting Shannon and moore and the Issue, Col° Broadhead would not agree to suffer Col° Gibsons Regiment to go on the Expedition as he said he could not answer for it, I have wrote to Gen Washington in consequence as pr Enclosd copies. The Continental officers and Soldiers of this Departm to aman is anxious for the Expedition supposd against the Indians, The country in general
9
,59 wishing it to take place but too few think of going and so great a Contract between the people of the two states in this Quarter that no method I doubt can be taken to force them to war, We are taking Every step in our power to Raise Volentiers what number we shall get I cant as yet Guess I doubt too few. The disapointment of Seven Hundred men from Frederick, Berkly & Hampshire I am afraid is too great a Stroke to recover as in fact the greatest part of this country is in subordination to neither Pensylvania or Virga, Gen Washington informs me that he had Recieved information that Col° Connely had left new york with a design to make a diversion in these Countries to be Reinforcd by Sr John Johnson in Kanady, I doubt Sr we shall as utial be obligd to play a desperate gaim this campaign, If we had the 2,000 men first proposd such Intelligence would give me pleasure, The greatest part of our Stores have come to hand, The Remainder I shortly Expect, By the greatest Exertion and your timely Supplies of money we have the boats and provisions Expected in this Quarter nearly compleat, I propose to leave this about the 15'h June if we can Imbody a Sufficient numer of men by that time I do not yet despair of seeing the proposd object on tolerable terms although our Circumstances is Rather gloomy, Col° Crockett & Reg' arivd a few days past who Informed me that a Company or two of Volentiers might be Expected from Frederick & Barkly I am sorry we are so circumstanced as to be glad to Receive them I have the Honr to be with great Esteem Your Devoted Serv' G R Clark Colonel John Gibson to Clark, May 30, 1781.  Dear General This will be handed to you by En" Tannehill now going to Richmond in order to receive the 4 months pay allowed by the Assembly towards the Depreciation of their pay. I must request you woud write in their Behalf, as they have received no pay for these twenty months. I am much afraid they will even refuse going anywhere until they are paid. I have just heard 3 hundred men have Crossed the Ohio last Saturday at Wheeling and are gone on an Expedition against the Indian towns, I am afraid the
0

 will fall on the Moravians, and dread the Consequences, I think they have gone on this, to avoid going with you. I Expect in a day or two to hear from the party that went to Presquille, and shall then pay you and my friends at Xsings  a visit. You will much oblidge me in Lending Ens Tannehill four or five thousand Dollars to Bear his Expences as I have none but Pen" state money. Please present my most respectful Compliments to the Gentlemen and Ladies at the Xsings  the Honour to be Dear Gen with perfect Esteem and regard your most ob' Hble Serv' Jonathon Gibson Col° F. Pitt May 30th 1781 General Clarke  Brigadier General Clarke at Stewarts Crossings. Honoured by En" Tannehill.  Col. Jonathon Gibson, Hugh H. Brackenridge to Clark, June 4, 1781.  Sir Agreeably to my intention when I had the honour of seeing you At the Yohogany court house, I have rode down to Mr Marshalls on cross-creek and have had some conversation with him. He wishes well to your expedition, Thinks it will be for the particular benefit of this country & would be happy to have it in his power to Serve it. He has it not in his power at present as The line between the States of Virginia and Pennsylvania is not yet determined. He will not have it in his power even when the line is determined without a special order from the council of the state and then it will only be possible to effect a draught for 2 months If the former officers under the Virginia State effect a draught he thinks it will be well, but does not believe they will find it possible. The people will not submit to it. For his part as a public officer he has nothing to say to it, and as an individual he will acquiesse. He does not find it convenient to wait upon you next Tuesday, but will meet a committee which he understands will convene on Friday next, At Col. Pentecost's and which he
1
,61 understands are to deliberate some things on the same subject, the ways and means of Assisting your expedition. It is possible that in a day or two I may ride up to the upper part of the country, And as far as in my power shall very certainly do and say every thing that may facilitate your enterprise which in my opinion will be of Essential Service to the safety of the country. I am Sir yours &c Hugh H. Brackenridge Pentecosts Mill Monday June 4'h 1781.  General Clark, Yohogany court-house. Colonel John Gibson to Clark, June 5, 1781.  Dear General Mr Morrison not having returned from up the river prevents my waiting on you this day at the Court house, as Mr Bentley informs me you intend being there, since my last nothing material has happened at this post. I am sorry to have to inform you that a set of Rascals have Begun to depreciate the Virg* money now in Circulation, and some of them have even gone so far as to refuse taking it, in particular Smith the Brewer has refused to take it in payment for Beer, I am much afraid it will reach the Country and of Course retard your proceedings. I sincerely wish some method coud be fell on to punish such rascals, and woud most Chearfully join in Bringing them to justice. I hope the intended Meeting may have a good Effect, But am much afraid the people wish Rather to retard, than forward the Enterprize. I shoud be happy if you coud spend a few days here Before you return to the Xsings, as I might possibly accompany you there. I am Dear General with sincerest Esteem and regard, Your most Ob' Humble Servant Jonathon Gibson Col° Comd' F Pitt Fort Pitt June 5th 1781 Brigadier General Clarke  Public Service Brigadier General Clarke at the New Store honoured by Mr Bentley
2

 George Washington to the Board of War, June 8, 1781.  it to the State to endeavour to make a provision for them, as the Continental Magazine, after what has gone to the southward, is exhausted of every article fit for the season. As it seemed the public wish, that the expedition of Col Clarke against Detroit should be supported, I gave orders to Col Brodhead to deliver him a certain quantity of Artillery and Stores and to detach Captain Craig with his company of Artillery, as there were neither officers nor men of the Virginia Militia acquainted with that kind of service. I recommended also a small detachment of Continental Troops from the 8'h Pennsylvania and 9th Virginia Regiments but it was at the discretion of the Commandant and in case they could be safely spared. I mentioned that I did not imagine the command could not exceed that of a Major and perhaps not of a Captain. If therefore Col Brodhead saw that the post could not be defended if such a detachment of Infantry was made, he was justifyable by the spirit of my order in not sending it.
3

JUNE 10, 1781 563 If Col Clarke should be able to prosecute his plan, I am of opinion that he will draw the whole attention of the Enemy to the support of Detroit, and upon that presumption I thought the Artillery and Stores might be spared. If he should not matters remain as they were. Upon the whole, Gentlemen, you must be convinced from your very intimate knowledge of our Military affairs that it is out of my power to send any reinforcement to the Westward. If the States would fill their Continental Battalions we should be able to oppose a regular and permanent force to the Enemy in every quarter. If they will not, they must certainly take measures to defend themselves by their Militia, however expensive and ruinous the system. I have the honor to be &c Copy G° Washington.  The Honble The Board of War Clark to Thomas Jefferson, June 10, 1781.1  Yohogania Court House 10ih June 1781 Sir Cap. Bently of the Illenoise attends on me with a number of bills on government for furnitures made to our troops in that country, Those that I have countersigned appear by the Accounts, annex'd and different letters from Gent" to be Sufficiently authenticated for payment, He has other Bills drawn by Col° Montgomery that I cannot with propriety Credit untill I am made sensible of the Justness of them, By the acco1" of that country but they probably may be Just, your Excellency will do as you please Respecting them, I am Informd that Mr Charles Gratiot hath also Bills on thier way to you some of them I know must be Just as that Genn as well as Cap' Bently have taken great Pains to subsist our troops in that departm' Perticularly paying of the Expence of an Expedition up the Illinois River which promised good Consequences—The great Bundle of draughts you mentioned in your last I have not yet seen nor can I learn who has 1 Printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, II., 153.
4

 them, Cap' Bently appears desirous to undertake the Supplying Fort Jefferson with provisions for a garrison of 100 men, If it should be your pleasure to make such Contract—I dont know any person more likely to accomplish such a task He has a universal good Charracter as a gentleman & hath suffer'd much on Ace' of the present Contest I have the Honor To be your Very Humble & Obed' Serv' G R Clark

End of Section. Continue to next section or go to Table of Contents
Section
5

CHAPTER XIII PLANS FOR THE EXPEDITION AGAINST DETROIT AGAIN DOOMED TO FAILURE, JUNE 12, 1781 TO OCTOBER 1, 1781 Clark Begins to Fear the Outcome—General Opposition to the Draught—Lack of Food at Fort Pitt—County-Lieutenants of Western Pennsylvania not Willing to Aid Clark—Clark Returns to the Falls of the Ohio—Clark's Appeal to the Kentucky Commissioners—Clark's Officers Advise against an Expedition to Detroit—His Disappointment. Clark to William Fleming, June 12, 1781.  Youghiogania June 12, 1781. Sir By this I could wish to introduce to you Cap'n Bently as a gentn of Character and hath suffered much by his zeal for the American Interest There is but Little good news in this part of the World. The Indians have done Considerable damage this Spring; they have lost about Twenty-five warriors, My Circumstances is not so Flattering as Could be wished for; The inhabitants cry out for an Expedition, but too few I doubt will turn out affraid I believe that they will be led on to something too desperate for their Delicate stomacks. what Volunteers we get will be valuable as their wishes are agreeable to my designs, I am in a fair way of bringing the Pennsylva Gentn in this Quarter to tolerable terms if so, a Gen Draught (already ordered) in all of that part of this country formerly under the Jurisdiction of Virginia will take place in a few Days the 20th Ins is the Day of Gen Rendevous knowing our force we shall also know what we dare attempt The first object proposed still attracts my Ideas, Could I contrive matters so as to leave no room for Reflection in Case of a Defeat I Shall most Certainly attempt it if I can form a Tolerable force without 563
6

 they get the Suckers threatened by Co Connolly in such Case I may probably alter my plans, but too much at present depends on the fickle disposition and ungovernable state of the Cuntry to be on any Certainty I am Sr with great Esteem Yr very Hb Serv' G. R. Clark CoL Fleming Richmond Plan of Defense of a Committee of Westmoreland County, June 18, 1781.  Agreeable to publick notice made by Christoper Hays Esqr to the Principal Inhabitants of the County of Westmoreland to meet at Cap' John McClellions on the 10th Day of June 1781, to consult and take into Consideration the distresd situation of the Frontiers and form a plan of defence for their Protection— as we are inform by Chr Hays Esqr that our proceedings will be approved of by Council—And Whereas there was a number of the Principal persons of the sd County met on sd day and Unanimously appointed Colls John Proctor John Pomroy Cha" Cambell & Ja" Smith Hugh Martain James Barr Isaac Mason Charles Foreman Esq" and Capt Sam Moorhead a Commitee to enter to resolves to raise a force as in their Judgment seems mete which is as follows— 1" Resolvd that an Expedition be carried on with Gen Clark into the Indian Country 2 Resolv that Gen Clark be furnished with 300 men to be collected out of Coll" Pomroy Davises & Beards Battalion 3dly Resolvd, that Six pounds be advanced to every Volontier that will March under the command of Gen Clark on the Campaigns 4'hly And for the further incouragement of Voluntiers we recommend to raise by subperscription grain by the different Compinies 1 See letter of May 21 ante, 553. For Connolly, see Introduction, ante, xix et seq.
7

CLARK TO THE PEOPLE OF MONONGALIA 567 5«iiy Resold Coll Lochry order the Different Coll' to raise their Quoto of the above number of Voluntiers or otherwise by Draught. 6th ResolV1 that Coll Lochry confer with Officers of Virginia to make a return of the Persons that refuses to do Duty under the Jurisdiction of Virginia. 7th ResolV1 that Coll Lochry meet at Coll Crafords on friday the 22d of this Ins' to consult with Gen Clark and other Officers the day of Randivouze 8thiy ResolV1 that every Voluntier that marches under the command of General Clark shall stand as a Tower of Duty. Signd by Order of Commitee John Proctor President Clark to the Inhabitants of Monongalia County. June 18, 1781.  Hardins Mill June 18'h 1781. Gentlemen The Inhabitants of the Monongahalia County the Bearer hereof Mr Bramfield & Mr Jones at my Request wait on you with those lines, in Order to inform you of my Sentiments, On the present Occation Viz—Suppressing a Mob whome attempted with Success to prevent a Draught being made pursuant to my Order. I wish to see some of you Imediately as I shall wait here for that purpose & be assured of all the protection & Satisfaction in my power to give. I am with perfect respect, Your Ob' Ser' G R Clark P S all persons who surrender themselves on the terms proposed alt Guilty are hereby acquited in Giving sufficient securities for the Future G R Clark
8

 Agreement on the Part of Some of the Inhabitants of Monongalia County to Submit to Future Military Orders.  HARDINS MILL MONONGALIA COUNTY June 19th 1781. We the subscribers being Accessary to a Riot in Suppressing a draught in this county on the 12'h Ins' Being Sensible of our Error and as a security of our future good conduct do hereby Engage to Serve Ten months in the continental Service in case we should be guilty of the like misdeminor, Or acting against the Legal Laws of any State or perticular Resolves of congress or saying anything against the Gen Interest of the country as witness our hands the day & date above mentioned. John Rorkley his Jesse x Worthington mark William Wade his Benjamin X Deane mark Daniel Robbens John Lucas William Robbens his John X Harden mark his Peter X Peekenpaugh mark test B.W Robert Harding his William X Murfy B W mark Richd Lucas his John X Worthington mark Benjamin Brooke Thomas Wade George Robbens Hezekiah Wade his George x Wade mark Isaac Robins John Wade his Wenman x Wade mark Samuel Haily
9

CLARK TO CERTAIN OFFICERS,69 Postponement of the Detroit Expedition, June 21, 1781.  General Assembly June 21st 1781. Joint Resolution passed, desiring the Executive to take such steps, by offering a pardon or otherwise, as may effectually suppress certain "Insurgents and their associates in the Western and Northwestern Frontiers &c. For "reforming Clark's and Crockett's regiments, and Slaughter's Corps." Calling to account, all Officers, Agents, Commissaries, Quarter Masters and Contractors, or other persons concerned in the disbursements of public monies in the Western Country, belonging to Virginia, for their proceedings, and appointing others to manage their business if necessary. Authorizing the^Executive to put a stop to the Expedition lately ordered to Detroit, and to take steps for disposing of the Stores &c provided for that purpose. Clark to the Officers of Pennsylvania and Virginia, June 23, 1781.  Xings June 23 1781. At a Conference held between Gen. Clark and Col° Lochry County Lieut of Westmoreland on the 23d Inst in consequence of a Resolve of a Council of Westmoreland held at Cap' M'Clellions on 18th Inst June Present Col° Shepherd County Lieut of Ohio, Officers of Pennsylvania & VirgJ Gentlemen &c Resolvd That the forces to Join the army under Gen Clark be immediately prepared to Rendisvouze at the time & place that the Gen Shall appoint by his Circular letters. That it is our oppinions that 300 men from the three Battalions of Westmoreland Equal or more in proportion to one fifth of the militia of formerly West Augusta.
0

 That one fifth of the Militia of Monongalia Yohogania and Ohio Countys be Raised voluntarily or draughted and hold themselves Ready to Rendezvous as above. That Emigrants not having Enrold themselves as malitia previous to this be treated according to law That no party disputes ought to be admitted on the present Occasion as the Alarming Situation of this Country call for Every Exertion. G R Clark B. G. ACH Lochry L. W. C.  1781. Resolves entered into 23 June at Col° Crawfords By Col Lochry C Shepherd Genm Virg Pena &c. Colonel John Gibson to Clark, June 26, 1781.  Dear General Your favour by Capt Craig came safe to hand as soon as the Boats can be raised, which are now sunk, shall furnish him with them. I am happy to hear that Westmoreland Militia are likely to turn out, But wish they may not disapoint you. We have heard that the Gentlemen and Ladies of Stewarts Crossing's intend paying us a visit tomorrow, in Consequence of which a grand Bower is erected in the Orchard, a Barbacue is preparing for tomorrow and a Ball in the Evening at Co Gibsons Room. We shall Esteem ourselves happy in Being honoured with your Company and the Gentlemen of your family, and hope you will be so oblidging as to present our respectful Compliments to Co Crocket, Cap' Heth, his Lady and Daughter, to Cap' Tannehill and Lady, to Mr And Heth, Lady and Sister, Mr and M" Farland, and request the favour of their Company at two "Clock tomorrow, as I shall have the pleasure of seeing you so soon shall defer saying anymore than to Assure I am Dear General most sincerely yours Jonathon Gibson F Pitt June 26th 1781.
1
,71 Colonel John Gibson to Clark, July 2, 1781.  Dear General, I Entended waiting on you yesterday But the Gen Court Martial prevented me, and just as I was preparing to set of this Morning, I reced the agreeable news, that our worthy friends from the Xsings Entend paying us a visit, and will be here at the Celebration of the Aniversary of our Glorious Independance, this now prevents my going. It will be a great addition to our happiness in having the Company of Gen Clarke, Col° Crocket and the Gentlemen of the Gen1" family and hope that nothing may intervene to prevent it. Please present my respectful Complements to the Gentlemen with you. I have the honour to be, Dear General, with sincere Esteem, Your most obd' Humble Serv' Jonathon Gibson Co1° Comd F. Pitt Pitt July 2d 1781. Please inform Bob. Bealle I have the fatted Calf still keeping for the Ladies and him &c Genl Clarke "At the Court House of Youghiogany" John Gibson to Clark, July 11, 1781.  Proposals from John Gibson Trader in the Town of Pittsburgh to G B Clark Commander of the Western Expedition Viz' 1" That he will Sell his Goods in the Town of Pittsburgh at a Certain fix't advance upon the original Invoice 2d That the Town of Pittsburgh aforesaid shall be fix't upon as the place of Sale 3d That he will Receive in payment for the said Goods, Merchantable Skins or Furrs at a Certain fix't price; and in Case any of the Skins or Furrs Should be Deemed not of a Sufficient Quality or otherwise not Merchantable—The price to be Determined by the Judgement of Men Chosen by the parties for that purpose
2

 4th That in Case an intire payment Cannot be made in peltry as aforesaid, the Ballance to be paid in Specie or other Currant Lawfull Money Equivalent thereto at the Town of Pittsburgh aforesaid, and in Case the said Gibson should be put to the Trouble & Expence of going to Virginia to Receive his Money, & meat with any uncommon delays in waiting for it, all his Expences, as well as a Compensation for his Loss of time must be made good to him, And the said General Clark shall enter into an Obligation for the full Performance of all these Articles. John Gibson to Clark, July 11, 1781.  pitchburg Juley the 11'h 1781. Sr I have Inclosed the intentions of my proposels to you there is two things omited that is the time of payment and the Cent upon the Goods but that we Can Settle as soon as you think Convenient and the Sooner the Better Both for you and me Sr I intended to have Gone up this Day my Self but I have taken a turn of the Gout and was not able to Ride and I have sent mr Campbell to you for an answer that I may prepare what I have for you Imedentley which I will Do as soon as in my power Sr this is from your obiedent and umble Serv' Jno Gibson  B. Gen Clark New Store Colonel John Gibson to Clark, July 12, 1781.  Dear General, This will be handed to you by Mr Duncan who now waits on you, to represent our distressing situation for provisions; I have to request if you can by any means, consistent with your own safety Spare us a little more flour you woud do it. nothing but shere necessity, and the dangerous Consequences to be apprehended from the Soldiery coud induce me to make this request at this time.
3
,73 I am, Dear General with singular Esteem, your most humble Serv' Jn. Gibson Co Fort Pitt July 12th 1781  Brigadier General Clarke Yohioganey honoured by Mr Duncan  From Col° John Gibson Dated Fort Pitt 12'h July 1781 Recd the 12th John Gibson to Clark, July 14, 1781.  pitchBurg Juley 14th 17811 DnS" Colo Jonathon Gibson Called on me for a parsell of Goods for the Indens and handed an order from you to me upon which I Refused I hope you will not take it amiss I think when youvknow the treatment I have Red from that Quarter you will be Satisfyed and hope you will not make aney Demand on me for aney of them as the have put it out of my power to Serve one Single Indevduell Sr I would be fond to know as Soon as posable when you would be in town that I may make a Delivery of what you want So this is from your obeident and Umble Ser' Jonathon Gibson.  Invoice of sundry Goods as purchased in Philadelphia, for specie, by John Gibson, and by him delivered to Gen. Clarke, in Pittsburg, July the 19th, 1781 Spirits, per gallon Fine linen, per yard, French, do. do White Cloth, per yard, West India Rum, per gallon, Muscavado Sugar, per pound, Wine, per gallon, Coffee, per pound, [MS. illegible. Chocolate, per pound, Blankets, per pair, Blue Cloth, per yard, White Sugar, per pound Cherry Bounce, per gallon Barcelona Silk Handkerchiefs, Thread stockings, per pair, Apple Brandy, per gallon, Tobacco, per roll, Wool Hats, each, Worsted Caps do. The above is the prime cost in Philadelphia.—One hundred and fifty per centum will be laid on the above goods for carriage to Pittsburg, risk, wastage, trouble, expense, barrels, kegs, &c. Sir: Being obliged at the Post Vincennes to meet some expense for the tribes, to engage them to oppose the passage of two hundred royalists and six hundred savages, their allies, on the way to bring destruction to the Illinois, and also to induce them to abandon our common enemy; and having no resources at this place I have been obliged to go to the Illinois where I have appealed for money to friends who have again helped me, although they had 1 Translation by the editor. already made expenses for me for the service of the state and the glory of our arms, and this they did without hope of restitution until now. I have received your letter in which you urge me to join you immediately and witness the laurels which Mars prepares for you. As an American and good Frenchman besides the duty which has been my guide, the desire to fight under your wings and to expose myself for the common cause would have made me hasten to your side; but the uncertainty in which I am to know whether you would accept a number of young men both French and savages whose ambition is glory and following you in your expeditions has made me wait for your decision on this subject. The fear I had that this small reenforcement might prove a burden to you has prevented me from assuming the responsibility. I wait, therefore, for the honor of your answer and orders. The extreme fatigue which I have experienced in the journey together with the persecutions and the trouble caused by the various tribes, which have crowded upon me, have forced me to remain a few days in St. Louis, to rest from my labors and to call tho aid of doctors in order to repair my health. The first part of this Letter relates to some Supplies for the Indians to engage them to oppose the Entrance of 200 British & 600 Indians (hostile) into the Illinois country. Offers to fight under the wings of Gen Clark & to bring a number of French & Indian warriors to join the General in his Expedition; testifies the good Disposition of Mr Cruzat towards the American cause.
Members Lieu' Cline Lieu' Ravenscraft Lieu' Wright Ensign Green Ensign Wales AUGUST 4, 1781 577Findings of a Court Martial, July 23, 1781.  McKees House July 23d 1781 at a General Court Martial held at Camp for the Trial of James Thomson on Suspition of horse theft and Desertion Present Col° Zacheriah Morgan President Cap' Young Cap' Whaley Cap' Ferrell Cap' Asherof t Cap' Archer Lieu' Glenn The court being Sworne proceeded to  the said James Thomson who pled gilty of the above  Court therefore are of opinion that he the said  run the gantlet once threw the Bregade. Col° Zacheriah Morgan Pre' AP G R Clark Clark to Thomas Jefferson, August 4, 1781.'  Weelen 4th August 1781 Sir I make it no doubt but it will alarm you to find that I have not left this country Whoever undertakes to Raise an army in this Quarter will find himself disappointed Except the laws was of greater force and not depending on the wills of the populace, This country calls aloud for an Expedition wishing me to put it into Execution but so strangely Infatuated that all the methods I have been able to persue will not draw them into the field, we have made draughts to no purpose, Governor Reed have also wrote to them but to no Effect, From the time I found I was to be disappointed in the Troops orderd by Government began to suspect 'This has been previously printed in Cat. of Va. State Papers, II., 294.
8

 the want of men which is now the case when Every other necessary is prepared. I could not get Col° Gibsons Reg' Otherway, I should have been gone long since, but had to make up the deficiency by Voluntiers but finding that no arguments are sufficient I determine to Quit them leaving no stone unturnd by which they might hereafter Excuse themselves, To save the garrison of Pittsburg from being Evacuated I have been Obligd to spare them a Considerable Quantity of flower but yet have Enough to do something Cleaver had I men—I have Relinquished my Expectations Relative to the plans heretofore laid and shall drop down the River with what men I have amounting to about Four Hundred Consisting of crocketts Reg Craigs, artillery Voluntiers &c If I find a prospect of Compleating my forces in any other Country I shall do it, and make my strokes according to Circumstances, if I find it out of my power to do anything of Importance Shall dispose of the publick Stores to the greatest advantage and Quit all farther thoughts of Enterprise in this Quarter. I do not yet Condemn myself for undertaking the Expedition against Dutroit, I yet think had I near the number of men first proposd should have carried it, I may yet make some stroke among the Indians before the Close of the Campayn—but at present Realy to be doubted, I have been at so much pains to Enable us to prosecute the first plan that the Disapointment is doubly mortifying to me and I felt for the dreadfull Consequences that will Ensue throughout the frontier if nothing is done. This Country already begin to suspect it & to Envite me to Execute some plans of their own but I shall no longer trust them, I shall hereafter transmit to your Excellency Coppies of all the publick Letters sent & Receivd Respecting the Expedition, by which you will see the Very great pains that have been taken with the Inhabitants of this Country to little purpose. The unsettled State of the Government is Very hurtfull to publick measures among them, I have spard to Col° Harrison £126581"17 to Enable him to go on with his business, which he is to settle with the auditors,
9

CLARK TO REED, AUGUST 4. 1781 579 be pleased to order me Credit for it on their books, I think Col. Harrison has done himself Honour in Conducting his Business, I have the Honour to be your Obed' and Very Humb Serv' G R Clark His Excellency the Governor of Virga Clark to Joseph Reed, August 4, 1781.  Weelin 4 August 1781. Sir I had the pleasure of Receiving your" of 15'h May but not untill the third day of July. I thank you for the favourable sentiments Contain'd and the Requisition to this country to give all possible aid to the Enterprise I am ordered on, Had they have done so, as thieer Interest loudly cald for—I believe there would have been no Reason to doubt but our most sanguine Expectations would have been answer'd—But so far from compleating your wishes that part of them have taken Every step in their power to frustrate the design (at a time when their neighbours were daily massacried) By confusing the Inhabitants and Every other device their abilities would admit of (although small) are too apt to Effect the minds of such persons as Inhabit this frontier, What put it more in their power was the unsettled Territory and no orders of your" appearing, You mention you had sent by one of your members  with Encouragement for the people to Co-opperate with me in all Respects. But he appears to have taken Every step to disapoint the good Intentions of Col° Lochry and many other Gentlemen of Westmoreland county who have us'd Every Effort to Raise men, But disappointed by those alluded to, I have Endeavored to make myself acquainted with the different persons who appeard to be busy in Ruining the sentiments of the Inhabitants and think it my duty as a Citizen and officer to acquaint you with the principals, Believing that you are Impos'd on, as those bodies gain their Influence by opposing Every measure proposd for the publick good in the military Department, Strange that such Conduct should have those Effects among any class of people in This Departm': Every Command-
0

 ing officer has Experience!—And I think I can Venture to say you never will be able to have anything of Importance done in this Quarter untill many of them are Removd from their Respective offices, The Inhabitants on my arrival was so Buoyed up at the thought of my carrying out an Expedition that promised them peace that it has Requird all their little artifice to disappoint which is too likely to be the case at present. Mr Marshall of Washington County, County L' Col°' Cook and Davis I believe to be the perpetrators of these Evils I fear this country will feel, after giving you my honour that I am not Influenced by prejudice to point out these Gentlemen, I can assure you that they are persons that will for Ever disgrace this part of the country while in power, As for Mr Marshall he has I learn livd in Obscurity untill lately his promotion has so confused him that his Conduct is Contradictory in his own publick writing and as wavering as the minds of that class of mortals he has had the Honour to Influence—I hope you will not suppose this to amount to a Reflection on the Honourable councill in making such appointment from Circumstances I believe them Imposd on but the anxiety I have for Every part of the Community and the probability of loosing the fair prospect I had of puting an End to the Indian war Occasion me to View such Charracters in a most Dispickable light and to make this Representation. I do not suppose I shall have anything more to do with them, but should it be the case and had power should take the necessary steps to teach them their duties before I went any farther. I learn that it is generally believd that the Inhabitants of the western country are Disaffectd, I do not think it to be the case, And was a line between the two states Established and the whole well officerd they might in a short time be made valuable Citizens, and any necessary force cald to the field on the shortest notice. But at present scarcely a week passes but you hear of some massacree. Sufficient stores of necessaries provided to Enable them to Reduce the Indians and yet those Inducements are not sufficient to draw them to action, Owing to those principles before Recited I have the Honour to be Your Devotd & Very Humble Serr G R Clark B. G. His Excellency the President of Pennsylvania
1

DEPOSITION OF JAMES BALLINGER 581 John Bailey to George Slaughter, August 6, 1781.  James Ballinger Soldier in Col° Slaughters Corps taken Prisoner on the 9th march Last 1781 by the Tawa Indians Deposeth and saith that on the day above Mentioned he was Taken prisoner by Tawa Indians at the Falls of Ohio and Carryd to 'This has been printed in Col. of Va. State Papers, ii., 314.
2

 Detroit & examined by the Comandant Major De Pastor  respecting this place, to which he the deponant Replyed that there were at the Falls of the Ohio about one hundred Regulars and plenty of Provisions & Volunteers enough might be had in the Country in case of an Invasion. The Deponant Saith he was frequently within the Stockades that include the principal part of the Town, but was not suffered to go within the Fort, but was often around it & saw the out Side; & saith it appeared to be very Strong, that all the Men Prisoners, or Captives taken from us were Obliged to work hard to Stockade a greater part of the Town and that the Commandant interrogated him concerning an Expedition expected against Detroit, and who was to Command it, & when Col° Clark went to Government to which the Deponant replied, that he Expected an Expedition & that Col° Clark should have the Command & that he went to Government last fall He further saith that sundry of the Prisoners informed him that an Expedition would have been Carryd on by the Brittish, against Kentucky had it not been that the Enemy expected Col° Clark in their own Country—and further saith that all the Indians Warriors are liberally Rewarded for every Trip they make against us; & that all the Squaws & Children receive plenty of Cloathing from them, & Rations when at Detroit, & that almost every on whome he conversd with, while at Detroit, and with the Indians: Expected that if Col° Clark did not appear in their Country Soon; that a very formidable army of English and Indians would come Quickly into ours, & that every Preparation was making for that purpose & further Saith Not The sd Ballinger made his Escape from the Tawa's after being at Detroit and made Oath as above, this 6th August 1781. before me. Jonathon Montgomery, Lt Colol of the 1ll.1 '"Of the 1ll." is crossed through with the pen.
3

AUGUST 9, 1781 583 Clark to Archibald Lochry, August 9, 1781.  Middle Island 9lh Aug' 1781. Sir I this moment Recd your's of 8th Inst. I am heartily sorry that after waiting so long for you I should set out but a day before your arrival; I also learn that you were so kind as to send an Express but he did not arrive, and I of course supposed that you had shared my fate in meeting with every disappointment from the populace, I am exceeding unhappy in our not Joining at weelin, but dont know that either of us are to blame, the militia with us continue to desert, and consiquently I cannot remain long in one place otherways should be happy in forming a Junction here. The following plan is proposed, I have augmented the command of Mr Wallace to eight alert men furnish'd with fifteen days provision for the whole of your troops, and there will be left at the lower point of the third Island below middle Island for your reception one Large Horse Boat and a Sufficiency of small ditto with what you will be able to collect on your passage Camp Kettles &ca &1* under the protection of a few men, I shall move on slowly for the reasons before recited and you will use the greatest industry as you cannot possibly pass us without our knowledge— I have suffer'd much lately but you again encourage me, I have the honour to be with Highest esteem Your Obed' Serv' G R Clark N. B, Capn Wallace will give you every intelligence you wish (A true Copy from the Original) Detroit Septr 1781. A true Copy An S. De Peyster Major  On Publick Service Archibd Lochry, County L' Westmoreland Esqr per Mr Wallace
4

 Clark's Efforts to Assist Archibald Lochry, August 10,1781.  safely secured.  Majr Cracrafts Orders. John Floyd to Clark, August 10, 1781.  Jefferson 10th Aug. 1781 Dear General I begin now to be greatly discouraged on account of our defenceless situation especally since I hear the Expedition was set aside: I fear this step will be fatal to the Inhabitants here without your immediate interposition. The Savages are constantly pecking at us & in a few weeks this handfull of wretched People will be invaded on all sides by them & their Infernal Leaders, nothing has hitherto prevented it but the expectation of a Campaign against them. The reason that the Country is not now left waste is the inability of the Settlers to remove having already lost most of their Horses, and the Ohio only runs one way. The Militia are entirely without Ammunition and I find it impossible to procure any. I prepared the Canoes ordered by Governm' and am liable for the Price of most of them, having on the faith of the Governors
5

MONTGOMERY TO NELSON,85 Letter promised to pay for them long since, & he promised to send me money by the first opportunity to defray the Expense which is about £40000. I have received no money on that Account nor have I any of my own to advance. I should therefore be glad you cou'd contrive to have it sent out if possible People have been so long amused with promises of paying off Expenses long incurred that the credit of the State is very little better here than in Illinois. As Cap' Rogers will see you I need not go into particulars, which would rather exceed the Bounds of a common Letter. May Heaven bless & preserve you Adieu Jonathon Floyd Genl Clarke  To General Geo. R. Clark favoured by Cap' Rogers. John Montgomery to Thomas Nelson, August 10, 1781.l  Falls of Ohio 10'h Aug' 1781. Sir. I had the honor of addressing a Letter to Govr Jefferson dated from New Orleans January 8 1781 to which I beg leave to refer you; since when after a disagreeable & dangerous voyage up the Mississippi I arrived at Fort Jefferson the 1" May last, where I found the Troops in a very low and Starving Condition, nor was any goods or other Property wherewith to purchase. From the Illinois nothing could be expected, the Credit of the State being long since lost there, & no supplies coming from this place, occasioned an Evacuation of that Post, which for want of Provisions, took place on the 8th June last. Since my arrival here I find things in the same Condition— not a Mouthfull for the Troops to eat nor money to purchase it with, & I have just reason to believe the Credit of Government is wore thread bare, here also—The Counties of Lincoln & Fayette particularly, tho' able to supply us, refuse granting any relief without the cash to purchase with on the Spot. I am constrained 1 This has been printed in Cal. of Va. State Papers, a., 313.
6

 to Billet the Troops thro' the Country in Small parties for want of necessaries, except a small Guard I keep in Garrison, so that unless supplies soon arrive, I fear the Consequences will be fatal. I am sorry to hear since my Return that Sundry Malicious aspersions have been made to my discredit; but as I am conscious of the Rectitude of my own conduct, I despise the Efforts of such, & only beg leave to request your Excellency would either order me to Government for an Examination, or else appoint a Suitable Number of respectable Gentlemen in this Country to investigate my Conduct, so that such aspersions shall not have further weight with my Country. I have been in hourly expectation of Gen. Clark since my arrival here, else would have had the Honor to address your Excellency before; but my apprehensions are now really become great, seeing no reinforcements nor Supplies; especially as I learn from some prisoners who have got in from D'Troit that they are very Strong & Preparing against us. The Enclosed copy of a Deposition will explain the matter more fully—I have only further to request your Excellency would be pleased to give me as speedy an Answer as possible with full Instructions how to proceed, as I am at the greatest Loss under my present distress'd circumstances. I have the Honor to be Your Excellency's mo: obed' Serv' Jonathon Montgomery L' C1 His Excellency The Governor of Virginia. John Montgomery to Thomas Nelson, August 10, 1781.l  Falls of the Ohio Aug" 10th 1781 Sir As i need not be making So many Repititions of Our Sufferings] and Grivances, &a which I have wrote to your Excellr in my Letters, I have thought it absolutely Necessarry to send Some  to Governm that was well acquainted with our Situation,  Some deliberation, together with the Voices of the Officers Present, We are of Oppinion, that Major Tho" Quirk w Properest Person to Effect it, from his Knowledge of the 1 This has been printed in Cat. of Va. State Papers. II., 315.
7

SLAUGHTER TO NELSON,87  Since its' being Raised  its now going on three years  have Drawn no pay in these parts, nor only Scarce Clothing for the Troops—which is the reason of many  Best of Our men deserting every day, and if there is s Method fallen upon, to put a Stop to it, I know not s\- be the Consequence—there is No Resource by way of  Can be Expected, therefore, if the General should not be  Same by way of Fort Pitt, we Shall be in a deplorable  If there was a possability of sending any Cloathing  Major Quirk, would be a very fit Person to Entrust—no the Cloath* but the pay of the Regim' if your Excellency think Proper to Send it out—I would not take upon  to point out to your Better Judgm': but our urgent  Obliges me to go farther on that head than I would do  for the Reasons above Given—Major Quirk will give  Excelly an Ace* of any Occurrencies that might hapen  Post—to whom I refer—I am your Excell05" Most Ob Hum' Serv' Jonathon Montgomery L' George Slaughter to Thomas Nelson, August 17, 1781.'  Fort Nelson at Falls of Ohio 17th August 1781. Sir Inclosed you'll receive the duplicate of two Letters which just now came to hand by express by which you will be acquainted with the news and situation of the Corps to the Westward, an additional grievance to us, is that we are almost in the same situation as to provisions, and much worse as to Clothing my Corps I can with propriety say intersely naked—I have drawn a Bill on the Treasurer of this date in favor of Cap' Benjamin Price for Four Thousand Three hundred & Seven pounds Ten Shillings which I hope will be duly honord & am Your Excellencys M° Ob' Servant George Slaughter Commd' Printed in Cat. of Va. State Papers, II., 337.
8

 William Croghan to Colonel Davies, August 18, 1781.  Fort Pitt August 18th, 1781 D" Colonel ThisWeek I proposd Setting off to Join the Army, being Inform'd a General Exchange of prisoners had taken place, Making no doubt of my being Exchang'd,—but Colonel John Nevill who arrivd here a few days ago Says I am not—I flatter myself no injustice has been done me, but from Every Information I had was Injuc'd to believe there was More Majors of the British and Hessians in our hands than would have Exchang'd me & all the Majors of our Army (prisoners) whose Commissions were older than mine, not taken before the Surrender of Charlestown.—At any reat I propose going to Richmond this Fall, but should I be Exchang'd or it Otherways be Necessary I should go down, by Sending me a line to Fort pitt I will attend A few days ago General Clarke Settout from this Country by Water, with about four Hundred Men, Including Officers & Colonel Crockets Regiment, flattering himself he would be Join'd by some more from Kentuckey, & the Falls of the Ohio, about half way between this & the Falls. The General Expected 1500 Men from this part of the Country & is much Shagreen'd at his disapointment having provisions, Amunition, Artillary, quarter masters Stores, Boats, &c Sufficient for upwards of 2,000 Men—had the Country people turn' out & went with him I have no doubt the people on this Side the Mountain in particular would be Senciable of of the advantage they must reap, by being able to live at their plantations without the dread of being Scalp'd, which is far from being the Case at present, few days passing without the Indians doing mischief of this kind I much fear the General will be disapointed in Geting Men down the river from Kentuckey & the Falls, if so the State is thrown into an Infinity of Expence, without any advantage, As the few 'Captain John Neville was born in Virginia in 1731. In 1775, he was appointed to the command at Fort Pitt and was in charge at that post until early in 1777, when he was succeeded by Brigadier-General Hand. Captain Neville strove, unsuccessfully, to preserve Indian neutrality. He took part in the battle of Monmouth as colonel in the Fourth Virginia Regiment.
9

CROGHAN TO DAVIES,89 Men the General now has, is not more than might be necessary to Guard the Great Numbers of Boats, Stores, &c he has with him, From Every Account we have the Indians Are preparing to receive him And if they should attack him in his present Situation, either by land or Water, I dread the Consequences The reason so few went with him from this place, is Owing to the dispute that Subsists here between the Virginians & pennsylvanians respecting the true bounds of the Latter, And the General being a Virginian was Oppos'd by the most noted men here of the Pennsylvania party. The people here bleam Virginia Very Much for Making them & their lands (which beyond a Shadow of doubt is far out of the true bounds of Pennsylvania) over to Pennsylvania And I am assur'd never will be Content untill the TRUE bounds of Pennsylvania is run—tis true they are going to run what they Call a temporary boundary, but as Much Injustice is done to the State of Virginia & the people who are now in it & by this Scandale Imposition will be fore'd into Pennsylvania, that nothing but Disorder will reign untill the bounds is run Agreeable to the Word of the Charter of Pennsylvania. I am happy in being Inform'd the Enemy have left Virginia & hope they will pay no more Visits to any part of the State—I am Inform'd Gen Washington is Troublesome to Sir Henry which is the cause of their leaving you to assist him. I am your Most Humble & Obedient Servant W. Croghan 1 William Croghan, nephew of George Croghan, was a native of Ireland. At the outbreak of the Revolution, he was appointed captain of infantry in the Virginia Line. He took part in the battles of Brandywine, Germantown, and Monmouth and was captured at Charleston May 12, 1780. Two years earlier he was promoted to the office of major. Although released on parole, his exchange was not brought about and he took no further part in the war. In 1784, he went to Kentucky and shortly afterwards married Lucy, the sister of George Rogers Clark. Clark lived with this sister at Locust Grove, near Louisville, for some time before his death.
0

 Colonel John Gibson to Clark, August 20, 1781.'  Head Quarters Fort Pitt August the 20,h 1781. Dear General, This will be delivered to you by the Kaskaskia Chief who is now on his way home, I therefore take this opportunity to inform that what I proposed to you is likely to take place, and on the 4,h day of next month I hope to set off. The news from the Grand army is that Gen Washington is actually in possession of new york; that the Marquis De Lafayette has got Between Cornwallis and his Shipping; that his fate is inevitable; this comes from Dif' quarters, and all ace" seem to agree. I have many things I woud wish to Communicate to you But am afraid this letter might fall into the hands of the enemy. I will if I am able send another Express Before the time above mentioned which as Co Penticost informed me was the same fixed on by him and you. I delivered the Chief one of your Boats, he requested that I woud mention his poverty to you and desire you to give him some Cloaths My best Compliments to the Gentlemen with you, and am wishing you happiness and Success: your most Obedient and humble Serv' John Gibson Co'° Brigadier Genl Clarke John Gibson to George Washington, August 25, 1781.  F1 Pitt Aug. 25, 1781. General Clark is gone down the river with about four hundred men, composed of Col° Crocket's reg' of Virga State troops, Capt" Craig's Company of Artillery, except 1 Capt-Lieut. one Sergt. & six matrosses who remain here, the rest volunteers and militia. I delivered to him all the articles he demanded of me, agreeably to your Excellency's instructions, and which I thought could 1 This has been printed in Cat. of Va. State Papers, II., 345.
1

GIBSON TO WASHINGTON,91 consistently with the safety of the garrison be spared. As many of the troops in this Department were quite naked, and all of them thro' want of clothing rendered unfit for a long campaign, the General concluded it would be best for them to remain here, and proposed that I should endeavor to call out as many militia or volunteers as would enable me with the regular troops to make a short excursion against the Wyandott Towns, at the same time that he should begin his march from the mouth of the Miami river against the Shawanese, and which was to be about the 4'h of September, and would of course attract the attention of the greatest part of the Indians. Col. Brodhead returned the 11'h instant to this place. He informed me that your Excellency had ordered him to return to this post, and that after the depositions were taken relative to the charges exhibited against him, and it would suit his own conveniency, that then he was to repair to Head Quarters to take his trial.1 I then informed him of General Clark's proposal, and at the same time shewed him a letter which I had received from Col. Cannon, a principal gentleman of Yohiogany County, requesting my attendance on the 14'h inst. at Penticost's Mills, as there was to be a general meeting of the county, and that it would be a very proper time to engage the people to turn out, or at least to know their opinion. Previous to this Gen Clark had informed Col. Cannon something of this kind would be attempted. Col. Brodhead approved much of the plan, and informed me that we would both go, and try what could be done. On the evening preceding the meeting, I asked Col. Brodhead if he should set off the next morning. He then shewed me a letter from Mr Fowler to him, requiring his attendance next day to be present at the taking of the depositions in in support in support of the charges exhibited against him, and said "You see, my friend, these fellows are determined to give me no respite, and that I must have to go down the country'soon; I would therefore advise to go and try to 1 Numerous charges had been brought against Colonel Brodhead of which the chief was speculation with public funds. He persisted, however, in keeping the command until September 17, 1781, when by direct orders from General Washington he surrendered his authority to Colonel Gibson. It was then too late to organize the expeditions which Clark and Gibson had agreed upon. For evidence on this controversy see correspondence of Colonel Brodhead in Craig, The Olden Time. II., 398 et seq.
2

 engage them to turn out with you: I shall give you every assistance in my power, and as so many reports have been spread to my disadvantage thro' the country, my going might possibly retard the people in turning out; besides I might see a number of the d—d rascals who signed the remonstrance, and their presence would be disagreeable to me—in particular that rascal, Col. Cannon, should I meet him I would spit in his face." The next morning I went to Pentecost's Mills, where a number of people were collected, the principal of whom I informed of my intention. They asked me if Col. Brodhead was to command. I told them the present situation of his affairs prevented his commanding, that he was obliged to go down the country, but that he had assured me he would give every assistance in his power in furthering the intended excursion. They then asked me to commit my proposals to writing, which I did. The purport of which was, that the 4ih day of September should be fixed on as a day of general rendezvous at Fort McIntosh, that from the unsettled dispute respecting territory, they should consider themselves as volunteers, and choose their own officers, that each man should be well mounted on horseback, and bring with him 30 days provision, and that the whole should bring as many spare horses as would mount 150 regular troops, for which number I engaged they should be paid a generous hire, and if killed, or taken by the enemy, that they should also be paid. They unanimously approved of my proposals, and requested me to go to another meeting the next day, which was to be held a few miles from thence. I went there, and found near six hundred collected, and every one present most heartily agreed to my former proposals, and those fit for service promised to do. The only thing I dread is, that the expedition will fall through, which must endanger the loss of Gen Clark and his army, should Col. Brodhead persist in re-assuming the command, as the people in general are prejudiced against him, and are determined not to serve under him, tho' with what propriety time must discover. We have been much distressed for provision, owing to the change of the Executive of the State of Pennsylvania in their commissioners of purchase, and the rapid depreciation of the State money; and had it not been for a supply of twenty seven thousand
3

DEPOSITION OF WILLIAM SHANNON 593 w' drawn from Gen Clark's Magazine, and for some salt in store which we exchanged for beef, we could not possibly have maintained this post I have received since writing the above, two letters from Rev. Mr Zeisberger, at the Moravian Towns on Muskingum; the intelligence therein contained is very alarming. I have sent to alarm the country, & hope they will turn out. I am apt to believe that the part relative to Johnson is without foundation, as the French Creek is so low that they cannot possibly come down. Deposition of William Shannon, August 25, 1781.  Received of Brigadier Gen George Rogers Clark at sundry times for the use of purchasing supplies of provisions for the troops under his command and in behalf of the State of Virginia, One Million one hundred and nineteen thousand five hundred and fifty eight dollars, which sum I do hereby promise to account for to the said Brigadier Gen Clark, or the State aforesaid, or to any person having authority for that purpose. Witness my hand at Fort Nelson (Falls of Ohio) this 25th August 1781. I also acknowledged to have received of the said Brigadier Gen Clark, on the 12th of April 1780, Thirty nine land warrants, of 360 acres each, for which warrants I stand bound to furnish provisions for the use of troops under his command, in the Illinoise Department, to the amount of eight thousand seven hundred and seventy one pounds two shillings, Virginia Currency, which sum I do hereby promise to be accountable for to him, or the said State, whensoever demanded. Witness my hand at Fort Nelson (Falls of Ohio) the sixteenth day of January 1782. Will: Shannon Com'y and Q. M. Gen W. Dept Attest Ja" Frs. Moore James Berwick ,

,95 Arthur Campbell to Clark, September 3, 1781.  Washington Sep' 3tl 1781 Sir It gives me no small pleasure to hear of your arrival at the Falls of Ohio. I hope notwithstanding the very untoward incidents that have happened you will be able to do something this Season yet towards chastising our western enemies. A Treaty with the Cherokees and Chickasas were ordered by General Greene. The latter part of July a full representation by Deputies from all the Cherokee Towns met at the Great Island in Holstein and in an humble stile besought Peace which was granted them; but from the late murder of Mr Marshal on the Kentuckey path, I suspect the sincerity of the Tribes and whose conduct may merit them further correction before long. General Washington by the last accounts is carrying on his operations against N. York with vigour. General Greene has nearly recovered the two Southern States that were last Winter occupied by the enemy and I believe Cornwallis's great parade in Virginia, will terminate and properly be called a plundering Expedition. Pensacola, I suppose you have heard is taken by Governor Galvez. The Comte De Grasse, commander of the French West Indian Fleet, has, from good authority beat that of the British commanded by Rodney, and has taken the Islands of Barbadoes and Tobago. Peace or a general War in Europe, will no doubt be determined on, before the opening of next years Campaign I wish we could carry our arms to the banks of Lake Erie, before a cessation would take place; to attempt it farther, might be risking too much. For Canada confined to its ancient limits may serve our present turn: altho' every true American must acknowledge, the advantages that would accrue, could Canada be added to the Union. I shall be glad to be favoured with the intelligence of the Western
6

 Country, and that from the Eastward, I shall not fail to transmit to you when opportunity offers. I am Dear Sir with much Esteem Your very Humble Servant Arthur Campbell General Clarke  For Brigadier General Clarke at Louisville. Clark to the Kentucky County Commissioners, September 5, 1781.  The Officers of the Counties in the Departm' of Kentuckey in Councill assembled Gentlemen—For a series of years past I have made it my study to support and protect the back Settlements of our States, not from any particular Attachment I had to them, but knowing the very great advantage they were of to the Whole Continent as a Barrier against the Indians more valuable than is Generally Conceived by the Continent at Large. I have taken every measure in my Power to Support them; sparing no Trouble, Fatigues or Dangers to accomplish whatever offered to Advantage. Sensible that nothing would put a Stop to the War so Vigorously prosecuted by the Indians but the Reduction of the British Indian Posts and possession of Lake Erie, which I have had in contemplation upwards to Two Years. Government fell into those Measures that Promised Success; but from dire necessity recalling Troops they had ordered for the Enterprise Still wishing it to take place encouraging me to persevere in an attempt; the Success of which too much depended on the unsettled sentiments of the Inhabitants of Monongahalia County; Every Effort among them ineffectual (although everything that ought to be Dear to them called for their Assistance) it has been out of my power to Collect a greater force than I have at present with me. The whole Frontier have felt the Salutary affect of the attempt, the Enemy watching our motions, not daring to move, or attempt any thing of Consequence, for fear of our giving them, in their absence, some fatal Stroke where they least
7

CLARK TO THE KENTUCKY COMMISSIONERS 597 thought of, but, I doubt those advantages will subside if no Expedition should take place. They had many reasons to dread the proposed Enterprize, but if nothing of importance is done they will take it for granted that we are not able to prosecute the War encouraged they will come on with double Vigour; I dread the Issue. The publick Clamour against the Settlement of Your Country, being such, I have never ventured to say much in your defence, as it might have deprived me of the opportunity of doing as much for you as I wished; but I know and always knew that this' Departm' was of more real Service to the united States, than'half of all their Frontier Posts, and have proved of great importance by engaging the attention of the Enemy that otherwise would have spread Slaughter & Devastation through out the more Interior Frontier, deprived them of giving any assistance to our Eastern Armies, and more than probable, the Allegany would have been our Boundary at this time. But to give you a full detail of my Ideas on this Subject is unnecessary, I wou'd not wish that you should think that I mean to flatter you by what Ii have said in  of your Settlements: I could never have Condescended to undertake any Enterprize that only promised advantage to a particular part of the Community. The Gen good was what I aimed at, as only Consistant with my own Sentiments. It was Immaterial to me from what part of the Frontiers I raised my Army, Could I have got one as their was but the one Common Enemy to act against finding myself disappointed on the Monongahalia, I have come to you, & should be glad to know, what you could wish to be done. The forces ordered by Government to be furnished by your Country added to those I have present are not* Sufficient to execute anything of moment (owing to the great Desertion that took place on my passage) a greater Number must be Called to the Field; I wait as a Spectator to see what a Country is determined to do for itself when reduced to a State of Desperation; I am ready to lead you on to any Action that has the most distant prospect of Advantage, however daring it may appear to be—Your Situation is truly desperate: The Evacuation of Fort Jefferson has already happened; That of St Vincents will shortly take place—It being out of our power to keep them any longer. Of course the Indians in those Countries
8

 must to a Man embrace the British Interest, and you will have several Thousand Warriors more to Contend with than formerly but a small Distance from you: in Short not half the distance from those Valuable back Countries in Virginia as is generally Supposed. It was our Interest on the Ouabachc that has preserved your Settlements; Otherways, Holdston, New River Greenbrier &c must long since have been Depopulated by the Indians or rendered incapable of performing those Services they have done against the British forces in Carolina and elsewhere. But to come to the Point, the whole seems to rest on the following propositions, whether or not, under our present Circumstances; an Expedition Shall take place, if one should be resolved on, what the object shall be: Whether in the Miami Country, or the head of the Ouabache; The propriety of the different Routs and prospect of advantage. All that can be expected from an Enterprize up the Miami would probably be productive of nothing great, it is too late to Destroy the Corn in the Fields, as they will have it secured in secret places as well as their other property, they will fight us, the few we shall kill will be the sum of the Service. If you penetrate to the Head of the Ouabache it might be thought more prudent as it would be acting agreeable to your Circumstances that is desperate. Defeating the Shawnccs, Dclawarcs &c is but a Small part of those you will have to Contend with hereafter if you take the latter Route you fall in with the greatest Body of Indians (if some of the Nations did not Join us on our Route) they must fight us as well now as hereafter, if we have Success There is no Route more Convenient to Sandusky, if the Season, and our forces Should admit of our Marching that far. Some stroke of this sort might probably save your Country Another Season From late Occurrences I am apprehensive this will be the last piece of Service that I shall have in my power to do for you, in the Military line and Could wish it to be as Compleat as possible (My situation being desperate; Similar Conduct would be agreeable. A full Conveyance of Your Ideas I shall expect I am Gentlemen with Esteem Your Obcd, Serv G R Clark Sept. 5lh 1781.
9

Col" TODD TO CLARK,99John Todd, Jr., to Clark, September 6, 1781.  At a Meeting of the Field Officers of the Counties of Fayette, Lincoln & Jefferson at Louisville the 6'h day of September 1781. Summoned by letter from General Clark. Present John Todd Presd' Jonathon Floyd 1 _ T. ., i T Countv Lieut" Ben: Logan Step. Trigg Is" Cox Wm Pope L. Col° Jonathon Thruston appointed Clerk to the Council Order'd An address from Gen Clark dated yesterday was read and the Council entered upon the subject Proposed for their Consideration Order'd that Col" Floyd & Logan wait upon the General to be Informed Whether in Case an Expedition beyond the Ohio is Judg'd impracticable he is Willing & at Liberty to Garrison the Ohio Upwards. The Generals Intentions if he thinks Proper to disclose them will Greatly Influence us in our opinions—to which he returned the following answer. The Gen Informs the Council that from the nature of his Instructions he is at Liberty to act as he pleases, Goverment Depending on him, to Conduct their Military Department West of the Allcgeny Mountain absolute, he Could Wish it Consistant to disclose his Intentions to the Council—They may be assured the Publick good is his View. Test John Crittenden B M A Question was put in General Shall an Expedition be attempted this Fall or not. There being a great Diversity of Opinion The Officers wish to Set forth their Sentiments separately Col" Todd & Logan think that it wou'd be best to decline an Expedition this season Altogether & to Erect a strong Garrison at the Mouth of Kentucky thereby to enable Parties of 50, 100 or 200 to Visit the Enemy in the Winter season & have their retreat secured to them & by Distressing them often force them to Offer
0

 terms of Peace if an Expedition be necessary and Practicable next Spring there will be probably considerable Stores left and those stores so much nearer the enemy Cols Floyd, Trigg, Cox, & Pope all Wish to attempt an Expedition by the Way of the Miami as far as possible this season so as to make good their retreat and in case a retreat be Judged necessary then to build a Garrison at or about the Mouth of Kentucky. They Expect thereby to Oblige the Shawneese an old and Inveterate Enemy to offer terms And thereby Pave the Way for the Other Nations to Come in They All agree that the Wabache Route will be so Disagreeable to the Militia in General & so tedious, that the Cold Season Will Prevent their effecting anything Considerable: Not to mention public objection to that Route by the West Augusta Draughts and  They Conclude that five Hundred Men will be a Draught of two thirds of the Militia of the Counties they have already been required to furnish that Quota for an Expedition Order'd last Spring and notwithstanding the Diversity of Opinion they Willingly offer to Gen Clark the Whole or any part thereof trusting to his Experience and Proved attatchment to the Kentucky Interest to Manage them to the best advantage. Jonathon Todd jr Presd' Attest Jonathon Thruston  To the Honbl° Brigr Gen Geo R. Clark Thomas Nelson to Leighton Wood,1 September 6, 1781.  In Council Sep' 6'h 1781 Sir It is absolutely necessary that a distinct Account be made out and returned to the Executive as soon as it can be done of all Monies which have been charged on the Books of your Office for disbursements in the Kentucky and Illenois Country from the first day of January 1778. The names of the Drawers:—thLeighton Wood waL', at the time, solicitor for Virginia.
1

COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS,01 Persons names to whom Payment was made; the date of the draft; the time the debt was contracted, as well as the time the Money was paid, must be particularized. I am Sir Your most obed' Serv' Thos. Nelson jr. Proceedings of a Council of the Kentucky Officers, September 7, 1781.  At a Council of Officers held at Louisville in the State of Virginia the seventh day Of September one thousand seven hundred and eighty one by Order and direction of the Honbl° Brigr General Clark Present L' Col° Crockett President L' Col° Montgomery Majr Slaughter Major Walls Cap' Craig Captain Cherry Cap' George Cap' Todd Cap' Roberts Cap' Young Cap' Kerney  Cap' Thomas Cap' L' Loyd Cap' Taylor Cap' Helm James Berwick is appointed Clerk to the Council The General transmits to the Board the following papers viz' Instructions from the honb,° Thomas Jefferson Governor of Virginia dated January 19'h 1781 directed to the General. An address from General Clark to the County Lieutenants in the Department of Kentuckey dated September 5ih 1781. Proceedings of the said Council of Officers of the Kentuckey Department dated September 6'h 1781.
2

 An address from General Clark to this Council dated this day. The said papers being read the Board proceeded to enquire into the Strength of the force that might be raised in Case of an Expedition, and it appearing that not more than Seven hundred Men (Militia included) could be depended upon and the present Situation of the Country being fully debated; the following proposition was put. "Whether under our present Circunstances we attempt an Expedition"? and if so what Object the Yeas and Nays being required are inserted and stand as follows viz' For no Expedition For an Expedition to the Wabash L' Col° Crockett L' Col° Montgomery Major Walls Major Slaughter Cap' Craig Cap' Roberts Cap' Cherry Cap' Thomas Cap' George Cap' Taylor Cap' Todd Cap, Helms Cap' Young Cap' Kerney Cap' L' Loyd It is therefore the Opinion of the Board that under our present Circumstances, it is impracticable to carry on an Expedition. The General's first and second Proposition being answered the following was put "Whether or not the Importance of the Kentuckey Country to the State is such as to make it our duty to defend it if possible"? Resolved unanimously in the Affirmative The Board proceeded to take into Consideration the General's 4ih proposition viz' "What Plans would be most likely to secure it this Campaign and the necessary preparations the ensuing"? The Board recommend to the General to maintain the post of Louisville and to erect a Strong Fort at the Mouth of Kentuckey and if possible to erect another at the mouth of the Big Miamis (if the same can be supported)—that the General will give Instructions to the several County Lieutenants to order out so many of the Militia as mav be necessary for this Service and the Protection
3

KENTUCKY COUNTY-LIEUTENANTS TO CLARK 603 of the Country:—and that the General will enable the Officers at this post to reinlist the Troops now engaged in the Service of the State for the Defence of the said posts. The Board took into Consideration the Generals last proposition viz "What measures would you recommend to Government to be taken in this Department including that of the Ilonois" The Board arc of Opinion that Application ought to be made to Government for a Strong regular force to be sent out early in the Spring to reduce the British Garrison of Detroit; and maintain the same when reduced; as the Board arc of opinion that post ought to be the first Object for the Advantage and Interest of the United States in General, and to the Inhabitants of this State in particular. Joseph Crockett Presd' Attest James Berwick Clk to the Council  Proceedings of a Council of Officers convened at Louisville in the State of Virginia 7ih Sep' 1781, by order of General Clark. Kentucky County-Lieutenants to Clark, September 8, 1781.  The County Lieutenants inform General Clark that they are willing to furnish Corn & Buffaloe Beef as far as is in their power, they expect General Clark's Commissary to purchase the provisions & to call upon them for the Necessary Militia to Assist, Or we are willing to appoint a Commissary who shall furnish the provisions and whose Accounts shall be subject to our Inspection We wish the General Success in his plan which is quite agreeable to our Wishes Jonathon Todd jr Jonathon Floyd Benjamin Logan September 8"' 1781. Genl Clarke
4

 John Floyd to Clark, September 14, 1781.  Friday 14th J past 10 OClock Dear General I have this minute returned from a little Excurtion against the Enemy & my party 27 in number are all dispersed & cut to pieces except 9 who came off the field with Cap' Asturgus mortally Wounded and one other slightly wounded, I dont yet know who are killed Mr Ravenscroft was taken prisoner by  me —A party was defeated yesterday near the same place & many Women & Children WoundedI want Satisfaction do send me 100 men which number with what I can raise will do. The Militia have no good powder do send some I am &c &c &c Jonathon Floyd I cant write guess at the rest  To Gen Clarke John Montgomery to Clark, September 20, 1781.  Falls of Ohio the 20'h Sepf 1781. A general Anxiety Possessing the minds of the Officers of the Illinois Regiment Respecting their Establishment, and the light they must be looked upon at the End of the War, I have therefore thought proper to call a meeting of the said Officers, whereupon the Board came to the following Determination Jonathon Montgomery Ll Col Resolved, that as it Appears to us that no Act or Resolution hath yet been published, to Our knowledge, by the General Assembly, allowing us any of the Emoluments and privileges after the war, which are allow'd to Other Regiments on Continental and State Establishments, but are cut short with Only pay and Rations whilSquire Boone and a group of settlers who had attempted to make a new settlement were alarmed at the signs of Indians and moving to the Beargrass settlements were attacked. A number of lives were lost. Colonel Floyd in his attempt to relieve this party, met with defeat as indicated. See Butler, Hist, of Kenhicky. 115.
5

OCTOBER 1, 1781 605 in Service—and no certain Rank Assertained to us in the Army, Therefore to have our Doubts removed and Ourselves Adjusted have unanimously, Appointed and chosen Cap' Robert Todd, to Represent us by Petition in the General Assembly, to superintend and manage matters Satisfactory, to the Officers of said Regiment. We the Officers of the Board hope it will not be disagreeable to the General and wish he may concur with us in the above Appointment In Behalf of the Board J Girault L' Clerk Chosen Clark to Thomas Nelson, October 1, 1781.  Fort Nelson, 1" Octr 1781. Sir: On your recollecting the ideas conveyed to you in my letter dated Weeling 4th August, you will not be much disappointed to find that all hopes of enterprise in the Department are totally laid aside this campaign. However great the disappointment may be to me, I could wish it to center there, and the effects not so generally felt, as I am sure they will, if some speedy and spirited step is not taken, or the war cease with Britain. Such desertion took place among the militia on my passage down, that the forces we had, with what could with propriety be drawn from Kentuckey, could not have amounted to more than seven hundred men—a number although sufficient to defeat the Shawnees, was thought too few to make the attempt proposed, except by the Illinois officers. An expedition against the Shawnees would avail little, as they are but trifling at present in the balance of Indian affairs, particularly when they suspected us, and the season so far advanced, they would have had all their corn secured in desert places, the few we should have killed would have been the sum of the service, in lieu of which we must have expended a considerable quantity of the stores on hand, that may answer your future operations, and an enterprise against them appears too trifling when compared with the other, in the execution of which my very soul was wrapt,
6

 as leading to others of equal importance, that I have totally neglected it, & shall display to you my general ideas of our situation and future apprehensions in the Western Department. My former letters will greatly shorten this, as many of them touch almost on every subject. If my ideas are right, I should be more happy if I knew my country had a just one of what they may apprehend—of course they would again endeavor to take those measures necessary. However foreign it may be to most people in power, it is beyond all doubt, that our possessions in the Illinois and Kentucky have been the salvation of all our interior frontiers since the commencement of the war, and have enabled them to give that assistance against the British armies they have done. I know a number of gentlemen dispute this assertion; but if the war should continue two years, and no army should march from some part of the States into the enemies country, they will be convinced of their error, which would have been the case by this day had it not been for the preparations and appearance that have been kept up by us the present year. You have been already advertised of the evacuation of Fort Jefferson for the want of supplies, and our few troops drawn from the Illinois, except St. Vincennes, where we still support a garrison of about sixty men to remain, if possible, until I receive answers from your Excellency. If no army moves early in the spring from this place or Pittsburg, those troops must be withdrawn, or totally lost, with all the Illinois, and the Indians to a man, except the Kaskaskias, will set on us with inveteracy. Two thirds of those formerly in our interest, have already taken the hatchet this fall—the others wishing to suspend the time as long as possible, anxious for us to march an army through their country, as they have been led to believe would be the case, the English reduced. & peace restored. The principal Chiefs and warriors from Wabash came to me on their hearing of my arrival at this post, in hopes of our marching against the English, offering nine hundred men. Their disappointment was great when they found the speeches given them to be vague, and not informed of our real dezign. They concluded we were making preparations for what they wished, and apparently returned well satisfied, with plenty of
7

OCTOBER 1, 1781 607 powder, resolved to wait with patience. But necessity will oblige the whole of them to take up the hatchet in a short time to clothe themselves. The Kentuckey, without succours, with the addition of two or three thousand warriors let loose on them, with all the assistance that can be given by the English, must inevitably fall a sacrifice, except strongly fortified, and the distance and inconveniency of travelling from those nations to any part of the frontiers of Virginia or Pittsburg, altho' difficult in the ideas of people in general, are in fact but trifling, and easy to be accomplished. If the mischief was to center here, the consequences might not be so alarming, but the other part of our country will feel the effects. The English having full sway in those countries would vigorously prosecute the war. In protecting the back countries for the preservation of the more interior parts, an army in the enemy's is doubtless the most effectual means (as supplies of goods are out of the question.) Immaterial from whence it moves, or who commands it, if sufficiently strong and conducted with propriety, and their object such as promises advantage. Such a one as was proposed last Spring may do the business, although we find that half that number with such reinforcements as might have been had, would have completed it this fall. If I were to recommend the rout of another expedition, it would be through the same channel as the last, as it would be immediately passing through the greatest body of Indians, either friends or foes, where the English emissaries have now their greatest dependence in Indian services in the execution of any design they may have on our frontiers. Add to this, their regaining the Illinois, both Spanish & American, which is perhaps of more importance to them in the Indian department than we generally conceive—Many other reasons might be offered besides the allusion to the terms of peace. I suppose if an expedition is undertaken the next season, it will be by Congress. If by your Excellency, or co-operation with Congress, to enable you better to lay your plans, I have sent Major
8

 Crittenden to wait on you. He is able to give you better information of many circumstances you could wish to know, than can be committed to paper. If any assistance to an enterprise is to be given from this quarter, the sooner its known the better; but I would not wish to trouble your Excellency with my remarks. I have lost the object that was one of the principal inducements to my fatigues & transactions for several years past—my chain appears to have run out. I find myself enclosed with few troops, in a trifling fort, and shortly expect to bear the insults of those who have for several years been in continual dread of me. I am with much respect Sir, your very ob' hum. serv' G R. Clark
