PREFACE,
The daily increasing importance of the Western and Southwestern States and Territories of the United States, and the immense population
which the tide of emigration is accumulating in those regions, render an
accurate topographical description of their natural and artificial features
a desideratum in geographical science. Many local circumstances of the
greatest consequence to travellers, are not made the subjects of remark,
in any work extant. Even the manner and conditions, im, and under
which the public lands of the United States are sold, the situation, pro
ductions and climate of the Western and Southwestern States, are very
imperfectly described, in most geographical works. Dr. Drake's account
of Cincinnati, is the best publication extant, relative to the States of Ohio
and Kentucky; but that performance, judicious as it is, embraces but a
small part of the extensive country, in the Valley of the Ohio, Mississip
pi, Missouri, and their conſluent streams. As to Stoddard’s Louisiana,
Brackenridge's views of Louisiana, and Darby's Louisiana, they, like
Drake's Cincinnati, furnish only local information. Mr. Melish's work,
accompanying his large map, contains a general description of the
United States; but, being part of an expensive work, which few persons,
eomparatively, have it in their power to procure, its usefulness is conse;
quently very confined.
In the present work, it has been the intention of the author, to conr
dense into one portable, and cheap volume, such notices of the country
described, as would tend to remove many obstacles. The roads are ar
ranged for each State and Territory, which are necessary for a removal
to any given place in the Valley of the Mississippi, by all the various
routes now travelled, either by land or water.
The description of tenure, under which the French and Spanish go
vernments granted lands to individuals, is but imperfectly known in the
United States, and emigrants ought to gain a previous knowledge of its
nature, before removing to places, where all landed property, not sold by
the United States, is held and transferred under a species of title, having
but little analogy to any with which they had a previous acquaintance.
As the author of this work was one of the surveyors, who for several
years assisted in adjusting the ancient boundaries of land, in Louisiana, he had frequent and favourable opportunities of gaining correct informa
tion, respecting the French and Spanish land titles.
Though many local circumstances may be omitted, yet the author
flatters himself, that the traveller in the valley of the Mississippi, will flhd
the Emigrant's Guide an useful manual,
f
2 PREFACE.
A statement of the distances from New Orleans, to the various points
in Louisiana, Texas, Mexico, Mississippi, Alabama, and Missouri, has
never before been published on so extensive a plan; many of the routes
are not even mentioned in any former work. A knowledge of the sea
sons of the year, most suitable to travel, either by land or water, is of the
utmost importance to the emigrant. More expense and embarrassment
arise from travelling in newly established settlements, at improper times,
than many persons could be made to believe. Want of information on
the subject of the means of conveyance, is also a source of trouble and
expense to emigrants, particularly those, who remove with families.
Practical experience on the subject, has enabled the author to mention, in
detail, the vegetable staples, their prices and usual mart of sale. The
three great articles of culture in the Western and Southwestern States
and Territories, Cotton, Flour and Sugar, will demand the most serious
attention in every statistical work, relative to those places.
The author has been careful to avoid holding up exaggerated prospects
ef rapid gain; the many overwrought and highly coloured pictures
which have been drawn of different parts, of what is in common language
called the Western Country, have produced more evil and injury than
can be easily conceived. That those regions do present flattering views
to the emigrant, there is no doubt; but there is no country, where labour
is not indispensably necessary, and where the common routine of acquir
ing gain, is not slow and gradual.
With his best wishes for their prosperity, the author of this work takes
*ave of his readers.
Mew-York, Sept. 18th, 1817.
the
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. /
CHAPTER I.
That part of the United States, which has received the term
Western, relatively to the part east of the Aleghany mountains, lies
entirely in the valley of the Mississippi, and Basin of the Canadian
Lakes. The southwestern parts of the United States, south of Ten
nessee and west of Georgia, lie in the valleys of the Mississippi,
Mobile and Apalachicola rivers, and other smaller streams in their
vicinity. The following table will exhibit the extent and population
of this part of America.
Extent in
Population. square miles. Acres.
Louisiana 110,000 48,220 30,860,800
Mississippi 40,000 44,500 28,480,000
Alabama 25,000 44,500 28,480,000
Tenessee 340,000 40,000 25,600,000
Kentucky 580,000 39,000 24,900,000
Ohio 346,000 39,000 24,960,000
Indiana 100,000 34,000 21,760,000
Illinois 20,000 50,000 32,000,000
Missouri *200,000 1,200,000 768,000,000
Michigan 7,000 27,000 17,280,000
N. W. Territory 147,000 94,080,000
Texas 10,000 100,000 64,000,000
- | 1,778,000 1,813,220 TT, T60,460,800
When the valley of the Mississippi is mentioned in this work, it is
to be understood as comprising all the country drained by that river,
properly so called, or its tributary streams.
In describing each of the territorial divisions in this work, we will
commence with the most southwestern, and proceed in the order of na
tural position as far as practicable. Following this arrangement, the
state of Louisiana will first present itself.
Before entering on a detail of this state, it may not be irrelevant to
explain the difference between Louisiana in its extended sense, and
the state of Louisiana as created by act of Congress.
When Louisiana was taken possession of, Dec. 20th, 1803, it was
temporarily divided into two territories, the territory of Orleans, and
that of Louisiana. The territory of Orleans, comprising the same
limits, except West Florida, that now contain the state of Louisiana,
was, when the territory of Orleans became a state, changed to the
# Including the Indians.
4 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
territory of Missouri,” as it now politically exists. The state of Louis
iana commences on the west or right bank of the Mississippi, where
that river is intersected by the thirty-third degree of north latitude ;
and thence down the middle of the Mississippi, to the northernmost
part of the thirty-first degree of north latitude ; thence along that
degree to the west or right bank of the Pearl river; thence down
that stream to its mouth ; thence along the gulf of Mexico, including
all islands within six leagues of the shore, to the mouth of the Sabine
river; thence up that stream, until where it is intersected by the
thirty-second degree of north latitude; thence by a line due north
to the northernmost part of the thirty-third degree of north latitude ;
and thence along that degree to the place of beginning.
There is no extent of land on the globe, possessing greater diversity
of soil, than the state of Louisiana. The southeastern part mostly is
included in the delta of the Mississippi, is flat, and where the sur
face can be preserved from inundation, extremely fertile ; the south
western part is generally level prairie, and much of its area extreme
ly productive ; the northwestern part, a thick forest, and low allu
vial soil, upon the rivers; but at a distance from the streams, the
land is high, broken, and sterile.
Like all other establishments made in America, the first settle- .
ments of Louisiana were detached, and known by the term of “posts.”
While a French colony, the posts, east of the Mississippi, were Mobile;
upon the Mississippi, at a distance from New Orleans, Lafourche, Bat
ton Rouge, Point Coupée and Natchez —and west of the Mississippi,
JAttacapas, Opelousas, Rapides, Avoyelles, Watchitoches, and Ouachitta.
Notwithstanding the parochial, and county divisions now existing in
Louisiana, the names of the ancient “Posts” are retained, and by
their appellations, are the minor subdivisions known.
During the existence of the French and Spanish governments, the
laces near New Orleans, and on the margin of the river, were known #. the current name of the Churches, and this topographical discrimi
nation is also retained in common use at this time.
As almost every person, in and out of the country, knows the va
rious parts of Louisiana by these long established terms, I shall use
them in this work. It would be vain, even in Louisiana, to inquire
for the Church of St. Landré, though every person could point out
Opelousas. Attacapas is every where known, whilst but few out of
the parishes themselves, know the existence of such places as St.
Martins, or St. Mary’s.
The same observations are applicable to Lafourche, Baton Rouge,
... • 
* We are induced to introduce in this place, the following translation, in order
to show how little the best geographers of Europe know of the political terri
torial divisions in America, and how far their descriptions of boundaries are
entitled to credit.
“Government of New Orleans, or lower Louisiana, extent and limits—All
we certainly know on these two subjects, is reduced to this, -that a line drawn irom the post of Natches to that of Natchitaches on Red river, fortus the limit
between the government of New Orleans and that of Indiana, (Haute Louis
iane) upper Louisiana.” Mentalle, Paris, 1816. The work ſrom which the above is extracted, is an elaborate system of uni.
Versal geography, 16 Vol. in Oct.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 5
Point Coupée, Rapides, Natchitoches, and Ouachitta. To those per
sons who merely wish information respecting the country, or design
to emigrate to any part of it, these popular names will be of more
benefit, than the legal, but less known terms by which the parishes
and counties are designated in the legislative and juridicial proceed
ings of the state. In every inquiry respecting Louisiana, made by
those who intend to remove, and obtain actual residence there, the
tenure by which landed property is held, is the first, and most seri
ous subject for their investigations. 
As the tenure of land in this state differs so essentially from that of
other parts of the United States, I shall be more particular in tracing
it to its source, and pointing out its validity.
As the governments of France and Spain never considered public
land as a source of revenue, the grants were generally small, and
made to actual settlers, for specific purposes.
The requete, (petition) sets forth the pursuits of the claimant, the
number of his family, and the quantity of land desired.
The commandants or surveyor's certificate, certified that the land
prayed for, was vacant. The order of survey, directed the com
mandant or surveyor, to put the petitioner into possession of the land
prayed for, without doing injury to prior possessions. The conces
sion, or document of survey, set forth, that on a certain day, and almost
always in presence of the neighbouring land owners, the petitioner
was put into possession, pursuant to the tenor of the order of survey.
When the papers containing the whole of these preliminary proceed
ings were returned to the land office in New Orleans, the final pa
tent issued, granting the land in (Franc-alleu,) allodial tenure.”
In this manner were most of the land titles of Louisiana framed.
Large grants, such as those of Bastrop, Maison Rouge and the Houmas,
were exceptions in principle, and the difference will be pointed out
in the sequel to this work.
Aſter the termination of the war between France and Spain, at
the commencement of the French revolution, and the provisional
recession of Louisiana to the former, but few patents for land were
issued by the Spanish government in Louisiana. The inhabitants
proceeded as usual to frame their petitions, upon which they easily
procured the certificate of the commandant or surveyor, and in
many instances, orders of survey were made. When the land offices
were opened in New Orleans, and Opelousas under the act of con
gress of 27th March, 1804, the commissioners found the land titles
of the country composed of all the various grades, from the simple
petition, to the complete grant, or patent. The author was himself
present at Opelousas, when the land office was opened at that place, in Oct. 1815, and it was indeed difficult to determine, whether the
commissioners were less acquainted with the real nature of the pa
pers they were to investigate, or the people of the country with the
principles of law or equity, under which their property was to be
placed by the new order of things.
The requisitions of the law of the United States, were tardily and
See Appendix, No. I.
6 - ‘EMIGRANT'S GUIDE,
reluctantly complied with ; difficulties created delay, and many
years passed away, before the real quantity of land claimed, could
be ascertained with any precision ; and even at this time, when
twelve years have elapsed, many of the larger claims are undeter
mined.
After the opening of the land offices in Louisiana, the commission
ers found a number of claims for land held by actual settlement, with
out any title from the Spanish government.
The United States government recognized these claims, and where
ever it was practicable, six hundred and forty acres were surveyed,
and appropriated to each claim.
Another species of claim presented itself in the shape of purchases
from the Indians. As this mode of procuring land was so repugnant
to the policy of the United States, the commissioners did not, per
haps, in every instance, make due allowance for the different prin
ciples upon which the former and present government, that held
Louisiana, had proceeded respecting the Indian tribes. Those
claims were, however, in most instances finally confirmed.
The land of Louisiana is generally surveyed in the form of a pa
rallelogram, forty arpents deep, from front to rear: this mode, which
commenced on the banks of the Mississippi, was pursued in all other
parts of the country. In some of the larger claims, this principle was
departed from, but in the common tracts, only a few deviations are to
be found.
The arpent of Paris”, was the universal measure of land, and by
it were all grants and sales made. The acre is not yet, and per
haps, in respect to land held under the ancient titles, never will be
introduced into use, in Louisiana.
In lands that may be purchased from the United States, the tenure
will always be, and the form of the tracts, in most instances, the
same with all other lands, in every part of the United States, derived
from similar purchase.
The following is the mode established by law, for the surveying
and selling of public lands. I have annexed the form of a regular
and an irregular township, to illustrate the true intent and meaning
of the terms scetion, and its fractions, and the manner of numbering,
by which the position of any part is known.
In Louisiana, innumerable instances occur, where, in the same
township, there are private claims, the lines of which run in all di
rections ; and public land, the lines of which are run by the true
meridian; this constitutes an irregular township. This admixture of
the different modes of surveying the contiguous land held under the
various tenures, as before mentioned, takes place in all parts of the
* It is generally, even at this time, by the arpent, and not by the acre, that transfers of land are made in Louisiana, and as this custom will probably
continue, the relative area ought to be known by emigrants.
The following formula contains the elements to reduce the one into the
JAr. Ac. JAr.
other, viz. 605 arpents make 512 acres, stated thus; If 605 : 51.2 : : 100,
and reversely, if the reduction is from acres to arpents.
The arpent is used also as a measure of length, being 180 feet, or 30 toises
Freach, equal to 192 feet English or American feet, nearly,

*
- 

--
Jºnazzº”.
s

tº .5I-7 3|2|I
* 111 || 11 || 1 1.
-
111

| yºora,

- Ranges
Note. Zhe %.
:t
Ranges East
re zºom/erec'
mºtº Zaºyao Me
*are &e arºzzºg ºwn zºe mazºram Związº ºne * ºr are zawnºrra' careZzzax.
and’ wa rzºom zºe ºr wrº-r
-áan ºf Aarº/Zºº # ºr meaſ.
—wn fºr
Afºnzº
-hºur m
Hºrnerººn.
*** 
mºrea’ a/º
*nºr * *e arc
|rºw corn
4|
raz-ºrizºr
-**.corner
ºrrºw are ºwe
*/ºrraº rººms
º
“,
** are ºare ºn
*…*ere 3
--
· ---- «
*
*
|
·*
|-…
|-|
- ''
|
---
|
！|
·
|-|-|
|-|
|
|
·|
ae|
*
→·
|-*…·
|
*·
·
·
·|
º
|-→
·
|
|
º:
|-*
|
---
|-.*
• • • •|
|-·
-|-·|
·…
• •• •
|-- 
|-|-！---- -· ·|-|-·
|
|-|-|-||
|-|-|
|-|
*
~ ~•
•
|-----… *! *|
|-|×|
|-|-|
|-*
-? |-|-|
|-----* , ， ，• ！|
·|-|-|
|-·
·|-... º.
|-·|
|- |-|
·
|-|
~
|-|----
|
|-|-|
|-·
|
|-→ ··
·
· |-- - -·*..*
|
~
|
·→
|
·
|-|
|
|-|*
|
~
|
|-… - - 
-
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. z
/
country upon which settlements or grants were made, prior to the
20th December, 1803. There are large spaces of excellent soil,
however, upon which no settlements or grants were made, before
possession was had by the agents of the United States; and of course
the townships here will be regular. 
From Natchez to New Orleans, and as far below the latter city as
the banks of the Mississippi are arable, the French and Spanish
grants extend, and though much vacant land was found by the
United States surveyors, I believe in no one place was it of sufficient
extent to admit of an unbroken township.
The banks of the Laſourche were granted and actually settled
upon both sides, about ninety miles from its efflux from the Mississip
pi, under the French and Spanish governments. The banks of Red
river near Natchitoches, and the Rapide, and in the Avoyelles
prairie, were extensively granted and settled.—The Ouachitta river,
from its mouth to the entrance of Saline river, in lat. 330 6' N.
was also settled ; and near Fort Miro, to a considerable distance from
the river.
In Atacapas and Opelousas the grants and settlements commenced
upon the Atchafalaya, below the mouth of Teche, and reached to
meet the grants of Rapide. On the waters of the Vermilion, Cour
tableau and Mermentau, the grants were numerous and settlements
extensive. 
In all other parts of the state, the land ceded by the govern
ment, was in distant detached spots. Upon the Sabine and Calcasiu
rivers the grants were few ; most of the country remained, and now
remains vacant. Above Natchitoches on Red river, the grants and
settlements terminated about twenty miles above the post. On Oua
chitta, considerable tracts still continue public property. In the very ex
tensive tract between Opelousas and the N.W. angle of the state, fol
lowing the dividing ridge between Red and Sabine and Calcasiu ri
vers, the surface is almost entirely vacant. The area between Red
and Ouachitta rivers, also continues in a great measure unoccupied.
A great portion of that part of West Florida that has been incorpo
rated into the state of Louisiana is yet public land. The only arable
tract, yet public land, upon which the sugar cane can be cultivated
successfully, is contained between the Lafourche and Atchafalaya ri
vers upon the Bayou Boeuf. This region remained unexplored till
after the establishment of the American government.
To execute the surveys in the then territory of Orleans, now state
of Louisiana, Mr. Isaac Briggs, then surveyor of the lands of the
United States south of Tennessee, commenced, in the summer of 1805,
the operation, by establishing the point where 33° N. L. crossed the
Mississippi river; that parallel was then extended to Red river, a dis
tance of 148 miles and a fraction. The 31° N. Lat. was extended
to Sabine, from the point fixed by Mr. Andrew Ellicott, on the left
shore of the Mississippi. At the distance from Ellicott's point of 48
miles, a due meridian line was extended north to the 33° N. Lat, and
south to the swamps upon the gulf of Mexico. These lines thus sur
veyed and marked, were the basis upon which the subsequent sur
veys were performed. The private claims were extremely com.
8 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
plex, and the interferences exhibited on the plan of the annexed irre
gular townships, were frequent and intricate. The difficulty of
determining with precision the extent of private property was one of
the many causes that retarded the final adjustment of the claims by
the several boards of commissioners.
No sales of public land have yet been made in the state of Louisia.
na; of course all the settlements yet formed in that state are upon
private claims, or by unauthorized locations on the lands of the Uni
ted States.
The annexed tables will serve to show the relative position, quan
tity, and quality of soil in the state of Louisiana now claimed by indi
viduals, or held by the government of the United States.
Crops—Culture.—As a general crop, cotton can be much more
extensively cultivated in the state of Louisiana than sugar; the for
mer is universal, whilst the production of the latter is confined to a very
limited extent in the state. The opposite table was calculated in the
country for publication in my tracts on Louisiana. The relative value
as established by that computation has been considered correct;
though each article is estimated lower than the ordinary price.
Parishes. Sq. Miles. "acres. Arpents. º
Plaquemines 1,500. 960,000 1,134,300 1,549. Alluvial along the streams, principal part on the Mississippi; staples, sugar, cotton, and rice.
Orleans 1,300 832,000. 983,050 24,552 Alluvial along the Mississippi, Bayou Gentilly, Bayou Metarie, and Bayou St. John; staples, rºle . sugar, cotton, and rice.
St. Bernard 400 256,000, 302,480 1,020. Alluvial, and mostly upon the Mississippi bank; staples, sugar, cotton, and rice.
St. Charles 300 192,000 226,860 3,291 Alluvial along the banks of the Mississippi; staples, sugar, cotton, and rice.
St. John Baptiste 150 95,000 113,430 2,990 Alluvial along the banks of the Mississippi; staples, sugar, cotton, and rice.
St. James 170 , 128,554 3,955. Alluvial along both banks of the Mississippi; staples, sugar, cotton, rice, and lumber.
Ascension 350 224,000 264,670 2,219 Alluvialupon the Mississippi, Laſourche, Amite, and Atchafalaya; staples, sugar, cotton, rice,
and lumber.

Assumption 500 320,000 378,100 2,472 Alluvial along both banks of Lafourche, Atchafalaya, and intermediate lakes; staples, sugar,
cotton, corn, rice, and lumber.

Interior of La Fourche 2,500 1,600,000 1,890,500 1,995. An immense Parish, consisting of level alluvial soil upon the Laſourche, a great number of
smaller streams, and upon the Gulf of Mexico; staples, sugar, cotton, rice, and cotton.
Iberville 350 224,000 264,670 2,679. Alluvial land, upon the banks of the Mississippi, Iberville, Plaquemine, and Atchafalaya; sta
ples, lumber, cotton, rice, with some sugar.
West Baton Rouge 350 544,000 642,770 1,463 Alluvial land, upon the west bank of the Mississippi, and bank of Atchafalaya, and interme
diate streams; staples, cotton, maize, rice, lumber, beef, and some sugar.
Point Coupée 600 384,000. 453,720 4,539 Alluvial land, situated relatively, similar to West Baton Rouge; staples, cotton, rice, maize,

lumber, beef, and some sugar.
3,970.5,740,80016,783,114 52,724

[To face page 328.
-STATISTICAL Table—continued.
| Population,
Parishes. Sq. Miles. Acres. Arpents. in 1810
Brought over 8,970) 5,740,800 6,783,114 52,724 º 
New Feliciana 1,050 672,000 794,010) 
These four parishes are formed from that part of West Florida, which was incorporated into
East Baton Rouge 500 320,000 378,000 the State of Louisiana; the south and west borders are alluvial, but the residue and much
} 10,000 the most extensive part of the surface, pine hills and plains, with soune rich land upon the
St. Helena. 1,300 832,000 983,060 river banks; staples, cotton, maize, beef, pork, lumber, lime, tar, and upon the Missis
sippi river, some sugar.
St. Tammany 2,000 1,230,000 1,512,400St. Mary's and St. -
Martin's, Kºš 5,100 3,264,000 3,856,620 7,369 Attacapas, and Opelousas are generally level land; about two-thirds prairie, or overflowed
river bottom; staples, cotton, maize, beef cattle, horses, and in Attacapas, some sugar.
St. Landre, Opelousas 7,600. 4,864,000 5,747,120 5,048
Natchitoches is an immense extent of pine and oak woods, with the exception of the river bot
*Watchitoches 10,600 6,784,000 8,015,720 2,870 toms; the latter soil excellent; staples, cotton, lumber, peltry, tar, and some beef, pork, and
tobacco.
-Ouachitta is remarkably similar in its features, natural and artificial productions, and commer
Ouachitta 4,000 2,560,000 3,024,800 1,077 cial facility, to Natchitoches.2. »Rapides 2,300 1,472,000 1,739,260 2,300
—l. Rapides and Ocatahoola are, in every essential respect, similar to the two preceding parishes
Ocatahoola 2,000 1,230,000|º 1,512,400 1,164 of Natchitoches and Ouachitta.
Concordia is an alluvial slope, between the Mississippi and the Tensaw and Black Rivers inclu
Concordia 2,100 1,344,000 1,588,020 2,875 sive; staples, cotton and lumber.Avoyelles 700 448,000 529,340 1.109| Avoyelles; the arable part of this parish is in great part a detached prairie, though there exists
y º some excellent alluvial land upon the streams; staples, cotton, beef cattle, and lumber.
48,220 30,360,800 36,463,964 36,556
TABLE of the benefits resulting from fifty effective workmen on a Farm in Louisiana.
|The extent that |Annual reveAcres in i. º in
:-estate O 
Staple. .Amount. Price. JWett Value. ºd * º Remarks.
----employed. each staple may
º be cultivated.
From this estimate, if all the land in the state, upon which that article could, be
-made, was cultivated in sugar, say 250,000 Sugar, 150,000 lbs. 8 cts, per lb. $12,000 $240 150 0,250,000 |. yielding 1,000 pounds per acre, at 8
cents per pound, would give 20,000,000
dollars.
Rice demanding more labour to an equal surface, and producing more, if the rice
lands were brought into culture, say Rice, 700 barrels, $6 per barrel, $4,200 $84 100 0,250,000 250,000 acres, which yielding 7 barrels per
tº acre, at 6 dollars per barrel, would prºduce
an annual revenue of 10,500,000 dolls.
The cotton lands of the state of Louisiana,
will average a produce of 240 pounds of
clean cotton per acre: this would amount of Cotton, 60,000 lbs. 15 cts. per lb. $9,000 $180 250 2,400,000 |}ºuis, if an ºn ind,
were brought into cultivation—leaving a re
venue of 86,400,000 dollars.
Indigo, I 7,000 lbs. I $1 per lb. $7,000 || stºo | 2000,000 | Tobacco, lºo,000 lbs $10 per cwt is 5.357 Tº so?--T
.Wºote.The whole e 23,480,320 American acres.
more than one-tenth of the whole surface. upon which that staple may be cultivated Thes
necessary for sugar—a deep vegetable loam.
xtent of the state of Louisiana, after deducting one
| 1,500,000
-fifth for swamps, rivers, pine barrens, and other irreclaimable tracts, extends over pace allowed for sugar has been descanted on; a round sum of 2,400,000 acres was assumed for cotton, amounting to little Indigo demanding a richer soil, but a similar climate with cotton, 2,000,000 cannot greatly depart from the surface Tobacco can be raised in all parts of the state, but the soil suitable to its growthºoes not differ widely from that
10 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Tobacco and indigo could be as extensively cultivated as cotton,
but neither of the former offers as alluring prospects to the planter as
the latter. Tobacco and indigo have each been staples of Louisiana,
but have long been abandoned, and their places supplied by sugar and
Cotton.
To new settlers, and to persons of moderate property, cotton pre
sents a more facile source of revenue, even in places where the soil and
climate will admit the culture of sugar.
On the banks of the Mississippi below the efflux of Plaquemine, on the Lafourche in all its extent, on the Teche below the entrance of the
Bayou Fusilier, and on the Vermilion below lat. 30° 12' north,
wherever the soil is elevated above the annual inundation, sugar can
be produced. On all those places, except the Vermilion, sugar farms
and houses are at this time established to advantage. In all other parts of the state, cotton is the general staple. The quan
tity produced on the various soils differs greatly. The best districts
for cotton in the state of Louisiana, are the banks of Red river, Oua
chitta, Bayou Boeuf, the river Teche, and the Mississippi. Of those
laces a tacit preference has been given to the banks of Red river,
and those of Bayou Boeuf. Many instances have occurred of two
thousand pounds of cotton, with the seed, being raised in one season
from a single acre of land; and a produce not much inferior has been
realized from an extensive farm.
But though cotton succeeds best on the deep alluvion of the rivers,
it is extremely profitable on the prairie land, distant from any consider
able streams of water. On second rate land which occurs on the small
er water courses in the pine tracts, there are considerable bodies of
land very favourable to cotton. This latter species of soil occurs ex
tensively between the Red and the Sabine, and between the Red and
Ouachitta rivers; most of it is yet the property of the United States.
When a land office for entry is opened, many very desirable spots may
be found in those places, having the additional benefit of being well
supplied with springs of the purest water.
Rice can be cultivated in any part of the state of Louisiana, where
the soil will permit its growth; the summers are of sufficient length be
low the 33° N. lat. to enable this grain to ripen. Rice is at this time
the third in quantity and aggregate value of the staples of the state,
though its culture is more particularly confined to the banks of the
Mississippi, where irrigation can be more easily performed than in any
other part of the country. This staple could be multiplied to any as
signable extent, that the demands of domestic consumption or com
merce should make necessary. There is an immense range of coun
try between the Sabine and Pearl, more congenial to the culture of
rice, than any other vegetable.
The production, however, perhaps of the highest value to the planter,
on and near the Mississippi river, is Indian corn (zea mays). This in
valuable plant may be called with strict propriety the nurse of the
human species in the newly established settlements in America. It
is every where found, on all soils and climates, from Canada to the
Mexican gulf, and is, wherever produced, the principal article of
food for man and his most valuable domestic animals. 
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 11
There is no crop which differs so much in quantity in different sea
sons, and in different soils, as maize. I have myself known from five
to one hundred and ten bushels produced from an acre in one year.
The state of Louisiana is not the most favourable part of the United
States for the culture of maize, but excellent crops are produced. The
ground most congenial to its growth does not differ much from that suit
able to cotton. - 
The time of planting maize below 33° N. lat. to the Gulf of Mexi
co, may be chosen from the beginning of April to the end of June.
It is not unusual to see ripe maize in one field, and in the adjoining
enclosure the young plant just making its appearance above the
ground. - 
Wheat and rye might, be cultivated in the state of Louisiana, but
from the facility of importing flour and whiskey down the Mississippi,
it is not very probable that either wheat or rye will ever be much cul
tivated where more lucrative staples can be produced.
The fruits most generally cultivated are, the peach, orange and fig;
the apple is often seen, but does not thrive well;-the climate is per
haps too warm in summer. Plums, grapes, and pomegranates grow
luxuriantly, and produce abundantly, but are neglected.
The gardens in Louisiana are not equal to what might be expected
from the fertility of the soil, or mildness of the seasons. There is no
country, however, that would admit finer gardens, nor a greater vari
ety of plants, either for use or ornament. Those few persons who
have made Horticulture their pursuit, and have given their attention
to gardening, have succeeded. Amongst the best gardens yet form
ed in the state of Louisiana, or its neighbourhood, is that of M. Ceval
los in the city of New Orleans, M. Bringier, at the Acadien coast,
and the late Mr. William Dunbar of Natchez. In general, the atten
tion paid to the culture of the rich staples, engrosses too much time and
industry, to leave leisure for the more elegant, but less lucrative
branches of agriculture.
Seasons—Inundation.—The seasons in Louisiana are extremely va
riable ; the difference between two succeeding winters, at New
Orleans, is frequently as much as could be expected in a change
of four or five degrees of latitude. In the winter 1779–80, Bayou
St. John was frozen for a considerable time ; a phenomenon that did
not again occur, until 1814, in the latter end of December. In ordi nary seasons, the ponds and other stagnant waters, as low as 30 N.
lat, is seldom frozen, though few of any winters occur, without frost
at New Orleans. There is much more difference in climate, between
Natchez and New Orleans, than could be expected from the relative
positions of each. Snow is frequent at Natchez, and often falls in
considerable quantity. The orange tree and sugar cane are often
destroyed by frost, even upon the shore of the gulf of Mexico. At
Natchez, the peach is rendered precarious from late frosts in the
spring ; at the latter place, the cotton is often killed late in April.
Those unseasonable storms, that occur in every part of the United
States, are frequent and destructive along the gulf of Mexico. The
church of St. Landré, at Opelousas, stands in 30° 32' N. lat. At
that place, in the month of January, 1807, the snow fell in consider - º 
12 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE,
able quantity, and remained on the ground upwards of a week. . At
the same place, in the month of January, 1812, snow fell nearly a
foot in depth, and remained several days on the ground; and late in
April, 1814, the blossoms and tender branches of the Pride of India,
(Melia Azederach,) the young peaches, the cotton, and even the flow ers and twigs of the oak, were destroyed.
About 30° N. lat. may be assumed as the region of snow ; few if
any instances occur of its falling below that parallel. When the
snow fell and lay upon the surface of the earth, nearly a foot deep,
at Opelousas, there was only a heavy rain at New Iberia, 30° 02'
N. lat. 
There is a singular coincidence between the line where snow
ceases, and sugar cane commences. The highest point in, or near
the valley of the Mississippi, where the sugar cane has been culti
wated to advantage, is about 30°12' N. lat. or but a little north of
the line of occasional snow. Many attempts have been made to
cultivate sugar cane, above 31° N. lat. some of which produced
delusive results, as no instance has yet occurred, where tº existence
of that plant was not found precarious, when attempted in places
where snow had been frequent.
There are vegetable and meteorological analogies, that ought
never to be disregarded in our observations on climate. The orange
tree in Europe is found to flourish farther north than the sugar cane;
in North America, the contrary effect has been observed; but in
neither place, can one of those two vegetables be cultivated to ad
vantage, where the other is liable to destruction, by frost. In Louis
jana, the orange tree ceases about 30° 05' in the delta of the Mis
sissippi, and in Attacapas 12 or 15 minutes of latitude more south
wardly. 
There can be no doubt that considerable advantage would be
gained, if the seed of vegetables liable to destruction by frost, were
brought from as northern a position as possible. This precaution has
been entirely neglected in Louisiana; the cotton, cane, and orange,
have all been imported from within the tropics.
The cause that has the most extensive effects upon the climate,
soil, and health of the inhabitants of Louisiana, is the inundation of
the Mississippi, and its confluent rivers. From an attentive observa
tion made during a lapse of many years, the author is well convinced
that the causes and extent of the inundations that annually submerge
the delta of the Mississippi river, have hitherto been very much mis
understood. During the time that elapsed from 1806 to 1814, the
author of this work was every season actively employed in surveying
in and near the overflowed lands of the Mississippi, Atchafalaya and
Red rivers, and observed the various phenomena of the inundations,
as they presented themselves. A calculation of the ground now lia
ble to actual submersion, will, from its small area, excite astonish
ment in the minds of those who believe whole countries are every
year laid under water. 
The distance in width from the high lands on the east, to those on the
west side of the Mississippi, is, ſrom the 33° N. lat. to the mouth of the
Red river, at a medium, twenty miles. At two points, the island of
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 13
Sicily and Providence lake, the overflown lands are contracted to
less than twelve miles in a direct line from the margin of the Missis
sippi. Above the mouth of Red river the medium width of the over
flówn lands may be assumed at twenty miles; this will yield be
tween 31° and 33° N. lat. 2770 square miles. Below 21° N. lat. as
far as the efflux of Lafourche, about 80 miles in length, the extent
of the inundation does not vary much from 40 in breadth, giving
3200 square miles area. All the country below the efflux of the
Lafourche, is reached by the overflow of the Mississippi river, and is
equal to 2370 square miles : this latter sum, added to the two former,
gives 83.40 square miles as the entire overflow of the Mississippi in
the state of Louisiana; and if to this, be added 2550 square miles
for the inundated lands of Red river, the whole superficies in the state
liable to overflow, will amount to 10,890 square miles. Of this extent,
not one half is actually covered annually with water. The immedi
ate banks of almost all the streams are seldom, and many of them
never inundated. There are sufficient data to establish the fact,
that the actually overflowed parts of the state of Louisiana, fall short
of 4000 square miles, or less than one twelfth part of the whole
surface of the state. In the state of Mississippi, the inundation is
so confined in its width, and so often interrupted entirely by the
projecting bluffs, that it does not exceed, if it indeed amounts to
1000 square miles. Thus the entire surface of country to which the
inundations extend, falls short of 12,000, and the area absolutely sub
merged, of 5000 square miles; being less than the eighteenth part
of the two states of Mississippi and Louisiana.
Amongst the many unfounded conclusions that have been drawn,
relative to most parts of America, several of the most absurd relate
to the phenomena attending the Mississippi. Mr. Hutchins consider
ed floating timber as one of the principal causes of the changes in
the course of that river, and this opinion, though obviously contra
dictory to the common laws of aature, has been transcribed into
almost every work on the subject since its first publication. To
any person who has visited and examined with any circumspection
the operations of nature in the delta of the Mississippi, the causes of
change will appear to lie much deeper, and to be more efficacious,
than floating trees. He will also find, that the changes themselves
have been overrated beyond measure. There is not the smallest
trace of evidence in the country, to justify the conclusion that the
Mississippi has ever flowed in a channel very different from that in
which it is now confined. The lakes in its vicinity are all evidently
remains of former bends of the river; they differ essentially from
other lakes of the country. Lake Providence, Yazoo, St. Joseph,
St. John, Concordia, Homochitta, and Fausse riviere, have traits
of resemblance to the present bends of the river, and to each other;
but their appearance entirely differs from Pontchatrain, Mausepas,
Chetimaches, and the lakes in the inundated lands of Red river.
The entire delta has, no doubt, been formed by the alluvion borne
down by the surplus water of the various rivers that flow over it,
principally the Mississippi; but the streams themselves are as much
confined to constant channels as other rivers. The idea that the ri
14 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
vers of Louisiana flow upon a ridge, has arisen from inattention to
their depth. The country included in the delta has so little incli
nation, that the water can only flow from the gravity and impulse
of the superincumbent mass, and the surplus after escaping from the
channels of the rivers, finding an immediate level, rests and accu
mulates on the adjacent land. These are the true causes of the in
undation. 
The rapidity of the entire body of water in the Mississippi has
been also overrated, to more than five or six times its real motion.
That this error has been made, every person may be convinced, who
will carefully compare the various accounts, given in our books of
geography and travels, with the time that actually elapses between
the breaking up of the snows towards the heads of the Ohio, Mis
sissippi and Missouri, and the passage of the water over the delta
to the gulf of Mexico. I have drawn the following table, in order
to exhibit the length and respective climates, from which flew the
various branches of the Mississippi; and to illustrate the causes that
produce, and the seasons of inundation.
3.3 3.3, .# 5 * := 7 #: # -3 f- ** 15 c - - 9 : 5 . à d) H.-: # ‘ā; 5
§ 3 ; #5 |'s gº # = $2 - .P. * - + -ā' | *s g: 3 # 3 E + 3 gº 8.33 w? 3 • ‘E. 3 + 3 : # 3 ...; E ºf - *- cº º -> .2: r: us k ºn 3 E.E. 33.3 || 3 z = | E 3 ºn 3 .#3'ſ 3 * '5, $ 3 5 § #.3 ###| | ###|###| ## 3 : ###| | ###|F #5 | H # ## ſº, 3F Q 5: 5 3's # =
Red river 300 1750 37° N. February
Arkansaw 650 2300 || 41° N. | March White river 630 1800 || 36° N. | February
Ossage 1350 2100 || 36° N. February
Kansas 1550 3400 | 40° N. March
Platte - 1800 2900 42° N. April Missouri 1200 4000 45° N. April
Yellow stone 3050 3900 43° N. April
Bighorn 8300 3800 42° N. April Mississippi 1200 2300 || 48° N. May Illinois 1915 1700 42° N. April
Wabash 1150 1650 || 41° N. May
Tennessee 1050 1750 || 31° N. February Ohio 1000 3200 || 42° N. March
36,050
The times of the year when the various streams commence their
greatest flood, as stated in the table, are merely approximate; con
siderable variances take place in different years. In the years 1800
and 1801, the Mississippi did not overflow its banks. The ordinary time of extreme high water is at Natchez, the fifteenth of June, and
at New Orleans, the first week in July. Calculating the velocity of the water in the various rivers by the distance and times of flowing
from their sources, the medium motion falls short of 20 miles in
º
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 15
twenty-four hours. The lower waters of the Ohio drains out in
February, but those of the Monongehela, Aleghany, Muskingum
and Kenhawa, do not reach in common years their height, before
the first of March. The distance from the mouth of Kenhawa to
Natchez is nearly 1300 miles. The waters in passing over this space
occupy about 100 days.
The current, as it is usually understood, is the motion of the up
per part of the stream. A boat floating only during the day, or one
half of the time, will, by taking advantage of the current, always
pass the apex of the flood. The motion of the current, and entire
mass of water, differ in all rivers; in that of the Mississippi, the re
lative difference of 5 to 1, would perhaps be but little variant from
the reality.
From an inspection of any good map of North America, it will at
once appear, that from their position, and from the various climates
they traverse, that the waters of all the branches of the Mississippi
must drain gradually. The fact is consonant to the theory. There
fore if the motion of the body of water was not very slow, no in
undation of the delta of the Mississippi could happen, as there would
not be time for an accumulation to take place.
There are few subjects where correct opinion would lead to more
beneficial consequences, than respecting the floods of the Mississippi.
If the inhabitants could be made sensible of the true causes of the
overflow, it would prepare their minds to consent to the adoption of
more effectual preventives, than any that they have yet attempted.
To gain clear conceptions on this subject, it is necessary to con
sider the water at the time of the highest flood, as in reality divided
into three parts; that part which flows in the natural channels of the
rivers; that which composes the overflow ; and that part which lies
stagnant in lakes, ponds and the inundated bottoms.
Of the surcharge from the Mississippi river, four-fifths leave that
stream by the efflux of the Atchafalaya. The latter river is 111
yards wide, where it leaves the former, and its extreme depth 15 or
20 feet. Through this passage no water leaves the Mississippi except
in the time of freshes.
At its efflux, the current of the Atchafalaya is very rapid, but
gradually abates as it proceeds in its course, and assumes, about ten
or twelve miles from the Mississippi, a motion not essentially different
from the latter stream. After the Mississippi floods have fallen be
neath the ordinary banks, the Atchafalaya becomes completely stag
nant in all its length. Often the tides, though never more than 2;
or 3 feet in the gulf of Mexico, flow up the Atchafalaya within
thirty miles of its efflux. The author was an eye-witness to this ef.
ſect in the years 1807, 1808. 1809 and 1810. He also saw with
pleasure and astonishment, in October, 1808, at the lower extremity
of the large raft, the water of the Atchafalaya extremely transparent.
The change from the turbid appearance of the stream in the spring
and summer of the same year, was really striking. The limpid
state of the water arose from its remaining a considerable time to
tally tranquil. A few days reversed the scene; the Mississippi over
flowed in the latter part of October; in November, excessive rains
16 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
fell, and the usual features of an inundated country exhibited them.
selves.
From the mouth of the Mississippi river a strong current sets west
wardly along the shores of the Mexican gulf, carrying with it the tim
ber brought down by that stream. That this current is uniform is
proved by the fact, that none of the debris thrown into the gulf by
the Mississippi is found to the northeast of the mouth of that river,
whilst to the west the whole coast is strewed with cotton wood, cypress,
and other trees, with rails, planks, pieces of flat bottom boats, and in
fact wood in all the forms into which it is generally wrought, and left
exposed to be swept away by the floed.
When the author was at the mouth of the Sabine in December,
1812, he had full leisure and means of examining the coast of the Mex
ican gulf. Near the mouth of the Sabine and Calcasiu rivers, no
timber is ſound but what is cast on shore by the tides, and trunks of
the largest trees are often found lying upon the strand.
It would appear from an inspection of a map of the gulf of Mexico,
and Caribbean sea, that the current flows from the latter into the
former, between Cape St. Antoine, and assuming a northern direction,
reaches the shore of Florida, between the Apalachicola and Mobile
rivers, and there divides; one part traversing the western shore of
East Florida, encounters and is carried away by the gulf stream, be
tween Florida Point and the island of Cuba; but much the largest
mass turns to the west, passes along West Florida, Alabama territory,
the state of Mississippi, Louisiana, and the province of Texas, until
reaching the bay of St. Joseph, it winds with the coast to the south,
along the shores of the vice-royalty of Mexico, and finally sweeping
the bay of Campeachy, and the western and northern shores of Yucu
tan, meets the current from which it originated. This current is the
parent of the gulf stream, and divides the gulf of Mexico into two
immense, but unequal whirlpools.
Admixed with the masses of timber along the shores are found.
pumice-stone, in fragments from the size of a pea to that of a flour bar
rel. This substance is no doubt brought from the volcano of Orizaba.
Tropical fruits, leaves and trees, are also found in abundance.
JNavigable Streams—Roads—Crops—Fruits.--From New-Orleans to the bar at the mouth of the Mississippi:— y
No. 1. JMiles.
To General Villaret's, - - - - - - - 6|| 6
To Terre aux Boeufs, - - - - - - - 3| 9 English Turn, - - • - - - - 2I 11
Fort St. Leon, - - - - - - - - 5ſ 16.
Gentilly, - - - - - - - - 10| 26
Point Le Hache, - - - - - - - 14| 40
Fort St. Philip, at Plaquemine Bend, - -- - - 30| 70
Efflux of S. W. Pass, - - - - - - 20 90
do. South Pass, - - - - - - - 11 91
do Pass a le Loutre, - - - - - - - 6| 96
Balize, - - - - - - - - - - 6|| 102.
Bar, - - - - - - 31 105.
, The settlements continue in descending the Mississippi, from New
EMIGRANT'S GUIBE.
ſº
Orleans compactly on both banks of the river to the Point le Hache. Terre aux Bºeufs is a settlement, which is connected with those on the Mississippi, and winds along both banks of a small ancient outlet. The
lands upon the Terre aux Boeufs are excellent. Sugar,
cotton, and cattle are the staples of this settlement, and some fine sugar-houses are established. The adjacent country towards Lake Borgne and
Chandeleur bay is an open grassy morass. The Terre aux Boeufs abound in excellent live oak, which is in a
state of rapid destruction, occasioned by burning the cane and grass intermingled with the trees, and by clearing the land. Below Terre au Boeuf is the bend of the Mississippi, to which has been given the name of the English Turn (Detour Anglais). The cause of this name is known to very few persons. In the early set tlement of Louisiana by the French, the English government sent out a small squadron, consisting of a frigate and one or two other vessels. This expedition was for the purpose of exploring the Mississippi. The squadron succeeded in finding the mouth, and ascending the river to
the bend that is now in question. A French officer met the squadron, and succeeded in persuading the English commander that the stream
that he was then on was not the great Canadian
river, as it was then
called, but another of far less consequence; that the object of his
search
was farther westward. In consequence of this information
the Eng lish officer quitted the Mississippi, and went in search of it to the west; then finally abandoned the enterprise, and returned to Europe. From
this circumstance the present name arose.” The manner in which the Mississippi turns at the English Bend
cre
ates some embarrassment to vessels coming up to New Orleans,
but
must contribute in time of war to the safety of that
city, on account of the difficulty of passing it with the same wind by which it is ap
proached.
-The bend of the Plaquemine, (Perssinon,) opposes the same kind of obstacle to commerce as that of the English Turn, and will be always even more efficacious in arresting the advance of an enemy. From
the nature of the adjacent shores, an army could be disembarked
be low the English Turn, on either bank, and pass the forts; but at St. Philip, the swamps approach so near the margin of the river, that to pass with artillery unexposed, would be extremely difficult. The value of Fort St. Philip was made manifest in the last war between the
United States and Great Britain.
Below Plaquemine, all possibility of settlement for agricultural
pur poses ceases; and excepting some fishermen's huts, and the residence
of the pilots at the Balize, no human habitation is seen. Some
scat
tered clumps of trees are found along the shore, but the general
sur
face of the little land that rises above the water is marsh
prairie. The
aspect of the country is lifeless and dreary, and even the
low, grass constructed cabins of the fishermen contribute to the melancholy ap pearance of the scene. On leaving the mouth of the Mississippi, you
almost imagine yourself to have passed the last verge of terrestrial
ex
istence.
- 

* La Harpe,
3
18 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
There are six outlets to the Mississippi; the west, southwest, south,
main, or northeast, north, and Pass à la Loutre. Of these, the north
west, and northeast, have each about an equal depth of water, viz.
twelve feet, on their respective bars. The west pass has nine feet,
the south eight, and the north, and Pass à la Loutre also, about eight
feet water.
At present only the pass of the northeast is used extensively; more
than nineteen-twentieths of the vessels that enter or leave the Mississip
pi, pass by this route.
It has been an interesting subject of inquiry, how far the mouth of
the Mississippi would admit of improvement. Serious attention to the
subject has been prevented, as have many other practicable improve
ments, by the erroneous idea that the channels are extremely changea
ble, and that a rapidly increasing alluvion would retard and ulti
mately destroy the fruits of any labour and expense employed to
deepen the channels over the bars of this great river.
The author of this treatise measured and sounded the west, south
west and main, or northeast passes, and could not perceive even a pos
sibility of a very rapid accumulation of earth. Within thirty feet of
the bar in the southwest pass, in the outside, there is five fathom wa
ter. . The inside shoals more gradually. The other passes exhibited
nearly similar features. In all, in the inside, at the distance of a
quarter of a mile, there is four fathom water.
The bottom is every where a hard tough tenacious clay. There is
every reason to believe, that at no great expense, double rows of piles
could be driven, leaving space between for the largest vessels, and that
the earth could be scooped out between, and the channel deepened sufficiently to admit ships of the line to enter.
There is nothing hazardous in the prediction, that within less than half a century, millions of acres of land, now abandoned to the waters,
will be reclaimed, and made the residence of man, and that ships will
sail into the Mississippi, of a draught greater by far, than any that can at this time either enter or leave this invaluable stream. More correct
and more liberal conceptions of improvement, will expel the apathy
that now prevails in that country, which is destined to reap the richest
fruits, afforded by the commercial and agricultural facilities by the
Mississippi.
No. 2.
From New Orleans to Mobile and Blakely:— " * - 3.
Fort St. John, - - - - - - - 5| 5
Point aux Herbes, - - - - - - - “O 15 .
Fort Petites Coquilles, - - - - - - 19
Western mouth of the Rigolets, - - - - - #|19;
Eastern mouth of the Rigolets, - - - , - - 28
Isles aux Malheureux, - - - - - - - 37
St. Joseph's Island, - - - 44
Marianne Island, opposite the mouth of the bay of St. Louis,
Pass of Christian, opposite Cat-Island, - - 
Mid-channel, between Biloxi Bay and Ship-Island, - 
Qpposite Dog-lsland, - - - 
Western end of Dog-Island, - - - - - 

:
49
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 13
{ - - JMiles.
Opposite the mouth of Pascagoula, - - - - 10101
Mid-channel, between the eastern end of Horn-Island and
Round-Island, - - - - - - - 6|107
Western end of Isle au Petite Bois, - - - - - 6||113
Eastern end of do. - - - - - - - 7|120
Western end of Dauphin-Island, - - - - - 4 124
Entrance of the Pass aux Herons, - - - - - 3| 127
Mobile Bay, - - - - - - - - – 5 132
Bar opposite Dog-River, - - - - - - 15|147
Entrance of Spanish-River, - - - - - - 5 152
Head of the Mobile-Island, - - - - - - - 6|158
Mobile, - - - 6|l 64
The inside passage from New Orleans to Mobile and Blakely, and
of consequence to all the country upon the waters of Mobile, Alaba
ma, and Tomhigbée rivers, is perfectly safe and commodious for small
vessels. The depth of water in the passes of Christian and Heron is
not sufficient, in ordinary times, for vessels of more than six feet draught.
The force of the sea is broken by the long peninsula that bounds Lake
Borgne on the southeast and by a chain of islands, consisting of Malr
heureux-Islands, Marianne-Islands, Cat-Island, Ship-Island, Dog
lsland, Horn-Island, Isle aux Petites Bois, and Dauphin-Island. The
bottom of this strait is a soft sand. A singular circumstance, commu
nicated to the author by an intelligent commander of a vessel, respect ing the nature of the component parts of the banks upon the islands and main shore, may be of some use to persons navigating in this place.
The person who made the communication, had navigated frequently
between New Orleans and Mobile ; and observed, that in the darkest
night he could always determine on which side of the strait the ves
sel was in, as along the islands there were no shells mixed with the
sand, whilst broken shells were invariably brought up by the lead
when on the main shore. This information is introduced here, with
the more confidence, because perfectly corresponding with the ob
servations of the author. 
The southern shore of Lake Pontchartrain is low land, scarcely
rising above common tides, with very little timber. There are two
passages from Lake Pontchartrain into Lake Borgne ; the pass of the
Rigolets, and that of Cheſmenteur. The latter is of little consequence,
not having more than four feet water on its respective bars.
The Rigolets are properly the mouths of Pearl river, and afford nine
feet water at each extremity. This pass, either in a commercial, na
val, or military view, is of great consequence ; it is, in fact, after the
Mississippi, the most important inlet of Louisiana, and ought to be
strongly fortified.
Lake Borgne is a prolongation of the strait reaching from the Ri
golets to Mobile; it is about 35 miles in length from Cat-Island to the
mouth of Bayou Bienvenu, with a medial width of twelve miles.
Lake Borgne is chequered with two groups of small islands. Mal:
heureux and Marianne Islands. It is generally extremely shallow,
Excepting a narrow channel running along its northwestern border,
20 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE,
~
there is not more than two feet water to be found in the whole expanse
of the lake. Lake Borgne is terminated on the N. E. by the beauti
ful bay St. Louis; on the east by Cat-Island, and S. E. by a long flat
peninsula already noticed. There are three passes, from the east extremity of Lake Borgne :
the pass of Christian, pass of Marianne, and that of the southeast; the former is generally used in navigating between Mobile and New Or
leans. There is excellent anchorage on the southwest and north of
Cat-Island. The island is itself a mere bank of sand, but might be
rendered of importance by its position. It was to the south of this
island that the British ships of the line lay during the campaign of
1814–15, in Louisiana; their smaller vessels took shelter on the north
side of the island. - 
Nearly opposite Cat-Island, and east of St Louis Bay, the coast as sumes a totally different aspect from the alluvion of the Mississippi.
Pine woods are now seen extending to the sea-shore, and the surface of the earth is elevated above the reach of inundation. The soil is
sterile, but the people of the country are healthy. There are scattered settlements along the margin of the strait. The inhabitants raise large stocks of cattle and horses, and make lime and
tar for the supply of New Orleans. The lime is mostly made from oyster-shells, and is of excellent quality. Two rivers of considerable consequence fall into this channel, the Pearl and Pascagoula. The settlements on these rivers are already
respectable, and are increasing in strength and wealth. The naviga tion of the Pearl is obstructed by shoals and timber, but it is probable that without any very considerable expense its navigation might be im proved to a great degree. Monticello, in Lawrence county, the pre
sent seat of government of the state of Mississippi, stands on the west bank of the Pearl river at 81° 33' N. lat. being exactly on a due east line from Natchez.
The Pascagoula affords better navigation than the Pearl. Schooners
drawing five feet water go up to the junction of Leaf and Chickisaw hay rivers. The general surface of the country below 31° N. lat. and
on the Pearl and Pascagoula, is sterile ; but much good land is to be
met with ; and which admitting the culture of cotton, the settlements
must flourish. Ever since the establishment of the United States go
vernment, emigrations to this quarter have been continually going on, but since the conclusion of the last war, the numbers are greatly aug
mented.

The provisional line between the state of Mississippi and Alabama
territory, terminates on the east side of the estuary of the Pascagoula. This line follows the general course of the latter river and the Chicki
sawhay.
East of the Pascagoula to the Mobile, the aspect of the country, both on the sea-shore and interior, remains unchanged. The islands
are, like Cat-lsland, an embankment of sand, chequered with a few dwarf pines and sea-myrtle bushes. There are passes from the inner channel to the open gulf, between Cat and Ship-Island, between Dog and Horn-Island, and between Horn-Island and Petite Bois.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. à
Pass aux Herons, leads into Mobile bay, and is crooked, and the
shallowest water between New Orleans and Mobile or Blakely.
After entering into Mobile bay, the water deepens to 14 feet, which
depth continues to the bar, where it shallows to 11 feet. After the bar is passed, the depth again is found to be about 13 or 14 feet to
either Mobile or Blakely.
Though Mobile was amongst the first places established by the
French after their arrival in the gulf of Mexico, it remained a mere
military post during the existence of the French and Spanish authori ty in Louisiana. After the United States had taken possession of Mo
bile, as part of West Florida, the town continued, as formerly, of little
consequence ; but since the events of the last war, which put the ſer
tile and extensive regions on the confluent waters of the Mobile river
into the hands of the United States, the town then began to have some
importance as a commercial depot. Events have succeeded in this quarter with a rapidity that scarcely leaves the mind leisure to pur
sue the chain with precision. Population has increased rapidly, and commercial capital accumulated beyond the possible calculation of the
most active foresight. It was at once perceived, after the cession of
the adjacent country to the United States, that a depot must be sought upon or in the vicinity of the Mobile bay. Various places were se lected by different persons. Mobile, Blakely, Fort Stoddert, Fort St.
Stephens, and Fort Claiborne, have all their advocates. There can
be but little doubt that the rivalry must rest between Mobile and
Blakely; the facility of approach from the sea must decide the contest. The depth of water to either place is nearly equal. Both towns are
situated on elevated, solid, and dry banks of the bay. It is pleasing to behold the emulation of industry and peace, to see
new towns, farms and manufactories, rising, where silence and desola
tion reigned twenty years past, and where only five years have elapsed since that silence was broken by the din of arms, and where cruel
massacre stained the earth with the blood of the most innocent and
helpless part of the human race.
The region watered by the Mobile river, and its confluent streams,
has gained, within one or two years past, an attention from the Ameri ean and foreign emigrant, that the softness of the climate and the ex treme variety of the soil will long preserve. There are many ex
tremely valuable vegetables not yet introduced into the United States,
which might, from the great diversity of seasons, soil and climate, be
easily cultivated with advantage. There is, perhaps, scarcely one vegetable ever reared out of the tropics, that might not, in some situa tion or other, be brought to maturity in the United States.
There is one branch of geographical science, and that the most im
portant, which is neglected; namely, the local residence of vegetables, Animals, from their locomotion and the warmth of their blood, can ne
ver be a correct thermometer of climate; whilst vegetables, from their
fixity, and from their liability, of many species, to perish by the action
of cold, are the true tests that disclose the changes and the character of any given climate. MAN, the horse, the dog, the common poultry, and some other of the gregarious animals which have submitted to do. nesticity, are found in almost every part of the glebe; the bear and
22 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
fox, amongst the still untamed species of animals, are met wiſh,
wherever man has yet penetrated. - ".
Vegetables, though less flexible than animals, yet, where one of each
kingdom are acclimated together, the vegetable can support much the
most severe cold; but when transported to a new and more north...ru
residence, directly the reverse effect is produced.
A work that would embrace a clear, detailed, and accurate history
of the emigrations and locality of vegetables, would be an acquisition
of inappreciable value to mankind. 
Ever since the cession of the wide region of Louisiana to the United
States, the important question, whether any of this country will admit
the culture of the vine and olive, has been agitated. This very inte
resting inquiry is now in train, to lead to decisive results. The Uni.
ted States' government has granted to a company of French emigrants
a tract of land, in order to make the necessary essay. We have
thought it not irrelevant to give, in this volume, a sketch of compara
tive geography, in order to enable the emigrant to form his own con
clusions, on the probabilities of success, and upon the judgment of those
who selected the spot, where the views of a liberal government were.
to be carried into effect.
The government of the United States, by an act of congress, has
granted to a company of French emigrants at a maximum price of two
dollars per acre, four contiguous townships, or 92,160 acres of land,
to be located on lands ceded by the Creek nation of Indians to the
United States. The condition of this grant is, that the emigrants
shall introduce the culture of the vine and olive. 
Of all the vegetables cultivated by m. * in other countries, and not
yet introduced into the United States, the most valuable are the vine,
olive, and white mulberry. Wine, the olive, and silk, have been brought,
each one, to the greatest perfection in the vicinity of one another.
Though there are many circumstances in which a considerable con
trast does exist, yet there are many features in which the south of
France and that of the United States have a striking resemblance. In
determining whether any given vegetable can be introduced into cli
mates to which it is a stranger, much trouble and expense might be
saved by a strict examination of the respective characters of the soil
and seasons from whence the plant is taken, with those into which
it is to be introduced.
To give this interesting subject as much perspicuity as possible,
their local position in Europe, particularly in France, where the vine,
olive, and white mulberry are cultivated, is given in this treatise, and
the account has been drawn from the most respectable authority, and
is now presented to the reader, in comparison with Louisiana, Missis
sippi, and Alabama. It may be remarked en passant, that from the
time the ark rested on Indunt Ararat, to the present day, wine has
never been made to any great perfection upon the alluvial soil of large
rivers. The following translations from the most authentic works
will be the best illustration of this assertion. - 
“That part of Chainpagne, so renowned for its vineyards, is one
of the most sterile parts of France. It presents an unbroken plain,
where you meet almost every where fragments of chalk, or red sand
* EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 23
stone, with little earth, and some fossil shells. The view is only oc
casionally relieved by a few small bushes, or trees in a languishing
state.”*
“It is remarkable that the culture of the vine, after being attempted
in every part of the basin of the Seine, remains confined to the parts
most distant from the sea, such as the former province of the Isle of
France and Champaigne. When it is observed, that Normandy is
traversed by the 49° N. latitude, the same parallel in which are
found the vineyards of Epernay, the absence of this precious
plant in Normandy cannot be attributed to mere difference of lati
tude.”f
“They distinguish in Burgundy, two parts in respect to wine; the
high and the low. Lower Burgundy is a very extensive vineyard, that
contains several cantons, renowned for their red and white wine. The .
wine of Lower Burgundy is amongst the best in France, little inferior
to that of Higher Burgundy, which it even sometimes excels. The
wines of Higher Burgundy are the best in humid, those of Lower Bur
gundy, in dry seasons. As in ten years there is scarcely one dry,
it follows, that ordinarily the wines of Higher have an advantage over
those of the Lower Burgundy.”f 
“Dauphiny:—Climate—Productions.—Between the river Rhone,
the lake of Geneva, Mount Ventoux, and the Alps, is situated Dau
phiny. This region is of very unequal elevation, from 14.700 to 500
feet above the level of the Mediterranean sea. The exposures and
inclinations of the land vary to infinity, from the profound Alpine val
leys, deprived for several consecutive months of direct solar light, to
the renowned vineyards that bear so justly the title of Côte Rotie.5
In the neighbourhood of Briançon, the snow remains often seven or
eight months together in the valleys. Summer, itself, is here subject
to violent winds, that often bring a freezing cold. Hurricanes and
sleet constantly menace the hopes of the cultivator. Mount Lion, for
merly Mount Dauphin, in the Higher Alps, situated 45° 20' N. lat.
has the climate of Sweden.”||
“Anjou, Tourraine, Orleanois, Berri, and Basse-Auvergne, pro
duce good wine, though the culture is not very skilfully managed.
The vineyards here display many exceptions to the general rule ; ac
cording to which, southeast exposure is the only one favourable to the
wine.” 
The following is a singular instance of the unity with which nature
pursues her operations. There are two situations in the southern
parts of the United States where the native grape-vines produce excel
lent fruit. One is the dry sides of pine ridges—the other the sandy
banks of streams. In what may be called a deep vegetable loam, col
lected as alluvion or otherwise, if silicious sand is absent, the grape
vine is absent also, in most cases.
* Universal Geography by M. M. Mentelle and Malte Brun. Vol. XVI. p. 34. # Ibid. Vol. VI. p. 503.
# Ibid. Vol. VII. p. 60. i Literally; toast and butter; figuratively, milk and honey. Iniversal Geography, by M. M. Mentelle and Malte Brun, Vol. VI, p. 518.
24 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Chaptal, in the General Statistics of France, remarks, that the fine
wines called the Hermitage, are produced in a granitic sand.
One well established fact is of more value than a thousand theories.
There is a general principle upon which all authors who have written
upon the subject of the vine, seem to consider incontestable, namely,
that, to produce good wine, the soil upon which the vines grow, must
be sandy. This concurrence will appear more striking in the sequel
of this treatise.
An excellent French work, entitled “Cours d’Agriculture,” by the
Abbé Rozier, under the word olive, describe the tree, and explains
the nature of the soil and situation most suitable for its culture. The
above work is entitled to great credit on this subject; it was compiled
by a judicious, well-informed man, who resided in the country, and of
eourse had access to the most respectable sources of information. We
have translated and inserted in this work the most essential part of the
information necessary to enable the American experimentalist to form
correct analogical deductions.
Before entering upon the subject of the culture of the olive, we have
given the Abbé Rozier's description of the great basins of France.
We have translated this excellent article nearly literally, as it con
tains not only the locality of the olive, but of the vine also, and will
serve as a true basis upon which accurate comparisons may be made
between the climate of France and that of the United States.
“By basin is understood that body of land over which a river draws
its waters; thus the line that separates one river from another ought
to be more elevated than the rivers themselves, in order to determine
the slope upon which the rivers flow. Thus the chain of mountains
that traverses the Vivarais, le Forez, and Bourbonois, and from which
the waters flow on one side, towards the Atlantic ocean, and on the
ether towards the Mediterranean sea, affords an example of this kind,
The same peculiarity is again found in the mountains of Lower Lan
guedoc. We may, then, in general say that France is divided into
two great basins; but the discrimination offers nothing upon which de
terminate conclusions can be formed.
“The extentof the great basins comprehends often several provinces,
2nd sometimes divides a province into two parts ; because the divi
sion of the kingdom into provinces, is traced by the hand of man,
whilst those of the basins are designed and fixed by the hand of na
ture.* 
* The profound philosophical remark contained in this contrast, ought to be
kept in view by all men who make the science of geography their study. No
thing is more common or more absurd, than the usual mode of expression re
specting any given territorial division; that such a country is cold, warm, moist,
dry, level, hilly, mountainous, barren, or fertile, is in the mouths of the greatest
part of mankind; whilst, in fact, there are but few political divisions of any con
siderable extent that do not contain parts deserving, respectively, all those cha
racteristics.
There is an utter impossibility of becoming perfect in geographical knowledge
unless the student commences by studying the natural divisions, and understand
ing them comprehensively, before attending to artificial lines of demarkation: There exists no country where this course is more necessary than the United
States, because there are none where less respect has been paid to the natural divisions,
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 35
Basin of the Rhone, and confluent rivers.—“The rivers in this
basin, flow from the north or east, relative to their general mouths,
and enter the sea to the south. This basin is perfectly character
ized by the great chains of elevated mountains that circumscribe it
on all sides, except towards the mouth of the Rhone. It is clearly
visible that the river has successively undermined, destroyed, and
overturned the chain of rocks, and opened a passage; and that the
chain was formerly continuous from Nismes to Arles. 
“If it was intended to make the tour of this basin, it would be ne
cessary to depart from the most southern and nearest point, to the
mouth of the Rhone; and advancing eastward, the prolongation of
the chain of the Alps would be encountered. This chain covers Aix,
Marseilles, Toulon, and Grasse. . From the former town, mounting
almost perpendicularly to the north, would be found Senez, Digne,
Embrun, Barcelonette, and St. Jean-de-Morienne; all built on the
Alps. It would be necessary to traverse the lake of Geneva, leav
ing the high Alps on the right, which form at their base a particular
basin, of which the lake of Geneva is the reservoir, and discharge.
You would then behold the Alps, confounded with the mountains of
St. Cloud, known by the name of Mount Jura, rising above Besan
gon and Mountbeliard. To tue north of the basin of the Rhone,
the mountains traverse Lorraine. From Bedfort, you would tra
verse chains of mountains lower than either the Alps or Mount Jura,
of which it is, however, an embranchment. This last chain winds
to the south, towards Langres, to Dijon, Lyons, Vivarais, Alais, and
Nismes, and from Nismes to the Mediterranern sea. There you
would find a recent alluvion, formed by the waters of the sea, and
which daily increases. Such is the first great basin of France, form
by the Rhone and its confluent rivers.
“This basin is divided by a chain of secondary mountains, into
two very strongly contrasted portions. This secondary 'chain is
lower than the Alps.
“The Rhone flows from the east to the west, and then pursuing a
right line to the south, forms the above separation in bathing the
foot of Mount Jura, that of the mountains of Bugey, and afterwards
those of the Lyonois and Vivarais. 
“There results, from these two grand divisions, two climates of very
different temperature. The right, or highest division, is almost, every
where, three or four degrees colder than Lyons. I speak particular
ly of the plains, because all the lower part of the second basin is
completely sheltered from the north winds, from Lyons to the sea.
“The prevailing heat of the first basin does not arise from its
proximity to the south; but from the mass and extent of the high
mountains which shelter it on all sides; and from the same cause
proceeds the difference in its culture and production. All the rivers
that traverse the higher division of this basin, have a slow current;
they descend upon almost imperceptible slopes, from mountains,
where heavy rains fall almost every day. Their overflowings bring
down, and deposit in the plains, a fertile mud; a manure, that may
be compared to that which the Nile leaves upon its banks. From
this manure spring the rich meadows of Franche Compté, Burgun
26 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
dy, and Beaujolois; and those abundant fields, where, in traversing
these provinces, the eye contemplates the harvest with delight.
“Wines and wine, of high reputation, are often met with in the
higher parts of the basin of the Rhone; but the major part of the
inhabitants do not attend to the circumstance, that these vines, so
renowned, are sheltered by hills and mountains. If you would sup
pose, for instance, that the chain of mount Afrique, above Dijou, was
reduced to a plain, what would become of the fine vineyards of
Rochepot and Beaune?—The fact is, that their excellent quality
arises from the shelter that defends them, and which augments the
necessary heat. The texture of the earth in which they grow de
cides the taste of these vines. 
“The Saone, Durgeon, Ougnon, Doux, and Seille, enliven, enrich,
and embellish the higher part of the basin; the cultivated part of the
mountains here owes every thing to art, and the unremitted labour
that supports it. There are only seen, on every side, naked rocks,
sand and gravel. The Rhone, and all the rivers that fall into its
bosom, have rapid, precipitous, and impetuous currents; such are
the features of the rivers Ain, Isère, Drome, Durance, and Gardou;
and thus over all the extent, from Lyons to the sea, you can know,
by the mass of sand, what rivers have contributed to swell the main
stream. The mud from the Saone is always yellow and fertile;
the Rhone exhibits white sand, dry and unmixed with the earth, and
extremely quartzose; that of the Isère is brown and schistose;
that of the Durane and Drome, dry and arid.
“If you glance your eye over the chains of mountains that traverse
the lower division of the basin of the Rhone, from east to west, you
will find that, as in the higher division, the temperature of the cli
mate is less influenced by approximation to the fourth, than from
the shelter afforded by the mountains. We have already observed,
that the common mass of heat is three or four degrees higher at Ly
ons than at Dole or Besançon. Below Lyons, the temperature
varies sensibly in about ten leagues. Lyons is sheltered on the north
by the elevated mount D'Or; Vienne, by a chain cut by the Rhone,
and re-united to that of the Lyonois; Tournon and Thain, at the
foot of, and envirohed by rocks, have only the Rhone between
them. Here the pomegranate begins to be planted in hedges, as
divisions between the farms. The chain of Mount Pilate covers this
place from the winds of the north. Montelimar is equally shel
tered by a very high mountain. On turning from Montelimar, to as
cend the Rhone, the olive tree is no more seen; here is its limit:
some have escaped the severe winter of 1766, but the mountains and hills, worn down by incessant rains, and beaten by the violent
winds, peculiar to this climate, are greatly lowered, and the olive
trees, exposed to the violent winds of the north, have perished.*
* We would here entreat the most serious attention of the experimentalist,
who intends to introduce, into the southern parts of the United States, vegeta
bles liable to destruction by frost. Timely precaution in choice of position,
and often a prudential reservation of woods, would aid very essentially in the laudable attempt to add to the resources of human existence and comfort.
No Hºp of the most common habits of observation, who has resided a nº in or near the delta of the Mississippi, but will acknowledge
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. - 27
“The chain of St. Esprit, as well as that of Mount Ventoux, in the
Comtat d'Avignon, presents a new climate. We ought to regard
each of these divisions, and each of these climates, as a particular
basin; distinguished respectively by the intensity of the heat, or
diversity and quality of their productions.
“These qualities are particularly distinct in the wines. Those of
St. Troy, Millery, Charly, near Lyons, Côte Rotie, near Vienne,
the Hermitage, at Thain, St. Peret and Cornas, opposite Valence,
and Chateau-neuf-du-Pape, have all their particular characters so
strongly marked, that they cannot be mistaken ; characters that are
derived from their shelters, and from the grape plants that are
cultivated.
“After having traversed all the lower parts of the great basin of the Rhone, and the rivers that it receives, Fyou then follow the moun
tains from chain to chain, you will perceive, that at equal heights, the
cultivations and productions are every where the same. The spruce
of the Alps of Mount Jura is again found upon Mount Pilate.
The pines of the less elevated mountains make almost the contour
of this great basin. Little or no wheat, much rye, buck-wheat, and
potatoes, are the principal objects of culture. Their fruits are
tardy in production, but are articles of transportation into the plains,
particularly the apple, as well as the different kinds of chestnut,
whose taste is excellent.
“The chains of mountains divided and subdivided, and forming
thousands of valleys, presenting delicious meadows, whose grasses
are fine, short, and aromatic.
“The numerous flocks of cattle, sheep, and goats, consume in sum
mer these fine pastures, and furnish enormous cheeses, known in
Franche Compté by the name of Vachelin, and which are made in
the same manner as those of Gruyères. Every canton produces
cheeses, that have peculiar qualities, but all are excellent, because
the pastures are elevated. Observe the general advantage that each
part of the basin claims, from its local position.
Basin of the Seine.—“The mountain of the town of Langres forms
the point of demarkation of three basins; that of the Rhone, the
Meuse, and the Seine ; all have their sources to the south and south
east, relatively to their general estuary. The variations in climate,
culture, and productions of this basin, are less striking than are
those of the basin of the Rhone ; because in the former, the chains
of mountains are less elevated than in the latter, and also dimi
nishes in height, as they accompany the courses of the rivers which
flow from them; and lastly, because in the lower part of the basin
they are merely high hills.
“The reason may be easily perceived why, at Laon and Rheims,
the inhabitants make good wine, though these two towns are as far
north as Rouen and Havre, where the vine does not receive sufficient
warmth for the developement of its growth or maturity of its fruit.
the correctness of this advice. The sugar cane, potato, maize, rice, the
orange tree, and, indeed, every plant or tree whose juices are decomposable
by frost, will afford examples how rapidly climate is influenced by hills, woods, prairies, and the courses of rivers,
28 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
“ Departing from the chain that covers Autun,and advancing north
to Langres, the mountains become very high, and Langres is the
most elevated town in the kingdom. Leaving Langres, and con
tinuing north, the chain divides to the right; it joins the mountains
of Lorraine, and to the left forms the eastern part of the basin
of the Seine. This left branch passes by Chaumont in Bassigny,
Joinville, Bar-le-Duc, Rheins, and Rhetel, to Guise, which latter
town is the northern point of the basin. The mountain then divides
into four embranchments, forming a kind of cross. We have already
spoken of one part ; the second runs from south to north, and reaches
Cambresis ; the third directs its course towards Calais; and the
fourth, winding westward, is lost at Havre de Grace : it covers Noyn,
Beauvais, Rouen, Caudebec, and Paris. Crossing the Seine, at
Havre, you would encounter a chain of hills, which, in returning
south, would gradually rise as far as Autun, the point from which we
set out in our survey of this basin. Point-Audemer, Werneuil, Mor
tagne, Chartres, Pithiviers, Montargis, Chateau Chinon, and lastly
Autun, would be visited in this transit. 
“The basin of the Seine ought to be subdivided into two parts,
from the embranchument drawn from Laon to Nevers: passing by
Epernay, Sezane, Sens, Joigny, and Auxerre, it would be easy, in
following this line, to recognise the embranchments. It is from the
advantage of these shelters, that these climates produce excellent
wine, less spirituous, it may be granted, than those of the higher di
vision of the basin of the Rhone, and these again less generous than
those of the lower division of the latter basin. We do not speak
here of the delicacy or aroma of these wines, but of the spirit
drawn from them by distillation. It ought, however, to be remember
ed, that the approximation to the south ought to be brought into the
calculation; but we have already remembered, when speaking of
the basin of the Rhone, the effects from variety in temperature arise
less from southern distance than from the local shelters afforded by
the mountains. 
“ In proportion as the shelters are depressed in the lower division
of the basin of the Seine, the wines deteriorate in quality; they be
come flat and weak, as in the environs of Paris, and along the banks
of the Seine from Paris to Rouen. In fine, the more the shelter
from the north winds sink in elevation, the heat diminishes in its in
tensity, and the grape often cannot ripen from the early frost. Ci
del has supplied the place of wine, since the thirteenth century, in
Normandy *
“The apples from which is produced the cider of Normandy, was
* It may be doubted, if known facts are consulted, whether wines and the
apple tree will ever flourish in the same place. Gºod apples are often pro duced near Natchez, on the hills east of the Mississippi; but though that re
ion is ſo doubt, of all places, contiguous to the delta of the Mississippi, most
uitable to the culture of the apple tree, it is there, notwithstanding the eleva
tion of the land, exposed to a too intense sun, and when its fruit is of good
quality, the circumstance is a deviation from the ordinary course of nature.
There are many places on the higher parts of the Mississippi state, where the
traveller will find soil and situation, remarkably analogous to the best wine 60untries of France. 
4.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 25
in the first instance transplanted from Spanish Navarre; they are in
digenous in the neighbourhood of Pampeluna ; and if not ingrafted
in Normandy, they produce bad cider.
“The rivers that flow in the basin of, and which contribute to form
the Seine, are the Yonne, Ouin, Aure, Oise, Armançon, and the
Marne. Let any person examine carefully the banks of these rivers,
and he can form an accurate estimate of the alluvial deposit that can be
formed from them,” and of the degree of fertility of those deposites.
Suppose, for instance, that the basin of the Seine was insolated, from
Paris to Rouen, and confined to the Seine, properly so called, the
deposites would have been sterile, because the river flows through si
licious sand, and silex is injurious to vegetation. If any earthy de
posites are found, they are due to the Yonne, Oise, and Marne.
“Wine forms the principal object of culture in the higher parts of
this basin. Chalk is opposed to the culture of small grain, and there
is no comparison between the culture of the latter in the higher and
lower part of this basin. The chalk retains too much water, or
rather the water cannot penetrate and divide it, to enable the roots
of vegetables to penetrate the soil. These provinces are happy in
being watered by frequent rain, and not exposed to the common and
long droughts experienced in the southern provinces, since, if such
was the case, the chalky soil would be entirely unproductive.
Basin of the Loire.—“This basin, like the preceding, has two very
distinct parts, the higher and lower. The higher comprehends the
mountains of the Limosin, Auvergne, Horez, and Vivarais. This
chain presents the same productions as does those of Dauphiny and
Franche Compté.
“Buck-weat, rye, and potatoes, with a little hemp, are the products
of those mountains. Though supplied with excellent shelters, the too
great elevation will not permit the vine to ripen its fruit; and except
some privileged cantons in very deep valleys, there are no vines.
* If the estuary of any river is scientifically examined, an estimate can at
once be made of the general character of the country it waters. All rivers,
whose mouths form low, flat, and protruded alluvial depositions, flow through fertile regions, the soil of whi. is light, and easily detached from its native
place of formation. All rivers, on the other hand, whose discharge to their re
spective seas, are wide bays, flow through rocky or hard barren silicious soil. Of the former class of rivers, the most remarkable are, in Asia, the Wolga,
Gänges, and Burrampooter; in Africa, the Nile; in Europe, the Po, and Danube,
and in America, the Mississippi, Oronoco, and Amazon. Of the latter, the most
prominent examples in Asia are the Euphrates. Oby, and Jenisea; in Africa
there are none of consequence; in Europe, the Elbe, Weser and Tagus; in
America, the St. Lawrence, almost all the rivers upon the southeastern slope ef |. United States; the Mobile, Colorado of the gulf of Calafornia, and Rio de
a Plate.
There are many shades of resemblance between rivers of these two classes,
that approximate them to each other; but the general principle is not affected.
Who ever has gained a correct detailed knowledge of the physiognomy of the
region near the mouth of any given river, has gained also a very correct gene
ral knowledge of the country from which the river drew its waters.
Too much attention cannot be given to tills branch of topographical inquiry,
as many false conclusions may be prevented or obviated, by preserving a rule
so simple, and which will scarce ever deceive it will be seen, when our at
tention is turned to the eastward of the Mississippi, how general the principle
will admit of application to practical experience,
30 - EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Aſature has, however, recompensed the inhabitants with delicious apples.
“The lower part of this basin, sheltered by multiplied hills, offers
an infinity of excellent productions. White-wine at Poilly and
Charité sur-Loire; red at Blois, and the fruits of Tours and Angers,
are abundant and of exquisite flavour.
“From Nevers to Nantes, in ſollowing the Loire, the hills are beheld
covered with rich vineyards; almost all the stone of this lower basin
is calcarious.*
Basin of the Garonne,—“The plain of Bourdeaux, composed of
an alluvion formed of sand admixed with the mud of the sea. When
there is not a clayey base to this rich mould, the wine is delicious.
Such is that of Aubrion, because the water is imbibed with facility,
and penetrating the sand, does not produce humidity injurious to the
vines.
“Sometimes there are, under the sand, strata of hard feruginous
earth ; and if precaution is not taken to break them, they produce
upon the vine the same effect as argil, by forcing the water to re
main stagnant.”
This subject could be much dilated, but it is unnecessary. Our
intention was to produce some general, but well-founded ideas upon
the culture of a vegetable, whose introduction into every country has
made a revolution in its rural economy. 
The olive is of infinitely more real value than the vine, and de
serves more attention than any vegetable, the cereal gramina and
sugar-cane excepted. This very precious tree will no doubt be
come one of the greatest objects of the American farmer in those
parts of the United States which lie south of 35° N. lat. The sub
ject is, however, too extensive to permit its insertion in this place.
As the olive tree can, we have every reason to believe, be intro
duced into almost the entire range of the United States, included be
tween the 29th and 35th of N. lat. from the Atlantic ocean to the
Chippewan mountains, we have considered it deserving an entire
chapter, after the reviews of the states and territories, included in
that part of the foregoing range, that lie west of Georgia. To this
{chap. iv. of this treatise,) we refer the reader, and will now proceed
with the topography of the basin of Mobile.
The valley of the Mobile and its tributary streams has much, not
to say, a remarkable resemblance to the basin of the Rhone, and
will admit of nearly the same course of production. Though in the
same parallel of latitude, St. Stephens on the Tombigbee enjoys
a temperature considerably warmer than Natchez. The winters are
less severe at the former than at the latter place. The valley of the
Alabama, from the junction of the Coosa and Tallapoosa, to the mouth
* There is but little in common with the climate and position of this basin
and any part of the United States east of the Mississippi. The concluding ob
servations upon the culture of the vine, deserves particular notice, however,
as they appear to be in unison with all the information on the subject contained
in the work from which they are extracted; and farther, as they tend to show, that whatever other differences climate or soil º make upon the growth of
the vine, a sandy base is every where necessary for the production of good
tºne.
* -- EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 31
of Tombigbee, exhibits nearly the same variations of seasons as are
experienced at St. Stephens,
The ridge of hills that divide the waters of the Mobile, though not
very elevated, yet afford a considerable shelter to the country along
the gulf of Mexico. The vine may no doubt be brought to great per
ſection on land that is now unjustly condemned to irremediable ste
rility. The dry pine hills, with a southern exposure, will, no doubt,
prove by far most advantageous for the culture of the vine, and will
yield grapes of far superior quality to those produced on the rich
and moist bottoms of the large rivers.
A glance at the various openings to the winds of the north, or the
elevations that obstruct their approach, or reduce their violence, that
extend themselves from the Atlantic ocean to the Rio Grande del
Norte, in tracing the 33° N. lat. will enable the geographer to draw
correct conclusions respecting the varieties in the climate of this ex
tensive region.
Calculating from analogy, the air ought to be more temperature,
and the seasons more uniform on the borders of the Atlantic ocean,
than upon the gulf of Mexico, on the same line of latitude. From
..recent, though not very decisive data, the facts are consonant to the
theory. If sugar-cane is cultivated successfully in the state of Geor
gia, the induction is well founded, that there is less frost on the
shores of the Atlantic ocean than on those of the gulf of Mexico, on
the same parallel of latitude. The southeastern part of Georgia is
sheltered from the north by the high granitic ridges of the Aleghany,
which are covered with an enormous forest of evergreen trees: the
south part of Georgia is sheltered by the same mountains, and both
places are tempered by their proximity to expanded bodies of
Water.
In advancing westward from the Atlantic ocean, along the 33° N.
lat. Carteret's bank, in South Carolina, will first be passed; the city
of Charleston will be left to the south, and the level country watered
by Cooper, Edisto, and Camchee rivers, will be passed before en
countering the Savannah river. This distance, of upwards of 165
miles, is over a level, and by no means a productive country. West
of Savannah, the country is more broken than to the east of that
river, but it continues generally a sterile, sandy soil, in which the
pine tree most abounds. In reality, from the Oconee to Red river,
except upon and very near the streams, the parallel of 33° N. runs
through a barren pine forest.
The 33° N. lat. is, in North America, what the parallel of 45° is
in Europe, a line of demarkation between different vegetables. These
two parallels are in the respective quarters distinguished by the
same productions, and exhibit very nearly the same temperature. - .
The reason why the western part of Europe enjoys in 45° a tempe
rature found in America in lat. 33° has never yet been satisfactorily
explained; nor is a philosophical solution of it of much consequence;
but it is of the utmost utility to the American emigrant to understand
correctly the varieties in the soil and climate of those parts of Eu
rope from whence new plants or new branches of husbandry are to
be imported into his own country. 
S2 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. a
The Mobile is the Rhone of North America. The valley of this
river is sheltered on all sides by considerable elevations, and by thick
forests, except towards the south, where it is open to the warm
winds from the tropics. A ridge of hills leaves the northwestern
parts of Georgia, and following a course nearly similar to that of
Tennessee river, divides the waters that flow into that stream from
those that flow into the confluent waters of the Mobile. This ridge,
though not very high, is clothed with a thick forest, and forms a
line of demarkation between two climates, as well as a dividing line
separating different rivers.
Nearly upon the line between Geórgia and Alabama, this ridge
divides itself; one branch, as has been remarked, winding parallel
to the Tennessee river, crosses the Ohio a short distance below the
former river. The second branch takes a direction a little south of
southwest, and terminates near the junction of Coosa and Tallapoosa.
The fall in Coosa, above Fort Jackson, is, perhaps, a continuation of
this last ridge ; if so, it is merely broken through by the Coosa, and
continues nearly the mouth of that river, and gradually sinks into the
low lands near Mobile bay.
Leaving the northwest angle of South Carolina, and intersecting
Georgia in nearly a southwest direction, a branch of the Aleghany
mountains directs its course between the Chatahooche and Mobile
rivers, and gradually lowering, as it advances to the southwest,
finally terminates in the bluffs of the Mobile bay, near the town of
Blakely.
Near the northeast angle of the state of Mississippi, a ridge di
verges from the one already described, as dividing the waters of Ten
nessee and Mobile rivers. This diverging ridge pursues nearly a
south course, crosses two degrees of latitude, dividing the waters of
the Tombigbee from those of Yazoo and Big-black; then turns a
little east, separates the streams that flow into the Pascagoula river,
and is terminated by the high banks upon which Mobile town is built.
There is, in the basin of the Mobile, still another distinctive ridge,
lying between the waters of the Cahaba and those of the Black
warrior rivers, and which, below the respective mouths of these latter
streams, descends to the southward, and forms.the apex of the Pe
ninsula between the Tombigbee and Alabama rivers, and is imper
ceptibly merged into the low lands near their junction. *
Almost on the 33° N. lat. and near the sources of the Big-black,
Pearl and Pascagoula rivers, the chain of hills, west of the Tom
bigbee, sends out two embranchments; one winds southwardly, di
vides the waters of the Pearl and Pascagoula, slowly depresses as it
approaches the sea-coast, and ends in high banks near the bay of St.
Louis. The second pursues a southeast course, separates the waters
that flow into the Mississippi river from those that flow into lakes
Maurpas, Pontchartrain, and Borgne, and terminates abruptly in
high hills, called Loftus' heights, on the east bank of the Mississippi,
about eighteen miles above the mouth of Red river.
There are hills of more or less elevation between all the minor wa
ter courses in the Mobile basin, but the foregoing are the most im
portant, and the only claims that have a sensible influence over the
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 33
climate. It will be seen that the valley or basin of the Mobile is in
form of a triangle; the base of which lies parallel to the Tennessee
river. The surface of this valley is about 40,000 square miles—
25,600,000 American statute acres. 
The soil is extremely varied. The far greatest part of the surface
is barren, having pine as its principal growth. The productive soil
is again subdivided into two portions; the first and most valuable is
the alluvion upon the rivers; the second is composed of the slopes of hills, and usually in the country called hammock land ; the soil of
this latter is generally mixed sand and clay,+timber, pine, oak, hick ory, sweet gum, and dog wood. 
If ever extensive vineyards are established in the United States, it
will be upon those dry sandy slopes. The position, exposure, and de scription of soil, corresponds almost exactly with the places where, according to the French authors, the finest vineyards of Europe are
situated.
There are many places, also, where small grain can be cultivated, and where good mills can be erected. This outline will, no doubt,
prevail towards the sources of the streams to where the transportation
flour would be difficult and extensive.
It will, however, in the first instance, and for a considerable time to
come, be upon the rich alluvion that the settlements will be made. It is here that new farms, towns and villages will rise with rapidity. Cot
ton, maize, potatoes, and other staples and necessaries of human life,
will precede the vine. Men will, in the first instance, cultivate that
product that with certainty will yield speedy emolument. The whole country included in the basin of the Mobile apparently rests upon secondary limestone. This fossil, in many places, forms precipices along the banks of the rivers, and as far as correct informa
tion has been received, is the rock over which the various waters are
precipitated in the falls of rivers. There are many parts, particularly the banks of the Alabama, Coha ba, Coosa, and Tallapoosa, where the olive will find a congenial soil
and situation.
The following is a list of the most common timber trees found in
the basin of the Mobile, and indeed on all the waters from the Atlantic
ocean to the Mississippi, in the same parallel of latitude.
Pinus rigida, Pitch pine,” Pinus taeda, Loblolly, or water pine,f
Quercus tinctoria, Black oak,
Quercus rubra, Red oak,
Quercus virens, Live oak ; only near the sea,
Quercus ferruginea, Black jack,
Quercus alba, White oak,
* This tree forms far above one half of the entire mass of the forests. It occu. pies exclusively immense tracts, and mingles with other trees in every part of
the country. It is only wanting in the very richest alluvial soil, or in the lowest
swamps. t This tree is less frequent than pitch pine, even in low grounds, where the
two trees are found growing together.
34 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Quercus falcata,
Juglans squamosa,
Juglans laciniosa,
Juglans nigra,
Acer rubrum,
Acer nigrum,
Acer negundo,
Cupressus disticha,
Carpinus ostrya,
Carpinus Americana,
Castanea pumila,
Cerasus virginiana,
Cornus florida,
Diospiros virginiana,
Fagus sylvestris,
Fraxinus tomentosa,
Gleditsia triacanthos,
Juniperus virginiana,
Laurus sassafras,
Liquid amber styracislua,
Liriodendron tulipifera,
Magnolia grandiflora,
Nyssa Sylvatica,
Nyssa aquatica,
Platanus occidentalis,
Tilia pubescens,
Spanish oak,
Shell-bark hickory,
Black hickory,
Black walnut, scarce,
Red maple,
Black sugar maple, rare,
Box elder, on the streams,
Cypress,
Iron wood,
Horn beam,
Chincapin,
Wild cherry,”
Dogwood, extremely abundant,.
Persimon,
Beach,
Common ash,
Honey locust, rare;
Red cedar,
Sassafras,
Sweet gum,
Poplar,ſ
Large laurel,
Black gum,
Tupeloo,
Sycamore,
Linden, or lime tree,
Ulmus rubra, Red elm,
Ulmus Americana, Mucilaginous elm,
Ulmus aquatica, Water elm.
There are many trees not enumerated in this list, that may be
found in the forests of Mobile, but these are the most prevalent, and
in their uses the most important.
Cupressus disticha (cypress) is every where, in the southern and
southwestern parts of the United States, selected for buildings, fences,
and for every use to which its wood can be applied. Its timber is
easily wrought. It is also one of those kinds of trees whose wood
does not harden by being seasoned; it is extremely durable, and
shrinks or swells by change of weather less than the wood of any
other known tree.
* The wild cherry has received, in our books of natural history, the absurd
name of cerasus virginiana, in place of the prunus Americana, which latter
ought to have prevailed. There are but a few species of trees in the United
States found covering a more extended surface than the wild cherry; its timber'
is very inferior to mabogany in beauty and durability. It abounds along the bluffs east of the Missi i; it is found in all second rate lands, on all the wa
ters that flow into the gulf of Mexico, but appears to have displayed the full
developement of its size only in Opelousas and the adjacent country. The tex
ture of the wood of the wild cherry gains in colour and$olidity in advancing to
the southward, but the fruit railer deteriorates. 
, t This elegant and majestic tree does not abound in the basin of Mobile, but is
extremely plentiful, and grows to an immense size upon the hills near Mississip
pi, and upon some of the waters of West Florida and Opelousas.

34
*::*S
*
s
Aºraddert
:

-*** *
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 35
The cypress is used for ship-building, and it has been said that, ex
cept nails, cables and anchors, a whole ship of any size could be form
ed from the cypress timber. If it is not the argest tree in girth, it is
certainly the most elevated in North America. I have myself seen
cypress trees more than a foot in diameter, upwards of 100 feet above
the ground. 
The live oak does not abound in any place, but is totally unknown
in the basin of the Mobile above 31° N. lat. The existence of this
tree as high as 30°50' N. lat, on Mobile bay, is a proof of the great
er temperature of this region, than that near or west of the Mississip
pi. It will be seen, in the sequel of this work, that 30°20' is about
the northern limit of the live oak, in the vicinity of the delta of the
Mississippi.
The pitch pine covers more than two-thirds of the country. The
soil upon which this tree vegetates has been considered as condemned
to irreclaimable sterility. There are many reasons to justify doubts,
of the correctness of these conclusions. In the pine forests the
earth is every where covered with succulent grass, that affords excel
lent and abundant range for cattle. There are also found growing ºnly several species of the papilionaceous flowering vege
tables.
Whilst the fertile alluvion of the navigable rivers remains unlocated,
we can hardly hope that the lands included in the pine forests will re
ceive a fair trial of their capability of improvement; but that this
extensive species of soil has been too hastily condemned, we have
many sound reasons to believe.
Whether an attention to the production of wine in the United States
is desirable or politic at this time, cannot be easily determined ; but
that the vine, if ever cultivated on a large scale in the United States,
must be planted upon the warm sandy slopes of pine hills, we hazard
nothing in assuming as correct. From the picture given in this trea
tise of the wine districts of other countries, any person who had ever
seen the hills of Amite, Pearl, Poscagoula, Tombigbee and Alabama,
would at once perceive the analogy.
Those pine tracts are also the seats of pure air, pure water and
health. The asperities of the soil are more than compensated by the
absence of bilious and chronic diseases. If the inhabitant earns his
bread with the sweat of his brow, he can eat and digest it with a vi- ?
gorous stomach. - .
Of the towns that have been begun in the valley of the Mobile, the most important are, Mobile, Blakely, Fort St. Stephens, Fort Claif
borne, and Alabama. **.
MOBILE stands upon the west side of the bay of that name, in
30° 40' N. lat. This town, though amongst the first established in
Louisiana by the French, is yet of but little consequence. It is built
upon a high bank of the bay; the site is dry and commanding, but
the approach of the harbour, for vessels drawing more than eight feet
water, is difficult and circuitous. The annexed plan of the bay will
exhibit its position inore clearly than could be done by any verbal
description. Wessels can be brought very near the shore, and the har
36 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
bour is completely sheltered from the storms, or sudden attack of
an enemy by water.
The country in its rear is unsettled pine woods. There are no ex
tensive settlements nearer than Washington or Baldwin counties, above
- the 31° N. lat.
Many very serious impediments oppose themselves to the advance
of Mobile, but the most effectual is the rise of a rival town in a more
convenient situation for commercial transactions.
BLAKELY stands upon the east side of Mobile bay, in 30° 43' N.
lat. This town has been only established a little more than a year.
It has some pre-eminent advantages over Mobile; one of which is,
that the same wind that enables a vessel to enter Mobile bay, will car
ry her to the wharfs of Blakely, which is not the case respecting Mo
bile ; another is, an open road to the rapidly improving country on
the Alabama river. 
Blakely, it is most likely, will become the mart of Mobile river;
there is a vigorous rivalry between the two towns at present, but the
obvious superiority of the position of Blakely will probably be de
cisive in its favour.
FORT ST. STEPHENS is established on the west bank of Tom
bigbee, at N. lat. 31°33'. This town stands at the head of schooner
navigation, and is in a state of rapid improvement. The amount of .
the commercial business, already done at this town, exceeds $500,000
annually. In its vicinity is the most wealthy and best populated
country on the waters of the Mobile. Baldwin, Washington, and
Clarke counties, have all received great accessions of population with
in three years past.
Property continually rises in value, notwithstanding the intermina
ble quantity of public land opened for settlement. The advantage of
occupying the point between boat and ship navigation confers great
importance on this place. Whatever towns may arise, either above
or below, yet this place must maintain its relative rank.
It is, by act of congress, the seat of government for Alabama ter
ritory, until otherwise directed by the legislature thereof. It has
been found, in a great number of instances in the United States, that
nothing but commercial facility can augment, to any considerable ex
tent, the wealth or inhabitants of towns; and that their being selected
for the seats of legislatures, or courts of justice, gives but trivial com
parative advantage. It is, therefore, of very little consequence to the
people of St. Stephens, whether or not it remains the seat of govern
ment. \ 
FORT CLAIBORNE, on Alabama river, occupies the same rela
tive position on that stream, that Fort St. Stephens does on Tombig
bee. The former town has entirely risen since the end of the last
war between the United States and Great Britain. Like all other
places in the valley of Mobile, it is in a state of prosperous advance.
The town of Fort Claiborne is also at the head of schooner navigation;
of course the chances of its permanency rest upon the same principles
of calculation which we have applied to Fort St. Stephens. It would be difficult to state the number of houses or people in any
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 37
of these new towns. In reality, the numbers change so rapidly, that
no estimate can remain one year correct. It would be useless to at
tempt any precise enumeration of the component parts of a mass so
incessantly accumulating. 
The country in the vicinity of the junction of the Tombigbee and
Alabama is in some respects most admirably situated to become a
pleasant and profitable residence. It will probably, at no very distant
time, be the centre of a great thoroughfare between New Orleans and
the southern states upon the Atlantic. Should the vine and olive be
successfully cultivated, and there is but little reason to doubt a pros
perous issue to the attempt to introduce those useful plants, then will
the valley of the Mobile become the American Italy: there will the
declining constitutions, sinking under the severity of northern winters,
find warmth, health and mental enjoyment.
The following list of roads will show the distances from St. Ste
phens to the respective places around that town.
No. 3.
St. Stephens to New Orleans by Madisonville.
- Miles.
Fort Stoddert . . • • - - - - 40 40
Pascagoula river e • * * - . 65|105
Greene C. H. . e • • , 20 125
Pearl river . . • e e - º - - 45|170
C. H. parish of St. Tammany in the state of Louisiana . 25|195
Madisonville . º • - -. - - e 30|225
Fort St. John (over lake Pontchartrain) • - . 22.247
New Orleans . . . e - - . . . 5|252
No. 4.
St. Stephens to Natchez. Sintabogue river . . - e - e -- e. 12| 12
Eastern branch of Pascagoula . 3. - e e 21| 33
Winchester - - - - - e • - 11| 44
Monticello e - - - - - e ... 105|149
Natchez - • - e - - - - 90|239
No. 5.
Milledgeville in Georgia. Fort Claiborne - e -, - - - - 25 25
Hurricane Spring e e - e - - 43| 68
Fort Decatur on Tallapoosa river e - - e 56|l 24
Point Coinfort - - - e 12||136
Chatahoochy . e e - e. - - 30|{96
Fort Lawrence - - º - - e 451241
Fort Hawkins . e • - - - e e 50|291
Milledgeville . . . - - - e - e- 45|336
o. 6. 
Nashville in Tennessee by Huntsville.
Fort Claiborne - e - e e - • 25 25
Fort Jackson . • e - e - - e 90|l 15
Huntsville - - 4. • º º - . 2001315
Tennessee line . . . •. - - - . . . , 14|329
38 - EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
- JMiles.
Fayetteville - • * * - - - - - 12|341
Shelbyville - - - - - - e - 31|37?
Nashville - • . . . . e - e . . .35||107
It will be seen, from the above relative distances, how nearly cen
tral is the position of Fort St. Stephens, when compared with the most
remarkable places in the surrounding states.
The road from St. Stephens to New Orleans can be travelled at all
seasons of the year, and this route is only embarrassed by having lake
Pontchartrain to pass. There is no considerable difficulty, however,
in passing that lake, as packet schooners daily ply from New Orleans
to Madisonville.
In every other direction from Fort St. Stephens the roads lead over
high dry countries, and admit ef being passed, without extraordinary
difficulty, at all seasons. 
Persons intending to visit the valley of the Mobile, ought to depart
from their place of outset, so as to arrive in the country in November
or December. The winter is the most agreeable and safest season for
new-comers in any part of the United States south of 35°N. lat.
Persons removing into this country with families ought never to
neglect this precaution; the spring is the ordinary time of arrival,
and it is in every respect the very worst part of the year that can be
chosen. The rapid change from the low temperature of a northern
to a much more southern residence, is an essay of sufficient violence
for the human constitution at any time ; but when, to this severe
change, is added that of a diurnal increase of heat, it ought not to ex
cite surprise that so many lives siuk under the trial. Mere heat, un
less extremely violent, is not destructive to animal life. It has been
proved that the human species will enjoy perfect health when exposed
to a heat of upwards of 90° of Fahrenheit's thermometer, provided
there are no animal or vegetable substances near, liable to be decom
posed by the action of the heat. The alluvial banks of large rivers
are no otherwise the laboratories of disease, than by means of the
abundance of decaying matter, particularly that of vegetables. Liv
ing near swamps or low ground, in summer, exposes one to disease
in all countries, but that liability to contract sickness will be increased
extremely when a healthy person, leaving a cool and pure atmosphere,
is at once transported into a warm climate and near large bodies of
fresh water. 
There are many parts of the valley of the Mobile, where little
danger from stagnation need be apprehended; but those healthy parts
will be the last settied. The first establishments will always be made
upon the rich margins of the streams, which are the most fertile,
though least healthy parts of the country.
-There is another and very serious inconvenience attending an en
trance into any new settlements in spring, and that is the price of
provision. Autumn is the season of cheapness and plenty.
So much, however, depends upon the private arrangements of al
most all men, that they are seldom sufficiently masters of their own
º
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 39
movements to determine, according to their wishes,
their arrival in
any given place at any particular season.
No. 7.
Route from New Orleans to Natchez, and
post of Arkansaw by the
Mississippi and Arkansaw rivers.
M. Carty's 
- - 

Sauvé's . 
• - º 

Kenner's 
- • - 
e - 
Detrehans 
- 
- - - 
Red church, German coast 
- º
º
Bonnet Quaré point 
- 

Bonnet Quaré church, parish of St. Charles Fortin's . 

Cantrel's two churches, parish of St. Jcin
Baptiste Bringier's Acadian coast, parish of St. James General Hampton's, Old Houmas Donnaldsonville, efflux of Lafourche, parish of Ascension Church of St. Gabriel, (Manchac) - Efflux of Plaquemine Efflux of Iberville or Bayou Manciac - . Baton Rouge . . . - • General Wikoff’s • - w 
Patons, Lily lslands Mouth of Thomson’s creek o - 
Mouth of Bayou Sarah, St. Francisville Point Coupée church • t Mouth of Bayou Tunica, Raccourci bend . Island's Three Sisters e • 
Efflux of Atchafalaya *
• * 
Mouth of Red river 
e - 
Fort Adams, Loftus' heights 

Mouth of Buffalo 

Mouth of Homschitto 
- 
White cliffs, mouth of St. Catherine creek NATCHEZ - - 
Mouth of Shilling's Bayou . Mouth of Fairchild’s creek, lower end
of Fairchiº, islands
Efflux of Bayou L’Argent Upper end of Fairchild's islands Mouth of Cole's creek •
Petite gulf 
- 
Evan's, mouth of Bayou Pierre . . Grand gulf - e Mouth of Big-black river . . 
Lower extremity of Balmyra bend . Upper ditto ditto - 
- 
- 
1
JMiles.
:
26
6
11
14
19
20
34
39
202
230
239
242
260
262
271
311
322
327
336
338
341
348
361
370
.381
282
..',5
Warren, in Warren county 
- 

Walnut hills 
- 
-- - 
Yazoo, mouth . 
« - - 
433
449
463,
40 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Entrance into lake Providence, and to lower trace from the
settlements on Ouachitta - e - - . 41 || 504
Upper trace from Ouachitta • - - . . . . 37| 341
Stack island - - - e e - e e 2| 543
To the 33° N. lat. north line of the state of Louisiana 5| 548
Mouth of Arkansaw . - - - - e . 109ſ rô0
Post of Arkansaw - - . 64| 714
At this time two or three steam boats, and a great number of barges,
are in active operation between Natchez and New Orleans. The
distance is commonly estimated, in round numbers, at three hundred
miles, but exceeds that distance twenty-two miles, as found by
actual measurement. The following will exhibit the great difference in
distance between New Orleans and Natchez, by the respective land
or river routes:
No. 8.
From New Orleans to Natchez, by lake Pontchartrain, Madison
ville, and thence by land :—
St. John's suburb, (Fauburg) . • ... • e . . 2, 2
Fort St. John's, mouth of Bayou St. John . - © 4 6
Mouth of Chifuncté . - e e e e ... 20) 26
Madisonville - - e - e e - e 3| 29
Cross Tangipao • • e e - - . 15| 44
- ditto Pontchatoola creek - • • - - 9| 53
Springfield, on Notalbany creek . . . . 5! 58
Court-house, St. Helena, bridge over the Tickſoha river 10| 68 Spiller's . e - - e e e - . 15| 83
Cross Amite river e º - e - 14|| 97
The 31° N. lat. - e e e 4|| 101
Homochitto river - e e - - . 35| || 36
Second creek e - e - • e e e 6|| 142
St. Catherine creek . - e e - , 10| || 52
Natchez . . - - - 4|| 156
From twelve to sixteen days are usually consumed in ascending
from New Orleans to Natchez, and about twenty days from Natchez
to the post of Arkansaw. Steam-boats, by stémming the current at
the rate of four miles an hour, and going in motion twelve hours per
day, will perform the same voyage in much less than half the time.
In countries where wood abounds, such as the banks of the Missis
sippi, and where the streams are rapid, steam-boats are an invalua
ble acquisition to the inhabitants. It is only to those who have had
practical experience, that the painful, laborious, and tedious opera
tion of ascending the Mississippi with barges need be depicted.
It is a matter of great surprise, however, to behold the boatmen em
ployed in this severe labour sitting on their benches, exposed to the
most scorching sun, often naked from the waist up; and being thus
exposed for weeks together, without any serious injury to their health.
The sickness so prevalent amongst American boatmen, has been
mostly ascribed to intemperance; that circumstance does, no doubt,
superinduce disease; but more destructive, and to which the Ameri
can traders, boatmen, and often families, are too frequently exposed,
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 4í
when upon the Mississippi, and adjacent streams, in spring and sum
mer, is the loss of rest from the sting of the musqueto.
This is an evil easily remedied, and to which those persons who
have been long enough in the country to adopt the prudent precau
tions of the inhabitants, are relieved. A musqueto curtain, made
from the cheapest materials, is part of the equipage of every one
who travels either by land or water, in any part of the Mississippi
or Mobile country, from April to November.
It has been thought, but very erroneously, that the high pine tracts
were exempt from the musqueto in summer. The writer can aver,
that from the highest hills of the Tombigbee, to those on the Sabine
river, in all parts below 33° N. lat. in ten summers to which he was
exposed, there was not one season that the musquetoes were not suf
ficiently abundant to prevent the possibility of comfortable sleep,
during the months of May, June, July, August, and September.
In the month of July, 1812, the author travelled from Fort Stoddert
to New Orleans by land, to the mouth of Pascagoula, and found the
musqueto in excessive abundance, upon the dry sandy hills of Dog
river.
The inhabitants observed, that the circumstance was extraordinary,
and their information may have been correct, but every person who
visits the country in summer, would do well to provide against such
a contingence. As to families, the provision of musqueto curtains is
absolutely indispensable.
The general mode of making these curtains for beds, is in this
manner. A tester is generally made of tha:k muslin, the length and
breadth of the bed, to which is attached a curtain, about four or five
feet high, without openings at the sides. This curtain, thus made,
and suspended, so as to admit its being folded beneath the bed
clothes, effectually excludes these very troublesome insects.
This species of curtain is universal in the houses of the inhabi
tants of the states of Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama territory.
They are made from the coarsest to the finest materials, and are, in
houses of the higher classes, often elegant.
The boatmen generally have small mattresses, only wide enough to
admit one person: the curtain is formed of the length and width of
the mattress. When intending to provide for his lodging, the boat
man attaches his curtain to little posts put into the ground, to branches
of trees, bushes, or, indeed, whatever else may be found to suit his
mattress, is stretched beneath, and in this retreat, he reposes safe
from the musqueto, and sheltered from the night dews.
The author was one who learned, from dear bought experience,
this useful addition to his travelling equipments. During a residence
of nearly sixteen years, in the region near and in the delta of the
Mississippi, the only indisposition of any great consequence he ever
experienced, was in first descending the Mississippi to Natchez; and
his sickness was then occasioned by the pain and venom of the sting
of the musqueto.
When performing the surveys for his map of Louisiana, he was ex posed to every vicissitude of ** and to every change of place,
42 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
that the country could present, and without observing any stated re
gimen, he enjoyed almost uninterrupted health.
This subject has been mentioned in detail, from the certainty of
its importance, and from a conviction, that those who will most need the precaution, are those to whom the necessity of using it is unknown.
Men from the northern, and many parts of the middle states, and,
indeed, from some of the hilly and mountainous parts of the states of Virginia, the two Carolinas, and Georgia, cannot be made to dread an enemy whose attacks they never felt. The robust, healthy, full
habits, of most of the young men of all those places, are precisely
the food upon which the bilious fevers of the south are supported. And of all the various causes that sap and destroy the human frame,
want of rest, and exposure to night dews, are the most dangerous
and destructive.
The rude mattress and check curtain, with thick Russia sheeting testers, used by the Louisiana boatmen, would sava thousands of
lives. The whole materials of a bed, constructed in this manner,
would not exceed, and possibly not amount to twenty dollars.
They are made of all sizes, and of all kinds of materials, from the
coarsest to the finest; are of every kind of workmanship, from the
rudest to the most elegant, and are exposed for sale in the shops of New Orleans, and every other town, in the places where they are
needed.
Any person from the northern states, intending to remove to, or
visit any part of Louisiana, Mississippi, or Texas, below 33° N. lat.
would find it for his benefit to go to New Orleans, or Mobile by sea, and to arrive in those cities as late as November. There is ne
impediment, arising from winter, in visiting any part of the country. Heavy rains seldom fall before January, and often not so early in the season. The whole country can be examined with safety and
comfort, during November, December, January, February, and
March. The sickly season does not commence before August; June is the most healthy, and September the most sickly month.
There is, indeed, no season known above 40 N. lat. answering to
the winter of Louisiana, nor is there any so pleasant. It is, however, the season in which fewest persons visit the country. The far greatest number descend the Mississippi in spring, and return in
summer, in order to escape the dangers of autumn.
Traders, merchants, boatmen, and sailors, may, from the nature of
their respective employments, be in a great degree forced to pursue this routine ; but persons intending to settle, can be seldom under
such necessity, and are less excusable in exposing themselves and families to useless risk.
The ordinary expenses of travelling do not greatly vary, in dif ferent parts of the United States, in a given distance; but there is a
great and essential difference in time. Where steam-boats, good and tonvenient ferries, and stages, are established, the rate at which a
traveller can advance is much accelerated, but his expenses are in
proportion to the conveniences with which he is provided ; and
though he can proceed on his way with more celerity, he cannot pass
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 43
from place to place, with much, if any less money, than by the old
fashion, of riding a good horse.
Except by water, there are no public conveniences yet establish
ed in the Mississippi or Mobile countries, for the convenience of tra
vellers; they are obliged to provide themselves the means of trans
portation. Horses, of all prices, are constantly to be procured in New
Orleans and Natchez. A medium price may be about eighty
dollars.
A stage was some years past established from New Orleans to
Baton Rouge, but discontinued, from want of sufficient encourage
ment. Most persons returning from New Orleans to the western and
northern states, cross lake Pontchartrain to Madisonville, and thence
by Natchez. A new road is now opening from Nashville to Madi
sonville, which will obviate the necessity of passing by Natchez,
and also save eighty, or an hundred miles travelling. Nearly the
whole of this road will be over high, dry land. The distance upon
this new route, from New Orleans to Nashville, will be about 480;
by Natchez, it is nearly 600 miles,
( 44 )
&HAPTER II.
THE means and necessary routes to reach any part of Louisiana, west of the Mississippi river, or of the province of Texas, Provincias, Internas, (Internal Provinces,) or the viceroyalty of Mexico, are but very imperfectly known in the United States. We will give, in de tail, the various routes, by land and water, from New Orleans to the respective places west of the Mississippi river, before entering upon the various other topics respecting the countries, or their produc
tions.
No. 9.

Road from New Orleans to Mexico, by land.

JMiles.
To Donnaldville efflux of Lafourche. (See No. 7.)
81
Canal to lake Verret
- - e
- 20||
101
Lake Verret
- - 
- - 7|
|| 88
Over lake Verret
- - 
- 3|
108
Lake Palourde
- - - - - 11| 122
West end of lake Palourde
- - - 11|
133
Grassy lake
- - 
- - 3)
136
Atchafalaya river
- - 
- 4||
|| 40
Mouth of Teche river
- - 
- 2|
1.42
Renthrop's ferry
- 
- - - ll
143
Court-house, parish of St. Mary's .
- 
- 2
|| || 64
Sorrel’s 
- - 
- - 17|
181
New Iberia
- - 
- - 19|
200
St. Martinsville, parish of St. Martin
- - 9|
209
Bridge over Bayou Fusilier
- - - 20,
229
OPELOUSAS' church, parish of St. Landré
- 13|
242
Fontenot's 
- - - 12|| 254
Hanchet’s 
- - º 7| 261
M“Daniel’s 
- - 
- 3.
264
Pine Prairie
- - 
- - 8.
272
Bayou Crocodile
- • • 9| 281
Bayou Cyprière Mort
- - 
- 32.
313
Terre Blanche
- - 
- - 12|
325
Bayou Conchatta .
- - 
- 15|
340
NATCHITOCHES .
- - - 16,
356
Arroyo Hondo
- - 
- - 5||
361
Adayes 
- - 
- - 4,
365
Bayou Piedra
- - 
- - 9|
374
Head of Bayou le Nan .
- - - 6||
380
Sabine river
- 
- - - 21}
40 l
t
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 4&
Bayou Patron e 
Chichi's on Bayou Baregas
Head of the Ayeish river
Atoyaque river
Attascocito river e
Bayou del Cariso - - e
NACOGDOCHES - - •
Angeline river . Trinity river • . - - • , e.
Brasos à Dios river 
Colorado (of the) gulf of Mexico
St. Mark’s river e 
Rio Guadaloupe . - º
ST. ANTONIO DE BEHAR . * Rio Nueces e - /. 
Rio Grande del Norte - - 
Monterey in New Leon - 
Mine of Catorce - - 
Sta. Maria de Charcas
San Louis Potosi
Zietaro - - - 
Tula, enter the valley of Tenochtitlan
Huehuetoca, head of Tampico river 
MEXICO - e - º
No. 10.
JMiles.
408
412
4.17
421
426
432
437
439
33 472
50, 522
70. 592
70) 662
32. 694
50} 744
90, 834
100. 934
120, 1954
160|12 14
65,1279
70||1349
100] 1449
60|| 599
20|1529
20|1549
i
Road from New Orleans to Hotsprings on Ouachitta, by Opelousas and Natchitoches.
Natchitoches. (See No. 9.)
Grand Ecor - 
Campté - o
Tulins Vaucherie • •
White-oak creek, Bayou Chêne Blanch
Little Missouri, Prairie D'Han
Terre Noir creek e
Fourche au Cado
Ouachitta river 
Hot springs
No. 11.
From New Orleans to Hot springs on Ouachitta, Fort Miro.
Natchez. (See No. 8.) - Soncordia, west bank of Mississippi Bayou Crocodile - 
Black river º
Bushly creek 
Bayou Calumet
Prairie de Côte.
by
:-.-
JMiles.
356
4|| 360
7| 367
261 393
132| 525
12 537
16|| 553
20, 573
24 597
9| 606
Natchez and
46 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
JMiles.
Ouachitta river - - - - • 7| 237 Prairie du Lait * - - - - 3. 240
Fort Miro - - - - - - 36] 276 Bayou Derbane - - - - - 1. i. 290
Little Missouri - - - - - 12(I 4 || 0 Bayou Terre Noir - - - - - g| 4 19
Fourche au Cado - - - - 10| 429
Ouachitta river - - - - - 20|| 449
Hot springs - - - - 9| 458
No. 12. - .
New Orleans to the Hot springs by water.
JMiles
Mouth of Red river. (See No. 7.) - 242
Mouth of lake Long - - - - 8| 242
Cut off from Mississippi - - - - 3| 253
Mouth of Bayou Crocodile - - - - 12; 265
Mouth of Black river - - - - 6| 271
Mouth of Ocatahoola - - - - 50|| 320
Junction of Ouachitta and Tensaw rivers, head of Black river ! 321
Prairie de Villemont - - - - 9| 330
Efflux of Bayou Bushly - - - - 5|| 335 Court-house, parish of Ocatahoola, first pine hills, west bank of Ouachitta river - - - - I 336
Mouth of Bayou Louis - - - - 2| 338 West extremity of Sicily island, first pine hill, east bank 5| 343
First rapid in Ouachitta - - - - | | 344 Mouth of the Boeuf river from the east • - 2| 344
Bayou Calumet * - -. - 20} 366
Prairie du Lait - - - - - 15| 381
Prairie du Mane - - - - - 6|| 387
Ecor a Matelot - - - - - 3 390
Prairie de Chicot - - - - - 2| 392
Bayou de la Belle Chéniere - - - 6; 398 Prairie de Bois - - - - - |Cl 403
Bayou de la Machoire a Tore - - -- 3, 411
Bayou Chéniere a Tondre - - - - {{ 4 16
FORT MIRO 32° 32' N. lat. - - - 8| 424
Mouth of Bayou Siard - - - - 3| 427
Mouth of Bayou Derbane - - - - 3! 430
Mouth of Bayou Loutre - - - - 12| 442
Mouth of the Bartholemy river - - - 3. 445
Upper extremity of Bastrop’s grant - - 28 473 Tºis Batures (three sand bars,) 33° N, lat, northern limit of
the state of Louisiana - - - - 1| 474
Mouth of the Saline river - -- - - 1 || 486
Beginning of overflowen banks - - - 10| 496
Upper part of inundated country - - - 70| 566
Little Missouri river - - - - 5| 57
Fourche au Cade - - - . 30|
601
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 47.
JMiles.
Mouth of Hot spring creek 
- 
- , 35|536
Hot springs 
- 
- 9|645
No. 13.
From New Orleans to Natchitoches by water.
Miles.
Mouth of Black river. (See No. 7.) 
- 271
Entrance of Bayou Long - 
'- - 14|285
Bayou Saline 
- 
- 
I5|300
Avoyelles landing 
- 
-- 6|306
Ecor a Chéne 
- 
- 
16],222
Outlet to Bayou le Mourir 
- 
7| 29
ALEXANDRIA, parish of Rapides 
- 15|344
Rapids of Red river 
- 
- O#344;
Hietan Bayou 
- 
- 
3|.447
Bayou Rapide 

- - 
16||363
Gilliards 
- 
- - 3|366
Mouth of Rigolet de Bon Dieu. 
- 
4|370
Narcissus Prudhommes 
- - 
5|375
Monets 
- 
- - 
3; 363
Mouth of Bayou Pierre 
- 
- 3|383
Metoyé 
- 
- 
- 4|387 Louis Derbane, mouth of Bayou Cochatta - - 3|359 Mouth of Riviere aux Cannes - 4|393
Prudhommes 
- 
- - 4|397
Paillets 
- 
- - 
6|| 103
Natchitoches 
- 
- - 4|407;
No. 14.
New Orleans to Opelousas, by water.
JMiles. Efflux of Bayou Plaquemine. (See No. 7.) - 117 Blakes - - - 6|123
Mouth of Plaquemine into Atchafalaya - - * 9 132 Outlet into lake Chetimaches - 11|| 43
Outlet of lower Tensaw 
- 
- 3|l
46
Cow-Island lake 
- 
- 3}l
49
Lower extremity of Cow-Islan 
- 
2|| 51
Upper end of Cow-Island - 
- - 5 i 56
Lower raft 
- 
- 
25] 181
Mouth of Courtableau river 
- 
1|182
Mouth of Bayou Bigras 
- 
- 51187
Efflux of Bayou Ferdoche 
- 
1|188
Efflux of Bayou Fusilier 
" - - - 7|195
Bayou Derbane 
- 
- 
1||196
Barré's first Prairie and settlement - 
- 91205
Wickoff’s Prairie north, and Alabama Prairie south 3|208
Mouth of Bayou Wauksha 
- 
31211
Bayou Carron 
- 
- 
"21213
Opelousas landing 
-. 
- 2315
Opelousas town - *
-- 
- 5|220
48 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
No. 15.
From New Orleans to New Iberia and St. Martinsville by water.
Miles.
Entrance of Plaquemine into the Atchafalayaquemine river.
(See No. 14.) - Outlet into lake Chetimaches
Lake Chetimaches 
Fausse Point landing 
Neville de Clouet's 
St. Martinsville - 
New Iberia 
No. 16.
11
5
16
2
10
132
143
148
164
166
176
9| 185
New Orleans to New Iberia and 8t, Martinsville, by the Atchafa
laya and Teche rivers.
Mouth of Plaquemine. (See No. 7 & 14.)
Bayou into lake Natchez 
Lake Natchez - 
Re-enter Atchafalaya 
Lake Chetimaches 
Mouth of Teche - 
Renthrop's 
Outlet to lake Chetimaches
Court-house of parish of St. Mary's
Smith's - - 
Hardin's - 
Sorrel's - - 
Olivier’s - - 
Now Iberia - 
Madame St. Maur's 
St. Martinsville - 
-:-
No. 17.
.
w
JMiles.
132
142
144
154
175
180
181
191
From New Orleans to Fort Miro, by Natchez and lake Providence.
JMiles.
Natchez. (See No. 8.) 
Fairchild's creek 
Villa Gayosa
Huntston 
Grindstone ford
Gibson’s port
.
Big-black river - 
Warren - - 
Walnut hills - 
Yazoo river - 
Providence lake, west side of Mississippi
Efflux of Tensaw river from Providence lake
Maçon river
Boeuf river
Bayou Bon Idée
Prairie Jefferson
Bayou Boeuf .
Fort Miro

•
.
15
12
1.56
171
176
186
198
107
117
129
143
150
181
190
202
222
236
228
235
157
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 49
No. 18.
From New Orleans to Fort Miro by Opelousas, Alexandria, and Ocatahoola.
JMiles.
Pine Prairie in Opelousas. (See No. 9.) - - 272
Bayou Crocodile - - - - - 10| 283
Mulhollan’s - - - - - 12| 294
Ferry over Bayou Boeuf - - - - 2| 296
Alexandria - - - - - 15|| 311
Bayou Flaggon - - - - - 11 322
Big creek - - - - - - 6|| 328
Ocatahoola, or Little river - - - 3 331
Bushly creek - - - - - 28| 359
Bayou Calumet - - - - - 15| 374
Prairie du Côte - - - - - 3| 377
Ouachitta river - - - - - 7| 384
Prairie du Lait - - - - - 2| 886
Fort Miro - - - - - 36|| 422
No. 19.
. From Natchez to Natchitoches, by Alexandria.
Miles.
Bushly. (See No. 11.) - - - - 50
Ocatahoola prairie - - - - 3| 53
Hemphill's creek - - - - 8| 61
Little, or Ocatahoola river - - - 22 83
ALEXANDRIA - - - - - 21 || 104
Welsh’s saw mill - - - - 1 || 115
Gilliard's - - - - - 14|| 129
Narcissus Prudhommes - - - - 8| 137
Madame Monet’s - - - - 5|| 142
Bayou Pierre - - - - - 3| || 45
Bayou Derbane - - - - - 8| 153
Old Red river - - - - - 5|| || 58
Natchitoches - - - - - 12| 170
The list of roads given in this treatise, embraces many routes that
have never before been published; and as new stations are daily form
ing, some important places are no doubt omitted; but the general
distance will in most instances be found correct. The nature of the
soil over which these various roads traverse, will be noticed in the
sequel. ". country west of the delta of the Mississippi, offers an infinity
of very interesting views to the traveller and emigrant. Only a few
years have elapsed since this region was opened to the inspection of
civilized man.
The immense length of Red and Arkansaw rivers, the fertility and
variety of the lands from which their streams are derived, the extra
ordinary features and productions of the great natural meadows of
Louisiana and Texas, have at length arrested the attention of man kind ; and will, no doubt, in a º,revolving years, exhibit, on an
*
30 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
immense surface, cultivated society, where, from countless ages, the
wild beasts of the plain and forest were pursued by the prowling sav
age. "before entering upon the settlements, or artificial productions of
this immense region, it will be necessary to give an outline of its
geography. 
Louisiana, as ceded to the United States, included all that part of
North America, comprised in the western slope of the Mississippi val
ley and the inclined plane south of Red river, and east of the Rio
grand del Norte. When treating upon the Missouri territory, the
western slope of the Mississippi valley will be described ; the part
now under review, lies south of Arkansaw, and west of the Mississippi
river, and comprises two-thirds of the state of Louisiana, the whole
province of Texas, and upwards of 1000,000 square miles of the Mis
souri territory. Its outlines are extremely definite, having the gulf
of Mexico south ; the gulf of Mexico and Rio Grande del Norte on
the west; the Arkensaw river on the north ; and the Mississippi on
the east.
Rivers—Lakes—Mountains.—The Mississippi has been noticed.
The Arkansaw rises nearly as high as the forty-second degree of
north latitude, 33° west of Washington city; pursuing a south course,
of about 200 miles, turns S. E. 500 miles ; then turns nearly at right
angles, and runs N. E. 150 miles; again resumes a S. E. course, which
it pursues 150 miles; then assumes an east direction, which it preserves
about 450 miles, to the place of its discharge into the Mississippi.
The river of secondary consequence in the region under review, is
Red river. This stream rises near Santa Fe, in N. lat. 37° 30' and
29° west of Washington ; runs nearly parallel to the Arkansaw, joins
the Mississippi at 31° N. lat. after a comparative course of i 100
ii.iles. 
Between the Arkansaw and Red rivers, at N. lat. 34° 39' and 19°
west of Washington city, rises Ouachitta. The Ouachitta is formed
by three branches, which pursuing an east course, unite about 200
miles below their sources; form the river, which, below the junction,
turns a littie east of south ; runs in a direct line 250 miles: joins Red
river 30 miles above the union of the latter and Mississippi.
In the interval, between the Ouachitta, Arkansaw, and Mississippi,
there exists several smaller streams, such as the Boeuf, Tensaw, and
Maçon rivers, which all join and contribute to form Ouachitta.
The Atchafalaya flows from the Mississippi river, two miles below
the mouth of Red river, and may be correctly considered as the con
tinuation of the latter.
Southwest of Red river flows, towards the gulf of Mexico, another
system of rivers, all pursuing nearly a southeast course. To this
system appertains the Teche, Mermentau, Calcassiu, Sabine, Trinity,
Brassos a Dios, Colorado, Guadaloupe, St. Antonio, Nueces, and Rio
Grande del Norté. All those streams rise in the angle between Red
river and the Chippewan mountains, and water the province of Texas
and part of the state of Louisiana. 
Only two ranges of mountains are found on this tract, that of Mas
Serne and St. Saba. The Masserne chain is a prolongation of the
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 51
Chippewan, and rises in detached masses, between Red and Arkan saw rivers. This range has not been carefully examined by men of
science ; of course its component parts are not correctly known. It is .
supposed to be rich in minerals, and there are ample indications of
iron. Mr. Dunbar, of Natchez, and Dr. Hunter, visited the warm
springs on Ouachitta, which are situated on the spurs of this ridge.
According to the information given by those gentlemen, the moun
tains are composed of secondary materials ; aluminous schist abound.
From the existence of salt (muriate of soda,) and gypsum, we would
be led to believe this region the limit between the secondary and
transition tracts. The range of salt and gypsum lies nearly north
and south : water highly impregnated with the former mineral has
been found on Sabine, Red, Ouachitta, and Arkansaw, in great
quantity; the gypsum has only been met with on Ouachitta, but there
is much reason to believe its existence is extensive in this region.
Limestone, marble, and supertine abound; but no unequivocal tes
timeny has yet been adduced of any primitive mass rising above the
earth in this country.
From the scanty number of facts we have been able to collect on
the geology of the interior of Louisiana and Texas, we are not
able, at present, to decide upon its minute features; the general
outline is all that can be given.
The mountains of St. Saba appears to be a detached chain, lying
between Red river and the streams that flow into the gulf of Mexico,
This range is merely known to exist; its component materials are ab
solutely unknown.
The mass of native iron, now in the city of New-York, which was
a few years past sent from Louisiana, was found in the vicinity of St.
Saba, and transported to Red river by land.
The country included between the Arkansaw river and gulf of
Mexico, is naturally divided into two distinctive portions; the allu
vial valleys of the Mississippi and its confluent streams; and the
parched sandy tract partly prairie, and partly forest, to the west
and southwest of the former. The low flooded marsh, winding along
the Mexican gulf, is only the termination of both these great portions.
Amongst the extravagant exaggerations that have been made re
specting the various features of Louisiana, none have been more in
flated than the accounts respecting the extent of the prairies. All
the lands in the state that can be denominated prairie, even includ
ing the swamps along the shore of the Mexican gulf, does not amount
to 10,000 square miles, or 6,400,000 acres; they may equal about
one-fifth of the entire surface. Excepting some small detached
prairies scattered over the country, the great expanse of these savan
nas are united in one continuous body, winding around the coast,
from the Pearl to the Sabine river. The prairies of Opelousas and
Attacapas, are like bays, indenting the country. Some are, indeed,
detached, such as Prairie Grand Chevreuil, Prairie Laurent, Prairie
Petite Bois, Grand Prairie, Prairie Mamou, and some others of less
note, but the lines of woods between them are generally very nar
row. For every purpose of a general sketch, those prairies may be
considered as forming one immense meadow. Their peculiar traits,
52 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
will be noticed when treating on each part of the country in detail. There exists but two routes from New Orleans to Opelousas and
Attacapas, the upper by Plaquemine, and the lower by Lafourche and Teche. The former is the common channel of commerce.
The produce of the country, and merchandise, are transported in
large barges, from twenty to fifty tons burden.
It is only when the Mississippi is high, that any communication by water with the interior exists by Plaquemine. The latter stream is
merely a small outlet of the Mississippi, into which water ceases to
be discharged, when the river falls about ten feet within its banks.
The Mississippi has annually two floods; the first, in ordinary sea sons, about New-year. There are but few years without a swell, about the foregoing season, sufficient to permit boats to pass Plaque mine. This first flood is almost uniformly succeeded by a depres
sion previous to the great spring inundation. The banks of Plaquemine are extremely fertile, but gradually de
press in receding from the Mississippi. It is fifteen miles, following the stream from its efflux, to the discharge of Plaquemine into the Atchafalaya. Only the left shore of Plaquemine is inhabited; the right bank is too low, and in addition to that defect, is exposed to the
incumbent waters of the Mississippi. There are some excellent farms
on this stream, the general produce, cotton and lumber.
The Atchafalaya, as has been noticed, is strictly, the continuation
of Red river: it leaves the Mississippi two miles below the mouth of the former, and flows with extreme rapidity, when the Mississippi is
at its greatest height. At times of low water no current enters At chafalaya; the river becomes stagnant in all its length. Though some
settlements have been attempted on its banks, there is very little land
on Atchafalaya fit for culture. The soil is, indeed, excellent, but
mostly exposed to inundation.
A narrow strip of high land skirts the stream on its left shore, for
about six miles from its efflux. Some small spots of high land occur
on the right bank, below the Bayou de Glaize, which falls in from the
west, five miles from the Mississippi. Cane formerly grew upon this
land, but is now mostly destroyed by the settlers.
Descending farther down the river, some small points of excellent land occur; but the banks and adjacent country are mostly submerg ed annually; and about twenty miles from its efflux all possibility
of settlement ceases.
This river exhibits the singular phenomenon of being choked
with timber, brought by the floods from the Mississippi. Some ex
traordinary tales have been published respecting this mass of timber; such as being sufficiently compact to admit of horses and men pass
ing, as on a bridge; of having large trees growing upon it, and final
ly, of having been passed unperceived. The falsity of all this, the
author can aver from his own personal observation, having surveyed
the right bank of the river, on all the parts where the rafts are lodged.
Alen may pass in many places, but in none without difficulty and danger. The timber rises and falls with the water; is continually shifting; lies in all directions, leaving large enterstices open, and fre
quently moves in a body, from the weight of the incumbent mass,
t
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 58
it is about twenty miles from the upper to the lower extremity of
the raft; ten miles only of this is actually choked with timber.
Five miles below the lower large raft, the Courtableau river comes
in from Opelousas. *.
Thus far, the Atchafalaya pursues a south course, distant in a direct
line from the Mississippi thirty-eight miles. One-half mile below
the entrance of Courtableau, the navigation of Atchafalaya is
again interrupted by a small raft of timber. The inhabitants
of Opelousas have been at great expense and trouble to open a
passage through the latter raft. It has been cut several times, but by
the shifting of the timber has again closed: a channel is now open,
but as no effectual means have been taken to prevent the residue of
the timber to float into the passage, its remaining open for any length
of time is precarious.
Twenty miles, by direct course, below the mouth of Courtableau, is
the head of Cow-Island; the intermediate space the river flows a lit
tle east of south ; the adjacent country annually overflowed. Cow
Island is about five miles in length, the river dividing into a number
of channels, mostly flowing towards lake Chetimaches. Below Cow
Island the river turns east fifteen miles, and, as has been noticed, re
ceives the Plaquemine. The junction of these two streams may be
considered as the centre of departure to the various points in Attaca
pas and Opelousas.
Several persons, who are residents on Plaquemine, are provided
with convenient boats, by which men and horses are transported to
their destination. The expense cannot be easily estimated, so much
depends upon the emergency of the occasion. Travellers have sel
dom to wait long for a passage, though frequently compelled to pay
amply for prompt conveyance.
There are three principal routes that diverge from the junction of
Plaquemine; by the Atchafalaya, in descending to the junction of
that river and the Teche; by an outlet to lake Chetinnaches, which
leads to St. Martinsville and New Iberia”, and by the Atchafalaya in
ascending to Opelousas. From the last route another diverges, lead
ing to the upper settlements on Teche and Vermilion.f
Ten miles below the junction of the Atchafalaya and Plaquemine,
is the lower raft in the latter river. An outlet leaves the river from
its left shore, which leading into lake Natchez, conducts the naviga
tor into the main stream by another water-course connecting the
lake and river, at the lower extremity of the former. Twenty miles
below lake Natchez, the Atchafalaya joins lake Chetimaches, and
three miles lower down receives the Teche river. Twenty miles
below the mouth of the Teche, the Atchafalaya falls into the gulf of
Mexico. If the various rafts were removed out of the Atchafalaya,
its channel would afford very great commercial facilities; but there
are few rivers whose banks are of less value in an agricultural point
of view. Except a short distance near the Mississippi, a few small
spots above the great raft, some very confined points between the
Courtableau and Plaquemine, the protrusion near the mouth of Teche,
* See moute No. 15 & 16. t See route No. 14.
54 : ÉMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
and Rice's island, the bank of Atchafalaya is entirely overflowed;
and rendered unfit for settlement.
The second route, by the lower Tensaw, leads into lake Chetima
ches, to the Fausse point landing, and from thence to St. Martinsville.*
This is the most frequented by navigators and travellers, entering
into the central parts of Attacapas; it can only be used, however, at
high water, as at seasons when the streams are low, the communica
tion with Atchafalaya is rendered impassable for boats.
The route by lake Natchez is used only by the inhabitants of
lower Teche : it is the most circuitous of any of the channels of com
munication between Attacapas, Opelousas, and the Mississippi.
Portage is made from the Mississippi into Plaquemine, at low water,
the distance by land, four miles. The tide flows up the Atchafalaya
and Plaquemine, in the months of October and November, to Blake's,
at the lower point of portage from the Mississippi. From this place,
boats can at all seasons pass lake Natchez and the mouth of Teche.
The calculated distance from Blake's to Opelousas court-house, is
ninety miles, or thirty French leagues. That part of Atchafalaya
which intervenes between the Plaquemine and Cow-Island, has but
little current, and is denominated, by the inhabitants of Opelousas,
“ the Big river.” Above Cow Island the outlet leaves the main
stream, which again subdividing into a number of lakes and channels,
affords two inlets, leading into Attacapas and Opelousas. The lower
of these two inlets leads by Bayou Fusilier, to the Acadien point
landing; the upper is the passage to Opelousas, when the raft near
the mouth of Courtableau intersects the navigation of Atchafalaya.
Above Cow-Island the Atchafalaya is, at high water, as rapid in
its course as the Mississippi.
The Courtableau is a gentle stream, except when swelled by rains,
in Opelousas and Rapides, at seasons when the Atchafalaya is low.
A singular phenomenon is visible in the region between the efflux
of Atchafalaya and the head of lake Chetimaches. The current is
here more violent,than in any other part of the inundated lands of
Louisiana; and when the waters are at their highest elevation, the
waters flow to the southward, without being much influenced by the
channels of the streams. Below the mouth of Bayou Derbane, the
tide rushes obliquely across the river Courtableau, and continuing
between that stream and the high lands of Teche, enters lake Che
timaches. The same appearances exhibit themselves in the Atchafa
laya, between the mouth of Courtableau and Cow-Island, and the
surplus waters from the latter river also find a deposite in lake Che
timaches.
Nothing can be more dreary than a voyage at high water from the
Mississippi over this sunken plain. The gloom of this flooded forest,
however, heightens the delight of at once being introduced into the
cheerful and expansive meadows of Opelousas and Attacapas. As
cending the Courtableau, indications of high land are first seen eight
miles above its junction with Atchafalaya, where spots of cane ap
pear, and the banks near the outlet of a small stream, rises above
* See route No. 15,
- EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. . 55,
&asual overflow. Above the mouth of Bayou Derbane, first appears banks that would admit culture ; the selvage of high ground is here, however, confined, and not until ascending the stream nine miles far
ther to Baré's, will the traveller be greeted with the habitations of
man. Here is the first prairie met with, in coming up the Courtableau;
it is small, three miles by two, and detached from the expanded sa vannas of Opelousas. The place affords a specimen of the rich and
beautiful country to the south and west. Ascending the stream six miles above Baré's, brings the voyager to
Carron's landing, and five miles by land from thence to the church of
St. Landré. *
There are three places that are considered as landing places in Ope lousas; Baré's, Carron's, and Le Melle's. Before entering more finally
into detail on the productions, roads, political divisions, and other
localities of Opelousas and Attacapas, it will be necessary to sketch
the geological structure of those places.
Attacapas and Opelousas, when taken in connexion, form a natural
division, distinguished from the adjacent country by peculiar features; but the lines of separation between those two places respectively, are
in great part artificial. The two places are relatively situated N. W.
and S. E.; Attacapas occupying the southeastern, and Opelousas the
northwestern position.
Opelousas is bounded south by the gulf of Mexico; west by the
Sabine river; north by the 31° N. lat. ; northeast by the parish of
Avoyelles; east by Atchafalaya; and southeast by Attacapas.
Attacapas is bounded southwest and south by the gulf of Mexico;
southwest by Opelousas ; and northeast and east; by Atchafalaya river. Opelousas extends over 7600, and Attacapas over 5100 square miles, forming together an extent of 12,700 square miles.
The rivers of Opelousas, are Sabine, Calcasiu, Mermentau, Cour
tableau, and Atchafalaya; those of Attacapas, are Mermentau, Ver
milion, Teche, and Atchafalaya. An immense chain of lakes and bays lies along the gulf of Mexico,
in front of Opelousas and Attacapas: Sabine lake, Calcasiu lake,
Mermentau lake, the three bays of Vermilion, Côte Blanche, and
Atchafalaya, and lake Chetimaches.
Sabine river is part of the western limit of the state of Louisiana,
as well as the boundary of Opelousas. The mouth of Sabine lies in
29° 36' N. lat. and 16° 57' W. from Washington city; the adjacent country is an entire prairie, not a single tree of any kind being visible
from the sea-shore. The river is about a quarter of a mile wide at
its discharge into the gulf, and maintains that width six miles, where
it dilates into a wide shallow lake of thirty miles in length by eight wide; its depth does not, at a medium, exceed three feet. The coun
try in all directions near the Sabine lake is prairie. A few clumps of trees stand on the bank near the entrance of the river into the head
of the lake, but are few, and of stunted growth.
Three miles southwest of the mouth of Sabine, into the head of the
lake, the Natchez comes in from the N. W. This latter stream
rises in, and waters part of Texas, and under the head of that pro
vince its features will be noticed. Above the lake, the Sabine is
66 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE,
contracted to a stream of about 200 yards wide, its channel exces
sively winding. The entrance of Sabine into the lake may be
known by persons coming up the lake, by the following means. The
range of the lake is N. E. by N., and between the Netchez and Sa
bine run banks of white shells, behind which are a few scattering
trees; turning the view in the direction of the lake, an immense
mound of shells will appear on the right, crowned with dwarf trees,
the last that are visible in that course. The river enters the lake at
the western extremity of this latter bank of shells, and is not percep
tible until within a very short distance of its mouth.
Ten miles above the lake the prairie ceases, and woods enclose the
river on both banks. About half way between the lake and woods,
the western shore rises above inundation; the soil is, however, poor
and thin. Pine is the first trees that are seen, and are, indeed, ex
cept on bottoms liable to inundation, the prevailing timber, on and
near Sabine, in all its length.
Above the woods there is nothing very remarkable to be noted re
specting the Sabine. One bank, generally the western, is high and
sometimes hilly. At N. lat 30° the Wacahatcha, a considerable
stream, falls in from the N. W. As high as the bounds of Opelousas
31° N. lat. no creeks of any consequence enter from the eastern, and
the adjacent country is generally pine wood ; soil barren, as is usual,
where that timber prevails.
The next river east of the Sabine is the Calcasiu. The latter
stream rises in the parish of Natchitoches, in 31° 30' N. lat. and
pursuing nearly a south course, falls into the gulf of Mexico, forty
miles east of the Sabine. Like other streams in its vicinity, the
Calcasin dilates into a large lake, and again contracts to the form of
a river, before entering the gulf of Mexico. The Sabine and Cal
casiu iskes have great resemblance to each other; the latter is rather
the most extensive. It may be noted as a singularity, that the head
of both are marked by shell banks, which occur upon no other part
of the banks of either.
These two lakes may be now considered as the retreat of the
wild fowl, of the duck and goose species, who have encountered to
the eastward their great destroyer man : These creatures are yet
found in immense flocks in the winter season, in every part of the
country, but in no one place in such quantity as the two lakes of
Sabine and Calcasiu. - º
The Mermentau may, with propriety, be called the river of Ope
Jousas, from where its branches are all drawn, and some of the finest
parts of which it waters. The Bayou Plaquemine, Brulé Cane, and
Nezpiqué, and the Queue Tortue, are the constituent streams that
form the Mermentau. The features of the country, watered by the
latter river, have considerable resemblance to those places that are
drained by Sabine and Calcasiu, but the traveller can perceive on
the eastern waters of the Mermentau his approach towards the delta
of the Mississippi. Pine becomes more rare, the various species of
oak more frequent; the soil evidently of much better quality. The
rairies are more elevated and diversified. The lower part of the
Mermentau, like its neighbours, opens into a spacious lake, and before
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 57
its exit to the sea, again assumes the form and width of a small
rivet.
The depth of water upon the respective bars of the three forego
ing rivers, does not materially differ. The coast, from the mouth
of the Sabine to that of the Mermentau, and, in fact, to Vermilion
bay, is remarkably uniforza. There is a small projection east of the
mouth of Sabine, which is composed of soft mud; this projection
extends about three miles, where it is followed by a hard sandy
beach mixed with shells, and in a distance of thirty seven-miles: be
tween the mud bank of Sabine and mouth of Calcasiu, only one nar
row inlet occurs. The shore is here uniform, as the side of a wharf,
bearing north seventy east by magnetic courses, which direction it
maintains to the mouth of the Mermentau. Gn almost all the maps,
hitherto published of this coast, the bearings and general appearance
is most wretchedly delineated. Gauld's máſ Pof the coast of the gulf
of Mexico, and some of the Spanish charts, are exceptions to this re
proach. Lafon's map of Louisiana exhibits the range of the coast as
bearing about south seventy degrees east, and very much indented.
From either the positions or delineations of this map, no person could
possibly recognise the shore of this country. When the author of
this treatise surveyed the coast in 1812–13, he was supplied with
one of Lafon's Maps, and made the comparison on the spot between
the map and the positions in nature.
Advancing to the eastward of the Mermentau, the first stream that
occurs is the Vermilion. It is, perhaps, an anomally in geography,
that the same sources contribute to form the Mermentau, Vermilion,
Teche, and Courtableau rivers; but such is the fact.
The neighbourhood of Opeiousas church, is a kind of table land,
from which the waters flow as from a common centre. Without re
ference to a good map, it is very difficult to explain the very compli
cated structure of this singular country. The water-courses are in
terwoven into each other, with an intricacy that demands much at
tention to comprehend with precision. Three miles northwest of
Opelousas church, there is, surrounded by prairie, a body of woods
two miles long and a half mile wide. This isolated forest is not un
aptly called Isle au L'Anglois. The denomination of island is not
unappropriate when applied to a copse standing in a sea of grass.
From the east side of this island, flows the head waters of the Mer
mentau. The source of the river is an extensive low wet plain.
The water gradually collects into a single channel, which passes to
the southward, within less than a mile of Opelousas church; and con
tinuing that course about three miles, divides; one part running east
ward into Bayou Bourbée, contributes to form the Vermilion ; the
other runs southwest, into Bayou Plaquemine Brulée, and finally, in
to the Mermentau river.
Three miles north of Opelousas court-house, the drains of the
prairie are connected; part of the water flows north, into Bayou
Grand Louis, and the other south, forming the head of Bayou
Bourbe 6.
Twenty miles northwest from Opelousas church in Grand Prairie,
rises Bayou Grand Louis, which in its progress receives the water
58 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
from the various prairies with which it is environed, and at Carron's
landing is a large creek. A branch flowing from the eastward of
Opelousas court-house, joins Bayou Grand Louis at Carron's landing.
The stream, now bearing the name of Bayou Carron, flows a little
more than half a mile, divides; one part running to the S. E. forms
the Teche, and the other pag continuing the name of Bayou Carron,
after a course of less than two miles, falls into the Courtableau river.
In the old maps of land in Opelousas, Bayou Grand Louis is named
Teche; of which latter it is reaily the source. After leaving Bayou
Carron, the Teche flows to the southeast seven miles, receives an
outlet of the Courtableau, which leaves that river at Baré's. Below
the junction the streams flow to the southward ten miles, and re
ceives from the west Bayou Bourbée. This latter stream is formed
from the various drains ºf the prairies to the southward of Opelousas
church. Its extreme nº ºthern source is, as has been observed, three
-*
miles north of the latter place ; but is at the church only a mere drain ;
continues to the south about eight miles, and is augmented by Chre
tien's Bayou, a large creek from Prairie Bellevue ; it then turns
southeast along the Grand Côteaux, about tour miles, divides ; one
part turning east enters the Teche, the other south, receives Bayou
Carrion Crow three miles below, and thence the united stream bears
the name of Vermilion river. In the latter, three miles below the en
trance of Carrion Crow, Bayou Pont Brulé comes in from the east
ward. The Vermilion continues to flow southward ten miles ; is
augmented by the Bayou Queue Tortue, from the vicinity of St. Mar
tinsville, and turns to the southwest, sixteen or seventeen miles.
Within a very small distance from the 30° N. lat. the Vermilion
again bends to the southeast ten miles, and then assumes a south
course of twelve miles, fails into Vermilion bay. Below the Queue
Tortue, no creeks of any note enter the Vermilion. 
The eastern division of Bayou Bourbé bears the name of Bayou
Fusilier, and is the last tributary stream which enters the Teche.
Below the Fusilier the Teche forms an immense bend to the eastward,
southward, and westward, of twelve miles, in a channel almost as uni
form as if formed by art; it then recurves again southeastward five
miles, and assumes a south course fifteen miles; passes St. Martins
ville, and flows to M. St. Maur's plantation, where commences the
Fausse point bend. This latter curve is twenty two miles in circuit,
and yet the river comes again within less than 1% miles of M. St.
Maur's house. The river then rapidly turns to the southward, and
about two miles from this turn, passes New Iberia. It is only
nine miles from St. Martinsville to New Iberia by land, and upwards
of thirty by water. Below New Iberia, the Teche flows twenty
miles southeast to M. Sorrel's plantation. The river then turns
to the eastward, and in a direct distance of thirteen miles, to
the court-house of St. Mary's ; forms two great bends; the upper of
thirteen and the lower twenty miles. Below the latter bend the ri
ver flows a little south of east twenty-five miles, and falls into the At
chafalaya.
The entire length of the Teche, if Bayou Grand Louis is included,
exceeds one hundred and seventy miles. There exists no known ri
wer on the globe with traits of exact analogy to the Teche; many of
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 59
its features are peculiar to itself. On examination of the country
through which it flows, the mind is left at a loss to account for the
possibility of a river being formed where its channel is situated. In
the general structure of its banks, it bears a resemblance to the Mis
sissippi, but that single feature excepted, no other likeness between
the two rivers exists; and the Teche differs more again from the
Vermilion, Mermentau, Calcasiu, and Sabine, than even from the
Mississippi. 
It is by analogy that verbal descriptions are understood, and for
that simple reason, it is almost impossible to describe the Teche, in
language conveying clear conceptions of the object; as there is no
river with which it can be correctly comparºd.
The reader may, as far as possible, conceive a stream of upwards
of one hundred miles in length, gradually widening and deepening
without any visible source of augmentation. At the mouth of Bayou
Fusilier, the Teche is at low water not more than three feet deep,
and about fifty yards from high bank to high bank; and where it
enters the Atchafalaya, it is upwards of two hundred yards wide,
and more than twenty in depth. Vessels drawing five feet water go
up to New Iberia. The tide often flows above that place. Though
there are, when the magnitude of the stream is estimated, some of
the most extensive bends in the Teche that can be found in any
known river, yet the channel is, as has been noticed, so extremely
regular as to imitate if not surpass the efforts of art.
The banks are high ; and sloping gradually from the water, rise
far above any swell ever known in the river. Though evidently
formed by alluvion, the banks of the Teche must have been accumu
lated by means of a situation of things that no longer exists. There
must have been a time when a body of water annually inundated
this country; but those floods have found another vent, for ages past;
and at this time, the banks of the Teche inherit the inexhaustible fer
tility of alluvial soil, without subjecting their inhabitants to the in
convenience of inundation. 
At this epoch it is difficult to conceive of any lands being superior
to those of the Teche; and however formed, they richly repay their
cultivators. We will resume the subject of the local positions of this
river, and the vegetable productions, after completing a topographi
cal sketch of the country under review.
The Courtableau is the stream of the cultivated parts of Opelousas
that unites that fine country with the regions watered by the Missis
sippi. So much has been observed respecting the Courtableau, when
treating of the navigable routes from New Orleans to Opelousas and
Attacapas, as much to abridge the labour of detail in this place.
It will be sufficient to observe, that the Courtableau is formed by
the confluent streams of the Bayous, Crocodile, and Boeuf; which
after flowing from the pine hills S. W. of Alexandria in Rapides, in a
nearly parallel course of about seventy miles by a direct line, unite
eight miles north of Opelousas church, and forms the Courtableau.
More will be given in the sequel respecting this river. We will take
up the description of the prairies of Opelousas and Attacapas, which
will complete the natural topography of the country,
60 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
It has been already noticed, that the extensive prairies of that
country are, strictly speaking, all connected, and that those in the
interior are mere bays of the vast open sea marsh. The subdivisions
have all, however, received local names, under which we will de
lineate them in this place, following the same order we have pursued
with the rivers.”
THE SABINE PRAIRIE occupies all the space between that
river and Calcasiu. Near the sea-shore, this prairie is an extensive
marsh; but on receding from the gulf, the surface gradually rises;
and before reaching the woods, much high land is found. The soil
is, like that of the adjacent pine woods, almost all sterile. Few
settlements have been formed in this quarter; and from its position
and the barrenness of the land, it is not very probable any con- .
siderable number of people will be found upon it for many years to
come. No surveys have yet been made by the United States on any
water that enters the Sabine river; of course; the few families that
are settled near that stream, are either on land granted by the French
or Spanish governments, or are unauthorized intruders upon the pub
lic soil. Not more than two or three grants were ever made by the
Spanish government of land on the waters of Sabine, and those were
all above 31° N. lat. The French government, while in the political
possession of Louisiana, though always claiming right of territory to
the Rio Grande del Norté, never made grants of land west of the
waters of the Mermentau.
The surveyors under the government of the United States, in per
forming surveys in Louisiana, were limited south of Red river to the
meridian of Natchitoches. This arrangement left unsurveyed all the
lands watered by the Sabine, and part of those of Red and Calca
Siu rivers.
CALCASIU PRAIRIE. This prairie, including the marsh be
tween the Calcasiu and Mermentau lake, is seventy miles long, and
will average twenty wide, or 1400 square miles, equal to 896,000
acres. Of this expanse about 640,000 acres is sufficiently elevated
for cultivation; but the soil is poor and sterile. The pine woods
border the prairie in every direction where timber is found. Copses
of black jack oak, interspersed with pine, are found along the Nez
pique. The woods on Bayou Lacasine are of mixed growth, pine,
oak, hickory, and ash, on the high land, and in the swamps, cypress
and maple. On the N. W. part of this prairie, in the vicinity of the
little and upper lake of Calcasiu, is the best soil to be found in its
whole extent. The timber is here a mixture of pine, black-oak, red
oak, hickory, ash, and other trees, that indicate a second rate soil. . spots are, indeed, naturally fertile; but the general surface is
sterile.
The meridian of Natchitoches runs through the western part of the
Calcasiu Prairie, leaving the upper lake out of the surveys made by
the authority of the United States government. Some partial grants
Were made by the Spanish government, to spots of land on the waters
of Calcasiu, and some settlements have been formed upon this river
* See table No. 1, in the Appendix to this work.
- EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 61
without any grant; but the greatest part of the country remains in
pristine state. The general surface of the country is certainly su
perior to that watered by the Sabine, though the deteriorating influ
ence of the clay soil of the pine hills is every where visible.
The eastern border of the Calcasiu Prairie on the waters of Mer
mentau river, is tolerably well peopled. Many of the largest stocks
of cattle in Opelousas are to be found in this range. Good crops of
corn are made by the manure produced in the ſolds where cattle are
collected. The pursuits of all the inhabitants are pastoral ; agricul
ture is only exercised to obtain the common necessaries of life, bread,
and garden vegetables. The houses and their appurtenances evince
the simplicity of the modes of existence of their occupants.
A journey from New Orleans to the mouth of the Sabine, exhibits
man in every stage of his progress, from the palace to the hut, and
inversely. To an observing eye, the rapid transition from the su
perb mansions of the wealthy citizens of New Orleans and its vicini
ty, to the rudely constructed log cabin, on the Sabine and Calcasiu,
will suggest matter for the deepest reflection. In the short period of
ten or fifteen days, can be viewed the moral revolutions of all ages.
On a space of three hundred miles can be found human. beings
from the most civilized to the most savage. In the city of New Or
leans, four or five of the most elegant of the living languages of the
earth are now spoken in all their purity; and there is now enjoyed all
that luxury and learning can bestow. Upon the banks of the Mis
sissippi many of the sugar and cotton planters live in edifices, where,
within and without, are exhibited all that art, aided by wealth, can
produce. In Attacapas and Opelousas the glare of expensive lux
ury vanishes, and is followed by substantial independence. Often
the loom occupies one part of the common sitting room or parlour
of families that are really wealthy. The farm houses are generally
rough, but solid buildings, in which the inhabitant enjoys good,
wholesome, and abundant food, and excellent beds.
In the western parts of Opelousas are found those pastoral hunters,
who recall to our imagination the primitive times of history. Their
flocks and the chase furnish them with subsistence and occupation.
Lodged in cabins rudely and hastily constructed, and really enjoy
ing safety and plenty, it cannot be an illusion of fancy to consider
these people as in possession of that object, happiness, that too often
eludes the pursuit of men more highly cultivated. This is not a fan
cied picture ; the writter often has, and particularly between the 3d
and 15th of January, 1813, passed from the Sabine through Opelou
sas to New Orleans, and beheld, in reality, all the various gradations,
to the contemplation of which he now invites his reader.
In the deep and solemn gloom of the Sabine woods, and the more
imposing immensity of its prairies, has he often reflected upon the
slow, but certain advance of the descendants of Europe in America.
He considered himself as upon or near the line of contact, between
two of those masses of civilized men, who have changed the political,
religious, and moral state of this continent. The few inhabitants to
be seen upon this confine of two empires, seem to indicate the utmost
verge of inhabited earth, and the earliest dawn of human improve
62 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
ment. It is but justice to those men to say, that as far as the
experience of the writer can enable him to judge of their character,
they do ample justice to the long received opinion of the natural hos
pitality of man. He never once, in the course of many years, was
turned away hungry from the door, or denied a nightly shelter under
the roof of one of those apparently uncultivated sons of the forest.
Oftentimes has he experienced from them, when weary and exhaust
ed, a warm and generous reception, that many who repose on beds
of down might blush to behold. From this honourable and true cha
racter, the much and very unjustly abused inhabitant of the Spanish
Presidios is lo exception. On an immense extent of territory these
latter pursue exactly the same modes of life with the western people
of Opelousas, and are distinguished by the same virtues. 
There is a common and a vulgar observation very prevalent, in
which the frontier inhabitants of Louisiana, the Spanish internal pro
vinces, and even those of the United States, are assimilated to the
native savage tribes, whose former residence these frontier men now occupy. Þisgusting expressions, such as “they are just as bad
as Indians”—“ they are worse than savages”—“I would rather
live amongst Choctaws or Shawnees,” may be heard daily in some of
the most polished circles, when speaking of the men that compose
that hardy phalanx, whose generous bravery has oftentimes saved
those declaimers from the tomahawk, scalping knife, or fire-brand of
these same savages.
It may be asserted, without danger of contradiction, that the fron
tier men of the United States, the pastoral creole of Louisiana, and
the horsemen of the Spanish internal provinces, are in a much
greater degree superior to the aboriginal savages of America, in point
of improvement, than they are inſerior in mental endowments to the
most polished society in Philadelphia, New-York, London, Paris,
Rome, or Berlin. Whatever may be the cause, it is a fact, that the
moral qualities of the American savages have been extolled far above
their real inerits, and the character of the pioneers of wealth, com
merce, and education, depreciated in about the same ratio; and in
both instances, pretended philosophy has made inductions in direct
opposition to the facts upon which those inductions are supposed to be
founded.
Mistaken zeal has exhausted, in the last two centuries, upon the ob
durate Savage of this continent, means, that if applied to the use and as
sistance of some of our own frontier villages, would have rendered them
seats of industry, abundance, and happiness. We are every day enter
tained with the accounts of missionaries, sent to convert to christi
anity, and instruct in useful knowledge, Indian tribes; but who has
ever heard of missions being sent to the banks of Mermentau; whilst
it will hardly admit a doubt, that more knowledge could be instilled
into the minds of the two thousand people now on that river, in twen
ty years, than could be imparted in two centuries to all the savage
tribes Irom the Mexican gulf to Hudson's bay.
PRAIRIE MAMOU is enclosed between two branches of the Mer- .
mentau; the Nezpiqué and Plaquemine Brulé: it is about forty
miles in length, by a medial breadth of five, or extends over 200
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 63
square miles, making 128,000 acres. The land and timber in the
vicinity of this prairie are very various. All the timber trees known in
Opelousas, except liriodendron tulipifera, (poplar) are to be found on
the border of Prairie Mamou. Some spots of land are moderately fer
tile, but the common quality of the land is sterile. There are only
a few of the inhabitants who are not pastoral in their pursuits. Many
families are established here as hired stock-holders; they are nearly
all Americans, as the emigrants from the United States are denomina
ted in Louisiana.
GRAND PRAIRIE is next east of Prairie Mamou, and of very
near a similar extent. This latter prairie is partly on the waters of
Mermentau, Courtableau, and Teche. The land in Grand Prairie is
much superior to that of any of the preceding, though the soil and
timber of the southwestern part assimilate to those in Prairie Mam
ou. The border of Grand Prairie is thickly peopled ; many of its
inhabitants are wealthy farmers, and few persons are exclusively pas
toral in their pursuits.
The population here is a mixture of French and Americans; the
former are the most numerous and wealthy. Great part of the best
land in Grand Prairie was granted to individuals by the governments
of France and Spain. But few spots of any value remained vacant
when the United States government obtained the country. Some of
the most agreeable and healthy situations in Opelousas, are found in
Grand Prairie. The well water is excellent. There are many wet
places, but none that can be called stagnant ; few marshes exist. The
common crops are maize and cotton; the latter is the staple for mar
ket. The land is very well adapted to the culture of cotton, particu
larly the parts watered by Bayou Grand Louis. By a singular coin
cidence, the land on the latter stream assimilates to that on the Te
che. Beef, pork, butter, cheese, and tallow, are also produced in
considerable quantities. The settlements are increasing rather by
natural means, than by emigration from other places. Though the
price of land is less in Grand Prairie than on the Teche, in a ratio
of one to three, yet, from its situation, and from the production of
sugar, most of the emigrants who have removed to Opelousas, in the
fourteen years that have elapsed since the establishment of the United
States government, have finally settled on the Teche, or in its vi
cinity.
The timber in the woods that border Grand Prairie, on the waters
of Mermentau, consists of oak of several species, ash, hickory, dog
wood, pine, linden, laurel-magnolia, and some maple, and wild”
cherry. On the Teche is found black-oak, white-oak, red-oak,
willow-oak, sassafras, poplar, linden, ash, hickory, dogwood, wild
cherry, laurel-magnolia, and a number of other species of trees.
The underwood, spice wood, Spanish mulberry, muscadine,
grape vine, and other vines and shrubbery, indicative of a
productive soil. When the settlements were first formed, the
woodland was covered with large cane, (arundo gigantea ;) but the
swine, cattle, and fire, have almost exterminated this vegetable, west
of Bayou Crocodile. In severe winters, the cane is a most invalua
ble resource for cattle; but it is a grass that always disappears in a
64 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
short time after the establishment of man and his domestic animals
in its neighbourhood.
OPELOUSAS PRAIRIE extends from the gulf of Mexico, nearly
north eighty miles, and is bounded on the east and north by the Ver
milion and Teche rivers, and on the west by the woods of Bayou Mellet, Bayou Cane, and by the Mermentau river. This sea of
grass is, on an average, twenty-five miles wide ; and extends over,
including the sea marsh, upwards of 1,200,000 acres. Some of the
most flourishing settlements of Opelousas and Attacapas are in this
prairie. It is naturally divided into six distinct portions, the sea marsh, the prairie between the Vermilion and Queue Tortue, Pra
irie Bellevue, Queue Tortue Prairie, cove of Plaquemine Brulé, and
Prairie Mellet.
The marsh between Vermilion bay and the lake of Mermentau,
has nothing to distinguish it from the other marshes of the country,
except its extent, which is about thirty miles square. This great ex
panse, though generally covered with grass, is not entirely denuded
of trees. Near the sea coast, a singular appearance attracts the at
tention. These are ridges which rise above the common level of the
marsh, are dry and solid land, clothed with live oak trees. These
ridges appear to have been once the sea-shore, and to have been in
succession abandoned by the surf, as others were formed by the
same means; they all run in lines parallel to the shore, and are se
parated by lagoons, ponds, or the marsh. It is extremely difficult to
reach many of these islands; and as no adequate object presents it
self to reward the trouble, they are visited but seldom by man. They
are the undisturbed retreats of wild animals, deer, turkies, grouse,
and perhaps the bear.
From an inspection of the structure of the sea-coast of Attacapas
and Opalousas, and in fact that of all Louisiana, we can hardly
doubt that those parts, properly called marsh, have been formed by
the reflux of the sea, whilst much of the interior has been created by
the alluvion of the various rivers. This hypothesis is strengthened
by the well known facts that in all Louisiana the quality of the soil
of any place is precisely similar to the general character of the lands
of the particular river from which it is formed.
The live oak islands, between Vermilion and Mermentau, have
their correlatives along the coast of Louisiana, as visited by the
author. The live oak tree entirely ceases with the Mermentau; it
is not found upon either the Sabine or Calcasiu rivers.
From the great sameness of the coast, it is almost impossible, ei
ther by map or verbal description, to convey to any person a dis
tinction between the entrances of Sabine, Calcasiu, or Mermentau.
The live oak tree is the only unerring mark. The author left the
mouth of Sabine, intending to pass Calcasiu and enter Mermentau ;
but found an inlet between Sabine and Calcasin, which he mistook
for the latter. Consequently, when he came to the real mouth of the
Calcasiu, he entered it, under a supposition that it was the Mermen
tau. The mistake was not corrected, until ascending to the upper
lake of Calcasiu, he learned the truth from the inhabitants. From'
its extreme inaccuracy, the only map he possessed gave him no in
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 65
formation; the rivers and lakes were so very inaccurately laid
down, that the map was, in fact, entirely useless. Having before
learned, from persons who had passed down the Mermentau to the
gulf, the abundance of live oak on that stream, it was with no little
astonishment he could find neither that nor any other tree on Calca
siu river or lake, until penetrating the country upwards of forty
miles, the robinia pumila“ first presented itself at the head of the
large lake. - 
Any person wishing in future to enter either of those rivers, may
be prevented from mistaking his object, by paying attention to the
live oak. If that tree is wanting on any river, he may be sure of be
ing west of the Mermentau, as it grows in lesser or greater quanti
ties on all rivers from the Mermentau to the Mississippi, and is never
to be found entirely wanting, as has been observed it is on the Sabine
and Calcasiu. The live oak tree affords a demarkation of climate ; and
proves, beyond dispute, that the atmosphere of Louisiana lowers in
temperature in advancing westward. On Mobile river the live oak
is found almost to 31° N. lat. Between Mobile and the Mississippi,
the live oak disappears about 30° 30', whilst on the latter stream it
fails ten miles farther south. On Atchafalaya it is seen above Cow
Island as high as 30° 20' N. lat. In Attacapas, by a singular local
shelter, it grows upon the Teche at the junction of that river and
Bayou Fusilier. That its existence in the latter place arises from the
shelter of the adjoining woods is evident, as only four miles to the
west, where the trees are exposed to the sweeping winds of Prairie
Bellevue, the live oak is unknown ; and what is more remarkable, is,
that above the junction of Teche and Fusilier, on the north side of
the woods that border these streams, and within less than one mile
from where the live oak exhibits trees three feet in diameter, it is
entirely wanting, without any evidence remaining of its ever having
existed. At Opelousas church, ten minutes north of the junction of
Teche and Fusilier, the live oak is an exotic preserved with diffi
cultv. - - º the waters of Mermentau river, the live oak appears first near
the junction of Bayou Nezpiqué and Plaquemine Brulé, and does not
advance more than three miles north of that place. On Lacasine a
few stems appear. West of the latter Bayou, as far as known to the
author, the tree entirely disappears. Whilst sheltered by the thick
forests of the Alabama territory and state of Mississippi, and by the
equally impervious woods of the Mississippi swamps, the live oak can
exist; but when exposed to the chilling winds of the interninable
prairies of Texas, this fine and valuable tree perishes. That its ex
istence depends upon local position is demonstrated by the single cir
* This species of the robinia, is probably a non-descript The tree grows
about fifteen feet high, dark sealy bark; the thorns are very numerous and
sharp pointed; the leaves are small, oval, and pinnated, of a light green.colour;
the pericarp is a legume, shaped like a common bean; the fruit oval, flatted, and
of a dusky green. The name of dwarf robinia, given to this tree in the text, is not very appropriate, as many other species of that family are equally humble:
robinia aquatica, or maritima, would be more characteristic. The author first
saw the robinia pumila growing at Mr. Bringier's on the Acadien coast, where
it had been introduced by that gentleman as a proper component of hedges.
- 9 
66 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
cumstance, that it grows farther north both east and west, than on
the Mississippi. This is the case with many other vegetables, and
it is obviously owing to the cooling of the air by means of that great
river, and to the vent given by its channel, to winds of a tempera
ture below that of the adjacent country.
That part of Opeiousas Prairie lying between Vermilion river and
Bayou Queue Tortue, rises above the sea marsh, and exhibits some
spots favourable to agriculture. The soil on the Vermilion is much
superior to that on Queue Tortue, though less extensive. The mar
gin of the woods are settled on both sides of the prairie. Those per
sons who reside on Queue Tortue are generally pastoral; those on
Vermilion agriculturai. 
BELLEVUE PRAIRIE is upwards of thirty miles in length from
north to south, and at a medium, six miles wide from east to west.
Few places have ever received a more appropriate name; the most
agreeable, productive, and best cultivated parts of Opelousas and At
tacapas are in this beautiful expanse. The church of St. Landre is
on an elevated spot on the eastern border of Prairie Bellevue; and the
town and seat of justice for the parish stands in a bay, that passing
the church and town, extends to the southeast three miles, and termi
nates at the woods of Bayou Bourbée. The inhabitants of the coun
try confine the name of Prairie Bellevue to that particular part
which stretches from the point of woods below the church to Chre
tien's, about six miles, and give other local appellations to the several
bays that indent the woods of the Vermilion to the south, and Bayou
Grand Louis to the north of the church and town. The term
Prairie Bellevue has been made general in Darby's Louisiana, and
used in this treatise so as to include the range of prairie lying be
tween M. Fontenot's, in Opelousas, to the lower extremity of the
Penault settlement in Attacapas. There were in Opelousas upwards
of five thousand people in 1810, more than one half of whom were in
this prairie. 
A very marked difference exists in the soil in the various parts of
Bellevue ; the eastern border is variegated, much of the surface roll
ing, and the land extremely fertile; the middle parts in the open
prairie fertile, some parts elevated, but mostly flat and wet, though
not marshy, so that cattle and horses pass it in all directions without
danger or difficulty. The western part upon Bayou Queue Tortue,
Bayou Plaquemine Brulé, and Bayou Meliet, varies with the general
effect of these several water-courses; upon Queue Tortue the soil is
sterile; upon Plaquemine Bruić and Mellet, of second rate quality;
the northern upon Bayou Grand Louis, partaking of the beauty and
fertility of the land of Teche. . 
Queue Tortue Prairie, the cove of Plaquemine Brulé, and Prairie Mellet, are merely bays extending from Praire Bellevue, in the di
rection of the several streams from which their distinctive appella
tions nave been taken. The land in these three latter prairies is
generally flat and wet, and extremely well adapted to produce the
most abundant pasturage. Some parts, however, are sufficiently ele
vated for tillage, and though the soil is naturally thin, yet it re- .
tains manure with great tenacity; a quality indeed common to all
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 67
the prairie lands of Opelousas and Attacapas, and which they derive
from the almost total absence of sand in their composition.
The timber in every part around the Bellevue Prairie is excellent,
particularly the various kinds of oak. A singular phenomenon often,
marked by the author, is to be seen here; the liriodendron tulipifera”
(poplar) is abundant, and very large in all the woods in the vicinity
of Opelousas; but in the woods to the westward of Prairie Bellevue,
this tree has never been seen; the same remark may, in a great mea
sure, however, be made respecting the black-walnut, which, though
sometimes met with on the waters of the Mermentau, Calcasiu, and
Sabine, is rare on those streams, and small in growth ; whilst, in the
woods of Teche, Bayou Bºeuf, and other water-courses flowing into
Atchafalaya, the black-walnut tree is abundant and large.
ATTACAPAS PRAIRIE occupies the space between the woods of
Vermilion and Teche; it is about forty miles in length, but of very
unequal width; lying in the form of a triangle, the base of which
rests upon the Teche river, with the perpendicular running nearly
west from New Iberia. Many ranges of woods chequer this prairie;
the most remarkable of which, are Point Perdue, Carlines Côte, the
hills of Petite Anse, and Grand Côte, the woods upon Bayou Tor
tue, and Isle Cypriere, (Cypress island.) This prairie, commencing
in a point at the junction of Teche and Fusilier, gradually widens in
advancing southward; is again contracted by the woods of Bayou
Tortue to less than two miles; expands below New Iberia to the
southwest and northwest. The 30° N. lat passes this prairie two
miles south of New Iberia; along which the prairie is twenty-five
miles wide. The place included within the Fausse point bend in
Teche, is an embranchment of the Attacapas prairie. The distance
over the prairie N.W from New Iberia to the Vermilion, is about
eighteen, and from New Iberia southwest to the extremity of the prairie,
following the Teche, upwards of thirty miles. 
All the lands of the Attacapas Prairie sufficiently elevated, are ex
tremely fertile ; all the vegetable products known in Louisiana, can
be produced upon the various parts of this fine prairie ; and it is pro
bable that its soil would be congenial to many plants not yet intro
duced into the country; the olive in particular.
By far the most extensive and wealthy settſement yet made in
Louisiana west of the Atchafalaya, is upon the right bank of the Te
t 
* It is very difficult to determine, which is most absurd, the vulgar or the
botanical name of this truly useful and elegant tree. When first introduced into
Europe, it received the name of tulipifera. Linnaeus changed it to lirioden
Adron; for what reason, it would have been difficult for him to explain. Mr.
Miller, in his Gardener's Dictionary, restores the name tulipifera; and Michaux,
in order to give each fair play, uses both. Every writer who follows, most to
be understood, use these terms, howe" ºr much he may despise this reall
deceptive abuse of words. To neither the lily or tulip has the flower of this
tree even a fair resemblance, much less any betanical affinity. Wuat is singu
lar, is, that all this jumble of corrupt Greek and Latin, is used to designate a
tree, only one species of which is known to exist, and which is peculiarly ye:
markable for possessing distiqctive characters, that would seem to havº defied
all the system-mongers in the world to confound with any other object in na; ture. Its name is just about as appropriate as ursus leonis would be if applied
to the horse.
*
º
68 - EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
che. There is a compact line of settlement extending the entire
length of Attacapas, from Berwick's bay to the mouth of Fusilier, a
distance, following the sinuosities of the stream. of one hundred and
forty miles. There is, at this time, upwards of ten thousand per
sons in Attacapas, one half of whom reside on the right bank of
Teche, including the two towns of St. Martinsville and New Iberia.
The soil and surface between the Vermilion and Teche present
many very striking contrasts. The most remarkable objects are the
hills of Côte Blanche, Grand Côte, Petite Anse, and Côte Carline.
They are all of similar construction ; covered with timber of species
different from that found on the adjacent marshes, and rising to up
wards of one hundred feet elevation out of the flat and inundated prai
rie Upon the Petite Anse the author enumerated upwards of forty
different species of trees and shrubs, amongst the most remarkable
of which were live oak, walnut, white and black hickory, and sweet
gum. This hill is naturally environed by an impassable marsh, out
of which a sluggish bayou meanders to the sea. The inhabitants of
Attacapas near New Iberia, cut a canal into this bayou from the solid
prairie; and on the side next the island threw up a causeway from
the bayou to the high land, and by this means opened a communica
tion with the Petite Anse. Several persons are settled upon this
island. The land is excellent, and consists of about three thousand
acres of high productive soil.
It is one of the most curious phenomena that the country affords,
to see these elevations rising out of the deep morass, and exhibiting
features in common with the woods of the higher Teche. The dog
wood, (cornus florida,) iron wood, (carpinus ostrya,) and hombearn, (carpinus americana,) are all rare upon the lower Teche, but abound
upon the Petite Anse. The entire aspect of the interior part of this
island, resembles the wood land of Opelousas upon the Teche, except
the presence of live oak, which is wanting in the latter, but is plen
tiful in the former. 
All the other islands on this coast of a similar nature, exhibit the
same general features; such as Carlines Côte, Grand Côte, Côte
Blanche, and Belle Isle. These islands are considered the most
healthy parts of the country in which they are situated. This will ad
mit perhaps of some doubt: they are pleasant places of residence,
however, the musqueto excepted. - - *
Upon the Petite Anse, a salt spring was discovered a few years
past, and brought into active operation by the owner of the land.
From its proximity, this spring has been considered as merely a drain
of the sea; but on inspection, it has all the common features of the
salt springs of Louisiana found north of Red river. The water is near
ly as much saturated with the mineral as sea water, and yields excel
lent salt. The adjacent settlements of Attacapas and even Opelousas,
have been, in some measure, supplied from this spring with salt, for
six or seven years past.
From the dry and porous nature of their soil and their position,
there is no doubt but those islands would produce the most luxuriant
vineyards. Though environed with morass towards the interior, yet
they are all accessible to the gulf by navigabie bayous.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 69
PRAIRIE GRAND CHEVREUIL stretches along the east bank of
Teche, from eight miles southeast of Opelousas church, to about
seven southeast of New Iberia, and is fifty-two miles long with a me
dium width of two. All the border of this prairie near the Teche is
high and fertile soil; the surface declines in receding towards the
opposite woods, but even there, much of the land is sufficiently high
for culture. Indeed all the land in Prairie Grand Chevreuil, with
but little exception, is capable of being cultivated. The settlements
that line the woods on both sides of the prairie are numerous, and we
meet with many extensive farms. Cotton and maize are the general
objects of culture; and are both produced in large quantities and of
excellent quality. The local position of this prairie gives many ad
vantages to its inhabitants ;-their proximity to an inexhaustible
source of all kinds of timber that the exigencies of their farms can
demand, and the convenience of navigation, confer a value on their
lands, that raise them above those of other more remote but equally
fertile tracts, Besides the entrance by the mouth of Teche, there are
as many as five outlets from Prairie Grand Chevreuil to Atchafalaya
river; the most remarkable of which are those of Fausse point, Gue
dry's, and Durald's, all of which have been noticed. 
PRAIRIE LAURENT; enclosed between the Teche, Bayou Bour
bee, and Bayou Fusilier, lies Prairie Laurent, about eleven miles
long and three wide. All the land of this prairie, sufficiently elevated
for culture, is excellent soil. There are some very fine farms in this
prairie. Cotton and maize are the common objects of cultivation.
Above Prairie Laurent and Prairie Grand Chevreuil, ranging along
the Teche, are the small prairies, Petite Bois and Romaine; upon
the Courtableau, are the prairies Baré, Alabama, Wickoff's, Carron's,
Le Meile's, and one or two more. None of these, except Wickoff’s,
exceeds two mikes in length, most of them about one ; but all are ex
tremely fertile. Wickoff’s prairie is the termination to the northeast
of Opelousas of these natural meadows. Beyond this latter prairie,
which is four miles long and one and a half wide, commences a heavy
forest, which continues to the Atchafalaya ; many parts of which are
also covered with an almost impenetrable brake of cane.
It may be expressed in few words, that the high arable plains of
Attacapas and Opelousas are bounded south by an impassable morass,
to the west by continuous prairies, to the northwest by open dry pine
woods, and to the northeast by an annually inundated expanse inter
sected by bayous, chequered by lakes, or covered with an almost
impervious forest, with cane and palmetto brakes. 
Between the settlements of Opelousas and those of Avoyelles, about
fifteen miles in a direct line from each, occur the hill and prairie of
Bayou Rouge. This place is a real curiosity. At a considerable
distance from Opelousas, the timber, soil, and surface have a great
resemblance to the wood lands in many places within four or five
miles of the church of the latter; whilst an annually inundated swamp,
totally different from either, intervenes. 
Bayou Rouge hili rises abruptly from low lands, covered with cy
press, swamp, white-oak, and other trees, indicative of and bearing
marks of deep overflow. The surface of the hill is perhaps forty feet
79 * EMIGRANT's GUIDE.
above the level of the circumjacent swamp, rises to its height at once ;
of course the crown is a table land. It is about three miles in diame
ter, being nearly round, and about two-thirds of the surface prairie.
The inhabitants are included in the parish of Avoyelles. . 
From the northeast extension of Bayou Rouge hill, issues a spring
of the most limpid water. It would be very difficult to determine
whether the spring or the ground from which it flows is the most of a
phenomenon. Upon the eminence above the spring, the traveller
may be seated at the root of a black-oak, surrounded by dogwood,
mulberry, and other trees scarcely ever found, even on the borders
of lands liable to be overflowed by the Mississippi, and be within
one hundred yards of land, upon which water rests four or five feet
deep every spring. H is one of the many instances that Louisiana
affords, where the extremes of natural productions touch without ming
ling. The trees and shrubs of this humbly elevated hill, are as dis
tinct from those of the swamp with which it is every where environ
ed, as if the two places were distances the most remote from each
other.
The poor remains of the Tonica nation of Indians reside upon this
hill. The history of this tribe is short and melancholy. When the
French first came to Louisiana in the beginning of the last century,
the Tonicas or Tunicas, resided on the bank of the Mississippi be
low Red river, at the mouth of the bayou that yet bears their name.
The Tonicas were always in peace and amity with the French.
In 1718, the French formed an establishment at Natchez, and the persons who formed it were, in 1729, massacred by the Natchez tribe
of Indians, who were themselves obliged to abandon their homes, and
fly before the French and their allies, amongst whom were the To
nicas. The Natchez took refuge in the then remote, and to the French
unknown, banks of the Tensaw river, where they remained concealed
two years. True to the unquenchable nature of Indian revenge, the
Natchez sallied from their hiding place, descended the rivers to To
nica village, surprised and massacred the greatest part of the tribe;
but by this incursion were themselves discovered. The governor of
Louisiana marched against them, and finally broke up the nation.
Some were killed, others made captive, and a small party escaped
and joined the Cadoes. 
The Tonicas some time after removed to their present residence,
where the remainder, forty or fifty persons, survive to perpetuate the " name. They have adopted the modes of culture, and, in some mea
sure, the manners and customs of the French. One or two white fa
milies reside amongst them ; and it would puzzle Montesquieu himself,
to determine which of the parties have been most influenced by the
other. Each cultivates cotton and maize. Their cotton is carried in
canoes to Point Coupée by the Atchafalaya and Mississippi.
The timber on the hill is black-eak, white-oak, red-oak, linden,
red-elm, sweet gum, poplar (liriodendron,) dogwood, wild cherry, and ash. •. *
It would be difficult to conceive of a more remote and secluded .
spot. Surrounded for many months with a sea of water, and out of
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 71 .
the course of any thoroughfare, its inhabitants are almost as detached
from the world as if they were in an island of the Pacific ocean. 
From the neighbourhood of this hill flows a stream called Bayou
Rouge, that enters the Atchafalaya. 
Farther south another creek, called Bayou Petite Prairie, flows
nearly parallel to Bayou Rouge, and also falls into Atchafalaya. Ba: you Rouge enters Atchafalaya about one mile below the head of the
great raft in the latter, and Bayou Petite Prairie about ten miles
lower down. 
There are considerable bodies of excellent land upon each of those
two bayous, particularly the latter; but the impediment to naviga
tion created by the ratt in Atchafalaya will, it is supposed, prevent
their improvement for many years.
The region from Opelousas to Bayou Rouge inclusive, might with
much propriety be denominated a country of large timber. It is cer
tainly one of the heaviest forests in the world; and will, at some fu
ture time, become of great importance. Amongst other trees whose
timber is valuable, there is an immense quantity of very fine white oak and cypress. The greater part remains untouched, particularly
the oak.
Having completed this rapid sketch of the natural features of Ope
lousas and Attacapas, we may now pass on to their artificial improve
ments, - 
Political divisions.—settlements, towns,—productions.—Attacapas
was first discovered and settled by the French about the middle of the
last century. When first established, the whole country bore the name of
ttacapas, from a tribe of Indians resident in the country. Another tribe,
named Opelousas, resided near the head of Teche, from whom that
country was named. Some years after the first settlement, when the
inhabitants increased, Opelousas was divided from Attacapas and made
a separate commandary : in which state the two places remained du
ring the existence of the French and Spanish governments in Louisiana,
and for some years after the United States exercised political juris
diction in the country. The line of demarkation between the two
osts from the time of their first separation, began at the mouth of the º river, ran thence up that stream to the mouth of Bayou
Queue Tortue; thence up that stream to its source ; then by an ima
ginary line to the head of Bayou Carrion Crow; thence down that
stream to its mouth; thence up to the Vermilion to the efflux of Ba
you Fusilier; thence down that stream to its junction with Teche
river; thence by an imaginary line east to Atchafalaya river. This
limit will no doubt remain permanent: the most part of the distance
is marked out by water-courses, and the remainder is known by ob
vious lines of connexion. . . 
Viewed as natural positions, there is no apparent distinction be
tween Opelousas and Attacapas. From the mouth of Atchafalaya
river to the pine prairie in the N. W. part of Opelousas, the interme
diate country presents one uniform geological structure, though the
local subdivisions vary in regard to climate, soil, and vegetable pro
ductions. The minor parts of each of the great portions are more
distinct than are the two great divisions themselves from each other.
72 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
It is from a conviction of this natural assimilation, that this fine region
has been in this work treated of as one connected surface. 
Leaving Renthrop's ferry, at the mouth of Teche, and advancing
to the Pine prairie, while ignorant of the political territorial divisions,
the traveller would consider himself in one and the same country; he
could not perceive any of those marks, “that point out a division in
the families of organized existence.” 
A more rapid and astonishing transition is not conceivable, than
between the deep, dark, and silent gloom of the inundated lands of
Atchafalaya, and the open, light, and cheerful expansion of the wide
spread prairies of Opelousas and Attacapas. This pleasing and really
delightful change is amongst the certain items of reward, that every
individual will receive, who passes at any season of the year from
New Orleans to either Opelousas or Attacapas. After being many
days confined in the rivers, exposed to heat, musquetoes, and many
severe privations, to pass in a few minutes from this scene of silence
and suffering, to an ocean of light, to the view of expanses where the
eye finds no limit but the distant horizon, is a delight of which no an
ticipation can give an adequate idea. To be enjoyed, it must be felt.
It is one of the incidents in human life where the pursuit is pain, and
the possession pleasure ; where the soft and glowing landscape repays,
and cheats not the weary voyager. In an eventful life, the author
recalls this amongst the few, the very few instances where recollection
of the past does not embitter the present.
The various roads and river routes being delineated, the reader is
now to be informed of the means of entering the country. If his pro
gress is by the mouth of Teche into Attacapas, the first object that will
claim his attention after landing at Renthrop's ferry, will be the rich
banks of Teche, lined with live oak, black oak, sweet gum, and lau
rel magnolia; the arable margin narrow, and extending down the
Atchafalaya five or six miles below the mouth of Teche. Ascending
the latter river to Sorrel's, no great change in the physiognomy or pro
duction of the country will be found;—prairies extending along the
river, but very confined in their width, often interrupted by wood
land reaching to the margin of the stream. 
At Sorrel's the prairie at once expands, and introduces the traveller
to the almost interminable savannas that reach from that place to
Rio Grand del Norte. Above Sorrel's as far as New Iberia, the Te
che retains its distinctive character, though the adjacent country an
nounces the vicinity of other regions. The bend of Fausse point, in
its wide sweep, returns again almost to the place of outset, and at
Mad. St. Maur's, the sugar cane still endures the vicissitudes of the
climate. Here the Teche, retaining the fertility of its shores, turns
to the northward. 
At the lower extremity of Fausse point bend, stands New Iberia,
on the west or right bank of Teche. If elegance of site, or beauty
of prospect, could of themselves confer prosperity, no town could
have a higher claim than New Iberia. It stands at the head of
schooner navigation, in one of the most fertile and best cultivated
parts of Attacapas. This village stands upon the extremity of a
merely perceptible eminence, which leaving the banks of Teche, pur-,
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. - 73
shes a northwest direction, and forms the settlement of Côte Gélé,
between New Iberia and the Vermilion river. Though but little
elevated above the banks of Teche, the soil of this ridge is essential
ly different. Crossing, or rather only interrupted by Vermilion, this
ridge forms the Penault settlement, west of the latter stream, and
turning north, extends through Opelousas, and gradually gaining ele
vation, becomes, near Red river, hills of considerable height. Schis
tose sand-stone becomes visible at the base of these hills on the head
waters of Bayou's Boeuf aid Crocodile. There has been no instance
of stone in any considerable quantity being found either on the sur
face or by digging in any part of Attacapas, or the lower parts of
Opelousas.
New Iberia, though situated upon ground twenty feet above the
highest floods that can now take place, rests evidently upon alluvial
soil. The site of this town is the point of contact between two bodies
of land, which though both have drawn their materials from one
source, have been deposited at long and distant intervals of time.
The hills are in many respects better adapted to agriculture than
the banks of Teche. The former are more rolling than the latter, of
course less liable to injury from excessive rains. Between New
Iberia and Opelousas church, following the ridge of hills, are some of
the best populated, best cultivated, and certainly most pleasant parts
of the country. Côte Géºé, Penault, Grand Côteaux, and the neigh
bourhood of Opelousas church are examples. - 
It would be entirely impossible to fix any general price to lands in
the range of these settlements; so much depends upon situation and
other contingencies, that the extremes would be from four or five to
forty or fifty dollars per acre. In general the lands here are cheaper
than on the Teche; often more so than the real difference in the re
spective advantages of the two places.
Descending the Vermilion below Côte Gélé, the lands, particularly
on the east bank, preserve the aspect of that settlement. The Wer
milion differs totally from the Teche. The former flows through low
inundated bottoms, the high land seldom reaching the margin of the
stream ; the Teche contrarywise, having the highest part of its adja
cent lands on the immediate bank. Extensive marshes, in the true
meaning of the term, are found on Vermilion, and but rarely occur
near the Teche, and never on its banks. In reality the Vermilion
represents the rivers which flow into the Mexican gulf west of Atcha
falaya; the Teche represents the Mississippi and other streams whose
banks are formed from recent alluvion. The lands upon Vermilion
are, however, extremely fertile, and though the physiognomy of the
stream bears a strong family resemblance to the Mermentau, Calca
siu, and Sabine, yet in point of production the soil it waters falls but
little below that of the Teche.
St. Martinsville, the present seat of justice for the parish of St.
Martins, is the largest town, Natchitoches excepted, in Louisiana
west of the Atchafalaya river. It stands upon the west bank of Te
che at N. lat. 30° 10', nine miles by land, and thirty-two by water
above New Iberia. The ground upon which St. Martinsville is built,
is too flat, and the streets are excessively luuddy in wet weather.
10
74 - EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
It is well situated for commercial purposes in the centre of a well
cultivated and productive country. The church of Attacapas being placed here, was the cause of the establishinent of the town. Under
the Spanish government, the churches in the various posts were the
places where public business was transacted. This custom has been
in most instances perpetuated by the administrators of the American
overnment. In point of situation and commercial facility, New
beria is certainly superior to St.Martinsville,but notwithstanding all its
advantages, the latter has, and probably will continue to prevail over
the former.
The division line between two parishes being so near, has also con
tributed to arrest the progress of New Iberia by taking away the
hope of its ever becoming the seat of public business. It is, however,
a port of entry, and enjoys the privileges attached to such establish
ments.
There is no part of the United States, nor even of Louisiana, where
towns are of less consequence than in Attacapas and Opelousas. With
the ideas formed in Europe or in the northern and middle states of the
United States, men can hardly conceive of a country being in a rapid
state of improvement without the accumulation of towns. It has been
supposed that in many European countries, one person in five, and in
all the states of the United States north and east of Philadelphia, that
more than one-tenth part of the entire population lived in cities,
towns, or villages. And this estimate is made exclusive of the large
commercial marts. Whether the slavery of the negroes produces the
effect or not, it is a fact, that in all the slave states, towns are com
paratively few and small. In a country whose inhabitants are so ac
tively commercial as those of the United States, every section must
have a depot. Therefore, a few large cities will exist in every part,
but if we may form anticipations of the future from the past, no great
number of large cities will ever rise in the state of Louisiana, or the
adjacent countries. In Opelousas and Attacapas, so many persons do
now, and will probably continue to trade to New Orleans direct,
without employing store keepers, that one of the chief sources of the
increase of towns is considerably less in these places than in the
northern and middle states.
Every traveller who attentively reviews the objects before him,
will be struck with the great disparity between the towns and farms
of all the slave states; but in none so much as in Louisiana, New
Orleans excepted. Many have attributed this effect to the principles
of the Spanish government; but the conclusion is unfounded. Mexico .
and Peru have as many, if not more large cities, in proportion to the
population of those places, than the United States have. After stating
the fact, we may leave the theoretical deductions of the cause to those
who have more talent and leisure, and continue our subject.
Above St. Martinsville there are no more towns in Attacapas. The
country is thickly settled upon both banks of Teche, upon the Ver
milion, and the intermediate streams. Cotton is the great staple and
object of cultivation. The soil is every where well adapted to the
growth of that vegetable. The production, in proportion to the ef
fective hands employed, is, perhaps, as great as in any part of the
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 73
state. The advantage of cultivating prairie land is here completely enjoyed. Though the culture of the soil has advanced within a few
years past with great rapidity, yet the surface, when compared with the population, is still so great-as to leave an almost unlimited choice of ground for tillage. A custom prevails here that could be practised
only in such countries; that of changing the enclosures every three
or four years. As land becomes of more value by increase of people, this usage will of course be laid aside; it is now of very great service
to the planters, by releasing them from one of their greatest enemies,
the crab grass.
The value of land is generally the first question made by a travel
ler, and it is one to which no definite answer can be made, respect ing any section of the United States. A general comparison is always safe, and made with facility, between two places which produce re spectively staples differing in a considerable degree in value. Lands where sugar can be made, will bear a higher estimation than those
where only cotton can be produced. Therefore, every thing else equal, the landed property of the inhabitants of Attacapas below St. Martinsville, is of more value than that claimed to the north of that
town.
How far north the sugar cane can be cultivated, is an inquiry of
very deep interest, and it is one of the many subjects where the hu
man mind is extremely liable to deception. From the great difference
in value, every landholder grasps with avidity at a prospect of chang
ing his cotton into sugar lands. Nothing but experience can decide this question, and without any particular cause of suspicion against individuals, emigrants ought to be very cautious of implicitly believing in flattering pictures, drawn by É. interested in deceiving others, and from their avidity very
iable to be deceived themselves.
Cotton being a vegetable capable of attaining the developement of its growth on almost all lands, and in all climates of the United States
below the thirty-fifth degree of north latitude, every emigrant is safe in forming calculations upon its culture, in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, and the territory of Alabama. In Darby's Louisiana the
ground upon which sugar can be made is laid down. The data are drawn from what has already been effected, and from vegetable analogy. In this work it has been shown that where snow is known
to fall frequently, the possible beneficial culture of the sugar cane is doubtful. It has been also established, that heavy snows are frequent
at the church of Opelousas. It may be also remarked, that the live
oak tree ceases also where, or very near where, snow commences. In some places the existence of the live oak is supposed to be influenced by proximity to the sea. The correctness of the remark, doubtful in all places, is demonstrably erroneous in Louisiana and Alabama, where this tree grows at very different distances from the shore of the
gulf of Mexico. We have been the more careful in calling the attention of the tra
veller to the subject of vegetable associations, from a thorough con viction, that from this source may be drawn some of the most valua ble facts that can interest the student in statistical inquiry. It is a
76 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
mean of acquiring accurate knowledge of a country, that if judiciously
pursued, cannot deceive. It is a safeguard against deception that
ought never to be neglected. And what renders its precepts the more
valuable, they are written in a language that never needs an interpre
ter, “he who runs may read.”
Besides the vegetable staples in Opelousas and Attacapas, those
places have another source of revenue in which they are perhaps un
rivalled,—the rearing of cattle. There are many parts upon the Mermentau, Calcasiu, and Sabine, where this pastoral commerce will
perhaps be perpetuated as long as the present order of things continues
in the world. It would be difficult to conceive the possibility of any
country being more completely adapted to the rearing of cattle than
are the prairies along the waters of the Opelousas. So much are men
prone to adopt what best suits their peculiar situation, when left free to follow the bent of their own desires, that common custom in such
cases is the best test of propriety. From the first establishment of the
post, the production of cattle became the chief pursuit of the people of
Opelousas and Attacapas ; but as the settlements progressed, and
particularly since the establishment of the American government,
wherever the soil was productive, agricultural has superseded pastoral
labour. So much however of the lands to the westward of the water
courses communicating with the Teche, are naturally sterile, flat, and
incapable alike of present culture or future improvement, that the
region seems pointed out by nature as the meadow lands to supply
with beef, butter, and cheese, the inhabitants of the productive banks
of the Mississippi and its intermediate streams.
The city of New Orleans and its vicinity are supplied with beef,
tallow, and butter, from these savannas. Many of the richer plan ters on the Teche, Vermilion, and other agricultural districts, have
stock farms, or as they are termed in the country, “ vacheries,” estab
lished upon the Mermentau, and Calcasiu. The cattle is guarded by
men employed for that purpose, who have, in most cases, as their re
ward, a stipulated share of the increase. These stockherdshave also the
use of all the milk and butter they choose to make for their own use.
To families who remove into the country, and whose finances are not
very ample, no situation could be more eligible than having the use
of one of these vacheries. It is, however, a life of severe activity.
The lives of the men who guard the flocks of this country, may be said
to be spent on horseback. It is also a pursuit demanding considerable
skill in the peculiar management of its details. There is no applica
tion of the hands of mere common working men. where so much pro
fit is drawn from the same labour. Three or four active men, with
about double as many tolerable good horses, will manage a stock pro
ducing annually from three to five hundred calves. The fifth is the
common reward of the keepers. This would yield from twenty-five
to thirty calves to a single hand. Four years old beeves, the ordi
nary age at which they are sold, will yield from fiſteen to twenty
dollars per head. It will appear obvious from this statement, that,
though the emolument will accumulate slowly at first, its ultimate re
suit is very considerable. In most instances, where the essay has been
made with due exertion and ordinary prudence, the reward was am.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 77
ple. In that, as in too many other cases, particularly in the south
ern states, many persons seek the business as a situation of ease and
idleness; and succeed accordingly.
Most of those, however, who are employed on these pastoral farms,
are either slaves, or of men particularly known to the owners of
the cattle. They are generally a hardy, active, class of men; and
certainly, are amongst the best horsemen in the world. The rapi
dity and skill of their movements are justly subjects of an admira
tion, which is often heightened by the docility and sagacity of their
horses.
The cattle, horse, and modes of managing, both came into Louis
iana from the Spanish provinces in North America. The race of the
domestic cow, so greatly multiplied in Opelousas and Attacapas, is
high, clean limbed, and elegant in its appearance. The horses are
from the Andalusian, or Numidian race: they are, like their ances
tors, small, compactly built, and inconceivably durable. Many of
them are active in a high degree: and though inferior in size, strength,
fleetness, or beauty, to the English race of horses now general in the
United States, they are, nevertheless, greatly superior.jn every essen }. quality necessary for the severe service they are made to per
Orm.
The cow yields much less milk, and of inferior quality, in all the
southern parts of the United States, than in those more northern. This
effect, generally acknowledged, has been ascribed to the greater
richness of the pastures of the latter. How far this induction is cor
rect, we are unable to determine, but feel inclined to consider this
like every other operation of the laws of nature, who makes nothing
in vain. , Milk, though appropriated by man to his use, was formed
to feed the young of the animal by which it is produced. Where
abundant and succulent herbage every where abound, there is less
occasion for the milk; consequently, upon the plains of Louisiana
and Texas, the pendant udder, and high boned, lank, and hollow ap
pearance of the northern cow, is never seen. The cow of Louisiana and Texas has a vivacity and alertness that would almost bespeak
them specifically different from the dull, phlegmatic animal of the same
enus in more nothern climates.
The flesh of the cattle killed upon the prairie is often excellent.
The feeding or salting of their stock is entirely neglected by most
of the owners: the benefits arising from greater attention have, how
ever, exhibited themselves wherever an experiment has been made.
Though abounding to overflow in summer and autumn, the pastorage
is generally destroyed by frost in winter, to nearly the coast of the
gulf of Mexico. Nothing can demonstrate more strongly the low
temperature of the climate of Opelousas, Attacapas, and all the coun
try to the westward of those places on the gulf of Mexico, than the an
nually destruction of the grass by frost. 
There are two very distinct species of the arundo, or large reed
eane, growing in southern Louisiana; the arundo gigantea, and the
arundo aquatica. The former is the most hardy of all the grasses,
and resists the action of frost in regions more rigorous than any part
of the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, or the territory of Alabama
78 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
and province of Texas. The arundo aquatica is unknown in the
higher parts of the country: it is found to ſorm large brakes upon the
banks of the Mississippi below Fort St. Philip, and upon the shores of all
the other streams to the westward whose banks are low. The arundo
aquatica forms a beautiful border never extending more than forty or
fifty feet from the water edge. This gramén is extremely susceptible .
of decomposition by frost. When the author was at the mouth of Sa
bine in the winter of 1812–13, he arrived at the head of the lake near
the 30° N. lat. on the 20th of December, and found the arundo aqua
tica still untouched by frost: but in the nights of the 21st and 22d,
very severe frost destroyed the cane entirely : and in less than one
week afterwards, the stalks appeared dry and parched as if blighted
by fire: the ground was frozen, and the small ponds covered with
ice: the weather was, indeed, severe, beyond what could be expected
in that latitude.
The other lesser gramina are still more tender than the arundo
aquatica, and of course submit to a light frost, that would be resisted
by the latter. The prairies below 30° N. lat. has often the dry
stubble-like aspect of fields from which the grain has been cut. . In such cases the cattle and horses suffer: but when to the ruin of their
food, is added snow and sleet, which is often the case as low as 30°
30' N. lat the situation of the poor exposed animals is really pitia
ble. In the months of January 1800, 1807, and 1812, snow fell
at Opelousas of considerable depth and duration. The storm of 1807,
though it occasioned less snow, was much more destructive to the
cattle than that of 1812; the former was attended with a keen N. W.
wind, commenced with cold rain followed by sleet, and terminated
with snow : but the residue of the month and part of February, gave
very warm pleasant weather. On the night of the seventh of Febru
ary, another severe frost set in, attended with clear calm weather.
The latter frost was so intense as to freeze the ponds, and other stag
nant waters as low as the gulf of Mexico. The spring was rainy till
the middle of March, when the season changed to dry and warm.
A phenomenon ensued the storm in January, that staggers the cre
dulity of many persons. No injurious effects upon the cattle were
perceptible for some time, but suddenly they were ſound to be dying
by thousands. The malady had all the appearance of a real pleurisy.
the cattle were not reduced much in flesh, but fell and died in a few
hours. Those which recovered, were weak until late in summer.
The swine seemed also affected in the same manner. It was thought
by many persons, that one-fourth part of the stock of horned cattle in
the country perished. The horses and mules escaped. Some of the
old inhabitants observed, that a similar fatality had occurred once be
fore in their recollection, preceded also by severe frost.
If making of hay, and providing shelter for stock in stormy wea
ther, were to become general objects of rural economy, there can
be very little doubt of an ample pecuniary recompense being the
consequence. Whilst the wide spread prairie gives such abundant
summer range, provision for winter will be neglected.
Whether sheep could be reared in Opelousas as profitable on ac
count of their wool, has never been ascertained. Most of the plant
,
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 79
ers have some sheep; but the quality of the wool is generally coarse:
the mutton is excellent. How far the wool could be improved by the
introduction of other breeds, remains open to experiment.
As far as pasturage and the climate are concerned, there is no rea son to doubt but sheep could be º: to any supposable ex
tent. The dry pine tracts that seem to forbid attempts at agriculture, .
might probably be beneficially employed as sheepfolds.
From the review we have given of the temperature of the climate,
and the operation of frost, the reader will be able to form a reasona.
ble estimate of the probability of success in the cultivation of the
vine and olive, in Opelousas and Attacapas. The essential difference
in the respective climates of the basin of the Mobile, the valley of
the Mississippi, and the extensive prairies of Louisiana and Texas,
has also been exhibited. It will be seen that the line of climate does
not correspond with the parallels of latitude. Though the 33° N. lat.*
has been correctly assumed as a general line of demarkation between
the climates of this continent, yet the regions near the delta of the
Mississippi show a deviation from this boundary. A line drawn from
the junction of the Coosa and Tallapoosa, to the mouth of the Sabine,
would very nearly follow the course of the intermediate climates,
with the exception of that part intersecting the Mississippi. Within
fifteen or twenty miles from that great river an indentation exists,
carrying the cooler temperature of the more northern regions 12 or
15 minutes of latitude farther south.
When treating of the olive tree, f it will be shown how far any of
the countries previously reviewed will suit the growth of that tree.
It would swell the subject beyond its comparative share of atten
tion, to give in detail all that could be repeated respecting Opelousas
and Attacapas. The following table exhibits the most important ve
getable productions of this interesting country. A professed botanist
would find the eastern part of Opelousas, in relation to the objects of
his research, one of the most rich and productive regions on this globe,
particularly in forest trees. Of all the species of trees mentioned in
the following list, the Buckeye and Papaw excepted, the largest in
dividuals ever seen by the author, were found between Prairie
Bellevue and the hill of Bayou Rouge ; the most remarkable of
which are the quercus tinctoria, quercus macrocarpon, cupressus
disticha, liriodendron tulipifera, juglans nigra, juglans aquatica, and
laurus sassafras.
Acer rubrum, - Red flowering maple,
Acer negundo, Box elder,
Andromeda racemosa, Sorrel tree,
Annona triloba, Papaw,
Betula lenta, Black birch, on Mermentau,
Bignonia catalpa, - Catalpa,
* See page 31. * See chap. iv.
# This tree appears to be an indigenous tree in the eastern woods of Opelou
sas, where it grows in almost all kinds of soil. . The extreme durability of its wood and its rapid growth; have centributed to give it high estimation amongst
80 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE,
Carpinus ostrya,
Carpinus Americana,
Castanea pumila,
Celtis crassifolia
Cerasus caroliniana,
Cerasus virginiana,
Cornus florida,
Cornus aiba,
Cupressus disticha,
Diospiros virginiana,
Fagus sylvestris,
Fraxinus tomentosa,
Gleditsia triacanthos
Gleditsia monosperma,
Ilex opaca,
Juglans amara,
Juglans aquatica,
Juglans laciniosa,
Juglans myristaca-formis,
Juglans porcina,
Juglans migra,
Juglans squamosa,
Laurus sassafras,
Laurus benzoin,
• Laurus carolniensis,
Liquidambar styraciflua,
Liriodendron tulipifera,
Magnolia glauca,
Magnolia grandiflora,
Morus rubra,
Nysa aquatica,
Nysa sylvatica,
Pavia lutea,
Pinus rigida,
Populus angulata,
Platanus occidentalis,
Quercus alba,
Quercus aquatica,
Quercus falcata,
Quercus ferruginea,
Quercus lyrata,
Quercus macrocarpa,
Quercus obtusiloba,
Quercus phellos,
Quercus rubra,
Quercus tinctoria,
Tilia pubescens,
Iron wood,
Hornbeam,
Chincapin,
Hackberry,
Laurier almond,
Wild cherry * “...
Dogwood,
, Swamp dogwood,
Cypress,
Persrimon,
Beech,
Common ash,
Honey locust,
Water honey locust,
Holly,
Bitter nut hickory,
Water hickory,”
Thick shell bark hickory,
Nutmeg hickory,
Pignut hickory,
Black walnut,
Shell bark hickory,
Sassafras,
Spice wood,
Red bay,
Sweet gum,
Poplar,
White bay,
Large laurel,
Mulberry,
Tupeloo,
Black gum,
Buckeye,
Pitch pine,
Cotton wood,
Sycamore,
White oak,
Water oak,
Spanish oak,
Black jack oak,
Swamp white oak,
Overcup oak,
Post oak,
Willow oak,
Red oak,
Black oak,
Downy linden,
the planters. The catalpa is now planted extensively in Opelousas, and is used
for posts, bournes to the land, and other purposes demanding timber of long du
Tation.
* This tree bears, in Louisiana, the name of bastard paccan.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 81
Ulmus Americana, Mucilaginous elm,
Ulmus rubra, Red elm,
Ulmus aquatica, Swamp elm.*
To the above may be added an indefinite variety of vines and un
derwood; such as Spanish mulberry, prickly sumach, muscadine grape vine, white wood, pond .# white thorn, blackberry briar,
dew berry, several species of the Smilax, and many others.
On the banks of the streams immense brakes of arundo gigantea,
(great cane,) and on the outer margin of the cane, the palmetto or la
tania (chamaerops Louisiana) fill the slope between the cane and the dead overflow. . 
The cane, though found near, cannot exist upon land where its roots
are subject to long and repeated immersion. The palmetto can sup
port inundation a longer time and deeper than the cane, but perishes
also where considerable bodies of water rest upon the ground where
it grows. However flat the land may be where either of these vege
tables is found, their presence affords a natural proof of the possibility
of cultivating the land, and of the excellent quality of the soil. Con
siderable spaces in Opelousas that are now considered of no value,
must, one day, and that at no very distant period, become some of the
finest parts of the country.
Province of Texas—though justly claimed by the United States'
government as part of Louisiana, yet as no attempt has been made to
carry that claim into effect, the local Spanish authorities have been
respected. A contestation subsisted between France and Spain re
specting the demarkation between their respective limits during the
time that elapsed from the landing of La Salle at the mouth of the
Guadaloupe, in 1583, until the ratification of the treaty of 1762, when
France ceded Louisiana to Spain. 
In the Appendix to Darby's Louisiana, first edition, and the first
chapter to the second edition, may be seen the respective epocha at
which were made the various discoveries and settlements in Texas
and Louisiana. From these documents it will appear that the Spanish
officers first passed the Rio grande del Norte in 1714; almost thirty
years after the expedition of La Salle.
It was almost at the same time, 1717, that the French arrived at
Natchitoches, and the Spaniards at the Adayes, nine miles distant
from each other, and which respective posts were maintained from
that time to the transfer of the government of Louisiana to the United
States. After the establishment of the Spanish government in 1769,
no change was made in the posts. Natchitoches was continued a
commandary of Louisiana, and the Adayes of Texas. But the regu
lations of convenience adopted or perpetuated by the Spanish govern
ment cannot prejudice the just claim of the United States.
As a country, Texas is very far from being equal in fertility to the
regions included in the valleys of the Red and Mississippi rivers.
• This tree is named by the French olivier, or olive,from the form of its fruit,
which bears a great resemblance to that of the real olive.
d # This species of the elm grows to a very large tree, and is probably a non
escript. # These two dwarf trees are non-descripts, and always growing on low land,
11
$2. w EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
The climate is remarkably temperate for the latitude. A great part
consists of open plains exposed to the winds of the north, and the at mosphere is cooled considerably lower than the places on the same parallel more to the eastward. Though uninviting in an agricultural point of view, the position of Texas reuders it an object of serious in terest to the people of the United States. Few are prepared for the
moment when either the west or east border of this country must be
come a vast frontier between two powerful and independent nations.
When urging the value of Texas to the United States, it is frequently observed that the territory of the United States is already sufficiently extensive. If the observation was founded upon political wisdom, it
would apply much more forcibly to Spain, whose dominions are more extensive and less peopled than those of the United States; but in
reality it is a sophism when applied to any country. It is easier to
conceive of a nation being too condensed than over-extended; of
having too little rather than too much land. Extent of territory can
not be any great inconvenience to a people, whose relative position is
similar to that of the United States.
Independent, however, of all other considerations, the claim of the
United States to Texas ought to be insisted upon from political rea sons. Some of the best harbours in the gulf of Mexico are to be
found between the Sabine and the Rio grande del Norte. Entirely in
dependent of all the local arrangements of either government, the
people of the United States and Mexico are increasing in a very rapid
manner. Though the distance that separates these two great masses
of men from each other is yet considerable, it is every moment be coming less so. If a retrospect be taken of the progress of human so
ciety in North America during the last wentury, a pretty good idea may be formed of its advance in the present.
In the year 1717, exactly one century past, New Orleans was
founded. At that epoch there was not perhaps 500 white inhabitants in the valley of the Mississippi. There are now near two millions.
It is in reality in the last forty years that the astonishing revolution has taken place, by which such an immense mass of intelligence has
supplanted savage barbarism.
If under so many disadvantages, and so small a fund, the people of
this continent have increased so much, what will be their advance
upon the basis of their present population ? We must not suppose that the people of Mexico and the internal provinces are stationary. The fact is far otherwise. From the best documents, it appears that the people of the Spanish North American possessions exceed nine
millions, upwards of seven millions of whom are in Mexico and the
internal provinces. The people of the United States now amount to
about nine million. For a period of seventy years past, the people who now compose the United States, have more than doubled in every twenty-five years. Should a similar increment accrue in the same
ratio during another century, then will the people of the United
States, in 1917, amount to eighty millions; and allowing the people of
the Spanish colonies, in North America, to double in thirty-five years,
and supposing them now nine millions, their population, in 1917, will ke upwards of fifty millions. Taken together, the continent will then
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 83
be peopled with one hundred and thirty millions, exclusive of the
Canadas and other British settlements, which will contain perhaps ten
or fifteen millions. 
This increase, though apparently so enormous, is really less in
proportion than what has actually taken place since 1717, under cir
cumstances at least as unfavourable as any that can reasonably be ex
pected in the next equal period of time.
It will be shown, in the sequel to this work, that the arable surface
of North America, exclusive of mountains, rivers, lakes. frozen tracts,
and other uninhabitable places, exceeds seven millions of square miles;
oonsequently, when inhabited by one hundred and fifty millions of
people, it will give only twenty to each square mile. Like other
nations, the mass will be unequally dispersed in America.
Viewing a map of North America, and the local situation of its pre
sent inhabitants, every person must be struck with the propriety of making the Rio grande del Norte the limit between the United States
and the Spanish provinces. This river is in itself of very jittle con
sequence, and the land it waters sterile ; it is a long continuous
stream with few branches, and in proportion to its length, having but
little water. A dense population cannot exist upon its banks,
therefore many of the causes that lead to national contests will be re
moved. If there were no title upon which the United States could
found their claim to Texas, still sound policy ought to induce Spain to
establish a boundary traced by the hand of nature; a boundary over
which either nation would have few inducements to pass. That
the passions of men will engender wars on this continent, as the same
gause has produced similar effects every where else, we cannot doubt;
but the origin of political disputes may be in great part removed in
the case before us.
Texas cannot become an immediate object of attention to emi
grants; its territory is not yet politically under the authority of the
United States, and countries superior in soil, and agricultural and
commercial facilities, are open to settlement. A detail of the rela
tive positions and natural productions of a region that must remain
for ever the frontier of the Anglo American population of this conti
, nent, cannot however be uninteresting.
Texas is bounded west and southwest by the Rio grande del
Norte; southeast by the gulf of Mexico; east by the state of Louisia
ma; and northeast and north by Red river. Its greatest length is,
from the mouth of the Rio grande del Norte to the sources of Red river, about eight hundred miles; its greatest breadth from the N. W.
angle of the state of Louisiana, in a S. W. direction to the Rio grande
del Norte, five hundred miles. Estimated by the Rhombs on Melish's
map, Texas extends over two hundred and forty thousand square
miles; or as extensive as New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ma
ryland, Virginia, Ohio, and Kentucky.
The climate must vary considerably; the mouth of Rio grande del
Norte is in 25° 55' N. lat. ; the head of Red river is in 37° N. lat.
According to the information derived from General Pike, on the high
table land upon the head waters of the Red and Arkarsan rivers, the
cold is excessive. This respectable testimony needs no farther au
* 84 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE;
thority to give it credence; but if it did need corroborative proof,
that proof is afforded by the low temperature experienced on the
shores of the Mexican gulf.
Thºugh takeh as a whole, Texas cannot be considered a fertile
country, yet on so vast an extent there are many very fine tracts.
Red river will no doubt admit of settlement along its whole length.
The same may be said of several of the other streams; and though
this population cannot be very compact, yet the individuals that com
pose it may be free and happy The air of this region is, according
to every account yet made public, pure, serene, and in the highest degree healthful. 
The pursuits of the people of the interior of the country will be,
it is most probable, or ever pastoral. The soil, the want of wood in many places, and remoteness from large commercial ports, will all
combine to perpetuate the present order of things in that extensive,
and in many respects delightful country.
In point of geological structure, Texas is remarkably regular.
Resting upon the Rio grande del Norte as a base, the country lies in
the form of an immense triangle, all the rivers conforming to each
other in an astonishing degree. Red river, and the Rio Grande on the
two opposite sides, have great resemblance to each other in their
courses and particular bends. The intermediate"streams, for some
distance from their sources, flow southeast; when gradually turning
south they pursue that course to the gulf of Mexico. In this manner
flows the Nueces, Gaudaloupe, Colorado, Brassos à Dios, Trinity,
Sabine, and Calcasiu. The sources of the Mermentau being too far
south to admit its conformity to the foregoing streams, its course is
south nearly. The Calcasiu and Mermentau are neither in Texas ;
their names are mentioned here to afford examples of the regular for
mation of the country bordering on the north shore of the gulf of Mexico.
We will close this chapter with a review of the N. W. section of
the state of Louisiana. It is within five or six years past that much
of this country was discovered. This may seem almost incredible,
but it is really a fact, that, in 1811, considerable streams that flow into
Red and Ouachitta rivers, were unknown, except to a few hunters.
If this had been the case with rivers remote from the Mississippi, the
chasm in geography would not have excited surprise; but it is certain
ly astonishing that such water courses should be unexplored, as the
Derbane. Saline of Ouachitta, Saline of Red river, Dacheet, Bodcau, Black Lake river, and the Dugdom.ini, all in the neighbourhood of
long established posts. A glance at Lafon's map oi Louisiana, pub
lished in 1805, will enable any person acquainted with the real fea
tures of the country, to perceive how utterly the country upon Red
and Ouachitta rivers were unknown at the epoch of the publication of
the foregoing map. 
The government of the United States commenced surveys in Louis
iana west of the Mississippi and Atchafalaya rivers in 1805,” but
did not extend the operations of surveying to the north side of Red
* See page 7.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE, - 86
river until 1813. The author of this treatise assisted in performing surveys on each side of Red river under the authority of the United
States; and in addition, made extensive surveys, on his own account,
of many places not embraced by the work done by order of the gene
ral government, and traversed repeatedly the hitherto most imperfect
ly known parts. These circumstances are mentioned here in order
to apprize the reader of the means taken to procure correct informa
tion of this valuable country.
The N W. section of the state of Louisiana, is bounded east by
the Mississippi; north by the northernmost part of the 33° N, lat.
north; by a meridian line due south from the 32° to 33° N. lat.
west; by the Sabine river southwest ; and by the 31° N. lat. or
Opelousas, south. This section extends over 21,700 square miles,
including the parishes of Natchitoches, Ouachitta, Ocatahoola, Con
cordia, Rapide, and Avoyelles.
Natural features—Rivers—Lakes—and Mineral Productions. The
principal rivers of the N. W. section of the state of Louisiana, are,
Sabine, Red river, Ouachitta, and Mississippi.
The Sabine is a small and unimportant stream where intersected
by the 32° N. lat. ; this place is evidcntly within no very great dis
tance from its source. When examined by the author in November,
1812, the river was excessively swollen by rain, and yet appeared
small and narrow. As was the case in almost every other instance,
no precise information could be obtained respecting this river except
by actual observation. The author commenced a traverse at the
town of Natchitoches on Red river, and measured the several courses
between the latter and Sabine. From a wish to include the then
vaguely known settlement of Bayou Pierre, the traverse was extended
northwest along the overflown lands of Red river, as high as 32° 10'
21" N. lat., and then curved to the Sabine. By this means the
creeks, lakes, and settlements, N. W. of Natchitoches were delinea
ted upon Darby's large map of Louisiana.
After departing from Natchitoches towards Sabine, the country is
found to be hilly. The prevailing timber, pine, black oak, sweet
gum, and various species of hickory. This description of country
continues ten or twelve miles, where, in following the road to Na
cogdoches, pine becomes more abundant, and other timber less in
quantity. After passing the western extremity of Spanish lake, the
foregoing traverse was continued nearly N. W. as has been observed,
along the margin of the overflown lands of Red river. In this range
the pine ceases almost entirely, and is followed by oak and hickory
woods. The country is extremely broken, and often stony. The
hills are not very elevated, but steep. The bottoms are often fertile,
though not very extensive.
A number of streams of very limpid water flow from the hills into the
lakes of Red river; and, amongst others, is Bayou Pierre, so called from
the settlement of that name. The streams are all short in their courses;
none exceeding twenty-five miles in length. Black hickory may be
considered the prevailing timber. Some extensive flats of post oak (quercus obtusiloba) exist, and where this tree prevails, the land is
poor and wet. - 
86 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
The dividing ridge between the Sabine and Red rivers, preserves
at this place nearly an equal distance from each stream ; the streams
respectively flowing in opposite directions; those of Red river, N. E.;
those of Sabine, S. W. After leaving the settlement of Bayou Pierre
about eight miles to the west, pine again occurs in great abundance,
interspersed with black-jack ridges. The country is very broken,
poor, and on the hills sandy and rocky. Here is seen a phenome
non often beheld in Louisiana. Some of the creeks are fine clear
streams of water, whilst others have their channels dry, except when
supplied by rain. There is nothing peculiar in the country to point
out the reason of the difference.
Upon some of the streams are large quantities of a species of
maple, having the external appearance of the acer nigrum of Michaux.
This tree is very scarce in all lower Louisiana, and utterly unknown
in any part south, of the place under review. It is here found in its
usual company, the beech, black oak, white oak, and ash. Whether
this maple is really the acer nigrum (black sugar tree,) of Michaux,
or a non-descript, remains undetermined.
Enough of the bottom land of this region is ſertile to admit of ex
tensive settlement. The timber is very large and excellent. Ap
proaching the Sabine, no very perceptible change in the general ap
pearance of the country takes place. The surface of arable land,
perhaps, is something more extensive. The eastern side of the Sa
bine in all its length, from the 32° N. lat to the gulf of Mexico, is low,
and more subject to overflow than the western. A ridge of hills
winds along the western shore of the Sabine, often projecting preci
pitous ledges of sand stone rock, over the stream. In no one place
does a bluff reach the river on the east side. The rock is all perfect
ly horizontal, and of one species, bluish friable sand stone. There
are few indications of metals, none of either lime stone or mineral
coal. At a distance from the river, in the creeks and even on the
highest hills, occur pudding stone, with petrified wood, often im
bedded in the mass. Rounded siliceous pebbles are scattered over
every part, and often form the body of the hills.
The general timber upon the Sabine is composed of pitch pine,
black oak, red oak, white oak, black hickory, sweet gum, black gum,
ash, beech, and dogwood. Cane is abundant upon the margin of the
river, but does not extend far from the stream, and is generally of
small growth. 
Receding from this place towards Opelousas, pitch pine gradually
encroaches upon the other trees; and below 32° N. lat., to the prairies
on Mermentau and Calcasiu, may be termed a pine forest, except
the margin of the streams; and even there the pine often reaches to
the water. This is frequently the case with the Sabine, whose banks
are at intervals clothed with an unmixed pine wood.
Above 32° N. lat, the country maintains the character pointed out
upon the traverse ran by the author, until merged into the great prai
ries towards the Panis villages. 
Red river enters the state of Louisiana in one undivided stream, and
flows southward into the state about thirty miles by a direct course ;
then spreads out into a number of channels and lakes, forming an inun
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 87.
dated swamp six miles wide and fifty long. This overflowed tract in
Red river, may be strictly called the commencement of its delta, as,
in strictness, the river never does again unite in one continuous stream.
The breadth of the overflowed land has been much overrated. The
author measured the high lands along both banks, from the town of
Natchitoches to 32° 55' N. lat., and determined by actual survey the
length and breadth of the inundated part. The aspect of the country
above Natchitoches on the eastern, is greatly superior to that near the
western side of Red river. The bottoms on the creeks are more ex
tensive, and of better soil, than are those towards Sabine. The hills,
though much more elevated, are more gradual in their elevation.
At low water this inundated country is an assemblage of islands,
between the various lakes and channels, but at the season of high wa
ter, all the low lands are covered and become one great lake. It will
be obvious to any person who visits the country and observes the ob
jects presented by nature attentively, that the present situation of
things in the delta” of Red river is of recent origin. In all the
large lakes, the remains of the cypress tree still appear to attest the
ancient state of the country. In Natchitoches, Spanish, Back, Bisti
nean, and Bodcau lakes, the ruins of the cypress tree are abundant,
The cypress, like all other trees, perishes whenever its roots are im
mersed in water throughout the year. The timber of this tree resists
the combined action of 'air and moisture longer than any known
wood, and for this reason their stems now remain in these lakes per
haps ages after the other trees that formerly grew in the same places
have fallen and mouldered away.
It would appear that Red river had gradually deposited alluvion
sufficient to fill up the valley through which it ran, above the level of
the bottoms of the creeks that entered from each side. No creek en
ters Red river below the commencement of this inundated tract, but
which forms lakes previous to entering the main stream. In this
manner has been formed all the lakes near the river. Many of those
lakes have ten or fifteen feet water in the driest seasons, where once
grew a forest.
There is no direct channel remaining through the alluvial tract from
its commencement to the Grand Ecor, four miles above Natchitoches.
It is not without considerable difficulty that boats can be piloted
through, and only at high water can pass. Many parts of the various
channels are choked with trees. There is not, however, as generally
thought, any continued raft. No floating timber can now escape
through this labyrinth, and the circumstance affords positive evidence
*As this term frequently occurs in this and other works on Louisiana, it may uot be improper to give its explanation. The estuary of the Nile was called by
the ancients, from its resemblance to the Greek letter A, delta. This was tole
rably appropriate when applied to the Nile, but could not apply to other rivers whose mouths formed lands of very different outlines. It is now used to desig
nate the alluvial tracts formed by the abrasion of the waters of any river, whose
streams carry down, and deposite great bodies of sediment near their mouths. Adopted in this manner, the term É. serves to point out a distinction be
tween two classes of rivers; those which, like the Nile and Mississippi, pro
trude bodies of land, from those which, like the Deleware, Susquehannah, and Plate, have wide bays for their estuaries. 
38 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
that the period cannot be very remote when the river was absolute
ly closed. Red cedar is very plentiful on Red river above the state
of Louisiana: logs of this tree are found lodged in the banks of Red
river near Natchitoches, but none now come down the stream. The
cedar is frequently found on the banks as low as Alexandria at the
Rapids. Its present existence is no doubt to be attributed, like that of
the cypress, to the great durability of its wood.
Between Grand Ecor and the town of Natchitoches, most of the
stream of Red river is again re-united. This is, however, the case
enly at low water when the river is swelled by spring floods: several
outlets flow from the main stream between Grand Ecor and Campté.
These outlets flow into Black lake and Saline rivers, and finally join
Red river again by the stream of Rigolet de bon Dieu. Several out
lets leave the Rigolet de bon Dieu, and flow into the Hietan river;
and before the latter joins Red river the outlet of Bayou Rapide leaves
that stream from the right shore. The water only enters this latter
outlet at high water. When all the rivers are low, Hemphill's creek,
that enters Bayou Rapide, presents a curious spectacle to the travel
ler. The water of Hemphill's creek is very limpid, and immediate
ly on falling into the channel of Bayou Rapide divides; one part flow
ing south joins Red river at the town of Alexandria; the other north,
into Red river below Gilliard's plantation. Out of Bayou Rapide se
veral outlets flow. forming, by their junction Bayou Boeuf; which in
its turn contributes with Bayou Crocodile to form Courtableau river,
in Opelousas.
In the peninsula between Red and Ouachitta rivers, rise several small
streams, part of which fall into the latter, and others into the former.
Of those which unite with Red river, the principal are Bodcau, Da
cheet, Black lake, Saline, and Hietan rivers; the tributaries of Ou
achitta are Derbane and the united streams of Dugdomoni and Little
wiver, entering Ouachitta under the name of Ocatahoola river.
Upon all these streams the land presents great sameness: the soil
and timber are, in the particular, relative positions, very near specifi
cally alike. The approximation of the earth to the surface of a real
sphere in all Louisiana, is proved by the distance to which those fore
going rivers are rendered stagnant by the elevation of the Mississippi
in spring floods. The streams at low water flow with considerable
velocity; but when the Mississippi and Red rivers are swelled by
spring floods, the valleys of their tributaries are rendered completely
stagnant almost to their sources. The country is hilly, but does not
appear to rise gradually from the level of the ocean, but to stand upon
a plain.
Indications of iron are almost every where visible. The hills rest
upon sand stone slate. Rounded pebbles form in many places the
incumbent stratam. Salt springs” are frequent upon all the streams
* No term is more frequent than that of salt spring: it has been used by the
author from respect to common usage: whilst he is conscious, that correctly
speaking, no such thing as a salt spring exists. . In all places where salt (muriate
of soda) is found in the interior of this continent, its presence is known by
sandy flats similar to the beeches of a river. From the frequency of salt upon the earth's surface in the valley of the Mississippi, and also from that mineral
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 89
between Ouachitta and Red river inclusive. Two or three of those
springs are in operation, the principal of which are Postlethwait's
works on Sabine and Red river. At the place where this manufactory
is established, any quantity of salt might be made, that the exigencies
is of the neighbouring country could demand. The inhabitants of Nat
chitoches, Rapides, and other settlements in the vicinity, are now sup
plied with excellent salt from one to two dollars per barrel. Upon
Ouachitta and Dugdomoni are salt springs equally capable of produc
tion with that wrought near Natchitoches. As the population increases,
these repositories of one of the most necessary minerals will be open
ed, and their stores distributed for general use.
A reference to the table facing page 9 of this treatise will show
the present very inadequate population, and the great disproportion
between the land claimed and settled by individuals, and that yet
held by the government of the United States. In respect to landed
property, there is an essential difference between the north and south
sides of Red river: in the parts of Louisiana in the latter section the
best of the soil is alienated to individuals; in the former, the far
greatest part of the surface and much of the best land remains yet va
cant.
This is peculiarly the case with an extensive and very fine body
of land upon the creeks that flow into Dacheet river and lake Bisti
neau, and also upon the waters of Berbane, Black lake, Little river,
and Saline rivers west, and upon the Tensaw Maçon Boeuf and some
smaller streams east of Ouachitta.
The lands east of lake Bistineau, upon the creeks that enter that
lake, and upon the margin of the lake itself, are of a mixed character.
The bottoms are often wide and the soil of excellent character. In
this place are the only arable parts in Louisiana of that species of
land known in the northern states as bottom land. The alluvial
banks of the Mississippi and its enterlocutory streams, though com
posed of similar materials, present an aspect very different from that
kind of surface, known as bottom grounds, on the waters of Ohio and
the Atlantic rivers. The former incline from, and the latter towards
the respective streams upon whose margin they are found. In addi
tion to the bottoms, are also much of that kind of land known
in the southern states as hammock land. The side of the hills are
frequently composed of second rate land clothed with pine, black
oak, red oak, ash, black hickory, and dogwood. This latter descrip
tion of soil would no doubt suit the culture of small grain. This
tract is yet entirely uninhabited, of course it is only by analogy that
the quality of the land can be estimated. No country can have the
advantage of finer springs of water. Though comparatively less ex
tensive, the productive soil of all the peninsula between Red and Oua
chitta rivers, presents the same qualities and varieties as on lake Bisti
being found by digging, there are many reasons to believe, that the entire sur
face rests upon a superstratum impregnated with salt.
The waters of Red river are at Natchitoches so brackish, as to be rendered un
fit for use, either for drink or cooking. This quality of the water arises from
the soil through which Red river flows; many of the tributary streams are cont
posed o iexcellent, pure, clear, and sweet water.
12
90 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
neau, and particularly, whatever other differences may exist, the water
is uniformly plentiful and good.
Considered geologically, this peninsula is below 33° N. lat. inter
sected by one chain of high hills, which projecting several embranch
ments, form the natural outline of the country. At the intersection
of the northernmost part of the 33° N. lat, and 16° W. lon, from
Washington, a bold and considerably elevated ridge enters the state
of Louisiana, and about fifteen miles within the state divides into
three branches. The western branch bears a little west of south, se
parates the waters that flow into Dacheet river and lake Bistineau,
from those which enter Black lake river; finally sinks into the low
lands of Red river near 32 N. lat. The middle branch runs nearly
south after departing from the main ridge; discharges its water west
ward into Black lake river, and eastward into Saline river; and merges
into the low lands near the junction of those latter streams. The
third or eastern ridge diverges from the point of separation bearing
S. E., and continuing that course eight or ten miles, divides into two
ridges; which may be, from their relative position, denominated
southern and northeastern. The former, or southwestern, seems to be
a continuation of the main chain, as in all its length it forms the divi
ding ridge between the waters that flow southwest into Red river,
from those which are discharged southeast into the Ouachitta river.
After leaving the northeastern branch, the southwestern bears south
west twenty miles; gradually inclines to the south; continues that
course to the 32° N. lat. where it curves a little east of south ; and
obeying very nearly the general course of Red river, finally termi
nates upon the left shore of that stream, at the Ecor a Chêne, about
fifteen miles S. E. of the town of Alexandria. The northeastern
branch, bearing southeast between the waters of Derbane and those
of the Dugdomoni and Little rivers, reaches within two miles of the
Ouachitta at 32° 18' N. lat. ; then follows that river, preserving a
distance of two or three miles from its margin; finally sinks into the
level alluvion at the court-house of Ocatahoola at 31°42' N. lat.
Leaving the alluvial banks of Red river and traversing the rugged
region, we have been describing, the traveller will again find himself
on a fertile recent alluvion on passing Ouachitta river.
Though its banks are generally composed of light materials brought
down by the stream, the Ouachitta, except on times of high flood,
exhibits a clear and beautiful current flowing gently, and on a smaller
scale, having considerable resemblance to the Ohio. The Ouachitta
was, before the expedition of Mr. William Dunbar and Dr. Hunter in
1804, but very imperfectly known. These gentlemen explored it to
the hot springs in 34° 30' N. lat. and procured such information of
its tributary streams, as to enable them to publish the history of this
fine river in considerable detail and great accuracy, as far as their information extended. The author of this treatise traversed the
country adjacent to the Ouachitta twice, as high as 33° N. lat. and
availed himself of every opportunity to procure information respect
ing the river, country, soil, vegetable and mineral productions. In
adding to the information given by Messieurs Dunbar and Hunter,
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 91
ſis own researches, the following sketches may convey a tolerable
accurate conception of the Ouachitta and its tributaries.
From the best information, the extreme source of the Ouachitta is
in 18° 30' W. lon. from Washington city, and at 34° N. lat. The
courses of the higher streams of the Ouachitta is first southeast sixty
or seventy miles; then east one hundred miles, where three branches
unite ; and continuing east twenty miles, receives from the northeast
Hot Spring creek. This place is in itself remarkable, but has been
rendered an object of peculiar interest, as being the only part of this
remote region that has been carefully examined by men of science.
The researches of Mr. Dunbar and Dr. Hunter has established the
geological structure of the country near the hot springs to be composed
of secondary materials, schistose sand stone. The Masserne mountains,
out of which the Ouachitta flows, are ascertained to be not very eleva
ted ; but not having ever been surveyed with accuracy, their compo
nent parts are unknown with any precision.
The country watered by the head streams of the Ouachitta is ste
rile prairie, or broken, rocky, mountainous land. The hot springs
are on the south side of the mountains, the adjacent country also bar
ren. Some very confined tracts of good land does exist along the
streams, but not in quantity sufficient to admit a numerous popula
tion. In addition to the salubrity of the water, this elevated region is
described as extremely healthful. Walitudinarians from Louisiana,
Arkansaw, and Mississippi, have been generally relieved, when la
bouring under pulmonary complaints: how much of the cure was at
tributable to change of air and relief from the anxiety of business,
it is difficult to say. .
Below the mouth of Hot Spring creek, Ouachitta turns to the south,
and flowing in that direction twenty-five miles, receives from the
west the Fourcheau Cado; and about a similar distance farther to the
south, the Little Missouri river. These two tributary streams rise in
the spurs of the Masserne; and flowing nearly east, waters considera
ble spaces of good land. Some prairies, but not of considerable ex
tent, are interspersed over the surface of the country, and are gene
rally composed of poor, thin soil.
Twelve miles southeast of the hot springs rises the Saline branch
of Ouachitta ; which, after a course of one hundred and fifty miles,
enters Ouachitta a short distance above the north limit of Louisiana.
The land upon the Saline is generally thin and poor.
About thirty miles southeast of the heads of the Saline is the
source of the Barthelemy; which pursuing a course nearly parallel
to the former, joins Ouachitta at 32° 40' N. lat. The Barthelemy is
bordered on each side by an excellent body of land, particularly
near its mouth. Before entering the Ouachitta the Barthelemy is
joined by an ancient outlet of the former stream. Here may be con
sidered the commencement of the recent alluvion. The outlet men
tioned above is denominated Bayou Siard; which after continuing,
with all its windings, about twenty-five miles, falls into Ouachitta
three mile above Fort Miro. 
Extending N. E. from Bayou Siard and Ouachitta river, lies the land
granted by the Spanish government to the baron of Bastrop. As this
92 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
claim is important from its great extent, as is another upon both
banks of Ouachitta, a short distance below Bayou Siard, granted also
by the Spanish government to the marquis of Maison Rouge, the ti
tles and quality of the soil of both are inserted in this treatise.
The information given, respecting the land contained in these grants,
are taken from actual observation made by the author on the spot.
The documents respecting the titles are extracted from the collection
made and published by the United States' government, pursuant to an
act of congress passed April 27th, 1810. The papers respecting these
lands exhibit one of the few instances where the administrators of the
government of Spain departed from the regular mode of granting land
in Louisiana.” If the conditions upon which these grants were made
had been acted upon to the utmost extent of the power of the claim
ants, or the wishes of the Spanish government, it is difficult to deter
mine how far the nature of the country would facilitate or oppose the
production of flour. Wheat of good quality has been raised on Oua
chitta within the limits of these grants; but admitting that it might
be made in large quantity, there is no doubt but cotton will enable
the planter on these lands to purchase flour cheaper than it can be
made upon their own farms.
So much speculation has been made respecting these grants, and
so vague are the opinions of the public on the subject, that their en
tire insertion is made in this treatise, in order to enable the emigrant,
or land purchasers, to form their own conclusions on certain grounds.
Papers respecting Grand JMaison's claim on Washita.
We, Francis Lewis Hector, baron de Carondelet, knight of Malta,
brigadier general of the royal armies of his catholic majesty, military
and civil governor of the provinces of Louisiana and West Florida ;
Don Francis Rendou, intendant of the army, and deputy superintend
ant of the royal domains in the said provinces; Don Joseph de Orue,
Knight of the royal and distinguished order of Charles Third, principal
accountant for the royal chests of this army, exercising the functions
of fiscal of the royal domains,—declare, that we agree and contract
with the senior marquis de Maison Rouge, an emigrant French
knight, who has arrived in this capital from the United States, to pro
pose to us to bring into these provinces thirty families, who are also
emigrants, and who are to descend the Ohio, for the purpose of form
ing an establishment with them on the lands bordering upon the Wa
shita, designed principally for the culture of wheat, and the erection
of mills for manufacturing flour, under the following conditions:
1st. We offer, in the name of his catholic majesty, whom God pre
serve, to pay out of the royal treasury two hundred dollars to every
family composed of two white persons, fit for agriculture or for the
arts useful and necessary to this establishment, as house or ship car
penters, blacksmiths, and locksmiths; and four hundred to those
having four labourers; and in the same way, one hundred to those
having no more than one useful labout 2 or artificer, as before de
scribed, with his family.
* See page 5
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 93
2d. At the same time we promise, under the auspices of our sove
reign monarch, to assist them forward from New Madrid to Wishita,
with a skilful guide, and the provisions necessary for them, till their
arrival at their place of destination. 
3d. The expenses of transportation of their baggage and implements
of labour, which shall come by sea to this capital, shall be paid on ac
count of the royal domains ; and they shall be taken on the same ac
count from this place to Wishita, provided that the weight shall not
exceed three thousand pounds for each family.
4th. There shall be granted to every family containing two white
persons fit for agriculture, ten arpens of land, extending back forty
arpens, and increasing in the same proportion, to those which shall
contain a greater number of white cultivators.
5th. Lastly, it shall be permitted to the families to bring or to cause
to come with them, European servants, who shall bind themselves to
their service for six or more years, under the express condition, that if
they have families, they shall have a right, after their term of service
is expired, to receive grants of land, proportioned in the same man
ner to their numbers. Thus we promise, as we have here stated;
and that it may come to the knowledge of those families who propose
to transport themselves hither, we sign the present contract, with the
aforesaid senior marquis de Maison Rouge, to whom, that it may be
made plain, a certified copy shall be furnished.
New Orleans, the seventeenth of March, 1795.
- The BARON DE CARONDELET,
FRANCIS RENDOU,
Y JOSEPH DE ORUE,
The MARQUIS DE MAISON ROUGE,
Having laid before the king what you have made known in your
letter of the 25th of April last, No. 44, relative to the contract enter
ed into with the marquis of Maison Rouge, for the establishment on
the Washita, of the thirty families of farmers destined to cultivate
wheat, for the supply of these provinces, his majesty, considering the
advantages which it promises, compared with the preceding, has been
pleased to approve it in all its parts. By his royal direction, I com
municate it to you for your information. God preserve you many
years.
Madrid, 14th July, 1795. GARDOQUI.
To the Intendant of Louisiana. 
- - - JNew Orleans, Nov. 13th, 1795.
To be transmitted to the principal office of accounts (Contaduria)
of the army and royal domains, for their information, and two certified copies to be provided for this secretary's office. RENDOU.
Don Gilbert Leonard, treasurer of the army, exercising the func
tions of royal accountant, and Don Manuel Gouzales Armires, exer
cising those of treasurer, par interior, of the royal chests of this pro vince of Louisiana. • .
We certify, that the two foregoing copies are conformable to the
originals, which remain in the archives of the ministry of the royal
94 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
domains under our charge, and that the contractor, the marquis de
Maison Rouge, complied punctually with the terms which he proposed
in the said contract; and that this may be made manifest, conforma
bly to the order above inserted, of this intendency general, we give
the present in New Orleans, the 5th of August, 1803.
GILBERT LEONARD, .
MANUEL ARMIREZ.
The Baron de Carondelet, knight of the order of St. John, marshal
de camp of the royal armies, governor general, vice patron of the
provinces of Louisiana and West Florida, inspector of troops, &c.
Forasmuch as the Marquis de Maison Rouge is near completing the
establishment of the Washita, which he was authorized to make for
thirty families, by the royal order of July 14th, 1795; and desirous
to remove for the future all doubt respecting other families or new
colonists who may come to establish themselves, we destine and ap
propriate conclusively for the establishment of the aforesaid marquis
de Maison Rouge, by the power granted to us by the king, the thirty
superficial leagues marked in the place annexed to the head of this
instrument, with the limits and boundaries designated with our appro
bation, by the surveyor general, Don Charles Laveau Trudeau, un
der the terms and conditions stipulated and contracted for by the said
marquis de Maison Rouge; and that it may at all times stand good,
we give the present, signed with our hand, sealed with our seal at
arms, and countersigned by the underwritten honorary commissary
of war, and secretary of his majesty for this commandancy-general.
New Orleans, the twentieth of June, 1797.
The BARON DE CARONDELET,
ANDRES LOPES ARMISTO.
Mote.—That in conformity with his contract, the marquis de Mai
son Rouge is not to admit or establish any American in the lands in
cluded in his grant.
The BARON DE CARONDELET.
Papers respecting Bastrop's claim on Wishita.
To the Governor General—
The Baron de Bastrop, desirous of encouraging the population
and cultivation of the Ouachitta and its neighbourhood, of passing
into the United States to complete the plan of emigration which he
has projected, and from thence to return with his family, makes
known to your lordship, that it is absolutely indispensable on the
part of the government, that a district be designated of about twelve
leagues square, including the Bayou Siard and its vicinity, in which
your petitioner may, without the least obstacle or delay, place the
families he is about to bring in, on the express condition that conces
sions of land are to be made gratis, and under no title or pretext to
exceed, at most, four hundred arpens square, with a view to prevent
the introduction of negroes, and the making of indigo, which in that
district will be entirely contrary and prejudicial to the cultivation of
wheat, and will cause your petitioner irrecoverably to lose the ex
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 95.
penses of his establishment. Your petitioner prays also that you will be
pleased to grant him permission to export for the Havanna, the
flour which may be manufactured at the mills on the Ouachitta,
without confining him to sell it absolutely in New Orleans, and other
posts in this province, unless it should be necessary for their subsist
ence, in which case they ought always to have the preference. It is
also indispensable that the government should charge itself with the
cenducting and support of the families which the petitioner may
introduce from the post of New Madrid to Ouachitta, by furnishing
them with some provisions for the subsistence of the first months, and
assisting them to commence the sowing of their seeds, granting to
those inhabitants who are not catholics, the same liberty of con
science as is enjoyed by those of Baton Rouge, Natchez, and other
districts of the province, and without fixing on the part of the govern
ment conclusively, the number of families which your petitioner is to
introduce. The zeal which I feel for the prosperity and encourage
ment of the province, joined to a desire of securing tranquillity and
quietude to that establishment, by removing at once whatever obsta
cles might be opposed to those interesting objects, have induced me
to represent to you what I have here done, hoping that you will re
cognise in these dispositions the best service of the king and advance ment of the province confided to your authority. • .
New Orleans, June 20th, 1796.”
DE BASTROP.
- JNew Orleans, June 21, 1796.
Seeing the advantages which will result from the establishment projected by baron Bastrop, the commandant of Ouachitta, Don John
Feliol, will designate twelve leagues square, half on the side of the
Bayou of Siard, and half on the side opposite the Ouachitta, for the
purpose of placing there the families which the said baron may direct;
it being understood that no greater concession of land is to be given
to any one than four hundred square arpens, at most, gratis, and
free from all dues. With regard to the object of this establishment,
it is to be for the cultivation of wheat alone. The exportation of the
products of this province being free, the petitioner need not doubt
that it will be allowed to him for the flour that he may manufacture
at the mills of the Ouachitta, to the Havanna, and other places open
to the free commerce of this province. The government will charge
itself with the conducting of the families from New Madrid to Oua
chitta, and will give them such provisions as may appear sufficient for
their support during six months, and proportionably for their seeds.
They shall not be molested in matters of religion, but the apostolical
Roman catholic worship shall alone be publicly permitted. The
petitioner shall be allowed to bring in as many as five hundred fami
lies; provided, that after the lapse of three years, if the major part of
the establishment shall not have been made good, the twelve leagues
square destined for those whom the petitioner may place there, shall
* It is presumed that this date, as well as that of the decree of the Baron de
Carondelet, immediately succeeding, ought to have been 1795, instead of 1796,
96 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
be occupied by the families which may first present themselves for
that purpose.
The BARON DE CARONDELET, (L.S.) Registered, ANDRES LOPES ARMESTO.
The Baron de Carondelet, chevalier of the religion of St. John,
marshal de camp of the royal armies, governor general, vice patron
of the provinces of Louisiana, West Florida, and inspector of the
troops, &c. Whereas, the baron Bastrop, in pursuance of his petition,
dated the 20th of June of the year last past, and the decree of the
21st of the same month, has commenced the establishment of the
Ouachitta: that for the fulfilment of the stipulation on the part of the
government; for avoiding progressively all obstacles, difficulties, and
delays; and that the said baron might proceed with every facility in
fixing the families, which, to the number of five hundred, he was held
to place or cause to be placed there ; we have proceeded to designate
the twelve leagues intended for the said settlement, in the terms, with
the limits, metes, and bounds, and in the place marked, fixed, and
defined by the figured plan and description, affixed to the head of this
instrument, verified by the surveyor general, Don Charles Laveau
Trudeau. It having now appeared to us to be also most expedient,
for avoiding all contest and dispute, and approving them, as we do
approve them, by virtue of the authority which the king has granted
to us, we do destine and appropriate, in his royal name, the aforesaid
twelve leagues, in order that the said baron Bastrop may establish
them in the manner and under the conditions expressed in the said
petition and decree. We give the present, signed with our hand,
sealed with the seal of our arms, and countersigned by the under
written honorary commissary of war, and secretary of his majesty
for this commandancy-general.
New Orleans, June 20th, 1796.
. The BARON DE CARONDELET, (L.S.)
ANDRE LOPES ARMESTO.
To the Governor General— 
Baron de Bastrop has the honour to make known to you, that it
being his intention to establish in the Ouachitta, it is expedient that
you should grant to him a corresponding permission to erect there
one or more mills, as the population may require ; as also to shut up
the Bayou de Siard, where he proposes to establish the said mills,
with a dike in the place most convenient for his works; and as it ap
pears necessary to prevent disputes in the progress of the affair, he
begs also the grant along the Bayou Barthelemi, from its source to
its mouth, of six toises on each bank, to construct upon them the
mills and works which he may find necessary; and prohibiting every
person from making upon said Bayou any bridge, in order that its
navigation may be interrupted, as it ought, at all times, to remain
free and unobstructed. This request, Sir, will not appear exhorbi
tant, when you are pleased to observe that your petitioner, who will
expend in these works twenty thousand dollars, or more, will be
exposed, without these grants, to lose all the fruits of his labours, by
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 97
the caprice or jealousy of any individual, who being established on
this Bayou, may cut off the water or obstruct the navigation; not to
mention the loss which the province will sustain of the immense ad
vantages to result from the useful project proposed for the encourage
ment of the agriculture and population of those parts.
New Orleans, June 12, 1797.
DE BASTROP.
JNew Orleans, June 12, 1797.
Considering the advantages to the population on the Ouachitta, and
the province in general, to result from the encouragement of the culti
vation of wheat, and the construction of flour mills, which the peti
tioner proposes to make at his own expense, I grant him, in the name
of his majesty, and by virtue of the authorities which he has confer:
red upon me, liberty to shut up the Bayou de Siard, on which he ik’
about to establish his mills, with a dike at the place most proper for
the carrying on his works, I also grant him the exclusive enjoyment
of six toises of ground on each side of the Bayou Barthelemi, from its
source to its mouth, to enable him to construct the works and dams
necessary for his mills, it being understood, that by this grant, it is
not intended to prohibit the free navigation of the said Bayou to the
rest of the inhabitants, who shall be free to use the same, without,
however, being permitted to throw across it any bridge, or to obstruct
the navigation, which shall at all times remain free and open. Under
the conditions here expressed, such mills as he may think proper to
erect, may be disposed of by the petitioner, together with the lands
adjoining, as estates belonging entirely to him in virtue of this decree,
in relation to which the surveys are to be continued, and the com
mandant, Don John Feliol, will verify and remit them to me, so
that the person interested may obtain a corresponding title in form.
It being a formal and express condition of this grant, that at least one : shall be constructed within two years, otherwise it is to remain
null. 
The BARON DE CARONDELET, (L.S.) Registered, ANDRE LOPES ARMESTO.
[Here follow a petition and decree, the same as the preceding, ex
cept that the petition asks for six toises of ground on each side of the Bayou f Siard from its source to its mouth, which are granted by the
ecree,
The Baron de Bastrop contracts with his majesty, to furnish, for the term of six months, rations to the families which he has latterly
introduced at the post of Ouachitta, which are to be composed of
twenty-four ounces of fresh bread, or an equivalent in flour; twelve
ounces of fresh beef, or six of bacon, two ounces of fine menestra, or
three of ordinary; and one thousandth part of a celemin, (about a
peck) of salt, for which there is to be paid to him, by the royal
chests, at the rate of a rial and a half for each ration. For which pur
pose there shall be made out monthly a particular account, the truth
and regularity of which shall be attested at post, by the command
ant of that post. Under which conditions, I oblige inyself, with my
13
98 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
person and estate, to the fulfilment of the present contract, subjecting
myself in all things to the jurisdiction of this general intendancy.
In testimony of which I sign it at New Orleans, the 16th of June, 1797. BARON DE BASTROP.
JNew Orleans, June 16, 1797.
I approve this contract in the name of his majesty, with the inter
vention of Senor Gilbert Leonard, principal contractor of the army in
these provinces, for its validity. Two certified copies are to be di
rected to the secretary, Juan Ventura Morales. With my interven
tion, Gilbert Leonard. Copy of the original, which remains in my
keeping, and which I certify, and is taken out to be passed to the
secretary of this general intendancy.
New Orleans, ut supra.
GILBERT LEONARD.
Whereas, the intendant, from the want of funds, has solicited the
suspension of the last remittance of families, until the decision of his
majesty, there ought to be no prejudice occasioned to you, by the
last paragraph of my decree, which expresses, that if within three
years the major part of the establishment which shall not have been
made good, such families as may first present themselves shall be lo
cated within the twelve leagues distinct from the settlement which you
have commenced; and this shall only have effect two years after the
course of the contract shall have again commenced to be executed,
and the determination of his majesty shall have been made known
to you. You will always remain persuaded, that on my part I will
observe religiously the engagements I have contracted; a principle
which has constantly distinguished the Spanish nation. God pre
serve you many years.
New Orleans, June 18, 1797.
The BARON DE CARONDELET.
To Baron de Bastrop. 
Baron Bastrop attempted to carry into effect the stipulations of his
engagement, but the Spanish government failing in the performance of
their share of the contract, the whole project was ultimately aban
doned. The marquis of Maison Rouge died, not ever carrying into
operation any part of the conditions upon which his grant was made.
but having procured the assent of the king of Spain, the patent was tacitly confirmed. Though the approbation of #. king of Spain was
not given in favour of Bastrop's claim, yet there are many very fa
vourable circumstances under which the claimants now rest their
title to the property. One of the most powerful arguments in aid of
the validity of this grant is, that the legal representative of the first
grantee has always continued in possession of the property from the
date of the grant. There cannot be much doubt but that the claim
ants to the land as granted to Bastrop has as fair and equitable a title
to the soil as that of any other landed property in the state of Louisia
na, Respecting that of Maison Rouge there is no doubt. 
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 99
The superficies of the grant of Bastrop are very various in quality;
beside the Ouachitta and Bayou Siard, which bounds the grant on
the west, it is traversed by the Barthelemy, Bon Idée, Boeuf and
Maçon rivers.
Three prairies, each from three to four miles long and two broad,
diversify the surface. Prairie de Bute on the right bank of Barthe
lemy, Jefferson, and Mer Rouge, between the Boeuf and Barthele
my rivers. Though taken in all its extent, Bastrop’s grant cannot be
considered a fertile body of land, yet in the forementioned prairies
and on the margin of the streams, considerable extent of good soil
exists.
The settlements already made in the grant are not inconsiderable.
The seat of justice for the parish of Ouachitta is in Prairie Mer Rouge.
The banks of Barthelemy are settled to considerable extent. Prairie
Jefferson is also inhabited and cultivated. Scattering farms are to be
found over all parts of the grant. Much of the best land, however,
remains still vacant.
The interval between the streams is generally pine forest, flat,
and in many places marshy. On the streams the timber is composed
of black oak, white oak, red oak, ash, linden, sweet gum, elm, dog
wood, and other trees, usually found on rich land.
Cotton and tobacco are the staples, particularly the former. The
land and climate are favourable to its culture. Maize, potatoes, le
gumes, and most garden vegetables, grow abundantly. 
Of fruit trees which have been cultivated, the most plentiful are
figs and peaches, which are of excellent quality. Of vine fruits,
melons, pumpions, cucumbers, and squashes, are those most culti
vated. 
. It has been observed, that small grain would grow, and in all pro
bability, produce abundantly on Ouachitta; and the reason why those
ramina will not be cultivated extensively, has been exhibited.
The following list contains the most valuable forest trees, found not
only on the land included in Bastrop's grant, but in the adjacent
country. 
Celtis crassifolia, - Hackberry,
Carasus virginiana, Wild cherry,
Cupressus disticha. Cypress,
Diospiros virginiana, Persimon,
Fagus sylvestris, Beach,
Fraxinus tomentosa, Ash,
Gleditsia triacanthos,
Juglans amara,
Juglans laciniosa,
Juglans nigra,
Laurus sassafras,
Magnolia grandiflora,
Nyssa aquatica,
Nyssa sylvatica,
Pinus rigida,
Populus angºjata,
Honey locust,
Bitter-nut hickory,
Thick shell bark hickory,
1Black walnut,
Sassafras,
Large laurel,
Tupeloo,
Black gum,
Pitch pine,
Cotton wood;
a
ivo EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Platanus occidentalis, Sycamore,
Quercus alba, White oak,
Quercus rubra, Red oak,
Quercus tinctoria,” Black oak,
Quercus migra, Black oak,
Tilia Pubescens, Linden,
Robinia pseudacacia, Locust,f .
Ulmus Americana, Mucilaginous elm,
Ulmus rubra, Red elm.
The liriodendron might have been enumerated, but the tree is not
plentiful. On the streams the large cane affords extensive brakes, but
is yielding to the united action of fire and cattle.
The land included in the grant made to the marquis Maison Rouge,
lies along both banks of Ouachitta ; commencing about five miles be
low Fort Miro, and extending down the stream, following its bends
upwards of forty miles. Some small grants were made on land on
Ouachitta, and the land occupied previous to the date of this grant,
but not of any considerable extent. The greatest part of the land
contained in the grant remains vacant. No soil in Louisiana is su
perior to this part of the banks of the Ouachitta. Cotton is yet the
staple, and produced in great quantity in proportion to the ground cul
tivated. 
The surface of the country is variegated, and presents soil of very
different qualities. That part which lies east of the Ouachitta is
perfectly similar to the other alluvial lands of Louisiana: an arable
border of from two hundred yards to half a mile wide, skirts the
stream : in the rear of this rich selvage of productive soil the over
flowed surface commences, and continues indefinitely towards the
Bon Idée river. 
On the west side of Ouachitta the river is also bordered by a mar
gin of alluvial soil, but of less extent than on the east side. It has
been noticed, that a ridge of hills connected witn those that divide
the waters of Red from those of Ouachitta rivers, winds along the
west side of the latter stream. This ridge enters Maison Rouge's
grant about ten miles below its higher extremity, and continuing to
folk,w the general course of the river, runs through the remainder of
the land in descending the Ouachitta. The front of this ridge is
bold and precipitous, facing the river; but declines gradually to the
westward. It may be remarked, that all the water that flows from
these hills, descends towards the west, and enters Little river.
*Two very distinct species of the oak are in Louisiana, indiscriminately
called black oak. The quercus tinctoria is a most majectic tree, and perhaps its presence is one of the most certain indications of good land to be met with
in the country . The common black oak is a less elevated, more branching,
and less valuable timber than the quercus tinctoria; the latter is much more
abundant, the former being seldom found in large quantity except near the mar gin of the prairies. f The locust, not found in any part south of Red river, is plentiful on the Öuachitta and Red river. On Ouachitta it grows only on the banks of that
river, but on Red river is often found scattered over the face of the country. This tree abounds also at Natchez.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. HQl
The timber upon Maison Rouge's does not materially differ
from that found on Bastrop’s grant. On both the quality, abundance,
variety, and convenience of the timber, is one of the most remarka
ble peculiarities of the country.
There are but few places where more pleasant and profitable estab
lishments could be formed than on Ouachitta. The productive al
luvion on one bank, and the high pine hills on the opposite shore,
afford choice of situation; but few places can equal.
The Ouachitta is navigable for large boats at all times of the year,
except in very dry seasons. The river lands are extremely well adapted to the production of cotton. f
A question is demanded by almost all persons from the eastern and
middle states, whether this, or any other part of Louisiana, affords
good mill seats?—In general, alluvial countries are too level to admit
waterfalls of any considerable height; of course, such lands are not
productive in places where water can be applied to propelling ma
chinery. It is worthy of remark, that in Louisiana, where the land
is fertile, waterfalls are unfrequent, and that where they abound the
land is sterile. And it may be farther remarked, that the use of
steam removes the necessity of having water; and admitting indefinite
choice of position, obviates many of the inconveniences of water as an
agent in machinery.
These observations on the Ouachitta may be concluded, by observ
ing that, sugar excepted, there is no fruit or other vegetable produc
tion raised in any part of the state of Louisiana or Mississippi, but
that may be brought to perfection on its banks.
The general remarks made upon the Ouachitta, its lands, tim
ber, and vegetable productions, may be extended to the soil upon
the banks of Boeuf, Maçon, and Tensaw. Wherever the banks
of these streams are elevated sufficient for culture, cotton may
be considered the staple. A reference to the list of distances from
New Orleans to the hot springs,” will enable the reader to perceive
the commercial facilities of the intermediate places. The time con
sumed in a voyage from New Orleans to either Natchez or Ouachitta,
and to return, is about twenty days.
Numerous saw mills exist on the branches of Little river, from
which great quantities of lumber is transported down the various
rivers to New Orleans.
Political divisions,—settlements, towns.—In the N W. section of
the state of Louisiana, there are parishes; Natchitoches, Rapides,
Ocatahoola, Ouachitta, Concordia, and Avoyelles.
NATCHITOCHES embraces the N. W. angle of the state, lying
upon the waters of Red, Sabine, and Calcasiu rivers; having Texas
west, Sabine southwest, Opelousas south, Rapides southeast, Oua
chitta east, and the Missouri territory north.
Natchitoches town stands upon the right or west bank of Red river,
31° 46' N. lat. 16° 7' W. from Washington city. This town, or
rather post, was established in January 1717. The first buildings
were erected about one mile to the south of the present village.
The remains of the old fort and of the gardens still remain visible,
*See page 46.
102 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Natchitoches is, and must continue, a place of considerable conse
quence. Before the revolution commenced in Texas in 1811, an ex
tensive inland trade was carried on between the people of Louisiana
and those of the Spanish internal provinces, of which this town was
the entrepot. This traffic will be at some future day revived. A few
troops are stationed here, which, with the Indian trade, still gives a
lively business to the village. The town itself is situated upon the
alluvial banks of Red river; but the pine hills commence within two
hundred yards of the river brink, upon one of which is Fort Clai
borne. 
The waters of Red river are brackish, but some springs of excel
lent water exist in the hills to the west of the town, from which the
inhabitants are supplied with that indispensable necessary of life.
Natchitoches is the largest town in Louisiana west of the Missis
sippi. The present number of inhabitants must exceed six hundred,
exclusive of the garrison.
The parish of Rapides, so called from the French name for rapids,
lies southeast of Natchitoches; situated principally in the valley of
Red river, but extending to reach the waters of Ouachitta ; having
Natchitoches northwest, Opelousas south, Avoyelles, Concordia, and
Ocatahoola east, and Ocataboola and Ouachitta north. In quality of
soil and general objects of production, this parish differs very little
from that of Natchitoches.
Alexandria lies on the right or west bank of Red river, half a mile
below the rapids, 31° 10' N. 15° 28' W. from Washington city.
This is a very flourishing village. At times of low water, standing at
the head of barge navigation. The settlements around this town are
flourishing and wealthy. It is supposed by many, that Rapides has
more valuable land in proportion to its extent, than any other parish
in the state. The distance from Alexandria to New Orleans will
be seen by reference to route No. 13, page 47 of this treatise.
OCATAHOOLA is situated entirely in the valley of Ouachitta.
No town of any note has hitherto arisen in this parish ; and as re
spects its productions and improvements, little can be added that has
not been anticipated, when speaking upon the Ouachitta lands. The
settlements are scattered upon Little river, Ocatahoola prairie, and
Ouachitta river, Sicily island, and Boeuf river and prairie.
OUACHITTA possesses no town of consequence: the settlements .
are extended along Ouachitta river, Bayou Siard, Barthelemy river,
and Prairies Mer Rouge, and Jefferson. Some scattering settlements
are formed on various places, particularly the Derbane west of Oua
chitta, but not extensive.
CONCORDIA stretches along the right bank of the Mississippi,
having that stream east, Maçon, Tensaw, Black, and Red rivers
west, and the parish of Ouachitta N. W. This parish occupies an
inclined plane : its entire surface is alluvial, and all its soil excellent
that is sufficiently elevated to admit of culture. Concordia, from its
position, is very much exposed to the overflow of the Mississippi,
and the reflux of the Red river and its interlocutory streams. Cot
ton is the only staple ; the quality excellent.
Concordia town, opposite Natchez, is the seat of justice; but as a
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 103
village is of but little consequence: it is the only town in the parish.
Settlements are on the Mississippi, and lakes St. John, Concordia,
St. Joseph, and Tensaw rivers. 
AVOYELLES, so called from the prairies of that name; having
on the east the Red, Mississippi, and Atchafalaya rivers, south
west Opelousas, and northwest and north Rapides. The settle
ments of Avoyelles are most part in the prairie, and tolerably
compact. The land of the prairie is high, and bears much greater
resemblance to Opelousas than to the lands of Red river, though
contiguous to the latter The outlets of Red river forms water
courses, which with the parent stream, encircles the prairie; and at a .
time of high water renders it entirely insulated.
All the lands of this parish that are of sufficient elevation to be
arable, are of first rate quality; great part of which remain yet pub
hº - otton is the staple; and together with maize, constitutes the
principal object of culture. No town exists in the parish.
These observations on the N. W. section may be closed by observ
ing, that during the season of inundation, the passage from the east
side of the Mississippi is very difficult, except through the water
courses. The best time of the year to visit this country is in the
months of September, October, and November.
Nothing has been said on the prices of land. Nothing can be said with precision on that subject. Prices vary to infinity. The mini
mum price of good land will, for many years to come, be here and
almost every where on the frontiers of the United States, two dollars
per acre ; but above that sum, the value must be estimated from the
combined advantages of every individual tract.
( 104 )
CHAPTER III.
-- *
The state of Mississippi was designated by the following act of
congress. ..An act to enable the people of the western part ºf the *::::::it: territory to form a constitutional and state government, and for the admission of such stale into the union on an equal footing with the original states. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress assembled, That the inhabi
tants of the western part of the Mississippi territory be, and they here
by are authorized to form for themselves a constitutional and state go vernment, and to assume such name as they shall deem proper; and
the said state, when formed, shall be admitted into the union upon the
same footing with the original states, in all respects whatever. Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the said state shall consist
of all the territory included within the following boundaries, to wit:—
Beginning on the Mississippi river at the point where the southern
boundary line of the state of Tennessee strikes the same; thence east
along the said boundary line to the Tennessee river; thence up the
same to the mouth of Bear creek; thence by a direct line to the north
west corner of the county of Washington ; thence due south to the
gulf of Mexico; thence westwardly, including all the islands within six leagues of the shore, to the most eastern junction of Pearl river with lake Borgne; thence up said river to the thirty-first degree of north latitude; thence west along the said degree of latitude to the
Mississippi river; thence up the same to the beginning.
Sec. 3 And be it further enacted, That all free white male citizens
of the United States, who shall have arrived at the age of twenty-one
years, and resided in the said territory at least one year previous to
the time of holding the election, and shall have paid a county or terri
torial tax, and all persons having in other respects the legal qualifica
tions to vote for representatives in the general assembly of the said
territory, be, and they are hereby authorized to choose representatives
to form a convention, who shall be apportioned among the respective
counties in the said territory as follows, to wit:—From the county of Warren, two representatives ; from the county of Claiborne, four re
presentatives; from the county of Jefferson, four representatives; from the county of Adams, eight representatives; from the county of Frank
lin, two representatives; from the county of Wilkinson, six represen tatives; from the county of Amite, six representatives; from the coun
ty of Pike, four representatives ; from the county of Lawrence, two
representatives; from the county of Marion, two representatives;
from the county of Hancock, two representatives; from the county
of Wayne, two representatives; from the county of Greene, two re
presentatives; from the county of Jackson, two representatives; and ...the election of the representatives aforesaid, shall be holden on the
first Monday and Tuesday in June next, throughout the several coun
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 105
ties above mentioned, and shall be conducted in the same manner as
is prescribed by the laws of said territory, regulating elections there
in for members of the house of representatives. 
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the members of the con
vention, thus duly elected, be, and they hereby are authorized to meet.
at the town of Washington, on the first Monday in July next; which
eonvention, when met, shall first determine by a majority of the whole
number elected, whether it be or be not expedient, at that time, to
form a constitution and state government for the people within the
said territory: and if it be determined to be expedient, the conven
tion shall be, and hereby are authorized to form a constitution and
state government:—Provided that the same, when formed, shall be
republican, and not repugnant to the principles of the ordinance of the
13th of July, 1787, between the people and states of the territory
northwest of the river Ohio, so far as the same has been extended to
the said territory by the articles of agreement between the United
States and the state of Georgia, or of the constitution of the United
States;—and provided also, That the said convention shall provide,
by an ordinance irrevocable without the consent of the United States,
that the people inhabiting the said territory, do agree and declare that
they for ever disclaim all right or title to the waste and unappropria
ted lands lying within the said territory, and that the same shall be
and remain at the sole and entire disposition of the United States;
and moreover, and each and every tract of land sold by congress,
shall be and remain exempt from any tax laid by the order or under
the authority of the state, whether for state, county, township, parish,
or other purpose whatever, for the term of five years from and after
the respective days of the sales thereof, and that the lands belonging
to citizens of the United States, residing without the said state, shall
never be taxed higher than the lands belonging to persons residing
therein; and that no taxes shall be imposed on lands the property of
the United States, and that the river Mississippi, and the navigable
rivers and waters leading into the same, or into the gulf of Mexico,
shall be common highways, and for ever free, as well to the inhabi
tants of the said state as to other citizens of the United States, with
out any tax, duty, impost or toll therefor, imposed by the said state.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That five per cent. of the nett pro
ceeds of the lands lying within the said territory, and which shall be
sold by congress from and after the first day of December next, after
deducting all expenses incident to the same, shall be reserved for ma
king public roads and canals; of which three-fiſths shall be applied
to those objects within the said state, under the direction of congress :
Provided, that the application of such proceeds shall not be made
until after payment is completed of the one million two hundred and
fifty thousand dollars, due to the state of Georgia in consideration of
the cession to the United States, nor until the payment of the stock
which has been or shall be created by the act, entitled “An act pro
viding for the indemnification of certain claimants of public lands in
the Mississippi territory,” shall be completed: And provided also,
That the said five percent. shall not be calculated on any part of such
proceeds as shall be applied to the payment of the one million two 14
106 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
hundred and fifty thousand dollars, due to the state of Georgia, in
consideration of the cession to the United States, or in payment of the
stock which may or shall be created by the act, entitled “An act pro
viding for the indemnification of certain claimants of public lands in
the Mississippi territory.”
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That until the next general cen
sus shall be taken, the said state shall be entitled to one representative
in the house of representatives of the United States.
H. CLAY,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN GAILLARD,
President of the Senate pro tempore.
JMarch 1, 1817–Approved,
JAMES MADISON.
The state of Mississippi is divided politically into two portions. The
part included in the counties named in the ſoregoing act of congress,
forms the least, but much the most valuable part of the state. The
second and most extensive division remains yet in the possession of the
Choctaw and Chickesaw Indians.
The following table will exhibit the relative extent of the counties,
and their population in 1810. This will no doubt give a very inade
quate conception of the number of inhabitants, now existing in the
different counties, or their aggregate amount. A very considerable
influx of emigrants is annually removing into the country now includ
ed in this state. 
satirical Table of the state of Minisippi.
Counties. Square Miles. Population in 1810. In 1816. Towns.
Warren 414 1 114 1,570 Warren
Claiborne 396 3102 3,500 Gibsonsport
Jefferson 540 4001 4,900 Greeneville
Adams 414 10,002 10,000 NATCHEZ
Franklin 378 2016 2,700 Liberty
Wilkinson 612 5068 7,270 Woodville
Amite 972 4750 5,060 Liberty
*Pike 720 2,620 Jacksonville
*Lawrence 1000 1,780 Monticello
#Marion 828 1,700
#Hancock 2100 1,000
Wayne 1800 1253 2,080 Winchester
*Greene 1856 
*Jackson, 1050
13,080 31,306 44,180
The convention authorized by the act of congress, for forming a
constitution and state government for the western part of this territory,
assembled in the town of Washington on the 7th day of July, 1817.
All the delegates were present, except Colonel John Bond, of Pike
county. They closed their labours on the 15th of August.
* Ceunties made since 1810.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 107 
His excelleney Gov. Holmes was elected president, and conducted
to the chair, from which he delivered a short and impressive address;
and Lewis Winston, Esq. was elected secretary, who also addressed
the convention on the occasion.
A question was made by Judge Poindexter, to postpone, until the
15th March next, a resolution introduced into the convention [by
Mr. Turner] declaring the expediency of forming a constitution and
state government at this time, which was decided, yeas 12, nays 35.
The question was then put on adopting the resolution, and decid
ed, yeas 36, nays 11... Judge Poindexter voted for accepting the
state government, on the final vote.
A committee was then appointed to prepare and report to the con
vention, a plan for the constitution, consisting of Messrs. Poindexter,
Simpson, Leake, Rankin, Burnet, Downs, Meade, West, Wilkins,
Shaw, Brandon, Lattimore, Hanna, Minton, M'Nab, Runnels, Ford,
Jourdan, M'Cay. Patton, and Bilbo.
Mr. William Lattimore, late member of congress and a member of
the convention, for accepting a state government for the same, deli vered the following speech in the convention. It contains so many
and so important facts respecting the local subdivisions and inte
rests of that country, and respecting the various land claims, that its
entire insertion was judged necessary.
Mr. Lattimore said, he did not presume that he could change the
disposition of any member of the convention, in relation to this ques
tion. That it was one, however, in which the character and interest
of the country were very deeply involved; and it behooved the con
vention to deliberate seriously, whilst it was in its power to save the
state, and preserve the reputation of consistency.
He begged leave to premise, that he had no extraordinary feeling on
this subject. The time was when he had such a feeling; but it had
now passed by. It was a subject on which he had taken an active
and highly responsible part. It had been a very interesting part of
his duty, which he met with zeal. That he felt, of course, a particu
lar solicitude, so long as his conduct was under the consideration of
his constituents; but they had now decided in his favour. A very
large majority of the members of the convention are elected on the
grounds of their being in favour of accepting of state government, un
der the provisions of the law of congress; and the members thus
elected had determined, early in the session, that it was expedient at
this time to form a constitution and state government. The difficul ties, (said Mr. L.) which now threaten us with a dissolution, have not
arisen from an indisposition to state government, agreeably to the
provisions of the law, but from a supposed conflict of local interests
between the eastern and western sections of the proposed state. He
therefore concluded, that his course had been sanctioned by the peo ple whom he had had the honour to represent ; and he now felt as
happy on this subject as any man could be. That it was always his
desire and care to represent the interest and wishes of his constituents,
and as far as his care went, he was now perfectly gratified. 
Mr. L. admitted, nevertheless, that he still had such a sensibility on
108 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
the subject as was common to other members, when he considered
that the character and great interests of the country were at stake.
Relative to these interests, he said, he had knowledge of some facts,
which had a material bearing on the question, and which, with indul
gence, he would lay before the convention. Mr. L. was of opinion
that it was expedient to establish state government at this time, be
cause there was a great local interest to be represented in the next
congress. Here he adverted to the land claims below the 31° of lati
tude, (Hancock and Jackson counties) which, he said, would proba
bly be decided on, that session. In these claims, Mr. L. said, nearly
the whole population of that part of the country was deeply interest
ed. He alluded also to the British land claims, which, from certain
circumstances stated, might be brought up at the same session ; as al
so, the question of extinguishing the Indian title to lands east of the
Mississippi, which had been agitated at the last session of congress,
and would probably be renewed. These various subjects taken to:
gether, Mr. L. said, constituted an interest of the highest importance
to the whole of the proposed state. How necessary then, he asked,
might it be, to have two senators and one representative in congress,
at their next session, instead of only one delegate without a vote %
This, he said, was especially manifest, as related to the extinguishment of Indian title, a subject confined chiefly to the executive branch of
the general government, of which the senate is a constituent part.
But much had been said, continued Mr. L. respecting the expedien
cy of our having a large state agreeably to the present limits of the
territory ; and also respecting the line of division designated by the
law. Mr. L. observed, that he was always prepared to discuss these
questions, although he had abstained from doing it when they were
first before the committee, from an indisposition to produce excite
ment or delay. But since these questions have recurred, he would
now state the facts he possessed, and the opinions he entertained.
Towards the close of last session of congress in 1814–15, Mr. L.
said, he reported a bill to the house for the admission of the territory
into the union, as a state, with its entire limits, in obedience to in
structions to that effect; which bill was not acted on for the want of
time. At the next session he reported a similar bill, which, through
his exertions passed the house, but was postponed by the senate, as
similar bills had been in the time of his predecessor, to whom he then
appealed for the truth of what he said. For these postponements,
which were rejections in effect, the extraordinary size of the territo
ry was assigned. Indeed he was convinced, from all he had seen and
heard in congress, that the Senate would never agree to admit the ter
ritory without dividing it. Wherefore, and because his constituents
had expressed different wishes on the subject, he took another course
at the last session of congress. On the last occasion, when this sub
ject was taken up by a select committee of the house, feeling the de
licacy and responsibility of his situation, he abstained from any re
mark until the committee generally had expressed its opinion, and
this opinion was unanimously and decidedly in favour of a division. The next question was, by what line shall the territory be divided ?
RMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 109
On this question also, said Mr. L. he was silent, until the sense of the
oommittee was ascertained. And why should he be silent and neu
tral, he asked, when his constituents had expressed so many various
opinions, and evinced such a confliction of will, on this point : He
knew what an interest was felt on this subject by his constituents in
the different sections of the territory; and being the representative
of all, and not of any one section of the country, or portion of the
people, he had determined, before he left home, to leave it to con
gress to choose their own line, whether it should be the Tombigbee
river, or an artificial line, provided it was such an one as might ap
pear to him to be just. In examining this question, the committee
drew their fingers along the map west of the Tombigbee, from the
Tennessee line to the gulf of Mexico, and at once determined that the
jurisdiction of that river should belong, exclusively, to the eastern
section of the territory. To this Mr. L. said, he objected, upon the
ground that such a division would give more than an equal portion of
the territory to the eastern section. He was answered, however, that
the western section would even then contain a much greater quantity
of good land. He further objected, that the Indian claims had been
extinguished to three-fourths of the eastern, whilst they still covered
nearly the whole of the western section. But he was again answer
ed, that an extinguishment of the whole of the Indian title was con
templated as an event that would take place at some future time, and
that congress should not make permanent provisions in reference to the
present circumstances of the country, but to an ulterior state of
things. That the line which the committee seemed disposed to
adopt, was contemplated with reference to the geographical situation
of the territory, and not at all to the settlements already formed.
This line, Mr. L. said, would have separated the settlements on
the Pascagola river; and with a view to preserve their integrity, as
also to obtain an equal division of the territory, he proposed that the
line should run from the gulf of Mexico to the northwest corner of
Washington county, in such a way as to throw the whole of those
counties into the proposed western state; and from the point last
mentioned along the Chactaw boundary to the Tombigbee river;
thence up the same to the Cotton Gio Pt. ; thence due north to Bear
creek. Such a line, said Mr. L. he advocated before the committee;
during two sittings, with much zeal, but with only partial success.
He said, he had hoped to have completely succeeded, as the most
influential member of the committee on that subject, was a particular
friend of his, who had never opposed his wishes before, and to whom
the territory, especially the western part thereof, was under great
obligations, for his attention to its interests, and his defence of its
character and rights. 
The line ultimately agreed upon by the committee, and designa
ted in the bill, Mr L. observes, would have preserved the integrity
of the Pascagola settlements, as he wished, but for the inference of
Judge Toulmin, the representative of the Pearl river convention,
who, when he perceived that the senate would certainly pass a bill
with precisely the same provisions, came forward with a petition,
praying that the line might be removed much farther to the west, te
110 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
the northeast corner of Hancock county, as well as he could recollect.
In consequence of this petition, the bill was recommitted, and the
whole question put at risk. It was on this occasion, observes M. L.,
that he attended closely the proceedings of the Senate. The bill
was reported again without amendment; but when the senate acted
upon it for the last time, some of the members, influenced by the
sentiments of the judge, strenuously insisted on making the Pascago
la river the line. To preserve the bill from the danger of this oppo
sition, and of the objections wo the line proposed, the gentleman on
whom its support chiefly depended, moved that the line might run
due south from the northwest corner of Washington county to the
gulf of Mexico. This motion succeeded.
In the house, as well as in the senate, a strong disposition was
manifested in favour of making the Pascagola the line. This dispo
sition, Mr. L. said, he had to overcome ; and though great efforts
had been made to attach blame to him in relation to this subject, it
was to his exertions, solely, that the line was not established much
farther west.
Having stated these facts, Mr. Lattimore proceeded to inquire
into the expediency of dividing the territory. A gentleman from
Jefferson had endeavoured to show the advantage we should de
rive from a state with our entire limits, in the greater number of
representatives in congress, and in the consequent influence it would
give us in the choice of president of the United States. But, Mr. L.
said, he would undertake to prove the converse of this proposition
to be true. He had seen the members from the same state as much
divided on many questions, as members from different states. If the
territory should form two states, their respective representatives
would probably agree as well with each other on local questions, as
if they were all the representatives of but one state, with one entire
limit. 
In relation to the senate, said Mr. L., the advantages of division
were very obvious. By having two states instead of one, we should
have four senators intead of two. The proposed western state would
then certainly have two senators to itself, and two electors of pre
sident and vice president. But without division, the western part
of the state would not have even one senator, nor governor, nor seat of
government, nor any general officer, except one representative to con
gress, unless bestowed upon us by the liberality of the eastern part
of the state, which, having a decided preponderance in population
and representation, would control us at will. Such a control would
doubtless be exercised over us for many years. The western part of
the state might, in its turn, have the same control over the eastern
part, whenever the entire extinguishment of Indian titles should take
place. But such changes of power and preponderance were not all
desirable in a state, and he was in favour of division to prevent local
jarrings and strife.
Division, continued Mr. L., would give to this section of the union
an additional state, and of course two additional electors of president,
to maintain its political influence and rights. It was this considera
tion alone, said he, that had determined his opinion in favour of di
RMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 111 º
vision as contemplated by the act of congress, as preferable to an
union with Louisiana, which was a very reasonable proposition in
many points of view. . By such an union, this section of the United
States would lose a state. By the plan of division proposed, a state
would be gained.
As to the scheme of uniting the waters of the Tennessee with those
of the Mobile, he would hope that it was a practicable one, and
would be glad to see it carried into execution. But who, he asked,
would derive the benefit of such a measure ? No one in the western
part of the territory. The memorialists plainly intimated that the re
sources of the western part were necessary to accomplish this object,
although it was evident that the eastern part would enjoy, exclusively,
all the advantages which it would produce. He said, that he con
sidered this reason of the memorialists altogether in favour of division,
when applied to the interest of the western part of the territory.
There were other reasons in favour of division, continued Mr. L.
He begged the attention of the convention to certain provisions in the
act for our admission, which appeared not to have been noticed.
Here Mr. L. read the proposed contract between the United States and the state to be formed, as related to the provision for roads, from
which he drew this inference,—that the western part of the territory
would be.scarcely able to bear its share of the burdens of govern
ment, if the whole were admitted as one state; and also the advan
tage we should derive from separation, in having much more ample
funds for making roads through the proposed western state, as well as
the probability of obtaining a great road from some part of the elder
western states. 
In the 5th section of the act for our admission, it is provided “that
five per cent. of the nett proceeds of the land lying within the said
territory, and which shall be sold by Congress from and after the first
day of December next, after deducting all expenses incident to the
same, shall be reserved for making public roads and canals; of which
three-fifths shall be applied to those objects within the said state,
under the direction of the legislature thereof, and two-fiths to the
making of a road or roads leading to the said state, under the direc
tion of congress.” Such a provision as this, said 'Mr. L., has been
made in favour of all the new states, and he had himself seen some
thing of the advantages of it, in the great road now making from Cum
berland, in Maryland, to the state of Ohio. The expense of this road
is paid out of the twentieth part of the proceeds of the lands in that
state, set apart for purposes similar to those above mentioned. He
had travelled this road about thirty miles, over the Aleghany moun
tains, where one might now drive a carriage full speed at midnight.
Such advantages in roads were held out to us also ; but it must be
understood that there was a quid pro quo contemplated in this pro
vision: for it is also provided in the 4th section of the same act,
“that each and every tract of land sold, Congress shall be and re
main exempt from any tax laid by the order or under the authority
of the state, whether for state, county, township, parish, or other
purpose whatever, for the term of five years from and after the re
spective days of the sales thereof.”
112 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Agreeably to the last mentioned provision, the proposed new state
cannot impose any tax upon lands, which may hereafter be purchased
from the United States, for five years from the time they are sold.
Now iet it be observed, said Mr. Lattimore, that the benefit of this
provision cannot be claimed as to purchases already made ; and that
within the limits of the proposed state, there is very little good land
for sale, whilst millions of acres, he might say, would be offered to
sale in the proposed Alabama territory, in the course of a few years.
He thought it probable, at least, that more land would be sold within
five years from this time; than is now held by all the individuals in
our proposed state. What then, he asked, would be the effect of this
provision, if the whole territory were admitted as one state 2 This,
unquestionably, that the lands in the western part of the state would
all be taxed, whilst nearly all those in the eastern part would be ex
empt. The eastern part would be by far the most populous, and yet
the western part would have to bear the burdens of government. That
part would govern, and this pay the expense. This inference, he
said, was inevitable, and could not be denied. 
But, said Mr. L., he would take another view of this subject. Ac
cording to the concluding provisions of the 5th section of the act, no
part of the five per cent. of the proceeds of the lands is to be applied to
the purpose of making roads, until after the debt due to the state of
Georgia, and the whole amount of the “Mississippi stock” are paid.
Out of what lands, he asked, will these claims be satisfied ? Of course,
out of the first that will be sold. And where will these be 2 Doubt
less in the Alabama territory; and unless a purchase of the Indians
should soon be made within our proposed western state, the lands of
the Alabama territory will satisfy the whole of these claims, and leave
to us an ample fund, untouched, for making roads every where
throughout the state, whenever an extinguishment of the Indian titles
takes place. In case of division, this would give us a great advan
tage over the eastern state. 
Mr. L. observed, that he would mention one other advantage,
which would be secured to us by a division, in relation to roads. The
5th section, already referred to, provides for the making of “a road
or roads leading to the state.” 
If the bill contemplated the admission of the whole territory, the
provision would probably be the same ; and, in that case, congress
would not be bound to make but one road leading to the state. If
they should be disposed to make but one, to what part would that one
lead 2. Unquestionably to the eastern part, through Georgia from the
other Atlantic states. But if we are separated from the eastern part,
the spirit of the provision will require that the road shall lead from the
western states, with which we have the closest interests in every
point of view. A distinguished western member in congress advo
cated a division of this territory partly with this view. He said he
wished to continue their great western road to our proposed state.
He said, that the line designated by law, was not the one he wished
to obtain. The one he was in favour of, and which he urged the
committee to adopt, would have divided the territory into two equal
parts as nearly as could well be imagined. The gentleman from
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 113
Wilkinson ridicules this line, because it is an artificial one. What is
the line which this gentleman proposes? One which he would have to
commence at the middle of the bay of Mobile, and run thence due
north to the state of Tennessee. This line, said Mr. L., would, ac
cording to the new map in the land-office, cross the Tombigbee
twenty or thirty times. He asked if this was not an artificial line?
Was it not as much so as the one he had suggested P Yes, said Mr.
L., very artificial; and he thought it required some ingenuity to con
ceive of one so exceedingly bad.
Mr. L. stated the information which he had received, and on which
he relied, in relation to the difficult navigation to Mobile, and other
local inconveniences of that town. He also adverted to the position
of the town of Blakeley, on the opposite side of the bay, which various
reasons he assigned, he inferred would certainly supersede Mobile as
a commercial depot, and concluded that the latter would inevitably
fall. What then, he asked, becomes of the gentleman's great com
mercial town But, continued he, if it should be a place of the great
importance which the gentleman from Wilkinson supposes, of what
advantage would it be to us? Who on the Mississippi, Amite, or
Pearl river, would carry his cotton to that market, or bring supplies
of sugar or coffee thence? As to the state tax on the merchandise of
the place, it was not worth naming. Let the town of Mobile be what
it may, it could not be an object worthy of our attention. Indeed,
said Mr. L., it would be a disadvantage to us; for if it should be so
rich a place as the gentleman tries to persuade us, this very circum
stance would invite the cupidity of an enemy in time of war.
The information given by Mr. Lattimore presents a luminous expo
sition of the local interests of the new state of Mississippi and territory
of Alabama, and every thing considered, perhaps there is no local
division made in the United States so well calculated to leave the
respective parts a whole in themselves. Few states in the Union
have more local advantages than the Mississippi. Except sugar, the
most valuable staples yet produced in the United States can be raised in the lands of this state. Every spot where the soil is capable of
culture, will produce cotton and tobacco. The latter, after the sub
stances actually necessary to human existence, combines more advan
tages to the cultivator and to the consumer than any vegetable matter
yet used by man for the gratification of his necessities, convenience,
or luxury. I fancy no part of the United States is better situated for
the culture and conveyance of that article to market: it is certainly
the region upon and in the vicinity of the mouth of the Mississippi
river, where that plant can be reared to most advantage.
The foregoing act of congress defines the limit of this state; by
reference to the prefixed map, its relative position will be seen, and
the variety in its climates and local positions obvious.
The present population of the state of Mississippi is at present but
very vaguely known. So much increase must have taken place since
the last census as to have greatly augmented the mass. At the epoch. of 1810, West Florida was not divided between the two states of
Louisiana and Mississippi. In that part of West Florida included
in the state of Mississippi, there were in 1810 at least 5000 persons,
15
1 14 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
who, added to 31,306, would have made a mass of 36,306. The
increment in the last seven years cannot be less than 2000 annually,
which would swell the present population to near 50,000 people. The
real number rather exceeds than falls short of that estimate.
Besides an indefinite number of smaller rivers and creeks, the Mis
sissippi state is watered by the Mississippi, Pearl, Pascagoula, Ya
zoo, Big-black, Tennessee, and the western streams of Tombigbee.
The Mississippi river forms the west limit of the state, from the
31° to the 35° N. lat or in a direct line about two hundred and eighty
miles; but following the winding of the stream near seven hundred
miles. The difference between the direct and river distance, exhibits
the excessive winding course of the Mississippi.
Of this distance two hundred is in front of the counties of Warren,
Claiborne, Jefferson, Adams, and Wilkinson. That margin of the
Mississippi that is contained in the new state, partakes of the general
character of the lands of that river, but less favourably situated for
settlement than the right or west border. The hills approach towards
the river, and confining the water, render the east side more liable
to be inundated than the west. The hills reach the river, in many
places forming bluffs, as at Walnut hills, Grand and Petite gulf, Nai
chez, White cliffs, and Loftus’, heights. The high lands pursue
nearly a direct course, whilst the river is extremely serpentine. Be
tween the hills and the curves of the river, is included all the lands in
the state that can be correctly considered recent alluvion. Many ex
cellent settlements are formed along the river, the soil producing in
abundance. The width of soil that can be reclaimed from inunda
tion varies so much that no medium can be formed. The general
timber found near the Mississippi, is composed of populus angulata
(cotton wood,) salix nigra (black willow,) acer negundo (box alder,)
celtis crassifolia (hackberry,) juglans amara (bitter-nut hickory,) li
quid ambar styracifiua (sweet gum,) platanus occidentalis (sycamore,)
fraxinus aquatica (water ash,) and ulmus aquatica (water elm.) At
a distance from the banks, cypress swamps are almost every where
found, and frequently reach the margin of the river. The cypress
swamps generally occupy the low lands, between the base of the hills
and the high banks of the river. The cypress seldom comes in con
tact with the stream where the shores are convex. Many islands in
tersperse the Mississippi, between the mouth of the Yazoo and the
31° N. lat., but are mostly too low to admit cultivation. The soil
of these islands is indeed extremely fertile; but no means existing to
defend their surface from immersion in the spring and summer floods,
the lands upon them cannot be of any considerable value, except for
timber.
The Yazoo river rises in the Chickesaw country, nearly as far
north as the south boundary of Tennessee. Interlocking with the
head streams of the Tombigbee, the Yazoo pursues a course of a
little west by south, falls into the Mississippi twelves miles above the
Walnut hills, forming the north boundary of the county of Warren for
about twelve or fifteen miles above its mouth. The Yazoo consti
tutes here also the present demarkation between the Indian country
and that part of the state to which the Indian title is extinct.
* EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. I 15
Some excellent land lies upon the margin of the Yazoo river, but
the banks are mostly subject to overflow ; and in the interior of the
country distant from the river the soil is thin, and timbered chiefly
with pine.
The Yazoo is navigable for a considerable distance from its mouth;
but the greatest part of its course being within the Indian country,
little is known with accuracy respecting its general features.
The Big-black enters the Mississippi above the Grand gulf, form
ing from the Indian line to its mouth, the boundary between Warren
and Clairborne counties. This river has its source between the head
waters of the Yazoo and Pearl rivers; its general course being nearly
southwest about one hundred and seventy miles in length. Like
all other streams which drain the high table land between the
Mississippi and Tombigbee rivers, the land upon the head waters
of the Big-black is sterile pine woods. The banks of the river
meliorate, and approximate in soil to those of the Mississippi, as the
two streams approach their junction. Following the windings of the
river, about thirty miles of the Big-black is within the settlements,
and affords much excellent soil. The country adjacent to this stream,
however, for many miles above its mouth, assumes the common qual
ties and varieties of that upon the Mississippi.
Between the mouths of the Big-black and Homochitto rivers, Bayou
Pierre, Cole's creek, Fairchild's creek, and St. Catherine creek, en
ter the Mississippi from the left or east bank of that river. Two
thirds of Claiborne and one-third of Jefferson counties, are watered
by the Bayou Pierre. Cole's creek, and Fairchild's both enter the
Mississippi, in Jefferson county. St. Catherine creek rises near Selt
zertown, on the northern border of Adams county, within which is
its entire water; this creek falls into the Mississippi at the higher
extremity of the White cliffs.
Homochitto river rises in the Indian country, near the N. E. part of
Amite county. Many of its tributary creeks flow out of Jefferson
county, and crossing Franklin county, enter the principal stream in
nearly an eastern direction from Natchez. The general course of
the Homochitto river is S. W. about seventy miles in comparative
length; and before entering the Mississippi, flows into a lake, which
once formed part of the latter stream.
Some of the most wealthy settlements in the state of Mississippi
are upon the Homochitto and its tributary creeks. This river forms
the limit between the counties of Amite and Franklin, and between
Adams and Wilkinson. For about fifteen miles from its mouth, the
banks of the Homochitto are annually overflowed, and unfit for settle
ment. Four or five miles below the mouth of Second creek, the
arable high land commences, and continues with partial interruptions
to the source of the river. All the varieties of soil in the state of
Mississippi may be seen on this stream; and almost every species
of forest tree growing in Louisiana may be found in its woods.
The river Buffalo rises in Amite county, flows through Wilkinson
county in nearly a western direction, and falls into the Mississippi
river, two miles above Fort Adams at Loftus' heights. The soil, ge
116 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
neral aspect of the country, and natural productions, differ little on
the lands watered by Buffalo, from those of Homochitto.
Below the mouth of Buffalo, the streams assume a south course. ,
A dividing ridge, of which Loftus' heights is the southwestern pro
longation, extends itself from the elevation from which flows the Ya
zoo and Pearl rivers, and continuing in a southwestern direction, di
vides the waters of the Bouge Chitto and Amite from those of the
Homochitto and Buffalo rivers, and finally terminates abruptly at
Loftus' heights.
This ridge is, in all its length, the separating line between the ri
vers and creeks that lose themselves in the Mississippi, and those of
West Florida. It is also a limit of climate ; a sensible change of
temperature is perceivable on passing this distinguishing, though not
very elevated chain of hills. Snow is more frequent in Adams than
in Amite county, notwithstanding their proximity, and their occu
pying nearly the same latitude.
At Loftus' heights is seen the last stone or rock resting in strata, that
has been yet discovered in descending the Mississippi river. The
rock is a breccia, or pudding stone of evident recent formation ; and
only visible when the river is extremely low. The same species of
fossil forms the base of the bluffs from the mouth of Ohio to Loftus’
heights. The cement is argillaceous, very much impregnated with
iron ore. The most limpid water gushes over this mass of breccia,
but is considered unwholesome by the inhabitants, who live in the
vicinity. The most curieus and singular petrifactions are admixed
with the rock, having a perfect resemblance to those found in the state
of Louisiana, in the neighbourhood of Lake Bistineau. Near the Bis
tineau these petrifactions form a superstratum upon horizontal sand
stone, or the secondary floetz of Werner: there is no reasonable doubt
but that the breccia of the state of Mississippi reposes also upon a
similar base. - 
After leaving the banks of the Mississippi, and proceeding eastward
along the 31° N. lat. the first river of note that occurs is the Amite.
Amite river rises in the N. E. extremity of the country of that
name ; and by two nearly equal streams traverses the country in a
southern course, enters the state of Louisiana, and unites about two
miles south of the line of demarkation between the two states. º
The lands upon the Amite are of three very distinct qualities; al
luvion near the streams; that species of slopes called hammock, and
the open pine hills.
Like alluvion, wherever it occurs, it is here extremely fertile,
timbered with liquid amber styraciflua (sweet gum,) quercus tincto
ria (black oak,) tilia pubescens (linden, or lime tree;) and many,
other species of wood, indicative of fertile soil.
Hammocks are generally the slopes of hills, where are pine, sweet
gum, dogwood, and other trees that designate a mixed soil.
The pine forests have nothing remarkable to distinguish them from
those of Louisiana; to which, in every respect, they have a perfect
resemblance.
The country on the headwaters of Amite river is hilly and healthy,
and well timbered and watered. It is a pleasant, airy, and agreeable
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 117
region, having all the natural advantages that can render it a desira ble and profitable residence to an industrious people. 
, Bougue Chitto and Pearl rivers have been noticed, and their wa ters draining a country perfectly similar to that of the Amite, it
would be useless to enlarge upon them in this place. Pascagoula river, a beautiful and important stream, rises in Choc
taw country, and drains the space between the Pearl, Tombigbee,
and Mobile rivers. The constituent branches of the Pascagoula are
the Leaf, Chichisaw, and Dog rivers.
The western branch of Leaf river rises in Wayne county, and pur
suing a S. E. course, enters Greene county, and unites with another
and larger branch from the north: the united stream continues S. E.
crosses the 31° N. lat., about eight miles south of which comes in, from
the northeast, the Chickisawhay.
The Chickisawhay river rises in the Choctaw country; runs south,
and enters Wayne and Greene counties, until near the S. E. angle of
the latter, where the river turns S. W. passes the 31° N. and joins,
as has been seen, the Leaf rivers. The united streams now take the
name of Pascagoula, and flow S. E. by S. forty miles, and fall into
the gulf of Mexico. 
Dog river rises in the Alabama territory, and flowing south, through
Washington and Baldwin counties, crosses the 31° N. lat., continues
south, and is lost in the estuary of the Pascagoula, Only the mouth
of this river is in the state of Mississippi. 
Though not so long in its course, there flows in the Pascagoula as
much or more water than does in the Pearl river; and as navigable
streams, the preference is greatly in favour of the former. The bar
at the mouth of the Pearl admits vessels of six feet draught ; and
when in the bay and river, that depth continues to the junction of
the Leaf and Chickisawhay rivers.
The general aspect of the soil, on the waters of Pascagoula is
sterile; but upon the margin of the waters a considerable surface of
good farming land exists. The pine forests reach the gulf of Mexico
on both sides of the Pascagoula bay. The bay is represented in our
map, filled with low islands, which are void of timber. Thick woods
approach to the sea-shore, however, on leaving the bay either east or
West. 
The border of the gulf, near the mouth of the Pascagoula river, is
esteemed amongst the most salubrious places in that climate. From
our own personal observation and inquiry on the spot, we are in
clined to sanction this opinion. We could perceive no causes of pu
trid exhalation. With the exception of the bay, the country is high,
dry, and well supplied with refreshing breezes from the sea. The
soil of this coast is sterile, but its unfruitfulness is counterbalanced to
the inhabitants, by the health they enjoy.
Here many persons retire from New Orleans in the summer months.
In the progress of improvement, when New Orleans becomes more
and more crowded and extensive, and when suitable accommodations
are provided on the bays of St. Louis, Biloxi, and Pascago, a, an
agreeable retreat will be open to those who desire to avoid tile dan
118 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
gers, real and imaginary, of a summer residence in a large commercial
city, on the banks of the Mississippi.
In the interior of the country, the lands watered by the Pascagoula and tributary streams, have great resemblance to those of Amite and
Pearl rivers.
A general character pervades all that part of the state of Mississip pi lying east of Wilkinson county. The three kinds of land noticed
in the review of Amite prevails, and with about the same proportion.
counties; Their NATURAL AND ARTIFICIAL PRoductions;
TOWNS.
The ridge of hills that has been before described, divides the state
of Mississippi into two unequal sections. The N. W. section com
prises all the counties of Warren, Claiborne, Jefferson, Adams,
Franklin, and the greatest part of Wilkinson, and one halſ of Amite.
In the S. E. section are included one half of Amite, and all Pike, Lawrence, Marion, Wayne, Greene, Hancock, and Jackson counties.
These sections are of very unequal extent; the northwest con
taining 3,240, whilst the southeast covers an area of 9,840 square
miles. The two divisions have very distinctive features of soil, cli
mate, and natural productions. We will review each, and the con.
trast will appear apparent and striking.
It would be useless to give in detail the particular features of the
countries included in the northwest section. A steady uniformity pre
vails in all the region from the Yazoo river to Loſtus' heights, and even
to the 31° N. lat.
The western border of the northwestern section is formed by the
banks of the Mississippi. This border is intercepted by the hilly land reaching the river, as at Walnut hills, Grand gulf, Natchez, White
cliffs, and Loftus' heights. There are many other places where the
bluffs approach to within a very short distance of the Mississippi, as at the Petite gulf, Villa Gayosa, and Pine ridge. The most exten
sive Mississippi bottoms in this tract is below the mouth of Yazoo, at
Palmyra ; between Bayou Pierre and Cole's creek; between Villa
Gayosa and Natchez, and between the White cliffs and Leſtus’ heights. These bottoms are in few places five miles wide, and would not average more than two and a half; which, allowing their
length 200, would give 500 square miles as the entire superficies in the tract in question upon which the Mississippi waters flow. Some ex
tent may be added for the river and creek bottoms which protrude the inundated surface into the interior. Six hundred square miles, we
are induced to believe, will be an ample estimate for all the surface
between the Yazoo and the south boundary of the Mississippi state,
which is liable to an annual immersion from the Mississippi, or by other streams, rendered stagnant by the swell of that great river. The
hilly or broken country rises like a buttress from the foregoing plain; producing a country of waving surface, though no part of its extent is considerably elevated. There are but few places in the United
States where the soil affords more diversity than does the country wa tered by the Yazoo, Big black, Homochitto, Buffalo, and the numes
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 119
tous streams in their vicinity. No part of the earth is, perhaps, more
congenial to the production of its particular staple, than is this region to the growth of cotton; that elegant and truly useful vegetable flourishes so luxuriantly in the warm and waving soil, that constitutes
most of the superficies of the N.W. section. - 
After leaving the level inundated bottoms of the Mississippi, and ascending the bluffs, and for ten or fifteen miles into the interior, the
surface of the country is generally composed of rich loam, and thickly
timered with
Quercus tinctoria,
Quercus alba,
Quercus falcata,
Quercus nigra,
Quercus obtusiloba,
Quercus phillos,
Quercus rubra,
Liriodendron tulipifera,
Laurel magnolia,
Juglans amara,
Juglans myristicaeformis,
Juglans nigra,
Juglans squamosa,
Juglans laciniosa,
Laurus sassafras,
Liquid ambar styracifiua,
Fraxinus aquatica,
Diospiros virginiana,
Fagus sylvestris,
Gleditsia triacanthos,
Acer rubrum,
Celtis crassifolia,
Carpinus ostrya,
Carpinus americana,
Castanea pumila,
Cerasus virginiana,
Populus angulata,
Platanus occidentalis,
Tilia pubescens,
Ulmus rubra,
Ulmus americana,
Ulmus alata, 
Black oak,
White oak,
Spanish oak,
Pot oak, rare,
Willow oak, rare,
Red oak,
Poplar,
Bitternut hickory,
Nutmeg hickory,
Black walnut,
Shell bark hickory,
Black hickory,
Sassafras
Sweet gum,
Water ash,
Persimon,
Beech,
Honey locust, 
Red flowering maple,
Hackberry,
Iron wood,
Hornbeam,
Chinca pin, .
Wild cherry,
Cotton wood, rare,
Sycamore,
Linden, or lime tree,
Red elm,
Mucilaginous elm,
Winged elm.
N.
The pinus rigida, at the pine ridge eight miles to the north of
Natchez, approaches within three miles of the banks of the Mississip
pi. The existence of the pine at that place is a singular anomaly in
vegetation; its growth is confined to an area not more than twenty
square miles. There is nothing in the general aspect of the country
to distinguish it from the common bluffs of the Mississippi. The land
is excellent, and the pine is admixed with other trees indicative offer
tile soil. To the east of this tract, fifteen or twenty miles intervene
before the pine timber becomes abundant. The alluvial banks of
120 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Fairchild's and St. Catherine creeks, bound the pine ridge to the
north, east, and south, and to the west is the Mississippi bottoms.
We have not been informed, that the pine tree any where else ap
proaches so near the margin of the Mississippi river as at Pine ridge.
The timber trees enumerated in the annexed list are found inter
mingled along the bluffs, upon the creek bottoms, and in fact upon
every kind of land to be met with in the country.
The under growth is composed of different kinds of vines and
shrubs; common wild grape, muscadine, dogwood, spice wood, papaw,
morns scabra (Spanish mulberry,) and brakes of the arundo gigantea,
(great cane.) This vegetable has become comparatively rare, being in
great part destroyed by fire and domestic animals.
Upon land thus richly clad by nature, has arisen the fine farms
that now pour wealth into the lap of their owners. Cotton is at this
time, and perhaps will ever remain the staple of this country. Tobacco
and indigo have both been cultivated, and the former nearly, and the
latter entirely abandoned by the planters. Maize, or Indian corn,
sweet potatoes, Irish potatoes, and a great variety of other vegetables,
are cultivated successfully.
The apple, peach, fig, and plum, are the most common fruit;
the peach and fig are most easily produced. As in Louisiana, the
summer showers do much injury to fruit along the east margin of the
Mississippi. 
In fact, the general observations made on the fruits of Louisiana,
are applicable to those of the state of Mississippi, with exception of
the orange, and other fruits of the same family.
The facility with which the apple in every state of preservation
can be brought down the Mississippi, will operate against any great
attention being paid to its production in places where it is evidently
out of its congenial clime. The production of small grain, wheat,
rye, oats, and barley, will never become objects of culture where
cotton can be made at the rate of 300lbs. to the acre, at a price of
30 cents or more per lb. The production of cotton on more than
two-thirds of the land included in the section of which we are now
treating, will rather exceed than fall short of the quantity we have
already stated. More than 2000lbs. in the seed, or above 500lbs.
clean cotton, has been taken from an acre in many instances that
have come under our knowledge. Where flour can be procured at
10 dollars per barrel, or less, it will be purchased rather than made,
by a people who are in the habit of realizing such very considerable
emolument from cotton. The reciprocal advantages possessed by the º whe inhabit the northern and southern regions watered by the
Mississippi, are in nothing more real than in the facility with which
the latter can be supplied by the former, with bread stuff, meat, and
other articles of food. 
In point of salubrity, if the parts adjacent to the Mississippi river
are excepted, the country from the Yazoo to the 31° N. lat. is very
favourably situated. The surface is dry and waving, little or no
low marshy land exists; and the spring and well water excellent. .
The inhabitants are found to enjoy as much health as upon any spot
on earth, in the same parallel of lat. 
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE, 12 |
. The seasons are agreeable, the autumn and winter particularly.
But little of the rigours of a northern winter is experienced. We
know no place, where from September to April the weather is so uni
formly pleasant. The undulating face of the country prevents the
roads from becoming uncommonly difficult to pass after heavy rains.
Travelling is easy, and seldom long interrupted by floods.
Spring is, indeed, in all places near the Mississippi, south of the
thirty-fifth degree of north latitude, less agreeable than winter. The
latter has the mildness of a northern autumn; the former, to too much
of the heat of a southern summer, adds the inconvenience of frequent
and heavy rains. 
In the northern and eastern states, there is no season answering
correctly to the winter of Georgia, Louisiana, Alabama, and Missis
sippi. The air in the months of November, December, January, 
February, and March, in the latter places, is generally mild. Sum
mer, and the early part of autumn, are the seasons when health be
comes precarious. 
Perhaps after all that medical men have said upon the maladies of
mankind, and with all the multifarious drugs of the apothecary’s shop,
that the road to health is plain and easily trod. In seasons of heat,
bilious complaints in their varied forms ; and in seasons of cold and
moisture, catarrh, asthma, consumption, and phthisic, are the scourges
of the human race. Which of those two lists are the most frightful,
it is difficult to determine; the latter is, however, but little known in
the United States south of the thirty fifth degree of north latitude.
Most men with whom we have conversed, who had the advantage
of residing many years near Natchez, and who had previously removed
from the northern or eastern state ; and who of course had gained from
experience the means of forming a correct judgment, have almost uni
formly decided in favour of a residence in the former place. It may
be replied to this, that views of interest would have much influence
in this preference; but a conviction so general upon the minds of
men of all professions and ages, must have a more solid basis than
mere temporary interest. It is found that the human frame is less
liable to lingering pain, and that life is more easily supported, where
the rigours of winter are hardly known. Relieved from much severe
labour, it ought not to excite surprise that men migrate from a colder
to a warmer residence. If the spirit of emigration in the United
States was not checked by the common, though unfounded belief, that
southern situations were less favourable to health than northern, a
very great change of local population would take place. As matters and opinions are, the stream of migration is S. W. The inhabitants
of the New-England states remove to Ohio; those of New-York,
New-Jersey, and Pennsylvania, to Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois; those
of Maryland and Virginia, to Tennessee and Missouri; and those of
the Carolinas and Georgia, to Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama:
Many exceptions to this course daily occur, but this is the usual
course; and the consequence will be, that the great body of persons who daily swell the population of the states of Mississippi and Louis
iana, and the territory of Alabama, come from the two Carolinas and
Georgia. 
16
#22 BMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
It would be useless to designate particularly the counties in the sec
tion of country we have been describing; a general sameness pre
wails. Some difference of climate exists between the northern and
southern part; but not of sufficient extent to merit notice in a statis
tical point of review. The same vegetables come to perſection in the
counties of Wilkinson and Warren, which occupy the extremes.
The three species of soil, Mississippi bottom, bluff, and pine
woods, are to be found in Claiborne and Jefferson. In Adams there
is little or no pine woods, as the pine ridge, though producing the
pine tree, has a soil very different from that found in pine woods, pro perly so called. Wilkinson possesses, towards the Mississippi, a soil
extremely similar to that of Adams; but in the interior, pine occurs.
Franklin being detached from the Mississippi, affords less fertile soil
in proportion to its extent than any preceding counties, having more
pine woods than either.
The whole of this section of the state of Mississippi, is amongst the
most valuable and productive in the United States in proportion to
its extent. Few spots in the world will admit a greater variety of
vegetable products; there are none where the natural trees of the
forest offer a greater number of species. The list annexed to this
article, exhibits a part only of the most remarkable timber trees and
underwood. The neighbourhood of Natchez is peculiarly rich in its
botanical productions. Superadded to the species given in the list as
growing upon, and near the bluffs, is the variety offered by the bottoms
of the Mississippi. We have, however, in treating of Louisiana,
given in ample detail the trees most commonly found, upon the rich
alluvion of the Mississippi, so that a further notice in this place
would be useless repetition.
The geological structure of this region presents some very striking
phenomena. The masses of breccia that open to the day at the bot
tom of the bluffs, have been noticed. There can be no reasonable
doubt, but that this species of rock forms the basis of the whole coun
try. Digging wells frequently exposes large masses of loose silicious
pebble and sand. Wells are seldom dug of sufficient depth to meet
the breccia. The stone itself is of very different degrees of connex
ion; it is in some instances capable of forming mill-stones; but in
general its texture is loose, and the parts separate easily. The earth
quake of 1812 was sensibly felt at Natchez, affording a strong evi
dence that the mass of secondary rock found further to the north,
extends under the superstratum far beyond where it is ever visible.
On the west side of the Mississippi, the rapids at the west end of
Sicily island is the nearest place to the former river, where the schistus
sandstone has been discovered. The rock in Ouachitta is perfectly
similar to that found in Red, Calcasiu, and Sabine, and is the gray
sandstone of the floetz formation of Werner. The loose pebble
and masses of sand in many instances form its incumbent strata, and
are always found in the vicinity and above the schist. East of the
Mississippi, there are many reasons to consider the interior structure
of earth the same as to the west. It will be seen when treating of the
topography of the Alabama territory, that the southern part of that country is founded upon schistus limestone.
r
A
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. - 123
There is a remarkable difference in one respect, between countries
whose base is calcarious, from those resting upon argillaceous ma
terials; the latter are as noted for the quantity and excellence of
their springs of fresh water, as the former is for being deficient in
both respects. This distinction is not uniform, but it is very gene
ral; many striking examples could be cited. There are many places
in America of secondary formation, where the decumbent stratum is
carbonate of lime, where it is difficult or impossible to procure water,
either from springs or wells; but there are few or none where the
stratified argillaceous schist prevails; but where fresh water abounds,
and if not flowing from ſountains, can be procured from wells, without
any very great difficulty.
The S. E. section, comprising the counties of Amite, Pike, Law
rence, Marion, Wayne, Greene, Hancock, and Jackson, have so
much resemblance to West Florida, that little can be added respect
ing the former, that has not been anticipated when describing the lat
ter country.
The S. E. section contains the only sea-coast embraced in the Mis
sissippi. Except a very"small extent east of Pearl, this sea-coast is
high, dry land; the pine forest reaching the gulf of Mexico.
Three beautiful bays indent the shore—St. Louis, Biloxi, and Pas
cagoula; only the latter ever can be of any great consequence in a
commercial point of view.
The islands of Malheureux, Marianne, and Cat-Island, are in
cluded in the bounds assigned to both the states of Louisiana and Mis
sissippi. There must have been some oversight in framing the re
spective acts, which marked the possessions of each state."
The islands are in themselves of no great consequence ; they are
mere banks of sand, decorated with sea myrtle and a few pine trees.
There are two good harbours contiguous to Cat-Island, but its position
will render them in a great measure useless to navigation, except as a
temporary shelter to vessels approaching the coast.
The chain of islands extending from the Rigolets to Mobile bay,
roduces a very safe and commodious navigation between New Or }. and Mobile, for vessels of a dranght not exceeding eight feet.
This commerce passing in front of the state of Mississippi, will be of
little benefit to its inhabitants, except those residing upon Pearl and
Pascagoula rivers. - 
The country included in the S. E. section is yet but thinly popu
lated; and from the general aspect of the country, it may be safely
concluded, that the comparative numbers on the two sections will re
main nearly as they are now. In addition to a great superiority of
soil, the N. W. section has many other advantages, that can never be
extended to that of the S. E. - 
Taking a comparative view of all the territory included in this
state, there are a few other states that possess an equally favourable
position. The difference of soil and climate is the greatest, Georgia
excepted, that can be shown by any state in the Union. Fronting
on the Mississippi, and occupying the thoroughfare from New Orleans
to the northern states, the state of Mississippi will ever be respecta
ble beyond its mere nominal population.
124 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
When the Indian claims are extinguished, this state will possess
28,480,000 acres of land; some ſºrt of which equals any soil in the
world, and most of it capable of becoming the residence of an ac
tive race of human beings. Upon the entire surface, cotton can be
produced in abundance as a staple; whilst almost every plant neces
sary to human subsistence can be produced in plenty. The climate
is temperate, and most part of the state elevated and salubrious. Few Fº have formed a more permanent basis for lasting prosperity.
o secure the well being of her citizens, demands only a moderate
share of talents and virtue in her future legislators; but the benefi
cence of nature cannot be rendered abortive, without a high degree
of folly and cupidity in the administrators of her laws.
Respecting the agriculture of the state of Mississippi, little could
be added, not noticed under that head in the statistics of Louisiana.
The products of agricultural industry, that claim the attention of the
people of the two states, do not, rice and sugar excepted, differ es
sentially.
Cotton.—Mr. Niles observes that,” “This great staple has grown
up within a very few years. In 1791 weekported only 189,316lbs. ;
in 1792, 138,328]bs. ; in 1793, 487,600lbs. : ten years after, 1803,
we exported 41,105,623|bs. ; in 1807, 64 millions; in 1810, 93
millions; in 1815, 83 millions; and for the year ending with Sep
tember 1816, nearly 81 millions, as follows:—
lbs. cts. valued at
Uplands, 72,046,790 at 27 Sea islands, 9,900,326 at 47 : $24,106,000
sº
lbs. 81,947,116
“We have seen an anonymous estimate of the whole crop of 1816,
which gives us 320,000 bales, as the whole quantity raised, viz.
In Virginia, - 2,000 bales.
North Carolina, 13,000
South Carolina, 120,000
Georgia, 1 10,000
Louisiana, Tennessee and Kentucky, 3. : 77,000
- 320,000
Which are valued thus:–
290,000 bales upland at $75 22,050,000 300,00 Sea island l 15 3,450,000
$45,500,000
“The bale is not a determined quantity; but we are told that it may
be averaged at 320ibs. This estimate then would give us a product
of ouly 102,600,000lbs . The average of the four years export be
fore the war, viz. for 1808, 1809, 1810 and 1811, was about 55 mil -t; - - 
* No. 18. Vol. XII. Niles' Register.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 125
*:
lions; but in 1815 we exported 83, and in 1816, 82 millions. We
know that the cultivation of this commodity has been greatly extend
ed; and if we call 80 millions as the surplus quantity over the home
consumption, the whole quantity raised can hardly be less than 120
or 130 millions, it having been estimated that our factories could con
sume 29 millions, as they stood in 1815. These have somewhat
declined, perhaps, but household manufactures, as before observ
ed, have greatly increased ; and we shall put down the crop of last
year at 125 millions of pounds, of which 13 may have been sea
island. 
“Of Tobacco, we exported, in 1815, 85,339 has. and in 1816,
69,241 hbds. the last valued at $12,809,000, or an average of 185 dol
lars per hbd. For the years 1808, 1809, 1810 and 1811, the aver
age was somewhat more than 45.000 has. The cultivation was
declining for several years before the war, but has, since the peace,
been far more rapidly extending—and we may accept 70,000 hlids.
as the surplus quantity. The table before referred to, estimates the
whole crop of last year at 127,000 hlids—valued as follows:
45,000 Virginia, 30,000 Louisiana and Kentucky, * 
7,000 North Carolina, 7,500 South Carolina, at 96 $14,562,000
7,500 Georgia,
30,000 Maryland, 90
“This gives an average of only $115 per hbd—$71 less than the
treasury estimate of last year. But the price of the article has de
creased ; and this may be a pretty fair estimate of the quantity pro
duced. The export of manufactured tobacco is not worth taking into
the account. 
“Sugar is becoming a very important item in our agriculture; and
the time is close at hand, when it will nearly cease to be imported.
Large tracts of land are continually brought into the cultivation of the cane. Mr. Durby tells us there are 250,000 acres in Louisiana fit
to produce it. We have reason to believe there is a much greater
quantity than that; but 250,000. acres, worked by 83,333 hands, at
one to three acres, calculated to produce 1000lbs. per acre, would give us 250 millions of pounds!—a quantity that we lºſſ not know
what to do with. Besides, it succeeds well in Georgia, and the most
southerly parts of South Carolina. At present it is the most profita
ble crop of the planter—Mr. Darby estimates the product, per hand, thus : a - 
Sugar at 8 cents per lb. - - $240 per hand. Cotton 15 • * * - - 180
Indigo 00 - - - - 140
Tobacco $10 per cwt. - - 107
Rice 6 cents per lb. - - 84
* This valuation is not at such a high rate, as that made at the treasury de
artment; alſº wing the bales to be of 300lbs. weight each, as it is probable
ey were rated at,
s 
126 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
“We have no certain returns whereby to calculate the quantity of
sugar and molasses made in the United States. In 1810, the marshals
returned 9,665,108 lbs. of maple sugar, and 9671 hos. from the
cane,—together about 20 millions of pounds—with 3590 hids. or
179,500 gallons of molasses. The quantity of maple sugar made
had not, probably, increased ; but it may be safe to say that Louisi
ana now makes at least 30 millions from the cane. 
“Rice;—the export last year was 137,848 tierces, valued at
3,555,000 dollars, 26 dollars per tierce, nearly. For the years 1809,
*19, '11, and '12, the annual export was about 115,000 tierces. The
estimate before referred to, gives the whole crop of 1816 as being
only 1 10,000 tierces, valued at 3,600,000 dollars. The quantity,
we think, cannot be less than 150,000. But as its home consumption
comes in lieu of wheat, corn, and other grain, we shall consider it as
already accounted for in the vegetable food we have supposed was
consumed. The cultivation of rice appears to be declining.
The only town in the state of Mississippi worthy particular notice
is NATch Ez.
NATCHEZ, in Adams county, stands upon the left or east bank of
the Mississippi, at 31° 33' N. lat. 14° 20' W. from Washington city.
The site of Natchez is high and commanding. The town is laid out
at right angles upon very uneven ground. Though upon a bluff of the
Mississippi, the river cannot be seen from the town, owing to the ele
vation of the intervening hill. The waters that drain from Natchez,
flow into St. Catherine creek. It is difficult to ascertain the present
population of Natchez; perhaps 2500 would not be far from the
number of persons now residing in that city. This town is well situ
ated for a commercial depot; having a fertile well cultivated country
in its rear. Many very wealthy merchants are established in Natchez,
who carry on the cotton business extensively.
There are no public edifices of any particular consequence in
Natchez. Most of the private buildings are constructed of wood,
though many elegant brick houses have been erected within the last
twelve years.
WASHINGTON, about six miles east from Natchez, also in Adams
county, has been for fifteen years past the seat of government for the
Mississippi territory. This town contains at this time, perhaps, 1000
inhabitants. It stan's on the bank of St. Catherine creek, in a healthy
pleasant situation, amid the most wealthy and best peopled settle
ments in the state. Washington has many allurements as a summer
residence over any town near the Mississippi river, south of Tennes
see ; it is placed in a well cultivated neighbourhood, the water is ex
cellent, the adjacent country is agreeably diversified with hill and
dale, and no stagnant waters in its vicinity. - 
The state of society does not differ materially in Natchez and
Washington. There is much in both of that urbanity that marks the
people of the southern states, and strangers meet an unreserve found
in every place where men have much intercourse with each other.
Monticello on Pearl river, in Lawrence county, is the present seat
of government for the state of Mississippi. This town stands at 31°
33' N. lat. 13°W. lon, from Washington. It is of very recent date,
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 127
- *
and cannot contain any considerable number of persons. As respects
that part of the state in which the Indian title is extinct, the position
of Monticello is nearly central; and being in a high, dry, healthy si
tuation, this town is well chosen as the seat of legislation for the new
state. 
The other towns in the state are yet small, and of no other conse
quence than being the seats of justice for the respective counties. No
city of any great extent can easily rise in the vicinity of New Orleans;
its concentrated advantages will allure population and commercial ca
pital into its own bosom, and prevent the increase of other cities with
in the sphere of its attraction. Some place on, or near the Mobile
river, will, no doubt, become of considerable importance ; but a ra
tio will exist between the cities situated on the respective streams on
a similar scale with that between the Mississippi and the Mobile ri
WerS.
When the state of Mississippi becomes peopled in all its extent, the
seat of legislation must be placed at some point on the dividing waters
of Pearl, Pascagoula, and Big black rivers.
Preserving the seat of legislation in the large commercial towns,
seems to have been tacitly laid aside by the people of the United
States in many instances. How far the custom of placing their legis
latures as near as possible to the geographical centre of the respec
tive states, is founded upon individual convenience, it is difficult to
determine. Whatever may be the benefit of thus removing the cen
tre of government with that of the population, a serious suit of evils
arises, that can scargely be counterbalanced by any temporary ad
vantage. The growth of towns of this description is retarded, from
want of confidence in the permanency of the only source of their
prosperity.
In many instances, the very men who vote the seat of government
a few miles nearer home, have exposed themselves to more expense
and less comfort, without having in any manner gained benefit from
the change. e. 
The most serious, however, of all the mischiefs attending this va
cillation of legislation, is in the check it gives to the advance of in
telligence where it is most wanted. Schools, colleges, libraries, and
printing offices, are the depositories and marts of human knowledge.
They either never rise, or languish and fall to ruin, where their means
of augmentation and support are withdrawn, or even in annual danger
of removal.
The seat of legislation ought, like legislation itself, to rest solid and
unmoveable, except for the most urgent reasons.
Those who consider a large city as the exclusive focus of intrigue,
know little of human nature. Those who, in order to avoid the influ
ence of superior information, or to save one or two days travelling,
carry their archives from cities to villages, exhibit a very defective
specimen of their judgment in the management of human affairs.
128 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
THE ALABAMA TERRITORY is formed out of the east
part of the late Mississippi territory, and occupies almost all the val
ley of the Mobile and its tributary streams, and part of that of Ten
messee and Pascagoula. 
This territory was created by the following act of congress:
AN ACT
To establish a separate territorial government for the eastern part of
the Mississippi Territory.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America, in Congress assembled, that all that part
of the Mississippi territory, which lies within the following bounda
ries, to wit: beginning at the point where the line of the thirty-first
degree of north latitude intersects the Perdido river; thence east to
the western boundary line of the state of Georgia ; thence along said
line to the southern boundary line of the state of Tennessee ; thence
west along said boundary line to the Tennessee river; thence up the
same to the mouth of Bear creek; thence by a direct line to the north
west corner of Washington county; thence due south to the gulf of
Mexico; thence eastwardly, including all the island within six leagues
of the shore to the Perdido river, and thence up the same to the place
of beginning, shall, for the purpose of a temporary government, con
stitute a separate territory, and be called “Alabama.”
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That all offices which may
exist, and all laws which may be in force, in said territory, within the
boundaries above described, at the time this act shall go into effect,
shall continue to exist, and be in force, until otherwise provided by
law. And the president of the United States shall have power to ap
point a governor and secretary for the said Alabama territory, who
shall respectively exercise the same power, perform the same duties,
and receive for their services, the same compensation as are provided
for the governor and secretary of the Mississippi territory. Provided,
that the appointment of said governor and secretary, shall be submit
ted to the senate for their advice and consent, at the next session of
congress. 
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That there shall be appointed an
additional judge of the Mississippi territory, who shall reside in the
eastern part thereof, and receive the same compensation as the other
judges, and that the judge appointed by virtue of an act, passed the
twenty-seventh day of March, one thousand eight hundred and four,
for the appointment of an additional judge for the Mississippi territo
ry, together with the judge appointed by Madison county, and the
judge to be appointed by virtue of this act, shall possess and exercise
exclusive original jurisdiction in the superior courts of Washington,
Baldwin, Clarke, Monroe, Montgomery, Wayne, Greene, Jackson,
Mobile, Madison, and such new counties as may be formed out of
them, and shall arrange the same among themselves from time to time :
Provided, that no judge shall sit more than twice in succession in the
same court, and that the other judges of the Mississippi territory shall
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 12.9
exercise, as heretofore authorized by an act of Congress, or of the
territorial legislature, exclusive jurisdiction in the superior courts of the other counties. That a general court, to be composed of the
judge appointed by virtue of the act of the twenty-seventh of March, one thousand eight hundred and four, the judge appointed for Madison
county, and the judge to be appointed by virtue of this act, or any two of them, shall be holden at St. Stephen's, commencing on the first Mondays of January and July, annually ; who shall have the same powers of granting writs of error to the superior courts of the coun ties mentioned in this section, or which shall hereafter be forumed in
the eastern division of the territory, which was given by the act for the appointment of an additional judge, passed the year one thousand eight hundred and four, to the superior court of Adams district, and which shall possess exclusively of the courts of the several counties,
the federal jurisdiction given to the superior courts of the territories, by an act passed the third day of March, one thousand eight hundred
and five, entitled, “An act to extend jurisdiction in certain cases to
the territorial courts.”
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the governor to be ap pointed by the authority of this act, shall, immediately after entering into office, convene at the town of St. Stepheus, such of the members of the legislative council, and house of representatives of the Mississip pi territory, as may then be the representatives from the several counties within the limits of the territory to be established by this act; and the said members shall constitute the legislative council and house of representatives for the aforesaid Alabama territºry, whose powers, in relation to the said territory, shall be until the expiration of the term for which they shall have been chosen, or until congress shall otherwise provide, the same in all respects as are now possessed by the legislative council and house of representatives of the Missis sippi territory; and the said legislative council and house of repre sentatives of the Alabama territory, so formed, shall have power to nominate six persons to the president of the United States, three of whom shall be selected by him for members of the legislative coun eil, in addition to the number which the said territory may possess agreeable to the foregoing provision of this section. The said legis lative council and house of representatives shall have power to elect a delegate to congress, who shall, in all respects, possess the same rights and immunities as other delegates from territories of the United
States.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That this act shall commence
and be in force so soon as the convention, the appointment whereof has been authorized by congress at their present session, for that part
of the Mississippi territory lying west of the territory herein described; of which act of convention, the governor of the Mississippi territory
for the time being, shall give immediate notice to the president of the United States, who shall thereupon forthwith proceed to the execu
tion of the powers vested in him by the second section of this act; but in case said convention shall fail to form a constitution and state government as aforesaid, then this* shall become null and void, ex
1
130 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
cept so far as relates to the third section thereof, which shall take
effect and be in force from and after the passage of this act.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That all persons who shall be
in office, within the territory hereby established, when the said con
vention shall have formed a constitution and state government as
aforesaid, shall continue to hold and exercise their offices, in all re
spects as if this act had never been made ; and the governor and se
cretary of the Mississippi territory, for the time, shall continue to
exercise the duties of their respective offices, in relation to the terri
tory hereby established, until a governor and secretary shall be ap
pointed therefor, in pursuance of this act.
Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That all judicial process in the
said territory of Alabama, shall be issued and bear test as heretofore ;
nor shall any suit be discontinued, or the proceedings of any cause
stayed, or in any wise affected by any thing contained in this act, or
in the act, entitled “An act to enable the people of the western part
of the Mississippi territory to form a constitution and state govern
ment, and for the admission of such state into the Union on an equal
footing with the original states.” 
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That the town of St. Stephens
shall be the seat of government for the said Alabama territory, until it
shall be otherwise ordered by the legislature thereof.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That whatever balance may
remain in the treasury of the Mississippi territory, at the time when
the convention authorized to form a constitution and state government
for the same, shall be divided between the new state and territory,
according to the amount which may have been paid into said treasu
ry, from the counties lying within the limits of such state and territo
ry respectively.
Approved, March 31, 1817.
The Alabama territory lies between 30° 12' and 35° N. lat. Its
greatest length from Dauphin Island to the southern line of Tennessee
is three hundred and thirty miles; its greatest breadth about one
hundred and fifty miles ; the whole extending over 45,500 square
miles, or 29, 120,000 acres.
The Alabama possesses a very great diversity of soil, climate, and
natural, vegetable, and mineral productions. Occupying the valley
of the Mobile and its tributary streams, together with a fine body of
land upon both banks of the Tennessee river, its position in an agri
cultural and commercial point of view is extremely advantageous.
From the circumstance of so much of the area included within its
limits, having been purchased from the savages at the time of the
creation of this territory, its political birth is extremely auspicious.
And by an accumulation of benefits, the moment is very favourable
for an instant and great influx of inhabitants. 
Ten years can scarcely elapse, before the Alabama must assume
her rank amongst the states of the American Union, and close the
column of republics from the Canadian lakes to the gulf of Mexico, and from the Atlantic ocean to the Sabine river.
Having the finest river to its length in all North America, and exten
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. I31
sive superficies of excellent soil, the Alabama presents a most desira
ble field for youthful enterprise.
The counties in the Alabama territory, are, Madison, Elk, Blount,
Shelby, Clarke, Washington, Baldwin, Jackson, Mobile, Montgomery,
Monroe.
Of the above counties, only Mobile, Montgomery, Monroe, Bald
win, Washington, Clarke, and part of Shelby and Jackson, are inclu
ded in our map. Jackson county is cut by the provisional division
line between the state of Mississippi and Alabama territory. Shelby,
lying north of Clarke, extends to the highlands between the Tennes
see and Tombigbee rivers. Mobile occupies both banks of the river
of that name, being part of the late West Florida. ‘. . . . .
The population is no doubt every where in these counties augment
ed since 1810; but to Clarke, Monroe, Shelby, and Montgomery,
almost all the inhabitants have removed within the last six years, and
into the three latter, since 1815.
It would be useless to extend our geographical notice beyond the
limits of our own map. The N. E. part of the territory is yet in the
Indian country; of course neither well known or interesting at this
time. - - 
The following sketch of this country appeared in the public prints
a short time past. It appears to give more ample and correct, infor
mation of the country upon the Coosa, Tallapoosa, and Alabama, than
any account yet made public. We never extended our own personal
observations east of the Tombigbee. We have considered this de
scription superior in point of authenticity to any other information
we could procure. It is, therefore, inserted entire, with our acknow
ledgments to the author. 
“At the present period, when the spirit of emigration to the lately
ceded territory prevails to a very great extent, a correct topographical
description of any part of it cannot ſail to be acceptable.
“Having been engaged for a considerable time past in surveying
public land in several parts of the late Creek cession, the account
here offered is chiefly the result of actual observation, aided by infor
mation derived from other surveyors.
“The Alabama is known to be the principal river running through
this country. Its general course from its head, or junction of Coosa
and Tallapoosa, to its junction with the Tombigbee river, is nearly
southwest; but in its course thither, it ‘makes one remarkable bend
and two others of less note. 
“From the junction of Coosa and Tallapoosa rivers to the mouth
of Cahaba, a distance by land of about 60 miles, the river runs but a
little south of west—thence to the Alabama heights, or Fort Clai- ,
borne, by land of 60 or 70 miles, its course is but a little west of
south—thence to its junction with Tombigbee, about 60 miles fur
ther, its course is nearly southwest. From this point to Mobile, dis tant about 40 miles, the river runs nearly south again. Fort Clai
borne is at the head of schooner navigation. Large boats ascend
from thence up to Fort Jackson, by the Coosa river. The distance
to Fort Jackson, by the Tallapoosa river, is five miles less than by
132 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
the Coosa, and the navigation throughout the winter and spring is
good. In dry seasons, however, there is not sufficient depth of wa
ter for the Alabama boats. The Coosa river has a fine deep channel
from its mouth, three miles by land below Fort Jackson, up to We
tumpka, or the Great Shoals, five miles above the fort. Here, in the
present state of things, we may reckon the head of navigation on
this river From the falls, this river is the Indian boundary up to
the mouth of Will's creek, 120 miles, or thereabouts. 
“The Tallapoosa is navigable, except in dry seasons, up to the
Great Falls, a few miles above Tookabatche, and about 35 miles
above Fort Jackson. From the falls down to Fort Jackson, the
general course of the Tallapoosa is nearly west.
“The waters in these rivers, particularly the Tallapoosa and Ala
bama, are subject to remarkable periodical elevation and depres
sions, owing entirely to this circumstance :—Many of their tributary
streams, originating in, and passing through a country founded on a
bed of lime stones, are large and respectable water-courses in the
winter and spring, but in the fall months become perfectly dry. In
the Alabama and Coosa rivers, however, there is always a sufficient
depth of water for boating. 
“Proceeding southeastwardly along the boundary line, from the
mouth of Lime creek, and up the same towards Chatahoocha, at the
distance of about 40 miles from Tallapoosa, we come to the ridge sepe
rating the waters of Tallapoosa and Alabama, from those of Cone
cuh and Escambia. This ridge proceeds westwardly in a direction
nearly parallel with the rivers Tallapoosa and Alabama ; but bend
ing less to the south, it approximates very fast towards the river be
low its bend, near the mouth of Cahaba, and becoming less elevated
and distinct, it is finally cut off by the grand sweep of the river along
the Alabama heights. 
“This tract of country, bounded on the north and west by the
river, on the east by the boundary line, and on the south by the
ridge, is probably the largest body of good land to be found any where
within the limits of the treaty, south of Tennessee river. It com
prehends an area of sixty townships, or about 2000 square miles, a
considerable portion of which is of the first quality, and there is but
little of it that will fall below the rank of good second quality. About
one half of the townships now offered for sale lies in this district.
“The river cane bottom land, we suppose to be equal in fertility
to any on the continent, and may average in width a half, or three.
quarters of a mile, the river winding through it in a serpentine course,
and leaving the cane land sometimes on this side and sometimes on
that. The outside of the swamp joining the high land, as on most
rivers, is low, wet, and cut up with ponds and lagoons. Next to the
river swamp, and elevated above it by a bluff of from 10 to 15 feet
in height, we enter upon an extensive body of level rich land, of fine
black, or chocolate coloured soil. The principal growth is hickory :
black oak, post oak, dogwood, and poplar, are also common, but pine
timber is rather scarce. This portion of land is interspersed, more
or less, with reed marshes, out of which issues constant running wa
ter; and also in many places with flat, wet weather ponds, holding
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 133
water in winter, and becoming dry in summer. After this, comes in
the prairies. These are wide spreading plains, of a level, or gently
waving land, without timber, clothed in grass, herbage, and flowers,
insulated by narrow skirts of rich interval wood land; and exhibiting,
in the month of May, the most enchanting scenery imaginable. The
soil is generally of a fine black rich cast, and has the appearance of
great fertility. Should they prove to be as productive as the soil
promises, they will be of great value, as the expense and labour of
clearing land will here be saved ; and the soil being of such a quali
ty as will not wash away, the land must be very durable. These
prairies extend nearly, or quite to the ridge; and as the country is
open, dry, and airy, it promises to be healthy. The only objection
to this part of the country seems to be the want of water. This in
convenience, however, may probably be removed to a considerable
extent by digging of wells. This objection applies to most of the
tract within the limits mentioned, except the land immediately on the
river, and distant from it from one to three miles. In this range, there
is an abundance of cool and pleasant spring water, issuing from the
bluffs and reedy heads already mentioned. Several large creeks wa
ter this district, which will afford good winter navigation for small
boats, of sufficient size to transport the produce of the incumbent
farms to the river. The principal of these are the Catoma, Pincohna,
Pohlahla, and Big swamp creek, all of which afford extensive bot
toms of rich cane brake and beech swamp. Families living on and
near the river, except in select places, will be subject to intermit
tent and bilious fevers; but they have hitherto appeared to be of a
mild type.
“After passing the ridge we enter into a country of very different
character and features from that just noticed. It is generally pine
land, intersected with innumerable creeks, rivulets and branches,
running southwardly into the bay of Escambia. The head waters of
Conecuh, which is the principal river emptying into the bay, spread
out over a large extent of country. The creeks and branches have
wide swamps, and are in general too low and wet for cultivation.
They abound in the finest timber, particularly white oak of a supe
rior growth, swamp red oak of uncommon size and beauty, beech, ma
ple, poplar, gum and cypress. The undergrowth is reed and cane,
palmettos, rattan, grape vines, and china brier. These swamps afford
the finest stock range imaginable, particularly for hogs; as besides the
immense quantity of oak and beech mast, there is a great variety and
plenty of ground nuts and roots, easily attainable in the soft soil or mud
of those swamps. - - 
“On the margins of the creeks there are generally found strips of
good land from a quarter to a half mile wide. In places it is very
rich, bearing oak, hickory, ash, and sometimes walnut trees. Next
to this is very often found a skirt of rich pine land, dark mulatto soil,
with hickory, buckeye, and shrubbery characteristic of rich land.
“From this kind of land there is a gradual declension to the poor pine
woods. On the heads of the numerous branches of Conecuh approach
- ing the ridge, there is a skirt of oak and hickory land five or six miles,
134 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
running parallel with the ridge. The soil is mostly of a free, soft,
gray quality; sometimes it is found rich, strong and red, clothed with an
agreeable mixture of oak, hickory, pine, poplar, ash, chestnut, and
dogwood, &c.
“The Sepulgas, Burnt-corn, and Murder creek, lying more to the
west, it is said, afford larger bodies of good land than Conecuh : there
are none, however, so far as we can learn, very extensive on any of
these waters. 
“Of the extent of the navigation of Conecuh, we have no satis
factory account. The surveyors, however, who ran the parallel
townships, from the Spanish line progressively to the north or up the
river, found it no where passable with their pack-horses within fifty
miles of the Spanish line, without swimming their horses and construct
ing rafts for their packs. They report it to be a fine deep channel,
with a slow eddy current. At the distance of about fifty or sixty
miles above the line of demarkation, it divides into two large creeks,
and here is probably the head of boat navigation. This whole tract
of country is abundantly supplied with perennial springs of excellent
water. Your approach to the water is always announced by the wide
spreading reed brakes, which uniformly cover the wet bottoms of all
the branches, and afford an almost inexhaustible range for cattle.
“No country affords a better prospect of health. From the nature
of the soil, however, the population must be thin. *
“Of the mineral productions of this country, the most remarkable
is the large quantity of stone, having the appearance of volcanic la
va, lying in broken fragments, covering the tops and sides of many of
the hil's composing the ridge, exhibiting evident marks of having once
been in a state of fusion. There are also several places on the head
branches of the Conecuh, where there are indications of iron ore in
considerable quantities, and judging of it from his weight and ferru
ginous aspect, it is probably rich. 
“Among the small prairies in the western extremity of their range,
there are inexhaustible quarries of limestone or solid blocks of white
hard calcarious rock. By burning a piece of this stone in a black
smith's forge, and slaking it, we found it to effervesce rapidly, and
making strong and beautiful lime. Amongst this limestone there are
also found many testaceous petrifactions,” particularly the oyster,
elam, and cockle shells, some of which are remarkably large, retaining
their original form, and exhibiting, on their outside, all the lines and
nitches of the shell in its natural state, and on the inside almost as
perfect a polish as when the shell was first opened.
“These beds of limestone (carbonate of lime,) are great natural
curiosities, whether they are considered in regard to their origin, or
the process by which these substances have been changed from their
original texture to their present state of petriſaction; and while
they afford a rich subject for speculation for the naturalist and phi
* This is the same kind of recent limestone found in all the valley of the Mississippi. It forms the superstratum at the falls of Ohio. These beds of lime.
stone frequently alternate with the floetz sandstone: in fact, the two rocks are of a similar formation, but differ in their component parts.
EMIGRANT*S GUIDE. - 135
losopher, they also supply the mechanic with an excellent material
in masonry and architecture. “Of the lands lying to the north and west of the Alabama and
Coosa rivers, but little has been surveyed, and consequently but lit
tle of them is known: an actual survey of this country, however,
will soon be made, when its topographical character will be ascer
tained.
“With respect to that part of the ceded lands which falls withia
the limits of Georgia, we have no authentic information, but what is
derived from the survey of its boundaries; and even here we are de
ficient in part, not having the traverse of the Chatahooche river, which is the western boundary of this tract, from the mouth of Sum
mochecola to the mouth of Flint river. The estimated distance,
however, between these two points is 60 miles ; and the course near
ly south. Taking this at present, for the fact, we have the land in the form of a trapezium, whose average length from east to west is
about one hundred and eighty miles, and its average breadth from
north to south about sixty miles. These dimensions will give a product of 11,900 square miles, or 7,616,000 acres. Judging of the
interior of the country from what has been seen on its boundaries, and
the roads passing through it, except what lies between Flint river
and Chatahooche, all the rest could not be sold for what it would
cost the state to survey it. What lies between the Flint and Chata
hooche rivers, however, deserves more attention. In order to form
some estimate of the quantity of land comprehended in this district,
we must ascertain as nearly as practicable its dimensions. The dis
tance from the mouth of Summochicola to the mouth of Flint river, we have supposed to be sixty miles, course nearly south. From the mouth of Summochicola, on the boundary line to Flint river, the dis
tance is ascertained to be sixty miles and six perches east. Thus we have two sides of the tract, sixty miles each, intersected nearly
at right angles. 
“Flint river makes a large curve eastwardly or outwardly. This is inferred from its relative position with the Chatahooche at three
several points above. On the Oakfuske trail, the distance across from Flint river to the Chatahooche, is about thirty miles. On the
Federal road running nearly west, and thirty or ſorty miles lower down, the distance across is fifty-seven miles. On the boundary line, sixty or seventy miles below the road, it is sixty across. There must
then be a considerable bend in the river somewhere below the line.
This bend is probably at the limestone bluff, twenty or thirty below the line, as it is represented in Mr. Melish's late improved map of the
United States.
“From Chatahooche on the line to Flint river, there is about a
third of the distance good land. In one place, particularly, between Herod's creek and Kitchaphone, (a large creek,) a distance of seven
teen miles, there is a body of oak and hickory land of a good second
quality, finely, timbered, and lying sufficiently level, extending
without a break, from Herod's creek, to within a mile of the large 
creek Kitchaphone, a distance of sixteen miles. In this land we
found no water crossing the line between the two creeks. Water was
found, however, on the south side of the line. Thence to Flint river
136 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE,
the land is generally poor, except about half a mile on the river,
which is a fine, soft, gray land, well timbered, and near the river, of
a rich soil.
“Between the two rivers we cross five large creeks, each of which
affords more or less good land, and on one or two of them (Kitcha
phone and Amakulla) there is a prospect of good mill seats.
“Proceeding from the lime down towards the point, I am told the
proportion of good land increases; but be the proportion of good land
more or less, as it is the only part of the whole tract received from
the general government that will afford any revenue, it would be well
for the state to make some disposition of it, and bring the funds thence arising into operation. W. ROBERTS.”
There is an elongation of the Alabama territory south of the 31°
N. lat. and lying between the east boundary line of the state of Mis
sissippi and the Perdido river. This tract covers about 3850 square
miles, including Mobile bay, and the islands Dauphin, Massacre, Pe
tititbois, together with the expanse of water between the islands and
the main land. This tract is formed out of a part of West Florida, and
is of more importance from its position, than from either its extent or productions. f
Mobile bay is by far the most commodious entrance to the interior
of the country that exists within the limits of the United States upon
the gulf of Mexico. A long point of low sand-bar projects from the
eastward, and comes within less than three miles of Dauphin island;
this island is about five miles long, of a triangular form ; it is low,
sandy, and barren. There are two entrances into Mobile bay; the
main pass between Dauphin island and Mobile point, and passau Heron,
between Dauphin island and the main shore. The main pass is nar
row and circular, winding round Mobile point, and being close on
shore, forces vessels to pass within half gun shot of the point. The
intermediate space between the pass and the east point of Dauphin
island is shallow. At high tides, eighteen feet water is found on the
bar. The pass au Heron or inside passage has only six feet on its
bar, but affords sufficient depth for schooners and other smaller vessels
trading between Mobile river and New Orleans.
MOBILE town, and Fort Condé, stands on the west side, at the
head of the bay ; the site is elevated fifteen or twenty feet above tide
water, and is dry and solid. The approach to Mobile is rendered in
some measure difficult, from a low grassy island lying opposite the
town. There is a good shelter for vessels within the island, and depth
of water to permit lying near the bank.
It is doubtful whether, as a commercial depot, the site of Mobile
is well chosen ; the country in its rear is, for a considerable distance,
barren. The Tensaw, or eastern branch of Mobile river, is deeper
and wider than the western, and, perhaps, more suitable to have on its
banks the trading mart of this noble stream.
All the surface drained by the Tombigbee, Black Warrior, Alaba
ma, Coosa, Tallapoosa, and Cahaba, exceeds 40,000 square miles,
26,000,000 acres. Some place near the head of Mobile bay must
become an emporium for the commerce of this wide region,
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 137
Fort Stoddert is situated on the west bank of the Alabama: it is a
lace of little note. 
FORT ST. STEVENS, the seat of government for Alabama terri
tory, stands on the west bank of Tombigbee, at the head of schooner
navigation ; is a very thriving town, and will, no doubt, increase ra
idly in extent and commercial importance.
HUNTSVILLE, in Madison county, is a thriving village, seated
amid a wealthy and industrious settlement.
The other towns or villages of Alabama territory are yet in their
infancy; nothing can be anticipated respecting their future progress.
MISSOURI TERRITORY. This territory, in its most extended
sense, includes all of Louisiana not comprised within the limits of the
state of Louisiana; * but as only a very small part of this immense re
gion is yet purchased from the native savages, we will, in this work,
notice only those parts to which the settlements of the whites are ex
tended.
If the northwestern limit of the state of Louisiana is supposed to be
continued north, it would intersect the Missouri fifteen or twenty
miles below the mouth of the Kansas river, at 39° 10' N. lat. 16° 55'
W. lon. from Washington city. This line would leave to the east
ward all establishments yet made by the people of the United States
in the Missouri territory, except upon the banks of the Missouri
and Mississippi rivers. Assuming the foregoing line as the westbounda
ry of the settled part of Missouri territory, it would be bounded
thus: on the north, by the 40° N., lat. ; N. E. S. E. and E. by
the Mississippi river; and south by the state of Louisiana.
Statistical Table.
Population in 1810. Chief towns,
District of Arkansas, , 874
St. Francis, - 188
New Madrid, 3,103 New Madrid.
Cape Girardeau, 3,888 Girardeau.
St. Genevieve, 4,620 St. Genevieve.
St. Louis, 5,667 St. Louis.
St. Charles, 3,505 St. Charles.
20,845
Of this region, 82,600 square miles lie south, and about 16,000
north of the Missouri river; the entire area spreading over 98,600
square miles. Nature has divided the Missouri territoryf into two
very distinct portions, but unequal superficies. A ridge of hills leaves
the Mississippi river within a short distance above the mouth of
Ohio; and extending southwest, divides the waters that flow south
into the St. Francis and White rivers from those whose courses are di
rected northeast of the Missouri and Mississippi rivers. The southern
section is the most extensive, and contains at least as great a portion
of good land as the northern. The former is watered by the streams
* See º 3.
# When the Missouriterritory is named in this treatise, the part defined in the
text is to be understood.
18
138 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
of Red, Ouachitta, Arkansaw, White, Mississippi, and St. Francis ;
the latter by the Osage, Missouri, Merrimack, and Mississippi
rivers. - 
The Red river merely touches the Missouri territory, and waters so
sm ll a part of its surface, that it can add but little to the topographical
features of the country. The Ouachitta has been described.* The .4 rhansaw is, after the Missouri, the longest, and in some sea
sons the largest branch of the Mississippi.f This great liver rises
above 41° north lat. and 33° west lon, from Washington city ; and
enters the Mississippi at 34° north lat. and 14° west lon. ; conse
quently flows through seven degrees of latitude, and nineteen of lon
gitude, or upwards of eleven hundred miles in a direct course, and
about one and a half that distance, following the stream. The Arkan
saw greatly exceeds in length either the Mississippi proper, or Ohio.
That part of Arkansaw that traverses the Missouri territory is skirted,
in great part, by extensive prairies. Spurs of the Masserne mountains
often reach the river. It may be remarked as singular, that to the
extent of upwards of three hundred miles in the lower part of the Ar
kansaw, its valley is confined merely to the stream of the river; the
waters of the Ouachitta on one side, and White river on the other,
rising almost from the very margin of the Arkansaw. - 
The land upon the Arkansaw, in the Missouri territory, is in great
part alluvial; and where not subject to overflow, excellent.
The timber corresponds nearly to that of the state of Mississippi,
in similar relative situations.
White river may be considered, as far as productive soil is concern
ed,one of the principal streams of the Missouri territory. This river is
formed by the junction of Black river, and White river properly so
called, and falls into the Mississippi thirty miles above the Arkansaw.
Without estimating the particular bends, the White river is about four
hundred miles in length, following the Imain stream, and also four hun
dred by the valley of the Black river.
The region watered by White river appears to be composed of im
mense strata of limestone and marble; the decomposition of which pro
duces a most fertile soil. Some prairies exist on the White river,
but are neither very fertile nor extensive. A very great similarity
exists between the White river lands and those of Kentucky, Indiana,
and West Tennessee. 
The lands are well adapted to the culture of cotton: that plant,
however, is here more liable to be destroyed by frost than in the
states of Louisiana and Mississippi; but owing to more elevated shel
ter, less so than in a similar latitude in Tennessee.
With very little exception, the White river lands are public proper
ty. A considerable number of families are settled on the various
branches of this stream, but mostly on public land.
Until the date of the cession of Louisiana to the United States,
White river appears to have been but very imperfectly known. The
French and Spanish settlements seldom extended far from the margin
of the rivers, and were scattered, weak, and defenceless. Those na
tions appear to have had a much better knowledge of the manner
# See page 88 and sequel. - f See table, page 14. ~
EMIGRANT's GUIDE. 139
ef conciliating the savages than the English possess, or than has been
evinced by the government of the United States. No such dispersed settlements of English or Americans, as the French and Spanish posts
on the Mississippi and its tributaries, could have existed a century
amongst powerful tribes of savages.
The country watered by White river, has not been visited by
any person whose observations have been published, or who was com
petent to give a correct detail of its metallic productions Like other
regions where floetz“ limestone forms the greater part of the substra.
tum, coal may be very confidently expected to exist. Salt and gyp
sum must also form part of the fossil materials of this country.
Its greatest natural wealth, however, is its extremely productive
soil and moderate climate. In every respect, in point of agricultural
commercial, and political advantages, this is a place of great, and we
anticipate, not delusive promise.
St. Francis' riverrises about one hundred miles northwest of the mouth
of Ohio; its general course is nearly south, receiving several streams
from the east; one of which appears to have been an ancient outlet
of the Mississippi. The country on St. Francis is not either so fertile
or extensive as that watered by White river. The entire length of
the former is about two hundred miles, and falls into the Mississippi
ninety-two miles above the mouth of Arkansaw. .
The intermediate country between the White and St. Francis
rivers is low overflowed land for a distance of upwards of one hun
dred miles above their mouths. The same remark is applicable to
the lands between the St. Francis and Mississippi.
Upon the margin of the Mississippi, in this part of the Missouriter
ritory, the soil is similar to that found to border that stream from the
mouth of Ohio to within forty miles of the gulf of Mexico.
Osage river, rises in the same ridges with the main stream of the
grand river of Arkansaw, and flowing northeast about four hundred
miles in a direct course, enters the territory of Missouri, through
which it flows two hundred and fifty miles, and enters the Mississippi
at 39°40' north lat and 91° 50' west lon. from Washington city.
Though contiguous to the country watered by White river, the cli
mate on the Osage is sensibly colder. As soon as the dividing ridge
between those two streams is passed, a change in vegetation and the
seasons is apparent. Here, for the first place, from the gulf of Mexico,
appears to commence a region in every respect congenial to the growth
of wheat, rye, and other small grain. Though these grapes will grow
to the southward of this latitude, they are evidently out of the situa
tion most suitable to the perfect developement of their farina; and ex
cept in positions where elevation compensates tropical proximity,
they expend in stalk. what is lost in the seed. It has been remarked
in this treatise, that it is doubtful whether the apple and grape will
come to perfection in the same place;f and the same remark may be
applied to wheat and rice, and extended perhaps to wheat and cot
ton. Nature is bountiful, but seldom prodigal of her gifts to any one
* Floetz, or flatt a term used by Werner, to designate rocks lying in a hori
zontal position, in contradistinction to those that are more or less inclined,
t See page 28, note. 
140 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
spot. The same place which is remarkable for the production in
great quantity and perfection of any one article necessary to human
comfort, is commonly as remarkable for the entire want of many
others. Ought we to seek farther for the origin of commerce 2
The country watered by the Osage river is generally prairie; some
spots are extremely fertile; but from the united testimony of all per
sons who have visited this region, it is generally poor, gravelly, and
badly watered. The same remark may be extended to the northern
parts, drained by the White river waters. - - 
West of the line of demarkation, between the land sold by the Osage
Indians, and that still possessed by that tribe, the country is very im
perfectly known. The notes given by Mr. Brown, who ran the Osage
line,” and that inserted in Melish's map, from the information derived
from Mr. Louis Bringier, there is an entire discordance. The notes
of Mr. Brown deserve infinitely more respect than Bringier's conjec
tures. - 
The arable soil of North America experiences a total change about
two hundred miles from the Mississippi river. Beyond that limit an
extensive desert commences, which extends to the Pacific ocean.
Though this vast region is not an extended uninterrupted expanse of
unproductive land, yet the greatest part of the distance is prairie, de
void of timber or a hard gravelly soil. The rivers are remarkable for
their great length and little water. No lakes of any note are found;
and, in seasons of dry weather, an extreme want of water is experien
ced by all persons who traverse this uninviting waste.
The banks of the Missouri are, like those of the Mississippi, alluvial,
and, if we give full credence to the accounts of Lewis and Clark, they
are very subject to inundation. From every source of information on
the subject, we are led to believe, that the banks of the Mississippi,
below the mouth of the Missouri, resemble those of the latter rather
than the former above their junction.
The peninsula between the Mississippi and Missouri, for about forty
miles above their junction, is an extent of first rate land. Above and
beyond the foregoing limit much good land still exists, but more scat
tered and covered with prairies. The country is indeed but vaguely
known, and documents are wanting for particular description.
The Merrimack is a small unimportant stream, rising between the
Missouri and heads of St. Francis and White rivers. Its course is
nearly east, and it is about 150 miles long.
Settlements—Towns—Improvements—Agriculture.—The first settle
ment of note in the Missouri territory advancing from the state of
Louisiana, is at and near the Hot Springs on Ouachitta. This place
was uninhabited until about 1805, when a few settlers established
themselves upon the Ouachitta and the waters of Little Missouri. The
emigration to this remote spot has continued annually since the fore
going epocha. Some families have advanced to Red river;-the
whole number must now exceed one thousand.
Between the new settlements on Ouachitta and the ancient French
post on Arkansaw, a mountainous and barren wilderness intervenes.
* Brown's Western Gazetteer, p. 189. º
f See Melish's Geographical Description, page 11. Second edition.
º
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 141
The post or town of Arkansaw is about forty-five miles above the en
trance of that stream into the Mississippi. This is one of the most
ancient establishments in Louisiana, being formed before the begin
ning of the last century. Its advance has not been in proportion to
its duration. It has remained poor and inconsiderable, like all
other places where the inhabitants depend upon hunting, and trade
with savages for their subsistence and commerce. The inhabitants
are mostly French, many of them of mixed blood. The Quapa tribe
of Indians, the former residents of the country, have dwindled to
an inconsiderable remnant. Much of the land adjacent to the set
tlement is fertile, but too flat, and consequently liable to submersion.
The prairies are extensive. Proceeding westward of the town of Ar
kansaw the wood and fertile soil gradually decline, and are succeeded
by the interminable barren prairies upon Arkansas, Kansas, and Plate.
It has been observed, that the country included between the White,
St. Francis and Mississippi is generally low and annually inundated.
The banks of the streams are the most elevated parts, but are them
selves liable to inundation. The streams interlock in a thousand
mazes, and in every respect present a similar picture with the over
flowed country west of the Mississippi river, in the state of Louisiana.
Wherever the land is above, or can be defended from high water,
it possesses the character common to alluvion; is a deep fertile loam,
clothed with trees of the largest growth, of similar species found on
the same kind of soil and situation in Louisiana.
The settlements yet made on St. Francis are very inconsiderable.
Upon the Mississippi the land is higher, and commercial facility great
er than in the interior ; of course it is there that the most extensive
establishments have been formed. The town of Little Prairie, thirty
miles below New Madrid, suffered by the earthquake of 1812; pre . to that epoch there were, perhaps, two hundred souls in the vil
age. 
JNew Madrid has received a celebrity that must astonish those who
ever visited the place in open day. The ground upon which the town
stands is something higher than the ordinary bank of the Mississippi,
but is exposed to the ravages of that stream, to whose force it has, in a
great measure, yielded. The town is environed, both above and be.
low, with stagnant muddy creeks. When to these natural impedi
ments were superadded the usual policy of the Spanish government, no
wonder need be excited at the little progress of this town from 1787,
the epoch of its foundation, until 1803, when it was taken possession
of by the United States. Since the latter period, the advance of this
place has been retarded by the natural inconveniences of its local po
sition.
The country between the Arkansaw and the mouth of the Ohio,
has been, by some, represented as peculiarly insalubrious. We are
disposed to consider this region as in every respect similar to other
parts contiguous to the Mississippi, where the local features are of a
like nature. No reason can be easily shown, why a marked difference
in point of health should be experienced by the inhabitants of two or
more places situated, to all appearance, in a similar manner."
It is very difficult to form any correct estimate of the number of
*
142 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
people included in the scattered settlements of Arkansaw, White,
and St Francis rivers. In 1804, the white people between Ohio and
Arkansaw were considered at about fourteen hundred ; they have,
no doubt, greatly increased since, but their real number at this time
can scarcely be conjectured.
The objects of culture of the people of this tract, are cotton, maize,
wheat, flax, and hemp. To the production of all those articles,
wheat excepted, the arable land is well adapted. During the epocha
of the French and Spanish governments, and in some measure since
the establishment of the U. S. authority, Indian traffic and hunting
retarded the advance of agriculture. More rational ideas are gaining
ground, and will no doubt contribute to hasten the prosperity and
secure the happiness of the inhabitants.
Ascending the Mississippi from the mouth of Ohio thirty miles,
the traveller finds Cape Girardeau. Twelve miles below the town,
the high lands reach the left bank of the Mississippi for the first time,
in a dist ºnce of 11.36 miles from the mouth of the Mississippi to this
place. The left bank is here a high rocky bluff It has been ob
served that the prolongation of this ridge forms the dividing high
lands between the waters of Arkansaw, White, and St. Francis rivers,
and those of the Missouri and of the Mississippi above the bluff. Advancing above this distinctive ridge, a new region presents it
self, in many respects superior to the one we have had under review.
The surface of the country contiguous to the junction of the Missouri
and Mississippi, is less liable to inundation than the expanse west of
the Mississippi below the mouth of the Ohio.
The superficies contained within the districts of Cape Girardeau,
St. Louis, St. Charles, and St. Genevieve, presents a fine country di
versified by hill and dale, without the rugged aspect of the middle
and northern, or the dull monotony of the lower parts of the Mis
sissippi.
The bottoms and prairies are generally level, but are interspersed
with rolling woodland. 
The district of Cape Girardeau extends from Apple creek to Ta
wapaty bottom about thirty miles. The first establishment of this set
tlement was in 1794. In 1803 the population amounted to one
thousand two hundred and six; by the census of 1810, the inhabi
tants amounted to three thousand eight hundred and eighty-eight.
This is one of the most flourishing settlements on the western wa
ters of the United States The lands are various and good. The
staples are cotton, flour, tobacco, hemp, and maple sugar. Maize is
raised for home consumption, but is frequently exported to Natchez
and New Orleans. Beef, pork, lard, and tallow, are also produced
for consumption and exportation.
The settlements in this district are so far from being confined to the
banks of the Mississippi, that the greatest number are scattered west
of Cape Girardeau, and even extend to the waters of St. Francis,
sixty miles in the rear of the cape; where the lands are of the first
uajitv. - - - sºoeNevieve is bounded southeast by Apple creek, north by
he Merrimack river, N. E. by the Mississippi: upon the latter it ex
*
EMIGRANt's GUIDE. 143
‘ends upwards of one hundred miles; its limits are indefinite to the
west. This district contains two regularly built villages, St. Gene
vieve and Bourbon.
The land is various, and more hilly than that of Cape Girardeau ;
erhaps less fertile, but certainly richer in mineral wealth, particu F. lead and salt. The settlements extend to St. Francis, whose
lead streams rise in this district.
Between St. Genevieve and Merrimack, the banks of the Mississippi
are in many places high and rocky. Some of these bluffs are elevated
at least three hundred and sixty feet, and have at a distance the ap
pearance of artificial towers They are solid masses of limestone ais
posed in horizontal strata.”
The agricultural productions of this district are similar to those of
the district of Cape Girardeau. The timber consists of oak, pine,
cypress, and red cedar.
The population of St. Genevieve, in 1804, amounted to two thou
sand eight hundred and seventy; in 1810 it amounted to four thºu
sand eight hundred and twenty. The population is annually increas
ing with great rapidity.
Lead and salt are the principal staples ; those articles are sent
wherever a market offers, St. Louis’ district has the Mississippi river
east, Missouri N. W., and the Merrimack on the south. The district
is well peopled, and has, besides the town of St. Louis, two fine
villages, Carºndelet and St. Ferdinand. St. Louis, the capital of the Missouri territory, is situated on the
west or right bank of the Mississippi river, upon an elevated plain,
eighteen miles by water below the mouth of Missouri, and fourteen
above that of the Merrimack, at 38° 36' N. lat. 12° 58' W. lon. from
Washington city. This town was founded in 1764 by some French
traders, as a depot for traffic with the savages. The sight is bold and
elevated: and being founded on a rock, the encroachments of the
, Mississippi are prevented from producing injurious effects.
The town of St. Louis extends along the river about a mile. There
is considerable resemblance between the natural position of St. Louis
and Cincinnati: both are built upon a first and second bottom. A
sloping hill rises behind the former, and gradually extends into a plain,
upon which is an open prairie. St. Louis is surrounded with delapi
dated fortifications, which were at no period in a complete condition.
The town is now in a state of very rapid improvement. Its situation
is not only advantageous, but interesting: occupying a point where
so many vast rivers mingle their streams, an increasing, rapid, and
lasting property is promised to this town. Including Louisiana, St.
Louis is the most central town yet built in the American Union. It
may be in the course of human events the seat of empire, and no po
sition can be more favourably situated for the accumulation of all
that comprises wealth and power. 
The village of Carondelet is situated on the bank of the Missis
sippi five miles below St. Louis: it is an inconsiderable place, but on
the increase. 
* Stodderd's sketches of Louisiana, page 217.
144 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
St. Ferdinand stands upon a rising ground near a fine brook of clear
water, fourteen miles northwest of St. Louis. The lands adjacent,
particularly the prairies, are extremely fertile.
The lands in the entire district of St. Louis are more fertile, and
less broken, than are those of St. Genevieve. Between the Merri
mack and St. Louis the banks of the Mississippi are high and rocky :
a short distance above St. Louis an alluvial bottom commences, which
extends above the mouth of the Missouri. Upon both rivers the bot
toms are extensive, level, and fertile soil, covered with large timber.
Prairies are extensive near both St. Louis and St. Ferdinand ; that
near the latter is twelve miles long and two wide. Extensive settle
ments are made upon its border. It lies nearly parallel to the Mis
souri, and from one to two miles from that stream. The settlements
made on this prairie are similar to those formed in like places in
other parts of Louisiana and Missouri. The plantations are extended
into both the prairie and woodland, embracing a due proportion of
each. The farms are many of them large and well cultivated, and
their proprietors wealthy. 
The settlements are every where extending: the fertility of the
lands, and the health enjoyed by the inhabitants, contribute to give unusual property to the country near St. Louis.
The richness and variety of its mineral and vegetable productions;
its lead, salt, flour, beef, pork, flax, and hemp, afford inexhaustible
sources of wealth, and secures to this country a rank amongst the
most eligible spots in the United States.
The population of this district, in 1804, amounted to about two
thousand eight hundred persons; by the census of 1810, the inhabi
tants were five thousand six hundred and sixty-seven. The popula
tion is, no doubt, now (1817) nearly, or altogether double the latter
number.
Attached to St. Louis, is the flourishing settlement of St. Andrew’s,
twenty-five miles southwest of that town. Like all other parts of the
district, the lands of St. Andrew’s exhibit a mixture of prairie and
woodland; hill, dale, and soil, every where fertile. The farms are
large and skilfully conducted.
The timber of the district of St. Louis, except pine and cypress,
is similar to that of St. Genevieve: its exports have been mentioned.
ST. CHARLES’ district occupies the peninsula between Mississip
pi and Missouri rivers; the settlements extending along both. This
district may be termed an expanse of soil, unexcelled perhaps on
earth. Exclusive of the two great rivers which bound the district on
the N. E. and S. W. sides, it is intersected with a number of smaller
streams, affording partial inland navigation and mill-seats. The
country is rolling but not mountainous ; the soil is deep and strong.
Timber and good and wholesome water are abundant. The prairie,
lands along the Mississippi are the only exceptions where these ad
vantages are not enjoyed by the inhabitants.
Extensive bottoms are found skirting all the large and many of the
Smaller streams. Those on the Missouri are clothed with wood, and
but rarely inundated. Commencing at the mouth of the Missouri a
Prairie lies along the right shore of the Mississippi, which extends
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 145
sixty-five or seventy miles in length, from one to ten miles wide. The
settlements are formed along the margin. The soil is extremely fer
tile, and yields an ample production to the farmers.
St. Charles’ village stands upon the left shore of the Missouri, twen
ty-four miles above its mouth, and is remarkable as being the most
western town yet built in that part of the United States. This town
was founded in 1780, and lies along the bank of the river about a
mile in one continuous sheet, containing at this time about two hundred
houses, and one thousand or twelve hundred people.
Portage des Scioux is a village on the right bank of the Mississippi,
six miles above the Missouri. This village is small but increasing;
it contains about fifty houses, and between one hundred and fifty to
two hundred inhabitants. 
The timber and productions of St. Charles does not materially
differ from those of St. Louis ; but the superficies of arable soil in the
former is certainly greater, on an equal area, than in the latter.
- Like the adjacent districts, St. Charles produces lead and salt. Some
of the richest mines of the latter, yet known in the country, is in this
district. The salt springs are found principally upon the waters of the
Missouri.
The population of this district was, in 1804, estimated at about one
thousand five hundred persons; in 1810 they were found augmented
to upwards of three thousand five hundred, and are still rapidly in
creasing. 
The population of Missouri territory is recent. A few settlements
existed upon the left shore of the Mississippi from the first discovery
of the country by the French in 1683, but few or no establishments
were made upon the right bank until the session of Canada to Eng
land, and Louisiana to Spain. In 1764 the first effective settlements in
the now Missouri territory was formed at St. Louis. Since that pe
riod the other posts were founded at different and distant times.
The usual and ruinous policy of Spain was followed here as in all
her other American dominions. The posts were separated from
each other, and unable to yield mutual protection, and prevented
from a reciprocity of commercial intercourse. Many causes have
been adduced for the apparent decadence of Spain. Some of these
causes have, and do exist, and have produced no doubt the effects as
cribed to them ; but perhaps the cause that inflicted the deepest
wound upon this great monarchy, was the dispersion of its physical
force over too wide a surface. 
Spain not only contributed little towards the peopling of Louisiana
when in her hands, but she also, in abandoning the country, left impedi
ments to emigration, that has retarded the increase of its inhabitants
to this day. From the loose and careless manner of granting land
titles, practised by Spain, the officers of the United States have not,
in twelve years, been able to develope their intricacy. Though a great number of claims have been acknowledged legal by our commis
sioners, an immense number still remains undetermined; and until a
final adjustment takes place upon the merits of the private claims,
none of the public land in either the state of Louisiana or the terri
tory of Missouri can be sold.
&
19
146 EMI6 RANT'S GUIDE.
f
At the moment of the cession of Louisiana to the United States,
the dispersed and defenceless state of the population was too appa
rent to escape the most inattentive observer. It was perceived by
our statesmen, and the same comprehensive mind that conceived and
executed the transfer of the country under our authority, being then
at the head of the government, the only possible means to augment
the population of Louisiana was attempted. Commissioners were
sent to receive a register of the claims of individuals, and to decide
upon their merits. Little delay or difficulty was apprehended; but
the result proved very much the contrary. The cominissioners were
unacquainted with the nature of the titles, and the inhabitants were
suspicious of some fiscal manoeuvres being concealed under the whole
transaction. An adherence to technical but inapplicable rules, re
tarded the proceedings of the commissioners, and a refractory distrust
prevented the people from producing their papers with facility. Be
tween the parties, the liberal and enlightened policy of the general
government has hitherto been unproductive of the benefits that would
have resulted from a speedy adjustment of the land claims in Louis
iana. If one gigantic mind had not arisen to repair the mischief, the
nation would have experienced the destructive consequences of this
delay. - - Rºming still remain, no land can be procured in Louisiana or
Missouri, exeept by purchase from individuals. The smaller claims
are generally expensive, and most of the larger have doubtful titles.
Emigration is as a matter of course, turned towards places where
land can be purchased from the United States.
The only two large titles in the state of Louisiana having any con
siderable bodies of land open to purchase have been noticed. In
Missouri territory there are a number of large claims covering exten
sive tracts of the best lands in the country. The lead mines both
above and below the junction of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers,
are involved in some of those claims. How many years will yet
transpire before the adjustment of these claims, the sale of the public'
land, and the country be laid open to emigration, it is difficult to con
jecture. If nothing but the mere settlement of the lands were involved
in this question, the inquiry would be of little moment; as the re
moval of the citizens from one place to another can add nothing to
their numbers, and comparatively but little to the national wealth ;
but the exposed situation of the state of Louisiana particularly, and
its vital imporiance to the United States, renders all considerations of
policy in which the subject is involved, of primary importance.
Taken as a whole, Louisiana was perhaps the greatest, bloodless,
conquest ever made by man. Its acquisition at once enlarged and
strengthened the United States. Its citizens, by the fulfilment of the
severest duty mankind can perform, have shown themselves worthy of
all the protection that the nation can give. In the hour of alarm,
the Louisianians were at the post of duty, and, in the day of battle,
stood firm at the post of honour. Their gallantry aided in giving the
United States a name, that time may render venerable, but cannot
destroy.
It has already been repeatedly observed in this treatise, that the
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 147.
climate of those parts of North America lying upon the western slope of the valley of the Mississippi, is colder than the corresponding la
titudes east of the Aleghany. This statement is very different from
the commonly received opinion on the subject; which almost uni
formly supposes the contrary. If the seasons were more mild in the valley of the Mississippi than in similar latitudes on the Atlantic coast, the fact would be an anomaly in nature. The Aleghany mountains lie in a N. E. and S. W. position, and shield a considerable part of
the coast of the Atlantic ocean from the refrigirating winds of the north. On the contrary, the valley of the Mississippi exposes an open and comparatively an unbroken plain, whose surface is higher than the alluvial shore that extends from New-York to Cape Sable.
Mr. Jefferson, in his invaluable Notes on Virginia, first gave sanction to the opinion that more heat was enjoyed by the inhabitants on the Ohio than on the Potomac in the same parallels of latitude. Mr. Volney pretended to determine by vegetable analogy the exact differ ence; and though this method is certainly the best for which data can be found in nature, yet the mere existence of a tree in one place, and its being wanting in another, gives no conclusive evidence of any real difference in the respective climates. The facts mentioned in this treatise, respecting the liriodendron tulipifera (poplar) and the
robinia pseud acacia, are in point.* To make a vegetable a true thermometer, its life, modes of growth, inflorescence, the soil to which it is congenial, and its habitudes, must be known and compared
by means of specimens raised at two places, whose temperatures are different. The presence or absence of any vegetable in a given place
prove nothing, but that presence or absence. Dr. Drake was the first writer on the valley of the Ohio, or Mis sissippi, who possessed, at the same time, talents and practical expe rience on the subject. Climate is like the human character in one thing; neither can be known by any other means than long and in timate acquaintance. The common tourist is but seldom well endow ed with the patience and skill to collect, and still more rarely with the power of mind to compare facts of any kind; much more where the common prejudices of the world are to be encountered. Dr. Drake, with the modesty that frequently accompanies talent, adduces facts which prove that at Cincinnati,f the climate is as severe, if not more so, than at Philadelphia, though the former is upwards of a de gree of latitude more southward than the latter. Mr. Stodderd, in his
Historical and Descriptive sketches of Louisiana; endeavours to sup port the common notion, that more heat is felt on the banks of the
Mississippi than on the Atlantic coast in the same latitude, but ac knowledges that the former place is also colder in winter. The ex treme summer heat is not so tertain a criterion of climate, as the ex
treme of winter cold. Heats are casual and excessive ; in very
high northern latitudes cold is much less variable. Deductions of
temperature drawn from the rising and falling of the spirits in a com mon thermometer, are far from being conclusive data respecting
* See page 67. 
f Picture of Cincinnati, page 115 and scquel. + Page 235.
14B EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
climate. The thermometer may mark with great precision the
absolute heat at the place where the instrument is suspended, but can
afford but little information respecting the temperature of the adja
cent country. The freezing of rivers affords more correct facts con
cerning the relative degrees of cold, of any two or more places than
does the thermometer. Mr. Stodderd states, that for three succes
sive winters, commencing in 1802, the Mississippi was passable on
ice at St. Louis, and that the severe frost set before the 20th Decem
ber of every year. The same author states also, that in January,
1805, the ice was at St. Louis twenty-two inches in thickness; and
farther, that the severity of the weather at St. Louis is about the
same as in the north part of New-Jersey. It is a singular circum
stance that Mr. Stodderd joins these facts to his own opinion, that the
heat of the climate is greater in the Mississippi valley than on the
Atlantic coast. 
The author of this treatise was at Natchez during the winters of
1799, 1800, 1801, 1802, 1803, 1804, and 1805; in each one of
these years much cold weather was experienced, particularly in 1800
and 1803. In the former year a most destructive sleet fell in Janu
ary; in the latter, there was but little snow, but the winter season
was attended with long and severe frost. In 1804 the blossoms of
the cotton plant were destroyed by frost on the night of the 26th
September. In 1805 the cold weather set in about New-year, and
was attended with snow and long intense frost.
The winter of 1806 afforded an example of a departure from the
ordinary routine of the seasons in Louisiana. At New-year the flow
ers of the peach tree, the cotton, tobacco, and those of many other
very tender plants, were in full bloom. The season was warm and
even sultry, until the 10th of February, when a storm set in that con
tinued three or four days, and destroyed all vegetables perishable by
frost. Indeed, during seventeen winters that occurred during the resi
dence of the author in Louisiana and the Mississippi territory, not
one passed away without hard frost at Opelousas and even at New
Orleans.
The general aspect of the country near Natchez has, from Decem
ber to March, all the features of winter that are seen at Pittsburg,
except continued snows. The trees are denuded of their leaves; the
grass and other tender vegetables are killed. The inhabitants find
fires almost as necessary at the former as at the latter place.
The heats of summer differ but very little from Lexington in Ken
tucky to the border of the gulf of Mexico. It has been supposed,
by many persons, that the heats were even more oppressive at St.
Louis and Lexington than at Natchez, Opelousas, or New Orleans.
The opinion rests upon very uncertain data, to say the least. Ex
cessive heat is oppressive, and persons labouring under its force are
liable to exaggerate its effects. The observation on the climate of all
the country we have been reviewing, may be concluded by remark
ing, that on its surface the ordinary course of nature is not inverted,
The same causes produce the same effects here as in other places,
The greatest and most durable cold is ſound in parts highest and
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 149
most exposed to the north; the longest, and most intense heat, in low
places, sheltered from the north and open to the south winds. An assertion is ventured, that no vegetable that cannot be cultivated
in any given place in the open air on the Atlantic coast, can be rear
ed west of the Aleghany mountains, without a removal to a more
southern latitude, and the removal considerably greater in the latter
than in the former place.
It would answer but few useful purposes to enter into any length
ened detail respecting the health or diseases of the country upon
and contiguous to the Mississippi. The general advice given in this
treatise, respecting the most suitable season to remove into the state
of Louisiana, applies with equal propriety to all the region reviewed.
The last chapter of this treatise will contain the result of the per
sonal observations of the author, during his residence in the country;
to this chapter the reader is referred.
The following list of roads will exhibit the relative distance from
Natchez and St. Louis, the two principal towns of the state of Mis
sissippi and territory of Missouri, to the circumjacent places. Some
new roads are no doubt omitted, but the chief routes are marked,
and some roads inserted that have never before been published.
It will be recollected, that a difference in climate was pointed out be
tween the countries north and south of the dividing ridge that strikes
the Mississippi in the district of Cape Girardeau. A much greater
difference might be pointed out respecting travelling. Wherever
much overflown lands occur, impediments are great and embarrassing
to the traveller. This is peculiarly the case for some distance west
of the Mississippi, from the bluff of Cape Girardeau to the mouth of
that river. Above Cape Girardeau the country is more high and dry,
and easily passed.
The route No. 34, from St. Louis to Natchitoches has been fre
quently travelled. It is yet, however, only a trace, passing over a
hilly, broken, and in many places mountainous country. This trace,
or within a short distance of it, must in a few years become a great
thoroughfare. When the banks of Red, Arkansaw, White, Osage,
Kansas, Plate, and Missouri, become settled, this must be the return
route from New Orleans to very extensive settlements. The relative
position can be seen by inspection on any good map. In the progress
of population, the route from New Orleans by Opelousas to Natchito
ches, and from thence north and west, must become one of the most
public passes in the world. It will be by land what the Mississippi
will be by water.
East of the Mississippi, travelling from New Orleans will be dis
persed over a number of different land routes, at least three ; by
Natchez, direct to Nashville, and by the valley of Mobile; on the
west side of the Mississippi, by far the greatest number of persons
will be confined to one route, at least as far as Opelousas, and even
to Natchitoches.
On this latter route, after the low lands of Atchafalaya are passed,
nature opposes few obstacles to the formation of a good road in any
150 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
direction, where it can become necessary. From New Orleans to
Natchitoches the distance is 356 miles*, only 21 miles of which is
over the lakes of Attacapas. 
If the current of human events continues to flow in its present
course, Natchitoches will, within one half century, become an im
mense interior entrepot. The situation of this town is admirably
adapted to form the connecting link between New Orleans and the
interminable regions to the N. W. of that city. 
Though Natchez is not the seat of government, it is however the
principal town in the state of Mississippi. The following list of roads
will show the distance from that city to the various places of note in
its vicinity, and in the neighbouring states and territories.
No. 20.
Road from Natchez to New Orleans, by Madisonville.
- JMiles.
St. Catherine creek - - - - 4 4
Second creek - - - - - 10| 1.4
Homochitto river - - - - - 6, 20
The 31° N. lat. - - - - - - 35. 55
Cross Amite river - - - '- - 4| 59
Spiller's - - - - - 14|| 73
Court-house St. Helena, bridge over the Tickſoha river 15| 88
Springfield on Notalbany creek - - - 10| 98
Pontchatoola creek - - - - 5 103
Tangipao river - - - - 9 112
Madisonville - - - - - 15| 127
Mouth of Chifuncté - - - - 3| 130
Over lake Pontchartrain, to Fort St. John, mouth of Bayou St.
John - - - - - - 20|| 150
St. John's suburb (Fauxburg,) - - - 4| 154
New Orleans - - - - - 2| 156
This road is the inverse of No. 8. page 40.
No. 21.
From Natchez to New Orleans by Baton Rouge and the Levée.
JMiles.
St. Catherine creek - - - - 3| 3
White Apple village - - - - 9| 12
Homochitto river - - - - - 6| 18
Ferry over Buffalo - - - - 1 || 29
Woodville - - - - * 8| 37
Sligo - - - - - - 9| 46
Bayou Sara creek - - - - 7| 53
St. Francisville in New Feliciana (state of Louisiana,) 15 68
Buller's plains - - - - - 1 || 79
Baton Rouge - - - - - 16| 95
Eßlux of Iberville - • , - - - 16|| 1 || 1
* See Road No. 9, page 44.
*
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 151.
Over Manchac point
St. Gabriel church - - 
Madame Bruo’s - - - 
Opposite Donnaldsonville, efflux of Lafourche
General Hampton's - 
Bringier's - 
Church of St. John Baptiste
Fortin - - 
Bonnet Quarré bend 
Church of the German coast
Detrehan’s - 
Lebranche’s
Kenner’s 
Sauvé's 
M“Carty's bend
New Orleans
No. 22.
Natchez to New Orleans by water.
This table is the reverse of part of No. 7.
White cliffs - 
Mouth of Homochitto river
Mouth of Buffalo river 
Fort Adams - 
Mouth of Red river 
Atchafalaya - 
Islands of Three Sisters 
Bayou Tonica - 
Point Coupée church 
Mouth of Bayou Sara, St. Francisville
Mouth of Thompson's creek *
Paton's and Lilly’s islands - General Wickoff’s e 
Baton Rouge - - 
Efflux of Iberville or Bayou Manchac
Efflux of Plaquemine - 
Church of St. Gabriel - *
Donnaldsonville, efflux of Lafourche
General Hampton's - 
Bringier’s - - 
Cantrel's two churches, parish of St. James , .
Fortin's - - - 
Bonnet Quarré church, parish of St. Charles
Bonnet Quarré point - 
Red church, German coast
Detrehan’s 
Kenner's - 
Sauvé's 
*
: . :
3.
JMiles.
1
:
i
I 1.5
120
135
142
147
150
159
167
185
200
201
203
205
208
216
224
152 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
JMiles.
M.Carty's - - - - - - - 5|| 316
New Orleans - - - - - 6|| 322
The route by water from Natchez to the Hot Springs on Ouachitta,
will be found in numbers 7 and 22. 
The route from Natchez to Natchitoches, will be found in num
bers 7, 12, and 22.
The route from Natchez by water, to Opelousas and Attacapas,
can be taken from numbers 14, 15, 16, and 22. - 
It would swell the list of tables to too large a bulk, to give all the
roads and river routes direct: there is, we trust, no road or route by
water of any consequence, in either the state of Louisiana, Missis
sippi, or territory of Alabama, not embraced in the lists included in
this treatise.
No. 23. 
From Natchez to Opelousas and Attacapas by Alexandria, or
Red river.
JMiles.
Concordia, west bank of Mississippi * - 1 || 1
Bayou Crocodile - - - * 15| 16
Black river - - - - - 22 38
Bushly creek - - - - - 11| 49
Prairie of Ocatahoola - - - - 3| 52
S. W. extremity of Ocatahoola - - - 6| 58
Hemphill's creek - - - - - 2| 60 Little, or Ocatahoola river - - • - 22 82
Alexandria - - - - - 21 || 103
Bayou Boeuf - - - - - 15|| 1 || 8
Mulhollan’s "- - - - - - 2| 120
Bayou Crocodile - - - - - 12 132
Pine Prairie, Opelousas - -> - - 10| 142
M“Daniel’s, head of Prairie Mamou - - 8, 150
Hanchett's . - - - - - 3| 153
Fontenot's - - - - - 7| 160
Opelousas church - - - 12 172
Prairie Laurent - - - - - 4|| 176
Lower end of ditto, bridge over Bayou Fusilier - 9| 185
St. Martinsville - - - - - 20| 205
New lberia - - - - - 9| 214
Sorrel's - - - - - - 19| 233
Court-house, parish of St. Mary - - - 17| 250
JRenthrop's ferry - - - - - 21, 271
Mouth of Teche - - - - - 1| 272
No. 24. From Natchez to Opelousas by the Prairie of Avºyele, l
tles.
Ferry over Buffalo. . (See No. 21.) - - 29
Fort Adams, Loftus' heights - - - 16|| 45
31° N. lat. - - - - - 6| 51
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 153
JMiles.
Ferry over Mississippi, between the entrance of Red and At
chafalaya rivers - - - - - 12| 63
Avoyelles Prairie - - - - - 20| 83
Over, ditto - * . - - - - 6|| 89
Bayou le Mourir - - - - - 3| 92
Bayou Boeuf - - - - - 12| | 1.4
Bayou Crocodile - - - - - 5| 119
Pine Prairie - - - - - 4! 123
Mouth of Teche. (See preceding table.) - - 130 253
It will be perceived, on comparing these two foregoing tables, that
the distance from Natchez to the lower part of Attacapas, is ne
thirty miles less by the mouth of Red river than by the town of
Alexandria; but the upper or Alexandria road can be passed, when
the lower or Avoyelles route cannot. Both passes over wide extent
of overflowed lands, though the former, in proportion to distance, has
more hilly and consequently better ground for road than the latter.
No. 25.,
Road from Natchez to Milledgeville in Georgia, by Monticello,
state of Mississippi, and Fort St. Stephens, Alabama territory.
JMiles.
Washington - - - - - 6
Hoggat's - - - - - - 6|| 12
Head of Homochitto river - - - - 28 40
Bogue Chito - - - - - 18 58
MONTICELLO - - * - - 32 90
Winchester on the Chickisawhay river - - 105] 195 Eastern branch of Pascagoula - - - 11| 206 Sintabogue river - •- - * - 21, 227
FORTST. STEPHEN'S - - - - 12 239
Fort Claiborne - - - - - 25, 264 Hurricane Spring - - * - - 43. 3O'7
Fort Decatur - - - - - 56 363
Point Comfort - - - - - - 12. 375
Chatahoochy river - - * - 30 405
Fort Lawrence - - - - - 45 ° 450
Fort Hawkin's - - - - - 50 500
Milledgeville - - - - -> 45 545
No. 26.
To Nashville in Tennessee.
- - JMiles.
Washington s - - - - 6
Seltzerstown - - - - - 6| 12
Union - - - - - - 7| 19
Huntston - - - - - - 7| 26
Gibson's port - - - - - 16| 42 Grindstone ford - • , - - - 6|| 48
White sand creek, branch of Big-black * - 12| 60 Acorn creek - - - * r - 16 76
20
154 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
*
- JMiles.
Big creek - - - " - - 12) 88 Faliah creek - - - - • 16| 104
Lust creek, a branch of Big-black - - - 25] 129
Pearl river - - - - - - - - - 50| 179
White Oak creek - - - - - 1 || 190
Head of Big-black - - - - - 10| 200
M“Intoshville - - - - - 34] 234
Long creek - - - - - 19 253 Black Briar creek - - - • 12 265
Cohatta - - - - - - 12| 277
Notarchucky - - - - - 7| 284
Bear creek - - - - - 16|| 300
Tennessee river - - - - - - 11| 311
Tennessee line - - - - - 24, 335
Buffalo river - - - - - 18| 353
Duck river - '- - - - 27| 38O
Franklin - - - - - - 34|| 414
NASHWILLE - - - - - 18| 432
No. 27.
From Natchez to St. Louis by water. 
- - JMiles.
Mouth of Schillings' Bayou - - - 5
Mouth of Fairchild's creek, and lower end of Fairchild's islands 9. 14
Efflux of Bayou L'Argent - - - - 2| 16
Upper end of Fairchild's islands - - - 3| 19 Mouth of Cole's creek - - - - 7| 26
Petite Gulf - - - - - 13| 39
Evans' mouth of Bayou Pierre - - - 9| 48
Mouth of Biº-black river - - * - 1 || 59
Lower extremity of Palmyra bend - - . 13| 72
Upper extremity of Palmyra bend - - 20. 92
Warren, in Warren county - - - 8 100
Walnut hills - - - - - 16|| 1 || 6
Yazoo mouth - - * ... • - 14|| 130
Entrance into lake Providence, and lower trace from the settle
ments on Ouachitta - - - - 4 l 171
Upper trace from Ouachitta - - - 37| 203
Stack island - - - - - 3| 2 || 1
North boundary of the state of Louisiana 33° N. lat. 5| 216
Mouth of Arkansaw - - - - 102| 3 || 8
White river - - - ~ - - 14|| 332
Three islands - - - - 36|| 368
Horse-shoe bend - - - . - - 12| 38()
St. Francis' river - -- - - 30| 410
Counci. Island - - - - - 28 438
Fort Bickering, Chickisaw bluff - - - 32| 470 Bluff - - - - - - 29 A99
Bluff - - - - - 22 521
EMIGRANT's GUIDE. 155
- JMiles.
Bluff e • - 12| 533
New Madrid - • - • •. 70 003
South boundary of Tennessee, and north boundary of the
state of Mississippi - - - 12| 615
Iron banks - e - - 3C 645
Mouth of Ohio - - - - 23| 668
Head of Tiwapaty bottom • e 27. 697
Great bluff of rocks - - º - | 6.96
Cape Girardeau e e e e I 1 707
Apple creek • - - - 18| 725
Kaskaskia river - e e - e 40 765
St. Genevieve - e - e 24 789
Fort Chartres e e - - 12| 801
Herculaneum e - 12| 813
Harrison - - e - . . 6 819
Mouth of Merrimack - 8| 827
St. Louis - - - - 19| 846
No. 28.
Natchez to Pittsburg, by water. 
- JMiles.
Mouth of Ohio. (See the preceding table.) e 668
Chain of rocks - - - - - 15 683
Wilkinsonville - e - - 6| 689
Fort Masac e - g - 20| 709
Tennessee river - 8| 7 || 7
Smithland - - º 10| 727
Cumberland river e - 3| 730
Hurricane island - - - 35| 765
Cave in the rock • ‘ - 3| 768
Saline river - e 1 || 779
Wabash river - e 25, 804
Diamond island - - - - 27| 8:31
Henderson - - 18| 849
Green river - - e 2 || 870
Hanging rock - - 30| 900
Anderson’s ferry . 32| 932
Clover creek e 30| 962
Sinking creek - - - 10| 972
Little Biue river - 20| 992
Blue river - e - - 12|1004
Salt river - - - • - - 32|1036
LOUHSVILLE, falls of Ohio - - 25|| 061 Westport e - º - • 20|l 081
Port William, mouth of Kentucky river - - 36|| 1 || 17 Big-bone Lick creek - e - - 30|1147
Lawrenceburgh - " . - 20 | 167
Great Miami . e - - 2|1169
North bend - - - - 6||1175
CINCINNATI and Newport - - 16|l 191
136 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
JMiles,
Columbia, mouth of Little Miami
- 4}l 195
Augusta
- 
- • 
- 32
1227
Charleston .
- 
- 
- 1|1228
Litnestone
- 
- 
- 5|1233
Liberty
- 
- - - 1|1234Manchester - - • 
- 11||1245
Adamsville .
. 
- 
- 8|| 253
Graham's station
- 
- 
- 5|1258
Salt Lick
- 
- 
- - 17|1275
Portsmouth, Big Sciota river . - - 8|| 283Little Sciota - 
- - 10| i 293
Little Sandy river .
- 
- -Great Sandy, eastern extremity of Kentucky
on Ohio 20||1313
Big Guyandot river
- 
- 1 ||1324
Little Guyandot
- 
- 17|1341
Gallipolis .
- 
- - 16|1357Point Pleasant, mouth of Great Kenhawa
river 4|1361
Letart’s falls
- - . 
- 30|1391
Big Sandy creek
- 
- - 16|1407
Buffentin’s island
- 
- - 4|1411
Shade river
- 

- • * 6|1417
Bellville
- - 
- 
- 7|1424
Great Hockhocking
- 
- - 4|1428
Little Hockhocking .
- - - 6|1434Blannerhassett's island - 3|1437
Little Kenhawa
- 6|1443
Vienna
- 
- 
- 5|1448
MARIETTA, mouth of Muskingum river
7|1455
Little Muskingum .
- 
- 4|1459
Lower end of Long Reach
- - 201479Upper end of Long Reach . - - 13|1492WHEELING - 
- 42|1534
Warren
- 
- - 7|1541Charleston - 
- G|1547
STEUBENVILLE
7|1554
Fawcett's town
- 
- - 25|1579
George town
- 
- * - - 2,1581Beaver town, one mile below mouth of Beaver river
10|1591
Logs town
- 
- 10,
1601
PITTSBURG
- - 12| 1613
No. 29.
From St. Louis to New Orleans by water.
This route is in part
the reverse of the preceding, and No.
27.

JMiles.
Mouth of Merrimack
- 
- - 19
Harrison
- •
- - 8| 27
Herculaneum

- - - 6|| 33
Fort Chartres

- 
- 12| 45
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
St. Genevieve
Kaskaskia river 

Apple creek 

Cape Girardeau Great rocky bluff Head of Tawapaty bottom
Mouth of Ohio
Iron banks .
. . 
North boundary of the state of Tennessee
New Madrid 

First bluff ... • 
Second bluff 
Third bluff
Fort Pickering
Council island
St. Francis' river
Horse-shoe bend
Three islands 
White river 

Mouth of Arkansaw 
North boundary of the state of
Louisiana, 33° N. lat.
Stack island 

Upper trace from Ouachitta Entrance into lake Providence
Yazoo mouth
Walnut hills
Warren, in Warren county Upper extremity of Palmyra bend Lower extremity of Palmyra bend Mouth of Big-black river Grand gulf Evans', mouth of Bayou Pierre Petite gulf 
Mouth of Cole's creek 
Fairchild's island 
Efflux of Bayou L’Argent . Mouth of Fairchild’s creek .
Mouth of Schillings' Bayou Natchez 

New Orleans. (See Nos. 7 and 22.) 
No. 30.
St. Louis to Washington city, by
Lexington in Kentucky.
846
1 189i
832
32
Cahokia 
Prairie de Rocher
Kaskaskia
Beaucoup Vasseux river
East Fork river 
JMiles.
3 3
47| 50
15| 65
45] 1 10
11| 121
10, 131
158 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
- - , Miles.
U. S. Saline - - - - º 47| 178
Shawanee town • - - - - 12 190
Morganfield, Kentuck - - - - 15, 205
Henderson - - - - . . 21 226
Yellow bank - - - º - 25, 251
Hardensburg - - - - - 47| 298
Elizabeth town' - - e - - 37| 335
Bealsburg • - - - 16| 351
Bairds’ town - - - • •” 16|| 367
Petersburg on Kentucky river . . - 42| 409
Versailles - - • - . 8| 517
Frankfort, Lexington - . - - 13| 430
Paris - - - - - - 22 452
Blue Licks - - - - - 21| 472
Washington - - - - - 20 493
Limestone, or Maysville - - - - 4| 497.
West Union - - -> w - 17| 514
Chillicothe . - - e • - 57| 57.1
Tarlton - - - - - - 18; 589
New Lancaster - - e - • * , 16| 605
Zanesville . - - - e e 33 638
Cambridge - e - - - 25 663
Washington - • - e - e. 10. 673
Morristown - • - e - 24 697
St. Clairsville - - e - e 10 707
Wheeling, Virginia. - e - d 11. 718
Alexandria, Pennsylvania . - e e 16| 734
Washington * * - - - - 16| 750
Brownsville º - - - - 25 775
Union - * e - e - 12| 787
Foot of Laurel hill - - - - 4| 791
Cumberland, Maryland - e - - 62| 853
Old town . - - - - e 14| 867
Hancock - - - 34| 901
Hagers’ town - - - • 30 931
Frederick . - - - - - 31| 962
Montgomery court-house . - * - 28 990 George town e - - - - 12|1002
WASHINGTON - * - - 3|1005
No. 31.
St. Louis to Washington, by Shawanee town and Knoxville.
JMiles.
Shawanee town. (See No. 30.) - - e | 190
Harpshead, Kentucky - - - - 36; 226
Greeneville - - -- - _* 36|| 262
Russelville - - • - - 34| 296
Craigfort, Tennessee - *: º - I2 308
Dickson's spring - - - - e 16| 324
Fort Blount - - - t - &0) 344
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 155
- JMiles. Mount Granger - - - e . 16 || 360
Kingston . • e • * e . 67 || 427
KNOXVILLE - e o - . 43 || 470
Rutledge . e - e o . 32 || 503
Oresville e e e - 12 || 515
Rogersville - - e - . 22 || 537
Rossville o e - e . 25 562
Blountsville e - e - . 18 580
Abingdon, Virginia • , - - 24 || 604 King's e e º - - 10 || 614
Bowen's e e º e - . 16 || 630
Head of Tennessee river e - e . 13 543
Evansham . - o e - . 32 || 675
Inglisville, on Kenhaway river e e . 31 || 706
Down, Kenhaway e - - . 11 || 717
Christiansburg - 9 º • . 14 | 731 Big Lick e ' s e . 26 || 757
Fincastle . . . . e º . 14 || 77I
Pattonsburg, on James' river - • . 14 | 735
Natural bridge - - e e | 2 || 797
Lexington . e e e e . 14 || 811
Brownsbur o e - º . 13 824
Middlebrook e . o . Il 835
Staunton - - - e - . I l | 846
Waynesboro o -> - - . 12 || 858
New-York - e e e e 7 || 865
Charlottsville º e - -> . 20 86.5
Orange court-house - e e . 3 || || 919
Gum spring e - e • . 28, 3 tº
Wilder’s - - - e . . 12 : 1
Fredericksburg - - e º . 20; 9 #
Falmouth - • • - 1#| 9.3
Stafford o • e e 9 2
Acquia - w o • 4}| 3;
Dumfrie’s - • - - 9| 966
Ocoquhan e - o - 9||1965; Pohike church e • - º - 5 'Cio; Alexandria • e e - . 11; 922
Washington º - º º p 7 || U29
- - No. 32.
St. Louis to Pittsburg, by Vincennes and Cincinnati.
JMiles.
Cahokia -- - - - • 3
Kaskaskia river - e • º 37, 33
. Little water - - - - - 12" | 153
Fox river - - - e - - %, 178
Vincennes, on Wabash river, st.te of Indiana - 36|| 2 || 4 White river e º - - - 24; 238
160
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Blue river *
CORY DON 
Louisville, Kentucky
Middletown .
Shelbyville 
Newcastle 
Port William
Newport
Cincinnati
Columbia
Newtown
Williamsburg
New-market
Bainbridge *
Chelicothe
Tarlton
New Lancaster
Zanesville
Cambridge
Washington
Morristown
St. Clairsville
Wheeling, Virginia
Alexandria, Pennsylvan Washington - - e Cannonsburg - - e .
Pittsburg - - tº- -*
- No. 33.
From St. Louis to New Orleans, by Russelville,
Natchez. 
Russelsville. (See No. 31.) e
North boundary of Tennessee 
Springfield Mansker's e • *
NASHVILLE • e
Franklin e e 
Duck river e 
Buffalo river - 
Tennessee, south line
Tennessee river
Bear creek 
Notarchucky
Cohatta
Black Briar creek
Long creek
M*Intoshville 
Head of Big-black river
White oak creek


ia
18
Miles. "
60 2987
18, 316
25, 341
12| 353
25 378
402
20 422
46, 468
|| 469.
8| 477
17| 494
7| 501
19| 520
25 545
18| 563
18, 581
16 597
33 631
25 656
10) 666
691
10| 692
i 1 701
16 717
16 733
7| 740
758
24
. 25
52
Nashville, and
JMiles.
sº 15, 311
15, 326
12| 338
22 360
18| 378
34|| 412
27| 439
18| 457
24, 481
11| 491
16| 508
7| 515
12| 527
12 539
19| 553
34 592
10) 602
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 161
JMiles.
Pearl river - wº- - - - | 1 || 613
Lust creek, branch of Big-black - - 50 663
Faliah creek - - - - - 25 688
Big creek - - - - - - 16 704
Acorn creek - - - • 12| 7 || 6
White sand creek - - - - 16| 732
Grindstone ford, Bayou Pierre - - 12| 744
Gibson’s port, Bayou Pierre - - - 6| 750
Huntston - - - - - 16 766
Union - - - - - 7| 773
Seltzerstown - - - - 7| 780
Washington - - - - - 6| 686
NATCHEZ - - - - 6|| 792
New Orleans by Madisonville. (See No. 3.) 
St. Catherine creek - - - - 4| 796
Second creek - - • - 10 806
Homochitto river -- - * - - 6| 812
The 31° N. lat. - - - - 35| 847
Amite river - - - - - - 4| 85 1
Spiller's - - - - - 14 865
Bridge over Tickſoha river, C. H. of St. Helena 15| 880
Springfield on Notalbany river - - . 10 890 Pontchatoola creek - - • * * 5| 895
Tangipao river - - - - 9| 904
Madisonville - - - - 1 5 919
Mouth of Chifuncté - - - - 3| 922
Over lake Pontchartrain to Fort St. John - 20, 942.
St. John's suburb, (Fauburg) - - 4. 946
NEW ORLEANS - - " - - 2 943
No. 34.
St. Louis to New Orleans by the Hot Springs on Ouachitta, Nat
chitoches on Red river, and Opelousas. 
Miles.
Merrimack river - - - • * 60ſ 60
Dividing ridge between the Merrimack and St. Francis' rivers 30 90
Head of St. Francis river - - - 35| 125
Big-black, branch of White river - - 30| 155
Little-black - - - - - 12| 167
Current river - - - - 10, 177
Thomas' Fork - - - - 25, 202
Spring river - - - - - 30] 232
Strawberry river - - - - 35| 267
White river - - - - - 60 327
Little Red river, branch of White river - 60 387
Arkansaw river - - * - 35| 422
Hot Springs º - - - - 50|| 472
Ouachitta river - - - - 9| 481
Fourche au Cado ** - s - 24' 505
162 - EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
JMiles.
Terre Noir creek - - - - 20 525
Little Missouri, branch of Ouachitta - - 16| 541
White oak creek - - - - 12| 553
Tulins Vaucherie in the state of Louisiana - 132| 685
Campté - - - - - 26 711 Grand Ecor - - - - • 7| 718
NATCHITOCHES - - - - 4|| 722 Bayou Conchatta. (See No. 9.) - • 16| 738
Terre Blanche - - - * 15| 753
Bayou Cypriére Mort - - - 12| 765 Bayou Crocodile , - - • - 32| 797
Pine Prairie - - - - - 9| 806
M“Daniel's - - • - * 8| 814
Hanchet’s - • - - - 3| 819
Fontenot's - - - • - 7, 824
OPELOUSAS - - - - 12| 836
Bridge over Bayou Fusilier • - - 13| 849
St. Martinsville, Attacapas - - - 20| 869
New Iberia - - - - - 9| 878
Sorrel’s - - - - - 19| 897 C. H. Parish of St. Mary's - • - 17| 914
Renthrop's ferry - - - • 21| 935
Mouth of Teche river • - - 1| 936
Atchafalaya - - - - - 2| 938 Grassy lake - - • * - 4, 942
West end of Lake Palourde - - - 3| 945
East end of Lake Palourde - - - 11| 956
Lake Verret - - - - - 11| 967
Over lake Verret - - - * 3| 970
Lafourche river - - - m 7| 977
Donnaldsonville, on the Mississippi - - 20. 997 General Hampton's, Old Houmas - • 61003
Bringier's - - - - - 4|1007
Cantrel's two churches, parish of St. John Baptiste 8|10 15
Fortin's - - - - - 12 1027
Bonnet Quarré church, parish of St. Charles - 14|1041
Bonnet Quarré point - - - - 5 1046
Red church, German coast - - - 14|1060
Detrehan's - - - - - 1|1061
Kenner's - - - - - 5|1066
Sauvé's - - - - - 3|1069
M'Carty's - - - - - 5|1074
New Orleans * - • - - 6.1080
No. 35.
Route from St. Louis to the Pacific ocean, by the Missouri and Co lumbia rivers.
JMiles.
St. Charles - - • - - | 21
Charrett's village - - - - 47| 68
/
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 163
YELLOW STONE river. It is not determined which is the #. stream, the Yellow Stone, or what is now called

JMiles.
Gasconade 
- 
- 
32) 100
Osage river 
- 
- 33
133
Leadmine - - 
- 
20, 153
Manitou creek 
- 
- 8,
161
Saline river 
- 
- 
11 172
Manitou river 
- 
- 9, 181
Goodwoman’s river 
- 
- 8
189
Mine river 
- 
- 
7, 196
Two Charlton rivers 
- 
- 24,
220
Old Fort, Orleans 
- 
- 15.
235
Grand river - - 
- 
4; 239
Coal bank 
- 
- 
85| 324
Blue water river 
- 
- 9|
333
KANZAS river 
- 
8| 341
Little Plate river 
- 
- 9|
350
Nodawa river 
- - 
100. 450
Wolf river 
- 
- 
14| 464
Big Nemaha 
- 
- 15,
479
Neeshnabatona river 
- 
- 25,
504
Little Nemaha river 
- 
- 8||
512
PLATTE river 
- 
- 82.
594
Bluff on the northeast side 
* - 25
619
Near the Maha village, (three miles.) - 209) 828 Big Sioux river - - 17| 845 Copperas bluffs - • - 26 871 James' river - - 70. 941
Calumet bluff 
- 
- 10|
951
Ancient Fortification 
- 
15| 966
Quicourre 
- 
- 
22|_988
Poncar river and village 
- 
10| 997
White river 
- 
- 
1201 118
Three rivers of the Sioux pass 
- 221
140
Commencement of Great Bend 
- 20|1160
Upper part of Great Bend 

- 30|1190
Teton river 
- 
- 
60.1250
Chayenne river 
- 
- 45|1895
Sarwarcarna river 
- 
- 87.1382
Wetarhoo river 
- *
- 25H140*.
First Ricara village 
- 
4|1411
Cannon-ball River 
- 
- 72}1483
FORT MANDAN. Here the exploring party of Captains Lewis and Clark wintered in 1803–4 - 1001583
Knife river 
- 
- 
6|1589
Miry river 
- 
- 
25] 1614
Little Missouri 
- 
- 
57|1671
Where the waters of Saskashawin approaches nearest the Missouri river - \ - es 53|1724
issouri 
- 
s - 120
1844
164 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
- JMiles. Martha's river - - - - 60.1994
Porcupine river - - - - 50/1964
Little Dry river - - - - 54|2018
Milk river - - - - : 452063
Big river - - º - - 252088 Bratton's river º - : 98.2186
Muscleshell river - - - 57|2243
Judith river - - - . 169.2412
Slaughter river - - - - 142427
Natural walls of Stone - - - - 26|2452
Maria's river - - - 41|2493 Snow river - : - - - 18|25] 1
Shield's river - - - - 28.12539
Portage river - - . - - 7|2546
Great Falls - - - - - 5|2541 Head of Falls - - . . 13|2554
Enter Chippewan mountains - - - 30|2584
Heads of Missouri and Columbia - 
Mouth of Columbia - - - 9643548
St. Louis is at 38° 36' N. lat. 12° 58' W. lon. Mouth of Co
lumbia 45° 15' N. lat. 47° 57' W. lon. These two places bear
from each other at an angle from the meridian 73°28'; consequent
ly are 73°28' N. W., and 73°28' S. E. respectively distant; 1713
geographical and 1861 English miles.
The several distances, as given by Messrs Lewis and Clark, are no
doubt over calculated ; their aggregate distance exceeds the direct
line almost two to one, an excess hardly credible. In most instances
where the lengths of rivers have been estimated by persons ascending
their currents, the space passed through has been overrated, and the
error has in most instances borne some proportion to the violence of the stream.
CHAPTER IV.
OUR intention was to have confined this chapter to the culture of
the olive tree, but have extended the review to embrace the various
objects of cultivation that have been introduced, or that probably can
be profitably cultivated in the regions contiguous to the estuaries of
the Mississippi and Mobile rivers.
A sketch has been made of the wine countries of Europe, whose
soil and climate have the greatest resemblance to those parts of the
United States where the vine is intended to be introduced. The
reader, on comparing the respective places, can form his own conclu
sions, how far an anticipation of success can be drawn from the cli
mate, or the location of the place chosen for the essay.
“That the olive has never yet been brought into general use in
southern Louisiana, excites astonishment. This noble tree from
time immemorial has been the emblem of peace and plenty. The
olive is, perhaps, the first fruit tree that the human species, in times
the most remote, made an object of their care. The olive is, of all
fruits, that one whose uses are most numerous and salutary. This
tree, over an immense range of the eastern continent, has been from
the earliest times considered, like the cereal gramina, indispensably
necessary to human society. Yet this benefaction of heaven has
been in great part denied to America, from the carelessness of some,
and the national avidity of others, amongst the different people who
have planted colonies on this continent.”
Olive.†—It is useless to give an eulogium on this precious tree: “ of
all trees this is the first,” says Columella. No oil can be compared
to that drawn from its fruit; the fragments of the seed fatten poultry:
its branches nourish cattle ; and its wood is an excellent fuel. This
tree is rapidly multiplied by the sprouts that arise from its roots; but
it cannot bear severe frost.
It is believed to have originated from Egypt, from whence it was
transported into Greece; and the colony of the Phoceans, who built
Marseilles, enriched that country with a fruit, to which it was before
a stranger. A colony was afterwards sent from Marseilles, who
built the town of Agde: there is every reason to believe that this
* The great analogy between the climate of the Plateau of New Spain, with
that of Italy, Greece, and southern France, should invite the Mexicans to the
culture of the olive. This culture has been attempted with success, from the
commencement of the conquest; but the government, by an unjust political
system, far from encouraging, have sought to prevent it indirectly. There are not, that I know, any formal prohibition, but the colonists have not risked a
serious attention to a branch of national industry, that would have instantly
excited the jealousy of the mother country. Darby's Louisiana, p. 23 & 219–
Humboldt Essai Pol. S. N. E. Vol. III. p. 149. # This article is literally translated from an excellent French work, “Cours
d’Agriculture. See p. 24 of this treatise,
166 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
latter colony introduced the olive into Languedoc. Let that be as it
may, there is ample proof that the tree is foreign to the south of
France, from its suffering from severe cold : the winter of 1709 de
stroyed nearly all the olive trees in the kingdom.
The flower is white, small, and of a single piece ; the tube cylin.
drical, the same length as the calycle; the corolla is smooth, divided
into four, almost oval and something concave; the stamina two, oppo
site, supported on the corolla, garnished with yellow anthera, one
pistil rising from the bottom of the calycle; the stamina divided into
two at its summit; the calycle single leaved, divided into four.
The fruit furrowed, a drupe single seeded, first lisse, then green,
afterwards brown, violet, and lastly, black, following the degree of
maturity: the shell is hard, containing a soft fruit.
The leaves are simple, entire, and lanceolate; hard, thick, pale
green above, and whitish below, supplied with a sallient nerve pass
ing entirely through the leaf.
The roots are branching and horizontal, very long. The bark
yellow brown with knobs of a lighter colour than other parts of the root. The roots often branch from the tree above the surface of the
ground; it is thought that this peculiarity arises from the earth being
carried away by accident, as it is only seen on hilly places.
The tree is of a moderate size, generally straight and erect. The
bark is smooth when young, furrowed and scaly when old. The
flower bud shows itself early, often in April, always in May, and
blooms in the end of May or June, according to the particular cli
mate. The species commonly cultivated differ amongst themselves
in their particular flowering seasons. The flower rises from the bot
tom of the leaf, disposed in bunches upon a common peduncle or
footstalk.
There is a certain means to succeed in a good classification of the
orchard varieties of the olive. It is necessary, however, that the in
dividual is sufficiently rich to be able to bear the expense, and young
enough to have time to follow the details of the experiment. Speci
mens ought to be collected from all the various places where the
olive is cultivated. They ought then to be planted, and their pro
gress, flowering, and fruit, examined carefully. An exact compari
son of species would be the first advantage that would result from
this Inode ; but a second and much more important would be the
knowledge acquired of the most productive species, and that one
which would best resist the rigours of winter. 
If this precaution had been taken, some parts of Languedoc would
not have been deprived of the olive.
Climate and soil suitable to the olive.*—The choice of soil is gene
rally very indifferent respecting this tree : it is seen flourishing in
* This is certainly the most important question to be determined at present
by us respecting the olive. The manner of planting, expressing the oil, or pre
serving the fruit, will be best learned from those already experienced on this
subject. If a careful review is taken of the respective climates, and ranges of
hills and mountains of the United States and France, (see p. 22, and sequel of this treatise,) a very satisfactory estimate can be made, upon how far success
in the cultivation of, and the proper place the olive in the latter country can be fairly expected to vegetate to most advantage.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE 167
rocky, stony, sandy, and volcanignes soil. It is on the latter variety
of land that the oil is the best. It vegetates also vigorously on strong
alluvial land, though the base is argilaceous.
The more or less prosperity in its vegetation, gives the character
to the fruit and oil, allowance being made for the different species.
It is not then the quality of the soil that need be sought after, when
its simple existence as a tree is the subject of inquiry: it is evident
that this existence arises from other causes.
Ancient writers have contended that the olive can exist more than
thirty leagues from the sea. This assertion may be true relative to
France; but may be considered unfounded relative to all other coun
tries, where the tree in every other respect is found in places suita
ble to its growth.
A distance of thirty leagues supposes at once an elevation of soil
above the level of the sea,” and consequently, a diminution in the
height of the temperature of the place.
If what has been said on the word agriculture,f on the subject of
basins, is recalled, a solution of this important problem will be evi
dent. It will be seen that in the bailiwick of l’Aigle in Switzerland,
that the almond, the pomegranate, and vine, grows in open air, and
there enjoys a temperature almost equal to any part of the south of
France; whilst in the higher part of the same bailiwick, you find
almost the severity of the climate of Sweden. Bayonne is in 44°
N. lat.; Carcassonne, Beziers, Montpellier, Marseilles, Aix, Toulon,
and Nice, are on the same degree; nevertheless, the olive never can
be cultivated at Bayonne, because the shelters are wanting; and be
cause without these shelters the tree does not find the temperature
suitable to its habitudes. The chain of mountains that traverses Lan
guedoc from east to west, is only distant from the town of Beziers
seven or eight leagues. The southern foot of those mountains are
charged with olives; but traverse the mountains in a distance of not
more than two or three leagues, you no more find a shelter against
the north winds, nor do you find the olive tree; nevertheless this in
terval is only ten or twelve miles from the sea.[
The existence of the olive, then, depends not upon its relative dis
tance from the sea, but to the sheltered position in which it is placed.
Every one may have seen in the king's garden at Paris the olive grow
ing in open air; but it was there placed on the south side of a close
* It would be impossible for any person, having the most limited knowledge of the southern parts of the United States, to read the above, without being as
tonished at the great resemblance between those parts and the south of France.
The Mississippi, by positively admitting the cold air of the north to pass along its current, produces the same effect upon the climates of places along its banks,
that is negatively produced by the Pyrenean mountains upon the basin of the
Garonne. The Mobile is the Rhone of North America.
f See page 27.
f The mouth of the Black Warrior, where the French colony has located, the land granted by the United States is about 32° 30' N. lat., two degrees of latitude, or nearly one hundred and forty miles distant from the gulf of Mexico. This place is sheltered from the north by tolerable high hills and a thick
forest; but as no settlement of long continuance has been made in the valley of Mobile so far north, the vicissitudes of the seasons cannot be determined
with any certainty at present, - - 
168 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
wall, and otherwise in the warmest part of the garden. It might be, perhaps, concluded from this example, that if the olive could thus survive the rigours of winter in the garden, it would do also in other
places. This may vegetate in a languishing state, but is very different
from the vegetation necessary for beneficial culture.” The conclu sion drawn from the mere possible existence of the olive, are liable
to produce the same error that would be made, if it was pretended
that the province of Languedoc was as proper for the production of the orange tree, as Nice, Hieres, Toulon, and lower Rousillon;
whilst in the former country the orange tree is only cultivated in some gardens, and near the latter places in open air. Exceptions do not destroy a general law, and the exceptions themselves, in this case, rises from favourable situations producing the necessary shelters. The cultivated orange tree in the foregoing places, grows at the southern foot of very elevated and steep mountains. But in places where the necessary shelters are at a distance, neither the orange or olive tree
can exist: this is the real reason why the latter does not grow beyond Montelimar in advancing, north, nor beyond Carcassonne, following
the chain of mountains of lower Languedoc.
The olive demands a shelter from the winds of the north, inde
pendently of its geographical position. This is so true, that in many parts of Provence and Languedoc, where the olive tree is most abundant, there are considerable surfaces where the tree will not ex
ist. Upon many farms the tree languishes visibly each year, where clearing the land has diminished the elevation of the shelter, and permitted the north winds to breathe their frozen air upon the trees, formerly protected from their violence. It is not, consequently, the nearness of the sea that permits the olive to exist, but the particular
shelter that diminishes the injurious effects of the north wind. This
cause is not, however, the only one that permits the existence, or that
aids the growth and production of the olive ; it is necessary to its
prosperity to be situated in a constant, or almost constant mass of heat.
It also derives another advantage from the intervention of the shel
ters from the north wind. From Nice to Carcasonne, the sheltering
mountains are elevated and compact, and all this border of the
*The cherry tree (prunus cerasus,) has been planted upon the Mississippi, but does not bear fruit abundantly even upon the high hills of the state of
Mississippi. The cherry tree adds another to the many existing facts, that fruit bearing trees may be reared in places where their produce will not reward the trouble of their culture. When a given vegetable has been introduced into any
country, only one step is taken in the investigation of the subject of its bene ficial cultivation. Darby's Louisiana, 2d Ed. p. 220
# The facts stated above are much in opposition to an opinion very common, and even in some measure adopted by the author of this treatise, that vegeta bles have a tendency to accommodate themselves to climates to which they
may be transplanted. More experience has, however, led to doubts of the
correctness of this conclusion. If, as the Abbe Rozier states, the olive tree was introduced into France by the Phoceans, it must have existed there
when his work was published (1786) 2300 years. From the best accounts ex tant, the colony of Greeks that formed Marseilles entered the country about
500 years before the Christian era.
There is no doubt, however, but that the olive tree has existed in the south
of France upwards of 1800 years; of course, if it is now subject to destruction
•y frost, it must have received but little alteration in this long period.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
163
kingdom lies directly opposite to the coast of Africa. It is from
that
cause that the southern air is retained, concentrated, and produces
an
atmosphere most suitable to the full developement of the olive
tree
and its fruit. The heat is much more intense than if it was
freely
permitted to advance farther north.* The Pyrenees prove,
beyond
contradiction, the correctness of the theory advanced.
If a line
north and south is drawn through France from Africa, intersecting
the eastern extremity of the Pyrenees, it will leave the olive tree
en
tirely to the east; because though the north side of the Pyrenees
is in part sheltered from the north, the intensity of the heat
is less
than in front of the Mediterranean, since the former place is deprived
of the air of Africa, or if received, it is after the heat is decomposed
in passing the summits of the Pyrenees, charged with snow
nine or
ten months in each year. This African air extends its influence
to
Montelimar. Ascending the Rhone from the sea, the different
moun
tains are not of sufficient elevation or compactness to decompose
or
arrest the passage of the heat; but beyond Montelimar and on
the
opposite side of the Rhone, rises a chain of mountains that has
there
the same effects produced by the Pyrenees, after passing
Carcas
sonne to Toulouse.
It appears to me that it is demonstrated that in France the pros
perity of the olive tree depends upon the foregoing circumstances.
If the tree succeeds better in other countries
and in other climates,
the effect ought to be attributed to more favourable situations,
arising
from approach to the south, or to more complete shelter.
The olive
dreads cold, but how far heat is congenial to it, has never been
de
termined. The Spaniards have transported a species of the olive
to
Lima, and the fruit has increased to twice or three times
the size it
had in France. We are assured that in South Carolina,f plantations
of olives have already succeeded; from which we may conclude,
that
it depends upon the inhabitants themselves of the warm parts of Ame
rica to multiply the olive tree. M. Barthez, in his collections of the agricultural memoirs
for that
part of the kingdom on the coast of the Mediterranean,
induces a hope that this tree may be introduced into the interior of France. I
breathe the same hope with all my heart, but I strongly doubt
the suc
cess. Admit we have in the interior very excellent sheltered
situa
tions from high and majestic mountains; but we have not there
the
warm air of Africa; its heat is decomposed and lost in passing
over
* This is the true cause why, in the same latitude, the valley of the Mobile
is more temperate than that of the Mississippi, or the Province
of Texas. f We have not been able to obtain any certain documents, respecting
the
culture of the olive in Carolina and Georgia. Mr. Hugh M'Call,
in his history of Georgia, mentions indigo, but not the olive, as being introduced into that
country before 1756. In an excellent work entitled “an historical account of the
rise and progress
of the colonies of South Carolina and Georgia,” published in London,
1779, the
olive tree is not enumerated amongst the cultivated vegetables
of the country.
The United States having been peopled from the British Islands, where
but
ter was used for the same purposes to which olive oil is appropriated
in the
south of Europe, the people have neglected, and continue to neglect
a cul
ture, to the detail and benefits of which they are strangers,
and attend to the production of that article, to the use of which they are habituated.

22
170 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
w
the cold tops. The southern winds produce two opposite effects,
ſof
lowing the humidity or dryness with which they are charged from
the state of the mountain over which they have passed, at the time of their passage. We may take the Pyrenees for example. If this chain is covered with snow, the south winds passing over it are no longer warm, they are ever extremely cold. Daily experience proves the correctness of this assertion; where this chain is clear of
snow, if it is still humid the south wind is moist and cold. If, on the
contrary, there has been no rain or snow on these mountains for any considerable time, the heat becomes violent, so much so, as often to
wither, and even dry the leaves of the trees and vines. The same phenomenon takes place relative to the chain that traverses Langue doc. The inhabitants of the maritime towns, south of this chain, ex perience violent, and even very violent heat, in times when the north wind blows, if the summits of the mountains are then dry; but
if they are humid, freshness prevails. As to the inhabitants to the north of the latter chain, they experience the same vicissitudes as do those north of the Pyrenees. All this is annually proved. Thus in rising from the south to the north, and following the order and disposi tion of the mountains, the elevation of the base augments, and the
same winds have intrinsically less activity, since they have lost part
of their heat in passing from mountain to mountain. It may be said, perhaps, that the heat of the south wind ought to augment in passing over dry mountains, but the base of this proposition is unfounded.
The south parts and the interior of France are very different. In the former, the heavens are almost without clouds in summer, and it rains
very seldom ; on the contrary, in the interior it rains frequently, and each rain superinduces cold from the evaporation that follows. From hence, there is not in the interior of the kingdom, either the conti nuity or intensity of heat suitable to the olive. During severe win ters, the vines in the sheltered places in the interior suffer from cold,
and often perish; what would then be the fate of the olive 3 Notwithstanding the shelters, the olive tree does not, in Langue doc and Provence, flower before the end of May, or beginning of June, and its fruit is not ripe before November or December,” which supposes that the intensity must be exactly suitable, even in the climates most favourable to the olive; since as soon as the shelter is wanting,
even in the neighbourhood of places where it flourishes, the tree falls a
victim to the cold.
All the waters of the kingdom flow from the centre of the king dom into either the Mediterranean or the ocean; consequently the
centre is more elevated than the extremity. Whatever favourable circumstances may be united in any one place in the interior, that one of all others most necessary must be wanting—suitable and con
tinued heat.
* From this it appears that the period between the flower and the fruit of the olive, is about 150 days, or one-third more than eastwards, between planting and commencing to gather cotton, and very near coeval with the time that
elapses between planting and ripening sugar cape. From vegetable
analogy, We may then very rationally conclude, that the olive and sugar will exist to: setlier, or rather in similar climates.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 171
I am unable to say if the result of my observations on the effects
of cold will answer in all the olive districts of France, but will an
swer for their correctness near Beziers, at least during seven years
that I resided near that place.*
1°. The cold felt in the month of January, every thing else equal,
is not so injurious to the olive as those that follow in the course of
February, more so towards the end of that month, and still worse
in the beginning of March. Frost of about eight days continuance
happen sometimes, but not often, in January. As soon as the frost
ceases, or during its intervals, the mass of heat is from four to six
degrees of Réaumer’s thermometer during the day, and from three
to four in the night. From four to six may be considered the mean
term, because often when south winds prevail, the heat is from eight
to ten degrees of Réaumer. 
Frost is here only produced by the north-northwest wind, a direc
tion given to the winds by their striking the Black mountains. When
these mountains are charged with snow, as well as those in front of
Beziers, the air passing over them is rendered cold, and carries frost
to Beziers, where it never freezes, unless when those mountains are
covered with snow.
2°. If there is not severe frost in January, the fields exhibit a
rapid advance of vegetation ; the elder (sureaux) and several other
hasty shrubs put out their leaves; the violets are in flower; vege
tation is renewed, and even the almond flourishes. The advance of
the season is particularly visible in the olive, which is more vigorous
during the whole season than ordinary, if not again interrupted by
frost. Under the common changes of the air from heat to cold, the
surface of the earth retains a part of the heat, and contributes to the
flow of the sap.
3°. If frost happens in February, and is severe, attended with vio
lent winds, it then produces severe effects upon the olive; but if the
frost is not attended with violent winds, it produces less effect upon
the olive, because attended with less evaporation.
4°. If the frost follows after a rain, and particularly if followed by
snow and wind, its effects are terrible on the olive. In this case the
olive tree is in a similar state with a man's arm, which if exposed to
a stream of air from a bellows, and upon which ether would be
continually dropped, the arm would be frozen stiff even in the dog
* There is no subject upon which the common herd of tourists pronounce their opinions more hastily than upon climate; and ignorant as they are on, all subjects in most cases, there is none upon which they are less qualified to judge correctly than upon climate. Travelling rapidly often in, the night,
never remaining long enough in any place to gain even a tolerable knowledge
of the topography of a country, much less of its climate. Every country, like every man, has its own peculiar temper and construc
tion that cannot be known, except by long and intimate acquaintance. Few persons possess either the preparatory science or patience to examine carefully
the topographical features of any region of the earth, and from that source ºf plain the causes of the variations perceptible between places, that tº superficial observers ought to present similar phenomena. In that part of the United states to which this chapter is applicable, there are, on the same line of latitude, three distinct climates. (See page 31 of this treati.e.)
172 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
days. The current of air, by exciting evaporation, aids the effects
of the cold in both cases. My reasons for making these observations is to prove that the
olive cannot be made to exist in the interior of the kingdom; and
that it is useless to think of cultivating the tree in places where
there is not a single place in which there does not happen, once in six or seven years, a frost of at least ten degrees of Réaumer, pre ceded by rain and snow. I have good reason to assert that Provence and Languedoc, and a part of low Dauphiny, is cndowed by nature with a privilege that the inhabitants of the other parts of the king
dom may envy, but can never obtain. It is frequently repeated, that the olive grows best on the south
slopes of hills; this proposition is true in general, because the in clination of the soil augments the refraction of the rays of the sun,
and consequently the heat; but if the plain is well sheltered, as it is from Nice to Toulon, the olive will succeed much better than on
the hills, because the tree finds in the latter a deeper soil, more
charged with vegetable and animal matter, since the surface of the plains is formed by the ruins of the hill, borne down by rains. The great point is shelter, and that shelter that retains the great
est quantity of heat. The soil of itself only contributes to the beau ty of the tree, or to .# ality of the oil relatively to the species of
tree, or grain of the earth. It is the shelter that secures the duration
of the olive, and defends it against its most cruel enemy and only
destroyer, the cold ; because it is only the cold that prevents us from
giving the title of immortal to this tree. There are yet seen between Toulon and Nice beautiful olive trees
that escaped the dreadful winter of 1709.
Why the olive succeeds better in rocky, stony, or sandy land, than :
in argillaceous hard soil, is, because the rocks, stone, and sand ac
cumulate mere heat, and preserve it longer than does argillaceous, or chalky land; and the sap from the former is less abundant, more pure, and more refined, than from more humid soil. For the same reason
aromatic herbs have more rich perfume in rocky, or sandy, than in low, rich soil. It is the same with vines. Wherever trees imbibe a
too abundant sap, their fruits are defective in quality. You here see the entire effect of the grain of the earth upon the quality of the fruits. It is the same with the olive as with all other fruits, and even
all legumes.
The following account of the olive is extracted, verbatim, from Miller's Gardner's Dictionary, a deservedly esteemed work; and as
the directions for planting and preserving the tree was wrote for the climate of England, they may be of great use to any person desirous to make experiments on the culture of the olive in America in places where, from the rigour of the seasons, the tree would demand pe. culiar care. 
* If this is correct, the frost and wind that was experienced in the beginning of April, 1814, at Opelousás, would have destroyed the olive tree. Theſiowers º branches of the pride of India, of the pecel, and even of the oaks, were
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. | 73
Olive—characters are; it has a small tubulous empalement (calyx) of
" one leaf, cut into four segments at the top. The flower consists of one
petal which is tubulous, and cut at the brims into four segments, which
spread open. It has two short stamina terminated by erect summits,
and a roundish germen supporting a short single style, crowned by a thick bifid *f The germen afterwards turns to an oval, smooth
fruit, (or berry,) with one cell, enclosing an oblong oval nut.
This genus of plants is ranged in Tournefort's second section of
his twentieth class, which includes the trees and shrubs, with a
flower of one petal, whose pointel turns to a fruit with a hard nut.
The species are,
L. OLE.1, foliis lineari-lanceolatis subtus incanis. Olive with li
near spear, shaped leaves, which are hoary on their under side. This
is the olea fructu oblongo minori,” olive with a smaller oblong fruit,
commonly called Provence olive.
2. OLE.1, foliis lanceolatis, fructu ovato. Olive with spear shaped
leaves and egg shaped fruit. This is the olea fructu marimo. Olive
with the largest fruit, commonly called Spanish olive.
The first frost is what the inhabitants of the south of France chiefly
cultivate, because from this species the best oil is made, which is a
great branch of trade in Provence and Languedoc ; and it is the
fruit of this sort which is most esteemed when pickled. Of this there
are some varieties; the fruit is called olive picholine : there is ano
ther with smaller and rounder fruit; but these are supposed-to be
only accidental varieties, which have arisen from the same seeds. I
have not enumerated them.
The olive seldom rises to a large tree, and is rarely seen with a sin
gle stem, but frequently two or three stems rise from the same root;
these grow from twenty to thirty feet high, putting out branches from
their sides almost their whole length, which are covered with a gray
bark, and garnished with stiff leaves about two inches and a half long,
and half an inch broad in the middle, gradually diminishing to both
ends. They are of a lively green on their upper side, and hoary un
der, standing by pairs opposite. The flowers are produced in small
branches from the wings of the leaves; they are small, white, and
have short tubes spreading open at the top ; these are succeeded by
oval fruit, which in warm countries ripen in autumn.
The second sort is chiefly cultivated in Spain, where the trees
grow to a much larger size than the former sort; the leaves are much
larger and not so white on the under side ; and the fruit is near twice
the size of the Provence olive, but are of a strong rank flavour ; and
the oil made from these is too strong for most English palates.
Both these sorts are preserved in the gardens of the curious, but
they are rather too tender to thrive in open air: in the neighbour
hood of London, where they are sometimes planted against walls, and
with a little protection in very severe frost, they are maintained pret
ty well ; but in Devonshire there are some of those trees, which have
grown in the open air many years, and are seldom injured by the
frost; but the summers are not warm enough to bring the fruit
Tournefort, Inst, R. H. 599, Ibid. 599.
174 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
to maturity. There were several of these trees planted against
a warm wall at Cambden house near Kingston, which succeeded very
well, till their tops were advanced above the wall, after which they
were generally killed in winter, so far down as the top of the wall.”
The olive was considered by the ancients as a maritime tree, and
they supposed it would not thrive at any distance from the sea; but
by experience, we find they will succeed very well in any country
where the air is of a proper temperature of heat, though the trees are
found to bear the spray of the sea better than most other sorts.
In Languedoc and Provence, where the olive tree is greatly culti
vated, they propagate it by truncheons split from the roots of the
trees; for as these trees are frequently hurt by hard frosts in winter,
so when their tops are killed, they send up several stalks from the
root; and when these are grown pretty strong, they separate them
with an axe from the root; in the doing of which they are careful to
preserve a few roots (radicles or fibres) to the truncheons. These are
cut off in the spring, after the danger of frost is over, and planted about
two feet deep in the ground, covering the surface with biltter, or
mulch, to prevent the sun and wind from penetrating and drying the
ground. When the plants have taken new root, they are careful to
stir the ground and destroy the weeds.
This tree will grow in almost any soil; but when it is planted
in rich moist ground, they grow larger and make a finer appearance
than in poor land ; but the fruit is of less esteem, because the oil
made from it is as that which is produced in a leaner soil. The
chalky ground is esteemed the best for these trees, and the oil which
is made from the trees growing upon that sort of land, is much finer
and will keep longer than the other.
In the countries where the inhabitants are curious in the making of
their oil, they are frequently obliged to get truncheons of the ordina
ry sort of olives to plant; but after they have taken good root, they
graſt them with the sort of olive which they prefer to the other. In
Languedoc they chiefly propagate the carmeau, and the amphoulan,
and moureau, which are three varieties of the first species: but in
Spain the second sort is generally cultivated, where they have more
regard to the size of the fruit and the quantity of oil they will pro
duce, than to their quality.
If the culture of these trees was well understood by the inhabitants
of Carolina, and properly pursued, it might become a valuable branch
of trade to them; for there is no reason to doubt of their succeeding,
* This fact is decisive as to the effect of shelters upon vegetables. Hills, moun
tains, and thick forests, are, on the large scale, what walls, buildings, and hedges,
are in miniature. The prominent features of the circumjacent country cannot be too carefully examined, when the introduction of a tender vegetable is intend ed. In experiments, too much care is in common expended upon vegetable
itself. It is the cause why in so many instances essays perfectly satisfactory
on a small scale, entirely fail when brought to practical use in extensive ex
periments. Every vegetable upon which essays are made, ought to be planted as aear as
possible in a similar situation to where, of consequence, it must be placed when
brought to use. There have been many deceptions in respect to sugar Gane;
arising from inattention to this very single and almost obvious rule.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 175
the summers there being hot enough to ripen the fruit to its utmost
perfection.
In this country (England) the plants are only preserved by way
of curiosity, and are placed in winter in the green-house for variety.
So I shall next give an account of the method by which they are here
propagated, with the manner of treatment.
The plants may be propagated by laying down their tender
branches, (in the manner practised for other trees,) which should re
main undisturbed two years, in which time they will have taken root,
and may then be taken off from the old plants, and transplanted
either into spots filled with fresh light earth, or in the open ground
in a warm situation. The best season for transplanting them is in
the beginning of April, when you should, if possible, take the oppor
tunity of a moist season ; and those which are planted in spots
should be placed in a shady part of the green-house, until they have
taken root; but those planted in the ground should have mulch laid
about their roots, to prevent the earth from drying too fast, and now
and then refreshed with water; but you must by no means let them
have too much moisture, which will rot the tender fibres of the roots
and destroy the trees. When the plants have taken fresh root, those
in the spots may be exposed to the open air, with other hardy exo
tics, with which they should be housed in winter, and treated like
myrtles and other less tender trees and shrubs; but those in the open
air will require no farther care until the winter following, when you
should mulch the ground about their roots, to prevent the frost from
penetrating deep into it; and if the frost prove very severe, you
should cover them with mats, which will defend them from being in
jured thereby ; but you must be cautious not to let the mats continue
over them after the frost is past, lest by keeping them too close, their
leaves and tender branches should turn mouldy for want of fresh air,
which will be of as bad consequence to the trees as if they had been
exposed to the frost, and many times worse; for it seldom happens,
if they have taken much of this mould, or have been long covered,
so that it has entered the bark, that they are ever recoverable again;
whereas it often happens, that the frost only destroys the tender
shoots; but the body and larger branches remaining unhurt, put out
again the succeeding spring.
It will appear demonstrated, from what has been given to this trea
tise, that as far as ripening their fruit is concerned, that the vine and
olive may be both introduced into the southern parts of the United
States; but there is another very important problem that remains
unsolved—how far the stems and roots of those trees can support the
rigours of the winters of Alabama and the state of Louisiana.
As respects the effects of frost upon their fibres, vegetables may be
divided into classes: - 
1°. Those shrubs and other plants whose leaves remain undestruc
tible by ordinary frost. The most remarkable of these are, the pines,
firs, cedars, most laurels, and in the United States, the live oak, and
large reed cane, arundo gigantea.
2°. Those vegetables whose leaves perish, and generally fall to
the ground by frost; but whose stems or trunks remain uninjured, and
176 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
annually protrude new leaves and branches. In this class is included
by far the greatest part of forest trees and shrubs.
3°. Vegetables, whose leaves and stems perish by the action of
frost; but whose roots, protected by the earth, remain uninjured, and
annually produce new stalks, leaves and flowers.
4°. Those plants which are destroyed entirely by frost, or which
otherwise perish in less than a year, and the species of whom are
annually renewed from seed. 
5°. To the above may be added a fifth class of plants, which have
a stated existence of one or more years, and then perish, influenced,
by external causes. - 
In the third class is the sugar cane, and that species of cotton cul
tivated in the United States. In the fourth class are all our most va
luable culinary vegetables; wheat, rye, maize, oats, barley, rice; all
cultivated plants of the papilionaceous tribe, beans, pease, and lu
pines; both species of potatoes, and all the species of pumpions,
squashes, gourds, melons, and cucumbers.
Cotton, though replanted annually in the United States, its roots
can be made to survive the winters of Louisiana, Alabama, and Geor
gia. Very little protection is necessary to permit the principle of
life being perpetuated through the winter, but if thus renewed, we
are unacquainted how long the vegetable would continue to exist by
this mode.
Sugar cane is, on the Mississippi, cultivated by laying the stalk in
furrows, and from the joints new stems arise. The body of the plant,
though more tender than that of cotton, its roots are more hardy, and
easier protected from the frost. A slight covering is sufficient to guard
the roots during winter; and in this manner the plant is reared two or
three years, when it is generally renewed by layers.
Did not the cotton and sugar yield their respective products annu
ally, and if a perpetuity of their stems were necessary, neither could
be cultivated in the United States.
The flower and fruit of the olive are placed very nearly in the
same state as the entire stems of the sugar cane and cotton. With
out considering the trunks of the two former, we may view the life
of these four vegetables as gradually approaching each other. It will
be seen, by comparison, that the time from planting to the ripening of
sugar cane, and from the blossom to the ripe fruit of the olive, is very
nearly equal; and if the soil necessary for sugar cane and the olive
tree were similar, the two vegetables would be easily cultivated to
gether. This, however, not being the case, the former, demanding
a deep loam, will always be confined in extent, whilst the latter, grow
ing indifferently upon all soils, may be propagated wherever the air
is sufficiently warm and steady to admit its growth.
The orange tree, though an evergreen, is tender, and yields to frost
at a cold but little more severe than necessary to destroy sugar cane;
it will not exist much above the latter plant, and not so far north as
even the olive. 
The vine and cotton will accompany each other. Where the sum
mers are sufficiently long to admit the latter to perfect its fruit, the
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 177
former may also; but the winters may destroy the vines in places
where, from reasons already shown, the cotton may be cultivated.
It will appear obvious, that to determine whether any vegetable
can be transplanted from one given place to another, that four things
are necessary to be known, and when once determined, the problem
is solved without the expense of actual experiment. If, for example,
the valley of Mobile, Provence in the south of France, and the olive
tree are taken as examples. 1°. The extremes between frosts in the respective places, or, in
other words, the length of the absolute summers. 2°. The intensity of their winters, and the ordinary quantity of
frost and snow.
3°. The summer life, or more explicitly the time between the flower and ripe fruit of the olive.
4°. The degree of cold at which the tree perishes. If it was found that more days intervened in the Valley of Mobile,
between spring and autumn frosts, than did between the blooming of the flower and ripening of the fruit; and if it was also determined
that the frost of the Mobile Valley was less intense than those that de stroyed the olive tree, then all apprehension of danger from a change of climate would vanish.
The same rºle holds good respecting all other vegetables. The decadence of vegetables is often an evil almost equal to their entire destruction. This deterioration frequently rises from a cause mostly overlooked. Amongst the modes of perpetuating the species : Vegetables, nature admits of one not common to the animal king
Onn,
Most trees, sugar cane, all bulbous, and most tuberous rooted vege
tºples, may be continued and multiplied without seed. Branches of *trees and the stems of sugar cane will vegetate, if placed in the earth at proper times, and produce trees and stems in all respects similar to
the parent stock. Potatoes are constantly produced in the same man ner; but this is merely multiplying the branches of the individual;
the absolute species cannot be renewed except from seed, All vegetables having their periods of increase, duration, and de cline, cannot be made to exist beyond a certain length of time. Na
ture seems to have admitted but one certain mode of perpetuating
life indefinitely; a recurrence to the fountain of existence. When it
is mentioned that any tree is multiplied by layers, it ought not to ex
cite wonder that the individuals languish and perish. That species of poplar cultivated in the United States under the vulgar name of
Lombardy poplar, belongs to the 22d class dioecia of Linnaeus, or trees having male and female flowers on different trees. Only the
male tree exists in the United States; the individuals are formed from
branches, and is no doubt one cause of the languishing and wretched gºne of this tree in roost places where it exists in the United
ates.
The olive, cherry, apple, and peach are all capable of being thus
produced, and all must submit to the laws of nature. Sprouts from
23

178 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
the roots differ in nothing essentially from the highest twig. If each
were planted in the same orchard, if taken from the same tree, their
produce would be similar in quality.
Potatoes exhibit the same phenomena, and though, comparatively
with their rapid growth, their decadence is more slow, it is not less
certain.
After those vegetables necessary to human subsistence, the most
important that man has appropriated to his use is COTTON. There
is no known vegetable capable of being brought to perfection on so
great variety of soil. Being brought from within the tropics, its fibres
are tender, but its growth is rapid. The great value of cotton will
justify some detail respecting planting, produce, and price.
The time of planting cotton varies with the particular climate. In
the neighbourhood of New-Orleans it is planted early in April; at
Natchez, and on Red river, about the middle of that month; in Ten
nessee and Missouri Territory, about the first of May. The cotton, in
the first stages of its grewth, is a remarkably tender plant; the slight
est frost destroys it, and even cold rains sensibly check its growth.
It is planted either in drills or squares; the former is generally consi
dered the most productive mode.
In all cases a much greater quantity of seed is planted than is sup
posed to produce stalks. The number of stalks permitted to remain,
depends upon the strength of the soil; but from the branching nature
of the plant, the stalks are, on every kind of land, left at a very con
siderable distance from each other.
The manner of planting, ploughing, hoeing and weeding cotton,
differs but little from the same necessary routine of labour in cultiva
ting maize. The former, from its humbler height, suffers more from
weeds than the latter. Cotton is also in its first stages much more
slow of growth than maize. w
The time that elapses from planting to the commencement of ga
thering cotton, does not vary very much from four months, or about
one hundred and twenty days. If the extremes between the spring
and fall frosts of any given place are ascertained, its fitness for the
culture of cotton is determined. It has been observed in this treatise,
and may be again repeated, that cotton will grow upon every variety
of land upon which any useful vegetable can be cultivated.
The botanical characters of the cotton are curious to those unac
quainted with the family to which it belongs. Upon the same stalk
are seen, at the same time, the fruit and flowers in all stages of vege
tation. Like other plants of the class Momodelphia, such as holly
hock, marsh mallows, ockra, and hibiscus, cotton continues to pro
duce flowers as long as frost permits. Of the flowers, most common
in the northern states, the large white holly hock resembles the her
baceous cotton of Louisiana most.
Cotton grows with an upright herbaceous stalk, from which are
irregularly protruded a number of stems. The flowers are produced
upon the stalks, and are followed by an oval, green, pointed capsule,
with three cells, in which are enclosed a number of seeds, enveloped
in the soft silky down, that has been appropriated by man to so many
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 179
|
uses of convenience and elegance. The down adheres to the seed
with great tenacity, but is easily detached from the capsule.
Gathering the cotton is entirely done by the hand, and demands
great care in the operation. A circumstance in the natural history of
cotton, contributes to render its collection, free of dead leaves, diſſi
cult and tedious. Its calyx is an abiding peryanth, which often be
comes dry long before the cotton ripens, and enveloping the capsule,
its broken fragments are very liable to be dragged out with the cotton.
The black specks seen in most cotton are pieces of the peryanth,
intermingled in this manner with the down.
The capsule of cotton continues about the size of a pigeon's egg,
until nearly the time of ripening the seed, when the sutures of the
capsule open, and expose the snow-white down. The down appears
to be a provision of nature for the protection of the seed, and as in all
known cases of the same kind, comes to full perfection before the
fruit. From this reason it arises, that frost annually destroys an im
mense quantity of seed, without materiałły injuring the down, in
which this seed is enveloped.
The quantity of cotton that can be made upon, and collected from
an acre, differs greatly. Below 33° north latitude, one thousand
weight is considered about a medium. The relative weight of seed
and down is about three-fourths of the latter, to one-fourth of the
former; therefore, two hundred and fifty lbs. of clean cotton would
be the medium produce of an acre.
A labourer will cultivate, with ease, more than twice as much cot
ton as he can collect. There is no manual labour done by man,
where the quantum that is performed by different men, of equal
strength, differs so greatly as picking cotton. The ordinary amount
allowed for a day's labour, is between fifty and sixty pounds: two
hundred has been collected by one person in one day. The author
has seen children collect into baskets more cotton than they were
able to carry to the place of deposit. It may indeed be justly consi
dered as one of the excellencies of the culture of cotton, that in its
collection no manual labour is lost. Neither age nor childhood, if in
health, is prevented from giving its aid in this innocent and useful pur
suit. Children from eight years old can be employed to advantage.
At Natchez, and south of that place, the gathering season begins
about the first of September, and continues, in an ordinary season,
between three and four months. Allowing for stormy weather, Sun
days, and other interruptions, ninety days is about a medium harvest;
and allowing an average for forty lbs. per day, will give 4500 lbs. as
the amount that one person will collect in a season. This quantity
has been exceeded but seldom, particularly if the number of hands on
the farms were numerous. There is always a decrement of produce
following the increase of labourers.
The bale varies in weight: 320 lbs. is about a medium. That
farm produces well, where three and ahalf bales of this size are
made to each hand; four such bales is an excellent crop. It
must be understood, however, that the same labourers raise maize,
potatoes, and other vegetables for nourishment. From the ability of
180 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
cultivating more cotton than can be collected by the same labour
ers, leisure is given to cultivate also vegetables for food.
Cotton seed has generally been thrown away, or suffered to remain
—a disgusting nuisance about the cotton gins ; it has sometimes been
used as a manure, for which purpose it is excellent.
That the neglect of cotton seed is an useless and wanton waste of
wealth, cannot be doubted. The quantity of oil that might be taken
from the seed would reimburse, at no great additional expense, the
planter; throwing it to waste, is as ill judged as it would be to pour
out on the earth the molasses from a sugar house.
The enlightened society in Great Britain, instituted at London,
for the encouragement of arts, manufactures and commerce, amongst
other objects of their attention, have, at different times, offered pre
miums for samples of cotton seed oil. 
In 1783, the society” being informed that a considerable quantity
of oil can be obtained from seeds of cotton, and that after the expres
sion of the oil, the remaining cake will afford a strong and hearty
food for cattle; and that the apparatus for the operation can be ap
plied to the mill for sugar canes, and worked in the rainy season, at
a moderate expense, “ have resolved, for the foregoing reasons, that
the procuring oil from the seed of cotton is a proper object of a pre
mium, considered as an encouragement for planters to extend the cul
tivation of cotton, an article essentially necessary to increase the
manufacture of that article in this country.” "
“The society therefore offers as follows:
“OIL FROM COTTON SEEDS. To the Planters in any of the
British Islands of the West Indies, who shall express oil from the seed
of cotton, and make from the remaining seed, hard and dry cakes, as
food for cattle ; the gold medal.
“Certificates, that not less than one ton of the oil has been express
ed, and five hundred weight of the cakes obtained, to be produced
to the society with two gallons of the oil, and two dozen of the cakes,
together with a full account of the process, on or before the last Tues
day in November, 1785.
“For the next greatest quantity, not less than half a ton of oil, and
two hundred weight of the cakes ; the silver medal.”
This certificate was renewed in 1784, '85, '86, ’87, '88, '89, vide.
vol. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, of the Transactions of the Society.
This quotation is introduced here to show, that the practicability of
making oil from cotton seed, is not a recent discovery. It does
not appear that, between 1783 and 1789, the Society of Arts
obtained any samples of either the oil or cake. Their certificate
cxhibits the liberality of the society, but it is evident the members:
did not comprehend the subject very clearly. Demanding so large
a quantity as a ton of oil, rendered all experiment abortive, as far as
their premium extended, where a less quantity would have been pro
duced. . All the necessary details, and what is every thing in such
cases, the quantity of oil to a given weight of seed, and the mean
* Vol. i. page 251, sec. 175. '
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 181
expense of extraction, could have been determined by a process
where only a few hundred gallons, or less, of oil would have been
made. Whether the cake, or refuse, after the oil is pressed out, is of
any value or not, seems to be of very little consequence. If the oil,
after the expense of pressing and barrelling, is of sufficient value to
justify an attention to its production, is the only desideratum.
The quantity of oil that cotton seed will give, has never been de
termined with sufficient accuracy to enable us to state its relative pro
duction, with that of the down, to any certain degree of accuracy. If
the estimate made by Mr. Niles* of the quantity of clean cotton,
made in the United States in 1816, is correct, there must have
been produced in that year, 125 million pounds of cotton wool.
The proportion of clean cotton wool to that of the crude mass, in
cluding the seed, has been found very nearly as one to four. Per
sons holding cotton gins are obliged to deliver one lb. of clean cotton
for every four lbs. of the mass in seed, for which their receipts are
given. If this proportion is correct, and no result seems better
proved, and the estimate of Mr. Niles is also received as accurate,
then 375,000,000 lbs. of cotton seed was wasted in 1816. If one
hundred pounds of seed is allowed to produce one gallon of oil, this
mass of seed would have produced 3,750,000 gallons of oil, which
at 12 1-2 cents per gallon, would amount to $468,750.
That this estimate is very much under-rated there is no doubt. It
appears certain, that an annual sum of not less than a half million of
dollars is thus supinely wasted.
There is no other wealth than human labour, and its products are
too painfully obtained to justify or excuse their wilful loss. The
cotton seed in bulk, near the gins, is an intolerable nuisance, as re
spects its smell and appearance. Hogs and cows devour it with
great avidity. So much down, however, remains upon the seed, that
it frequently destroys the former kind of animal. When the seed
remains some time in bulk, if exposed to rains, the down rots, and
leaves the seed a nutricious food, particularly for hogs.
From the data given above, any person, by knowing the manual
force at his command, can calculate in a few moments the prospect
of gain by removing into a cotton district. The tables, page 9, of
this treatise, exhibits the relative value of five staples, sugar, cotton,
rice, tobacco, and indigo, but does not determine the respective
value of those staples, and that of grain, or any other preduct of the
middle, northern, or eastern states. Any person knowing his reve
nue from the latter, can, with mathematical precision, calculate the
benefits of change to the cultivation of the former.
One-fourth of the amount is allowed for the expense of cleaning
cotton from the seed, the purchase of duck, and cordage, and trans
portation to market. From individual experience the author of this
treatise is fully convinced, that this is an ample allowance, if taken
generally.
A description of the machinery made use of to free the down from
the seed, would be unsatisfactory; it is sufficient to say, that the gins * 
* See page 125.

182 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
and presses are now brought to great perſection. The neatness and facility with which the various operations are now performed, com pared with the slow, clumsy, and laborious process used fifteen years ago, is a compliment paid to the progress of the arts most essentially
necessary to mankind.
Another vegetable, the okra, of the same class and order with cot ton, is cultivated in Louisiana as an article of food. The flower and
stalk of this plant have great resemblance to the holly hock, but grows
higher. The seed vessel is a long pointed, many seeded capsule, which, when young, is tender and mucilaginous. This is the part used as food : mixed with soup and otherwise, it is considered ex
tremely wholesome.
Sugar, in places where it can be cultivated, will always, in the Uni
ted States, be considered the most important staple. The extent of
country upon which this vegetable can be reared, is so limited as to
much abridge its general value. The surface upon which it can be
produced, and the quantity and price of sugar, have already been
fully exhibited in this treatise.
Rice can be cultivated much more extensively than sugar cane;
its net proceeds, however, when reared as a staple, is much less than
from the latter plant. When produced as an article of food for
home consumption, rice differs very little, if any, from maize. The
quantity of sustenance that can be produced from the same sum of
human labour, when exerted upon either of these two plants, is very
nearly equal. - *
One peculiarity of rice will confer upon it an increasing value; as
lands become scarce, and consequently dear, it can be successfully and profitably produced on lands unfit for cultivation of most other useful
vegetables. Low land, if the soil is naturally fertile, can often be
brought into use by planting rice, upon which neither sugar cane nor
maize would vegetate.
Tobacco ean be cultivated commensurate with maize, and far more
extensively than cotton. Many very serious objections exist against tobacco as a staple. Its culture injures the soil more than any other known vegetable, and when produced, it is utterly useless for any purpose of subsistence, or other application to the real wants of man
kind. The ordinary interruptions in commerce must fall much more
severely upon a people who cultivate tobacco, than upon those who
cultivate grain, or even cotton or sugar.
The same objections will apply to indigo as to tobacco, and with
almost as much force. Indigo admits of at least one real application, however, to the ornament, if not to the real necessities of mankind;
and therefore possesses, what tobacco does not, one quality to redeem
its culture from the reproach of being a pernicious encroachment upon
the beneficial application of human labour.
The cereal gramina” are now particularly and may be all produced
* Literally, bread-grass, or grasses from whose seed bread is made The
most valuable of these plants cultivated in the United States are wheat, rye, maize, oats, barley, and rise, Buckwheat (polygonum fagopyrum) though a
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 183
within the limits we have been reviewing, to any assignable extent.
Wheat, maize, rye, oats, barley, and rice, are by far the most im
portant plants yet brought into use by mankind. One or more of
these vegetables have nourished the human race in all ages and in all
stages of society. When a comparison is drawn between the positive
value, or the real benefits to mankind of wheat, or maize, and the same
species of even sugar cane or cotton, the latter shrink to almost no
thing. Custom induces us to undervalue what we are in the habit of
using daily. 
Next to the cerealia in the United States are the two kinds of po tatoes. Two tuberous rooted vegetables of very different botanical
characters, have received the name of potato. These two vegeta
bles very seldom acquire the full developement of their growth in the
same place. They present one of the many instances, showing that where one useful vegetable declines, another, whose qualities answer
the same purposes, offers itself. The grape and apple, maize and wheat, cotton and flax, and the two kinds of potatoes, are remarkable
examples of this fact. The turnip should be considered amongst the
most useful vegetables in America. There are none that can be rear ed with so little expense. The turnip, though less nutritious, can be
much more easily preserved than the potato. The turnip and Irish
potato flourish and decline in nearly the same places; neither are
ever seen in any considerable degree of perſection in the same place
with the sweet potato. 
Of fruits cultivated in the southern part of the Mississippi valley, the peach is the greatest in quantity, and perhaps in value. The
apple below 35° N. lat. may be said to cease as a beneficial object
of culture; the inhabitants are supplied, however, with that fruit
from the settlements more northwardly. No city in the United
States is more cheaply and plentifully supplied with apples than
New Orleans.

The fig grows abundantly and luxuriantly in all regions below 33°
N. lat. The large yellow fig from the south of France is the species most common. There are several other kinds, however, some of
whom are too tender to sustain the rigours of the frosts above 30°
N. lat.
The pear tree south of 33° N. lat. becomes not worth the room it
occupies. The same remark applies to the cherry. The quince
bears abundantly, as does the pomegranate, and many species of ex cellent plums. o
Of wild fruit, the greatest in quantity is that of the black and dew
berry. The quantity of the former upon the high, rich lands, and
of the latter in many places along the margin of the streams of Louis
iana, is really a matter of astonishment.
The states of Louisiana and Mississippi may be emphatically called the favourite soil of the persimon, diospyros virginiana. The persi mon tree grows on all lands, from the highest hills to the lowest
swamps; it attains the size of a considerable forest tree, being often
cereal plant, is not a grass; in the Linnaean system it is ranked “ octandria try
gymia.”

184 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
found near two feet in diameter, and always a high tree compared
with its thickness. The sweet gum is the only tree in Louisiana,
found in as many and in as different places as the persimon. The
productiveness of this tree seems not to depend upon its position: the author has seen individual trees loaded with fruit on the highest
hills near Natchez, and in the lowest swamps of Atchafalaya; in the
deepest recesses of the heavy cane brakes of Bayou Boeuf, and
upon the alluvion of the Sabine. High pine woods are the only
parts of the country where the persimon is not plentiful; but even there, the tree is never absolutely wanting. The quality of the fruit
is every where excellent. There is much reason to believe that the
persimon could be applied to uses to which it has not yet been appro
priated. It can be produced in situations where but few other useful
vegetables and no other fruit tree will grow. It contributes, however, to human support indirectly by feeding
swine, which devour this fruit with great avidity. Many species of native grape vines abound; the most worthy of notice are the highland purple grape, the parsley leaved river grape, and the muscadine. They are all unimportant, except as they seem to indicate the possibility of a successful manufacture of wine.
The quantity, excellence, and variety of the juglans on the Mis
sissippi has, perhaps, no parallel on the globe. Black walnut, white
walnut, and seven or eight distinct species of hickory, are found; the most delicious of the latter is the paccan, or Illinois nut. These
nuts, with acorns, constitute no small part of the nourishment of the
SWine.
The size, majesty, and productive qualities of the oak of Louisiana,
have been the subjects of admiration to all men who have travelled
the country, and have attended to the products of nature in this pro
lific region. If the liriodendron tulipifera be considered the first
tree of America in point of elegance and towering beauty, the second
rank is due to the quercus tinctoria. As useful natural productions, if both bore nutritious fruit, it would be very difficult to determine the
relative preference claimed by these two ornaments of our forests;
but the quantity and excellence of the fruit of the oak entitles it to
a decided preference. The fruit of the oak has, indeed, been of no
trifling aid to the frontier inhabitants of the United States, by feeding
that animal upon whose flesh they have most generally subsisted
during the early stages of their settlements.
Flax and hemp are, and will no doubt continue to occupy no
small part of the attention of the people in the higher parts of the
Missouri territory. The former is there, as in almost all other parts
of the United States, cultivated in great part for home consumption, and of course is of more importance to the cultivator than articles
denominated staples. Hemp will produce the double advantage of being at once an article of domestic use and a staple. As long as cotton is extensively cultivated in the southern part of the valley of
the Mississippi, hemp will be profitably produced in the northern. Every twenty lbs. of the former will demand at least one of the lat
ter, or the necessary quantity of hemp in bailing and cordage, is
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 185
about 5 per cent, of the weight of the cotton. A bale weighing three
hundred, will have 285lbs. of cotton, and 15lbs. of baling and rope. Mr. Niles calculates the quantity of cotton produced in the United
States in 1816,” at 320,000 bales. This would demand 4,800,000lbs.
of hemp, formed into duck and cordage.
Flax is a vegetable, that like cotton, will grow upon a great vari
ety of land; moderately rich soil is most congenial to flax. It is
an objection to hemp, that it demands first rate land.
. The actual surface upon which hemp can be produced with profit, is very confined compared with flax; the former, is, however, upon
land suitable to its growth, a more beneficial crop than the latter. Hemp was more extensively cultivated some years past in the val ley of the Mississippi than it is at present. The restoration of the relations of commerce in Europe, has restricted the cultivation of hemp in the United States to nearly the quantity necessary for home
consumption.
Of vegetables that are congenial to the soil and climate, and not
yet introduced into general culture in Louisiana, there is none would,
perhaps, yield more beneficial product, than that species of sesamum, called oriental bhené. This plant, whose growth is rapid, can be cultivated as extensively as cotton. The seed vessel is a many seeded capsule, containing round, oily seeds, which are used in various ways by the negroes, who cook it as a pulse. It has been long known to
produce an oil, containing all the valuable qualities of olive oil, with
out the same liability of becoming rancid by age. The bhené is
certainly one of the most productive vegetables that ever was culti vated by man. It is known in Louisiana, but much neglected. Be ing brought from the western coast of Africa from the banks of allu
vial rivers, its growth is luxuriant on the fertile borders of the Missis
sippi and Teche: it will vegetate extremely well, also on high, dry, soil. It might, indeed, be made an universal object of culture from
Tennessee to the gulf of Mexico. 
The silk worm is one of the products of Europe and Asia, not yet introduced into the United States, but to which the climate is, in many
places, no doubt congenial. Whether silk, as an object of human
industry, can be produced in America, beneficially, is yet to ascer tain; but some doubts may be indulged on the subject. Cotton will answer almost all the uses of silk, and also supply many other arti
cles of clothing which silk will not. Cotton can no doubt be much
* Page 124, of this treatise, No. 18 Vol. XII. Nile's Register, Darby's Louis
iana, 2d Ed. p. 320. # Class didynamia, order angiospermia of Linnaeus. Sesamum folius ovato oblongis integris-Miller. Digitalis orientalis, sesamum dicta.--Tournefort. “‘īhis plant,” says Miller, in his Gardener's Dictionary, Art. Sesamum, “ was introduced into Carolina by the African negroes, where it succeeds ex tremely well. The inhabitants of that country make an oil from the seed, which will keep many years, and not take any rancid smell or taste; but in two years becomes quite mild; so that when the warm taste of the seed which is in the oil when first drawn is worn off, they use it as a sallad oil, and for all the pur
poses of sweet oil.” 
24
186 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
more easily produced than silk : the former is also now more familiar
to our wants, the latter every day becoming less so. 
There is one advantage attending the rearing the silk worm, aris
ing from the mulberry tree, upon whose leaves that animal subsists,
being capable of culture in many places, where, from the inequali
ties or other peculiarities, vegetables demanding the plough, could
not be cultivated. This advantage will be felt, and perhaps exten
sively, in the lapse of ages, when land becomes dear from excess of
population; but in the present state of things, it may be doubted
whether the silk worm would reward the attention paid to its nature,
so profitably as would the same time and labour employed otherwise.
Setting aside the question of its expediency, the problem of the
practicability of rearing silk worms in the United States, has been
solved by actual experiment. 
Miller, in his Gardener’s Dictionary, under the article Mulberry,
informs us that the white, or silk worm mulberry tree, produced fruit
in the Chelsea garden in England. The tree would no doubt grow
almost spontaneously over an immense surface in the United States. .
Mr. Miller observes; “I have been assured by a gentleman of ho
nour, who has made trial of both sorts of leaves, that the worm fed
with the black sort produced much better silk than those of the
white.” This rendered it probable that the leaf of the white mul
berry is not exclusively necessary to the silk worm.
The Morus, foliis cordatis subtus villosis, amentis cylindricis; mul
berry with heart-shaped leaves, which are hairy on their under side, .
and cylindrical catkins, is the mulberry tree so common in the Uni
ted States. Whether the leaves of this latter species would be suita
ble to the silk worm, has not been, perhaps, ever yet subjected to
adequate experiment, but Mr. Miller renders the affirmative probable.
There is a striking analogy between the black mulberry of Europe,
and the morus foliis cordatis of America. 
This article might be indefinitely enlarged, but without conveying
much real or useful information. Nothing more than general ideas of
either the agricultural pursuits of the people of any country, or the
capabilities of the soil, can be given by mere verbal description. A
personal view of any country will do more, in informing the mind
respecting its features, in three months, than the reading of numerous
volumes can do in as many years.
( 167 )
CHAPTER W.
THE valleys of Ohio and Illinois comprise, perhaps, the finest re
gion in the world. If soil, climate, vegetable, and mineral produc
tion, are added to its commercial advantages, this opinion cannot be
considered extravagant. The surface comprised in these united val
leys, is bounded by an outline of about 2400 miles, and contains
236,072 square miles, of which surface about 30,000 is in the valley
of Illinois, and 196,000 in that of Ohio. The greatest length of this
expanse is from the head waters of the Aleghany river to those of
Bear creek, 720 miles; the greatest breadth from the head waters of
Sagasomon, branch of Illinois, to the head of the streams that fall into
the left side of the extreme south bend of Tennessee, and is 550 miles.
The extreme north part of this valley rises above 42° N. lat. in
two places, namely, the head of Aleghany and that of the river
Plein, a branch of the Illinois; it extends as far south as 34° N.
lat. A due north and south line from the head of the river Plein to
that of Mulberry creek, which falls into the south side of Tennessee
river, in the Alabama territory, will extend through all the climates
of the valleys of the Ohio and Illinois. This is, no doubt, the largest
unbroken surface of productive soil in North America, if not on the
globe.
The following statistical table, will exhibit the present political di
visions of this country, with their extent and population.
Territorial division. Square miles. Population.
Part of the state of New-York 1,880 20,000
do state of Pennsylvania 16,500 102,391
do state of Virginia 26,768 100,000
do state of North Carolina 2,400 25,000
do state of Tennessee 36,000 340,000
do Alabama territory 6,583 10,000
do state of Mississippi 941
All the state of Kentucky 39,000 580,000
Part of the state of Ohio 31,500 300,000
do Indiana 32,000 100,000
do Illinois territory 32,500 24,520
226,072 1,601,911
Of this surface, 121,602 square miles lie S. E. and 104,470 N. W.
of the river Ohio; of the population 1,115,000 are placed upon the
former, and 486,911 upon the latter section.
Geological structure.—The valley of Ohio is of secondary forma
tion in its entire extent, and abounds with substances belonging to
countries so constituted. Mugh the greater part of the rock base is
romposed of mica slate, (micaceous schist,) or sandstone slate and
188 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
stratified limestone. The slate in various states of compactness, is and
of lamina, varying in thickness almost to infinity: it forms the body of
the hills in west Pennsylvania and west Virginia, and great part of
Ohio. The limestone is found of several very distinct kinds, and
also resting some places in strata, and others composed of iodse, amor
phous fragments, imbedded in earth : the former is by far most abun
dant.
In the present imperfect state of our knowledge respecting the va
rious parts of the Ohio and Illinois valley, it is impossible to give in
detail, the proportions of the fossil substances that compose the incum
bent strata of the country. It may be assumed as a general fact, that
the sand and limestone alternate in greater or less proportion. In ,
some places one of those fossils predominates in quantity, in others
they are found in nearly equal portions. Kentucky, much of Ten
nessee, and part of Ohio, rest upon immense masses of limestone.
The rapids of Ohio rush over a body of this stone. The superstratum
at the rapids of the Ohio is composed of shell limestone, in which are
seen the remains of testaceous animals often entire. This stratum is
about a foot in thickness, and is followed by common blue limestone.
Precipices, of more or less elevation, are found in many places along
the Ohio river, formed by masses of limestone: the most remarkable
of these precipices are upon the west bank near the mouth of the
Tennessee river. The Kentucky river and several other streams in
that state and Tennessee, flow between enormous walls of lime
stone. In this formation salt springs have been found to a considera
ble extent.
The micaceous schist formation may be said to prevail N. E. of
that of limestone; and, as has already been observed, forms the base
of west Pennsylvania, west Virginia, and the N. E. part of the state
of Ohio. This latter formation is remarkable for the quantity and
excellence of the bituminous coal which it contains; it always con
tains more or less limestone. Hills composed of micaceous schist
formation, are remarkable for their rounded appearance, and the
precipices for their shelf-like aspect. This latter effect arises from
the more friable nature of some of the strata than others. Often the
under stratum crumbles away, and leaves those above jutting out to
some considerable distance. The banks of the Monongehela, Ale
ghany, and their confluent waters, afford innumerable examples, one
of which is near the city of Pittsburg, in the bank of the former
river.
Soils formed from the decomposition of these various rocks, are
generally fertile, particularly from limestone.
In the aspect of the country under review, a considerable diffe
rence prevails between the sections S. E. and N. W. of the Ohio
river. The former is much more broken than the latter, and pos
sesses the only chain of mountains belonging to the whele surface.
It is remarkable, that the rivers of the United States are but very
little influenced by the Aleghany mountains. A curve line traced
between the sources of the waters, flowing into the Atlantic ocean,
from those which enter the Ohio, would cross and recross, the minor
chains of the Aleghany. A bird's eye view from New-York to Geor
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 189
gia, would exhibit the rivers rushing through the gorges of the moun
tains in a great number of places.
In Potter county in Pennsylvania, is the extreme east waters of
the Ohio, rising about 20 miles N. E. of the town of Condersport.
Setting out from that place and advancing southwestward, the Chest nut ridge forms for one hundred miles the demarkation between the
eastern and western streams: but the Kiskiminitas branch of the Ale
ghany, and the Youghiogheny, Cheat, and Tiger valley branches of
\Monongehela, all rise in the Aleghany, properly so called, and in their
passage pierce the Chestnut ridge. From the sources of Tiger Val
ley river to the extreme eastern branches of the great Kenhaway, the
dividing line between the intervening streams would run nearly south,
crossing the mountains obliquely.
From the eastern sources of Kenhaway to those of the French Broad
and Santee, the western streams rise in the extreme eastern ridges of
the mountains, and flow nearly at right angles to the main chain.
By this natural arrangement it is at once perceptible, that the S. E.
part of the Ohio valley becomes more and more mountainous, advan
cing S. W. from the north part of Pennsylvania to the N. W. extre
mity of Georgia. The Aleghany here, as every where else, consists
of long and nearly collateral ridges, frequently cut through by
the rivers. The intervening valleys are amongst the most agreea
ble, and, in many instances, most productive parts of the United
States. Their materials, however, depend upon the rocks from which
those materials are drawn. This is the true reason of the respective
comparative fertility of the lands in the northwest and southeast side
of the Aleghany mountains. The mere constituent matter of which
mountains are composed, can only be interesting to general readers,
from the influence that the decomposition of that matter must have
upon the adjacent soil. 
The shores of the Atlantic ocean, from Cape Sable to New-York,
and the bottoms of the Ohio, are both alluvial ; but the latter ex
ceeds the former, in point of fertility, to a great extent. The Ohio
has drawn its supplies of soil from secondary and transition, whilst
the border of the Atlantic is from, in most parts, the ruins of primitive
rocks.
The North or Hudson river, the Deleware, and the Susquehanah,
are exceptions to the foregoing rule: these three rivers rise on the
western secondary, cross the transition and primitive, and carry
their spoils towards the Atlantic ocean, where they have formed im
mense borders of alluvion. The Hudson is the only river of the
United States, through which the ocean tides are carried over the
primitive and transition formations, to the border of the western
secondary; this latter circumstance and its exemption from cataracts,
shoals, or rapids, in its passage from the western secondary to the
Atlantic ocean, are the only instances where any remarkable features
distinguish the geological structure of the Hudson, from the Deleware
and Susquehanah rivers. Under the name of this latter stream, are
included all the confluent waters of the Chesapeake bay. The Po
tomac is, however, the most southern branch of the Susquehanah,
whose sources are in the western secondary. James' river, though
190 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 
rising near, does not actually reach the latter formation. Beyond
James' river to the southward, the streams flowing into the Ohio,
rise upon the border, or in the primitive, and cross the transition into
the secondary, over which they ſlow into the main stream.
The reader will remark, from the foregoing, that the real dividing
line between the waters of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, and those
of the Atlantic ocean, is actually uninfluenced by the mountains. It
is a general, but a very unfounded opinion, that the Atlantic declivi
ty” rises from the northwestern shore of that ocean to the summit of
the Aleghany mountains, and that from that elevation the continent
again declines towards the Mississippi. To clearly understand the
physical conformation of any country, two distinct species of eleva
tion must be noticed; first, what is properly called mountains, and
secondly, hills formed by the gradual sinking of valleys from the
abrasion of waters. In common language hills and mountains are
mere relative terms, to signify more or less elevation ; but, geological
ly, they are not only specifically, but generically distinct, at least they
are so in the United States.
The mountains are protuberances rising out of and above the hills,
but composed of very different materials, and arranged in a very diſ
ferent manner from the latter. Ascending from either the Atlantic
ocean or Ohio river, the hills rise gradually towards the separation
of the waters; the mountains on the contrary seem to preserve no
regularity in their elevation, as it respects their local distance from
the ocean, or rivers of the Ohio valley. Upon the annexed map of
the United States, is etched, and coloured brown, the great outline
of the Mississippi valley, including those of the Ohio and Illinois;
and also the two latter spaces, distinguished from the great valley of
which they form minor parts. This will present to the eye more
clear definitions of the physiognomy of the United States, than can be
given by verbal description.
The terms used in this article to distinguish the various rocks, are
not in common use : some explanation is therefore necessary to ex
cuse their insertion. There is nothing so necessary in the commu
nication of information, as clear terms, having a definite and generally
received idea attached to them. In a science so recent in regular
classification as that of geology, the terms are new to most readers,
but without them, no real useful knowledge on the subject can be
conveyed through the medium of recorded facts. Primitive, transi
tion, secondary, and alluvial, when once understood, enable the mind
to seize with certainty the information intended to be given by the
use of these terms.
One of the most profound geologists that the world has produced,t
has observed, in a recent publication, that “it might have been as well,
iſ when giving names to the different classes of rocks, all reference
to the relative period of their origin, or formation, had been avoided;
and in place of primitive, and secondary, some other names had been
* See Synopsis, page 7, of Geographical Introduction.
# William M’Clure--observations on the Geology of the United States, Phi. Fadelphia, 1817. 
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 191
adopted, taken from the most prominent feature, or general property of the class of rocks intended to be designated, such as, perhaps, crys
taline in place of primitive, and deposition, or horizontal, in place
of secondary. But as those old names are in general use, and con
secrated by time and long habit, it is more than probable that the
present state of our knowledge does not authorize us to change them.
The adoption of new names, on account of some newly discovered
property in the substance, is the cause of much inconvenience al
ready; and if adopted as a precedent in future, will create a confused
accumulation of terms, calculated to retard the progress of the science.
When we change the names given to defined substances by those who
went before us, what right have we to suppose that posterity will re
spect our own nomenclature ?”
The water-courses falling from the mountain valleys towards the
Ohio, are mostly rapid, and many of them are encumbered with
cataracts, none of which are of considerable height. The streams
of Aleghany and Monongehela, pass over a continuation of rapids,
without any that deserve the name of Falls. The Youghiogheny is,
in one place, viz. the passage of Chestnut ridge, precipitated about
seven feet. The great Kenhawa has one considerable and several
lesser precipices passing across its bed, producing cataracts. The
Cumberland and Tennessee, though rapid in their courses, are, never
theless, navigable almost to their sources.
The rivers of Kentucky are but little impeded with rock in their
beds, but flow through deep chasms, that have been worn out of the
calcarious rocks through which those rivers flow.
To the N. W. of the river Ohio the whole region under review
seems to rest upon a secondary base, covered occasionally by a re
cent alluvion. Limestone and sandstone slate, are the predominant
rocks. Rounded pebbles are frequent; often in loose masses, though
sometimes forming a crude breccia, or pudding stone. 
Much of the surface of Illinois territory, states of Indiana and
Ohio, are flat, and exhibit the usual features of alluvial countries. Ex
tensive prairies, flat and sometimes swampy, spread over a large ex
tent. The eastern part of the state of Ohio is hilly, the northern
flat, and in its natural state is covered with woods: the northwestern
prairie and the centre are diversified.
Two works of different characters and merit, have been written
upon the valley of Ohio. Mr. Wolney wrote from personal observa
tion, but the fruit of his actual experience was injured by precon
ceived systems. Dr. Daniel Drake gave to his work the humble and
circumscribed name of a picture of Cincinnati and the Miami coun
try, though, under that modest title, it contains more really useful
matter respecting the valley of Ohio, than all other works extant.
There are two modes of pursuing knowledge; one, by first forming
theories, and then searching for facts to establish those theories: the
second mode is to collect facts, and from those facts to form systems.
In their researches, Volney pursued the former, Drake the latter mode: these authors have respectively succeeded, according to the
soundness of their materials and course of their operations.
Situated almost in the centre of the valleys of Ohio and Illinois,
192 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Dr. Drake's inductions are more or less applicable to the entire sur
face, and have the invaluable merit of being drawn from actual ex
perience, and arranged without reference to the support of previous
ly formed hypothesis. As far as the constitution of the climate and
the qualities of the soil are concerned, Dr. Drake's work will long
remain a text book upon the regions adjacent to the Ohio.
In the detail of the several territorial divisions of the valleys of
the Ohio and Illinois, their vegetable and mineral productions will
be given as far as direct data can be found. In the review of the
several states and territories, we will pursue a course from south to
north, as in the preceding parts of this treatise. Following this
method, Tennessee will first present itself. The annexed table ex
hibits the extent of Tennessee, with its population in 1810. An es
timate is given of the number of people that state is now supposed
to contain. This estimate is founded upon a supposition that the in
habitants increase five per cent. per annum, (expunging small frac
tions;) this data no doubt will give rather too small a result; it can
not be very far, however, from the real number. º
TOPOGRAPHICAL TABLE.
EAST TENNESSEE,
Counties. Population. Chief towns.
Anderson 3,959
Bledsoe 8,839 Marysville
Blount 3,259 Maryville
Campbell 2,668
Carter 4,190 Elizabethtown
Claiborne 4,798 Tazewell
Cocke 5,154 Newport
Granger 6,397 Rutledge
Greene 9,713 Greenville
Hawkins 7,643 Rogersville
Jefferson 7,309 Dandridge
Knox I0,171 JKnoxville
Rhea 2,504 Washington
Roane 5,571 Kingston
Sevier 4,595 Sevierville
Sullivan 6,847 Blountsville
Washington 7,740 Jonesborough
101,367
WEST TENNESSEE.
Counties. Population. Chief towns.
Bedford 8,242 Shelbyville
Davidson 15,608 Nashville
Dickson 4,516
Franklin 5,730 Winchester
Giles 4,546 Pulaski
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. • 193
Counties. Population. Chief towns:
Hickman 2,583
Humphrey 1,511 
Jackson • 5,401 Williamson
Lincoln 6,104 Fayetteville
Montgomery 8,021 Clarkesville
Maury 10,359 Columbia
Overton 5,643 Monroe
Robertson 7,270 Springfield
Rutherford 10,265 Jefferson
Summer 13,792 * ... Gallatin
Smith 11,649 . Dixon's Springs
Stuart - 4,262
Wilson 11,952 Lebanon
Williamson 13,153 Franklin
White 4,028 Sparta
Warren 5,725 M“Minville
160,360
101,367 
Total—261,727
Allowing an increase of five per cent per annum, the present pe
pulation of Tennessee, 1816, amounts to 340,000 persons.
Length, breadth, extent.—Tennessee is the longest state in the
United States, being from northeast to southwest 470 miles: its
breadth is one degree and a half of latitude, or 1,038 miles: the ex
tent is within a small fraction of 40,000 square miles, equal to
25,600,000 American acres.
Natural features.—From its position on the globe, its extending
from east to west, and from its-narrow breadth, Tennessee might be
supposed to exhibit but little variation of climate; but the position
of the mountains in the state and in the adjacent states, has a great
influence over the climate of Tennessee. There is no state in the
United States, excepting Georgia, which admits the culture of so
many valuable vegetables, as does this state. 
Cumberland mountain intersects the state obliquely, and divides it
into two unequal valleys, those of Cumberland and that of Ten
nessee. Those two rivers in their advance to the Ohio, approach,
and enter the main stream, only eleven miles apart from each other.
The Tennessee is the longest and largest branch of Ohio; its ex
treme N. E. source rises in Wythe county in Virginia : its extreme
S. E. branch rises in Georgia. The entire sources reach through two
degrees of latitude, having various names; the French Broad, No
lachucky, and Holston, form by their junction the southeast branch:
the Clinch the northwestern : their union at Kingston forms the
Tennessee. - 
Below Kingston the Tennessee receives no river of any considera
ble length, to the Muscle Shoals, a distance of upwards of 200 miles.
A short distance below the head of the Muscle Shoals, Elk river

25 
194 * EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
comes in from the north: this stream is about 150 miles in length,
heading in Cumberland mountain. Buffalo and Duck rivers rise in
the same ridge with Elk, but flow west; and like the Tennessee
and Cumberland, curve to the northward, unite and fall into Tennes
see, nearly on latitude 35° N. Below the junction of Clinch and
Holston, on the left side, and below the mouth of Duck river, the
Tennessee receives notributary waters sufficient to augment its stream
in any sensible degree.
Cumberland river rises in Cumberland mountain, and interlocks
with the head waters of Clinch and Kentucky rivers. This river
rises in the southeast part of the state of Kentucky, through which
it flows in a westerly direction upwards of 200 miles, enters Ten
nessee; and by a very winding course of one hundred and twenty
miles in the latter state, reaches at Nashville near as far south as 35°
N. lat. At Nashville the Cumberland river assumes a N. W. course,
which it preserves 120 miles to its junction with the Ohio.
The two following tables will exhibit the relative length and sta
tionary distances of the Tennessee and Cumberland rivers, from their
sources to their junction with the Ohio.
No. 36. 
Length and stationary distances of the Tennessee, by Holston.
JMiles.
From the sources of Holston to Abingdon - 35
Tennessee line - - - - 10) 45
Blountsville - - - - * 20|| 65
Mouth of French Broad - - - 95|l 60
Knoxville - - - - - 4|164
Kingston, mouth of Clinch - - - 60|224
Washington - - - - - 30|254
Hiwassee river - - - - 10,264
Georgia line - - - - - 50314
Again enters Tennessee - - - 10|524
Nickajack enters Alabama territory - - 10334
Extreme south bend, 34° 25' N. lat. - - 50384
Head of Muscle Shoals - - - 40|424
Mouth of Elk river - - - - 5|429
Lower end of Muscle Shoals - - - 15|444
Mouth of Bear creek - - - - 30|474
Now forms the boundary between the state of Mississippi and
Alabama territory, to the Tennessee south line 25|499
Mouth of Duck river - - - - 90|589
Tennessee north line - - - - 40|629
Entrance into the Ohio river - - - 50|679
No. 37.
Length and stationary distances of the Cumberland river from its
source, to its entrance into the Ohio.
JMiles.
From its source to the south line of Kentucky - 200
Fort Blount - - - - - 30|230
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 195
JMiles.
Nashville - - - - - 90.320 Clarksville - - - - - º:
Palmyra - - - - - 10|360 Tennessee north line - - - - 3.
Ohio river - - - - - 50;440
The chain of Cumberland mountain extends between the Cum
berland and Tennessee valleys, and produces two distinct climates in
the state. That of Tennessee is more temperate than that of Cum
berland. The difference is greater than would arise from the respec
tive latitudes: cotton and tobacco are more productive, and less li
able to destruction by frost in the former, than in the latter valley.
No well digested statistical account of Tennessee has been published; nor have the minute shades of transition in its soil and climate been
exhibited from actual and judicious observation. Only the general
features of the country can be given.
Tennessee may be correctly viewed as the middle climate of the
United States. Both from geographical position and local features,
the temperature of its climate is a medium between the warmth of
the south and the cold of the north. All the vegetable productions,
from cotton to the cereal gramina, are produced. In some parts of the state the apple succeeds extremely well; a circumstance that in
its constitution bears more analogy to the air of the northern, than to
that of the southern states. On the borders of Kentucky and Virgi
nia, the winters of Tennessee are often severe : the rivers are fre
quently frozen. Like all the middle and even southern states, the seasons are extremely variable. No winter passes away without se
were frosts; and many are attended with heavy snow in all parts of
the state.
The soil of Tennessee, like its climate, is very different in quali
ty in the respective parts of the state. Three-fourths of the entire surface is mountainous or hilly. The valleys and river bottoms are
remarkably fertile. The inequalities of the surface in respect to ele
vation, shelter, and exposure, are so infinite, that in different parts
of the state, the same species of soil is suitable to very different ve
getables. * The east section of Tennessee is occupied by what may be strictly
called the nucleus of the Aleghany mountains. The ridges are here less elevated than in some other places; but they extend over a
much wider surface than in any other part of the United States. The
range of the mountains being here also inclined more to the west,
produce a double effect upon the climate.
West Tennessee is more flat than the eastern section. The moun
tains, after their course to the west, gradually decline, and before
reaching the Mississippi, disappear. The hills also become, in ap proaching the Ohio and Mississippi, more rounded, less elevated,
and like the mountains, are gradually lost before reaching the extreme
depression of the valley in which they are situated. From so many
concurrent causes, the changes of temperature between the eastern and western extremities of Tennessee, are almost as great as would
196 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
be found, in many situations in North America, in an equal distance
along a meridian line. A striking example of the correctness of the
foregoing facts, are presented by the Mississippi and Tennessee
states, when compared together. The relative geographical posi
tions of the two states are directly opposite. The extreme length of
the former, being north and south, that of the latter, east and west;
yet the difference in climate between the extremes of the state of
Mississippi is not greater, than exists also between the extremes of
Tennessee. 
A statistical and geographical work on Tennessee, drawn from care
fully observed facts, and judiciously arranged, would be an accession
of great value to the science of the United States.
Progressive geography, history.—The state of Tennessee is an
elongation of North Carolina, and originally made a part of that
state; but like all other places northwest of the Aleghany mountains,
its settlement by the white inhabitants is recent. About the com
mencement of the revolutionary war, a few hunters reached the
sources of the Tennessee river, and without any countenance from
government, commenced an establishment, which for many reasons
increased and remained obscure and unnoticed by the governments
of the contiguous states. These remote hunters experienced fierce
opposition from the savages, which they repelled with bravery and
success. The recent establishments in east Tennessee operated,
during the revolutionary war, as a shield to the back countries of
Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia,” and con
tributed no little to facilitate the settlements of Kentucky.
From 1776, when the British agents, Stuart and Cameron, iſ re
venge for their unshaken fidelity to their country, brought upon the
Tennesseeans the tomahawk of the Cherokees, until the memorable battle of New Orleans, the troops of Tennessee have been at their
post, when their country demanded their services.
Tennessee was separated from North Carolina, and created a ter
ritory in 1790. In 1796 it became a state of the United States.
In 1791 the population was 35,691 ; in 1795 the inhabitants were
increased to 77,262. By the census of 1800 there were in
Tennessee 105,602 persons. In the ten years that intervened be
tween the two last enumerations of 1800, and that of 1810, the peo
ple of this state had accumulated to 261,727.
The greatest comparative increase was during the period between
1791 and 1795. A decrement of regular accumulation is percep
tible in every subsequent period. This is the case with all the other new states and territories of the United States in the Ohio and Mis
sissippi valley. Tennessee also presents another fact, universally
overlooked in speculations on the recent settlements in the United
States; that the density of the population is in direct ratio to the dis
tance from the original source. Thisrule has very few exceptions in the
United States, and none that does not arise from river navigation. The
quality of soil seems to have very little direct influence in the exten
sion of settlements. The difference in effect, between the silent but
* See page 62 of this treatise.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.' * 197
gradual flow of the people to the westward, and that of casual emi gration, will be seen by reference to the geographical treatise an
nexed to this work.
Of cultivated vegetables, the most important produced in Tennes
see is maize. In no part of the United States does that valuable plant grow in such perfection as in the rich bottoms of Cumberland,
Tennessee, and their confluent streams. Much maize in the ear,
and also ground into meal, is transported from these rivers to Natchez
and New Orleans.
Wheat, rye, oats, barley, and buckwheat, are also raised in con
siderable quantities, both for consumption and exportation.
Hemp is amongst the staples of Tennessee, but is not at pre sent so extensively cultivated as it was a few years past. Flax is
reared for home use, but not in very large quantities.
Cotton is the staple commodity of greatest value both in quantity and aggregate value, that is exported from this state. The thread of
the cotton of Tennessee is, perhaps, not so long as that growing in
more southern latitudes, but is otherwise excellent.
Of mineral productions found in Tennessee, iron and salt are the
most important. Several iron works are, and have been many years
in operation, both in east and west Tennessee. Castings and iron are
made both for domestic use and exportation. Several salt springs
are found, but not in general use: the state is generally supplied
with that very necessary article from Kentucky and Virginia.
Saltpetre, alum, copperas, and lead, are also discovered. A con
siderable quantity of the former is now taken from various caves
and manufactured into gunpowder, or otherwise used for home con
sumption, and also for exportation.
Coal is said to be discovered in great quantities; it is the bitumi
nous coal of secondary formation, and disposed in horizontal strata.
Tennessee may be with propriety considered, in respect to fruits,
as the most favourable situation in the United States. There are, in
deed, very few fruits cultivated in the valley of the Mississippi and
Ohio, but what are concentrated in this state. Apples, pears,
peaches, and plums, are reared in great variety, and of good qual
ity. The two kinds of potato grow in abundance.
Beef, butter, bacon, pork, lard, tallow, leather, and many other
articles, are exported to Natchez and New Orleans. The timber trees are plentiful and very large, consisting of many
species of oak; many species of hickory, black and white walnut, beech, linden, sycamore, ash; several species of maple, poplar, (li riodendron tulipifera,) black locust, honey locust; various kinds of elm, mulberry, pine, cedar, wild cherry, and sassafras. The under
brush consists of dogwood, spicewood, papaw, crab apple, hazle nut;
many kinds of grape vines, and smilax, large cane, and many other plants and herbs of medicinal virtue, or otherwise useful.
Towns,—colleges, schools.—Washville, on the south side of Cum
berland river, in 36° 4'N. lat. and 10° W. lon. from Washington, is
the principal town in West Tennessee, and the largest in the state.
The number of inhabitants in this town is uncertain, but no doubt
exceeds three thousand. Some fine public and private buildings are
198 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
erected. The town is rapidly improving, and is now a place of great
commercial wealth.
Knoxville, the chief town of East Tennessee, stands upon the
north side of Holston river, 35° 55' N. lat. 6° 58' W. lon. from Wash
ington city. There is not much difference in the population of Knox
ville and Nashville. The latter is, in many respects, one of the most
agreeable places of residence in the United States. The adjacent
country is variegated and romantic. 'i'he climate is a due medium
between the extremes of the northern winters and southern summers.
Occupying an interesting situation almost upon the direct route from
New Orleans and Natchez to the middle states, Knoxville will be
come a place of great consequence, when good roads are made
through the state of Mississippi and Alabama territory.
There are many other towns in the state of Tennessee, but none
that merit particular notice.
There are several colleges, academies, and schools in Tennessee.
Cumberland college, in Nashville, is the most extensive literary es
tablishment in the state. There are one or two colleges in East Ten
messee. By law there ought to be one academy in each county:
how many of the latter are in operation, we are unable to state with
certainty. Education is not neglected in the state, though not pur
sued with the regularity, or carried so high as in the northern states.
Professional men, particularly physicians, are obliged, in order to
complete their studies, to attend lectures in either Baltimore, Phila
delphia, New-York, or Boston. No establishment in the western
states is so imperiously necessary, as a college of physicians and
surgeons. There is provision made in the arrangement of the Tran
sylvanian university in Lexington, Kentucky, for the completion of
medical education; and it is much to be desired that this part of the
plan was carried into complete effect. So much is now become ne
cessary by the advancement of chemistry and botany in order to
complete medical studies, that much time and expense are indispen
sable in the collection of libraries, and in the formation of the various
professorships.
In every point of view, Tennessee is a very respectable and ra
pidly improving state. The Mississippi is its great commercial eut
let. Two or more canals have been projected, to unite the waters of
Tennessee with those of Mobile river. How far these canals are
practicable, or what will be their probable expense, is unknown. One
very serious objection to their utility, arises from the great length of
time that the higher waters of Tombigbee and Coosa rivers are ren
dered innavigable, almost every year by the summer and autumn
heats. The route to market by the Mississippi is circuitous and
tedious; but it is always open, and subject to no other particular in
convenience than what arises from the length.
The following tables exhibits the relative distances from Nashville
and Knoxville, to the principal towns in the United States.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 199
No. 38.
From Nashville to Washington city by Knoxville.
JMiles.
Jefferson - - - - - - 25
M“Minville - - - - - 40. 65
Madison - - - - - 34, 99
Washington - - - - - 30|120 Kingston, junction of Clinch and Holston - 30|150 For the distance and stations between Knoxville and Washington city, see No. 26, page 153, and No. 31. For the stationary distances from Nashville to New Orleans, see
No. 33, page 160.
No. 39.
From Nashville to Pittsburg, by Lexington in Kentucky.
JMiles.
Manstrer's - - - - - 22
Springfield - - - - - 12| 34 North boundary of Tennessee - - - 15. 49 Russelville - - - - - 15. 64
Bowling green - - - - - 27 91 Glasgow - - - - - 33,124 Greensburg - - - - - 34 158 Stanford - - - - - 75,233 Nicholasville - - - - - #ſº
Lexington - - - - - 15,275 Washington, Pennsylvania. (See No. 30.) - 320,595 Cannonsburg - - - - - 7602 PITTSBURG - - - - - 18620
No. 40.
From Nashville to Charleston in South Carolina, by Athens, Au
gusta, and Savannah in Georgia.
.Miles.
Shellbyville - - - - - | 45 Winchester - - - - 31) 76
Ross, southeast side of Tennessee river - - 33109 Vans's Cherokee nation - - - - 50.159
Etowah river - - - - - 54.213
Chatahoochy river - - - - 23.236 Clarksboro on Oconee river - - - 32268 ATHENS - - - - - 20288
Lexington - - - - - 29.3% Washington - - - - - 30.338 Ray’s mills, on a branch of Savannah river - 15363
Columbia - - - - - 13366
AUGUSTA - - - - - 20386
Waynesboro - - - - - 34|420 Jacksonsboro - - - - - 23'443
*
200 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
JMiles,
Ebenezer - - - - . - 42\485
SAVANNAH - - - s - 26511
Coosahatchy - - - - - 381544
Garden - - - - - 12:556
Jacksonsboro - - - - - . 24,580
CHARLESTON - - - - 33|613
No. 41.
From Nashville to Columbus in the state of Ohio, by Lexington
and Cincinnati.
JMiles.
Lexington. (See No. 39.) - - - 75
Falmouth - - - - - 40.315
Cincinnati - - - - - 40,355
Hamilton - - - - - 25|380
Dayton - - - - - 35|415
Springfield - - - - - 284.15
Franklington - - - - - 36.479
Columbus - - - - - 1480
No. 42.
From Nashville to Charleston, by Knoxville and Columbia.
JMiles.
Knoxville. (See No. 38.) - - * 192
Dandridge - - - - - 30|222
Newport - - - - - 21243
Warm Spring - - - - - 25/268
Line between North and South Carolina - - 30|298
Greenville - - - - - 30|328
Reedy river - - - - - 26|354
Lauren's - - - - - 15|369
Belfast - - - - - - 20389
Newbury - - - - ad 13|402
Saluda river - - - - - 30|432
Granby - - - - - 21|453
COLUMBIA - - re - - 3|456
Smithville - - - - sº 37493
Nelson's ferry - - - - - 34,527
Monk’s corner - - - * - 19||546
Elm’s - - - - - * 20566
Charleston - - - - as 14|580
No. 43.
From Nashville to Washington by Raleigh, in North Carolina and
Richmond in Virginia.
JMiles.
Knoxville. (See No. 38 and 42.) - - 192
Dandridge - - - - - 30|222
Cheek’s - - - - - 221244
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 201
Warrenton 
Greenville 
Jonesboro a
Elizabethtown 
Ashe a- 
Wilke’s 
Rockford 
Huntsville 
Bethania 
Salem - 
New Garden 
Martinville 
Allemance 
Hillsboro 
Chapel hill 
RALEIGH 
Louisburg 
Warrenton 
:
-
. :
Meherin river
Notaway river
Petersburg
RICHMOND 
Hanover, C. H. 
White Chimneys
Bowling green

. - .Wileboro - - Fredericksburg - - 
Falmouth - * - - 
Stafford - - - - 
Aquia - - - - - 
Dumfries - - - - 
Ocoquhan - - - - 
Pohike church - - - * 
Alexandria - - - - 
Washington - - - - 
Kentucky, like Tennessee, extends in length from east to west. The
37th degree of north latitude nearly corresponds to the greatest length
of Kentucky, passing through the state from near the mouth of Ohio to
the sources of Cumberland and Great Sandy rivers, a distance of seven
degrees of longitude, or three hundred and eighty-six miles: the great
est width is due south from the mouth of great Miami river to the
north boundary of Tennessee, equal to a little more than two and a
half degrees of latitude, or one hundred and eighty miles. Kentucky
extends over 42,053 square miles, equal to 26,913,920 American,
aCreS.
The following statistical table presents a view of the divisions and
population of this state, as they stood in 1810.
26
202 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. - 3
TOPOGRAPHICAL TABLE.
KENTUCKY.
Counties. Population. Chief towns and populatioſ:
Adair 6,011 Columbia 1.75
Barren 11, 186 Glasgow 244
Bath
Boone 3,608 Bracken 3,451 Augusta 255
Brickenridge 3,430 Bourbon 18,009 Paris 838
Buther 2,181
Bullet 4,311 Clarke 11,519 Winchester 538,
Casey 3,285 Liberty 33
Campbell 3,060 Newport 413
Christian 11,020 Hopkinsonville 131
Cumberland 6,191 Burkesville 106
Clay 2,398
Caldwell 4,268
Estill 2,082 Fayette 21,370 Lexington 4326
Franklin 8,013 Frankfort 1099
Fleming 8,947 Floyd 3,484 Prestonville 32
Gallatin 3,307 Port William 120
Greenup. 2,369 Green 6,735 Greensburgh 132
Grayson 2,301 Garrard 9,186 Lancaster 260
Henry 9,777 Newcastle 125
Harrison 7,752 Cinthiana 369
Henderson. 4,703 Henderson 159
Harden 7,531 Elizabeth-town 18?
Hopkin's 2,964 Madisonville 27
Jessamine 8,377 Nicholasville 158
Jefferson 13,399 Louisville 1357
Knox 5,875. Barboursville 55
Lexington Livingston 3,674 Smithland 99
Lewis 2,357
Lincoln 8,676 Logan 12,123 Russelville 53%
Mason. 12,459 Washington 815
Me, cer 12,630 Danville 432
Madison 15,540 Richmond 366
Muhlenburgh 4, 181 Greenville 75
Mºtgomery 12,875 Mountsterling 425
Niri... as 4.498 Nelson 14,078 Beard's town 821
RMIGRANT's GUIDE. 200.
* &uuties. Population. Chief towns and population.
Ohio - 3,682 Hartford 110
Pulaski - 6,897 
Pendleton 3,061 Falmouth 121
Rock Castle 1,731
Scott 12,419 Georgetown 529
Shelby 14,837 Shelbyville 424
Union 
Wayne 5,430 Monticello 37
Washington 13,248 Springfield 249
Warren 11,937 Bowling green 154
Woodford 9,659 - Versailies 488.
º
406,511
Progressive geography—population.—In 1769 the first whites of
whom we have a well authenticated account passed into Kentucky.
Daniel Boone, in 1770, traversed the country, and in 1775 the first
attempt was made at a settlement by white families. If any part of
the inhabited earth could be said to have been peopled in tears and .
blood, that was, emphatically, Kentucky. Invited by the excellence
of the soil and beauty of the country, the whites persisted in remov
ing into it: stimulated by dread of encroachment, and determined
on preserving their best hunting ground, the savages defended their
residence with desperation. The discipline and numbers of the for
mer prevailed. After many years of war, the savages abandoned
the contest, and yielding Kentucky, prepared the way for much more
extensive conquests.
Eleven years after the first effectual settlement, Kentucky was se
parated from Virginia by the following limits: the state of Tennes
see south, the Mississippi river west, Ohio river northwest, Big San
dy river east, and Cumberland mountain southeast; having the state
of Tennessee south, Missouri territory west, Illinois territory and the
state of Indiana northwest, the state of Ohio north, and Virginia
east and southeast.
In 1790 Kentucky contained 73,677 persons. In 1800 220,959, and
in 1810 had increased to 406,511. The same observation made
respecting the progressive accumulation of the people of Tennessee,
may be repeated as regards that of Kentucky The increase was
much more comparatively greater between 1790 and 1800, than in the ten years antecedent to the last census.
Kentucky became a state of the United States. June 1792, when
its population did not either much exceed or fall short of 100,000 in
habitants.
Allowing a similar increment as given to Tennessee, Kentucky
now contains about 580,000 people. The rapid increase to wealth
and consequence of this state, from that of a howling wilderness, has,
perhaps, no parallel in the history of the human species. If Ten
nessee is excepted, no other part of the United States was peopled
under such accumulated difficulties as Kentucky.
Watural features,-productions, natural and artificial.-Geological
204 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
ly, the entire surface of Kentucky reposes upon a bed of secondary
limestone. The soil of very different depths, but almost every where
fertile. The southeastern part is mountainous, the centre hilly, and
some parts near the Ohio level. The rivers have, generally, worn
very deep channels in the calcarious rocks upon which they flow.
The country is not very well supplied with either well or spring
water. Mill streams are also mostly precarious.
The rivers of Kentucky are, Ohio, Mississippi, Tennessee, Cum
berland, Green, Rolling, Kentucky, Licking, and Big Sandy river.
The Ohio is the principal stream of the state of Kentucky, and
the ultimate channel of its commerce, flowing along the state from
the mouth of Big Sandy to the Mississippi, about 640 miles, follow
ing the bends of the stream. 
The Mississippi is the western boundary of the state from the mouth
of Ohio to the north boundary of Tennessee, fifty-three miles.
Tennessee and Cumberland pass in the lower part of their course
about fifty-eight miles each in the state of Kentucky, and add essen
tially to the commercial facilities of the state. The latter is in reali
ty more particularly a stream of Kentucky than of Tennessee, the
former having within its territory both the sources and the mouth of
that river.
Green river is a stream of considerable extent, rising near the cen
tre of the state, and running to the west 120 miles, receives a large
branch from the south ; assumes a northwest course of 100 miles; falls
into the Ohio about thirty miles below the Yellow Bank.
Rolling is a small and unimportant stream, rising near Danville,
and pursuing a western course of 60 or 70 miles, turns northwest and
north ; falls into the Ohio thirty miles below Louisville.
Kentucky river, from which the state derives its name, rises near
the southeast angle of the state : its general course is nearly north
west; about 200 miles in length; falls into the Ohio at Port William.
This river traverses the most fertile, best cultivated, and peopled part
of Kentucky.
Licking river rises between the sources of the Kentucky and Great
Sandy : its course is nearly parallel to and about equal length with
the former ; joins the Ohio at the town of Newport opposite Cincin
nati. Licking waters a fine, rich, well inhabited country.
Great, or Big Sandy river, rises in the Cumberland mountains: its
sources interlock with those of Cumberland, Clinch, Kenhawa, Ken
tucky, and Licking rivers. This stream forms the east boundary of
Kentucky: its course is a very little west of north; about 100 miles
in length. 
Cumberland mountain forms the southeast boundary of the state ;
but the mountain here turns almost west, and, together with the con
tinuation of the chain, contributes to influence very seriously the cli
mate of Kentucky. There is, indeed, a remarkable similarity be
tween Tennessee and Kentucky: in both, the climate differs more in
an equal distance east and west than north and south. In the western
part of Kentucky some cotton is made, but with difficulty. A cir
cumstance that proves that the climate of Kentucky approximates
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 205.
more to the northern than southern atmosphere, is the successful manufacture of maple sugar.
Like all other parts of the valley of Ohio, the soil and air of 
Kentucky has been represented in the most inflated strains of admi
ration. It is, indeed, a fine country, but not differing in any essen tial respect from the adjacent regions.
Wheat, rye, maize, oats, barley, and buckwheat, are cultivated. .
Maize is, however, the principal grain reared for home consumption. Hemp and flax succeed in many parts extremely well. The Irish potato grows abundantly, as does a great variety of garden vege
tables.
Apples, pears, peaches, cherries, and plums, are the fruits most
commonly cultivated.
From the calcarious composition of the soil, it is said, by residents,
that meadow grasses do not grow to advantage. How far this could be remedied if a fact, by the culture of luzerne, lupinella,
clover, or other vegetables suitable to form hay, experience only can
determine.
Domestic animals are large and beautiful, particularly the horse; some of the largest, fleetest, and finest individuals of that no
ble quadruped yet produced in the United States, has come from
Kentucky.
Salt and iron are amongst the minerals of this state. The most
extensive works for the manufacture of the former yet established
west of the Aleghany mountains, are on the waters of Kentucky, from whence Tennessee, Ohio, and Indiana, have in a great measure been
supplied, besides a sufficiency for home use. Several iron works are
also in operation, where castings are made: bar iron is mostly im ported from Pennsylvania. 
Kentucky has from its position become a manufacturing state. In
1810, by a return made to the office of the secretary of state, the anmout of manufactured articles exceeded five million of dollars. Of
this aggregate the looms produced 2,657,081 dollars; the salt works
325,870 dollars; rope walks 393,400 dollars; maple sugar 308,932
dollars: the balance was made up by the tanneries, distilleries, paper
mills, hemp, &c. Hemp, wheat, and tobacco, are the principal staples. Each of
those articles preponderate, following the demand. Manufacturing
pursuits must, however, increase. The distance to the Atlantic cities, and the expense of carriage, secures a very high premium for the
production of all bulky articles. As the cultivation of cotton advances on the Mississippi and neigh
bouring streams, the demand for cordage and bale cloth must in
crease also. Steam-boat navigation will aid the commercial and
manufacturing interest of Kentucky, to an extent beyond our means
to calculate.
A project of a canal to pass the rapids of the Ohio at Louisville,
has been long in agitation, and must eventually, and at no very dis
tant time, be completed. The fall is 22# feet in a little more than
two miles. It is much to be desired that a good canal was formed in
this place, as it would remove the only existing serious impediment
*
rº
20t, RMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
to navigation from the sources of Aleghany and Monongahela, to the
mouth of the Mississippi.
The timber trees of Kentucky do not differ very much from those
of Tennessee. Pine and cedar is less frequent in the former than in
the latter state. Marble abounds of excellent quality. The whole
country may be said to repose on limestone.
Towns,—colleges.-schools—Lexington, in Fayette county, is the
largest and most wealthy town in Kentucky; it stands at 30° 10' N.
lat. 7° 10' W. long. from Washington city, and nearly due north
from Knoxville in Tennessee. It has been contended by some, that
the plain upon which Lexington stands, is not excelled for fertility
and beauty in the world; without doubt it is one of the most produc
tive spots in America. The settlements were commenced here in 1779.
The town now contains between five and six thousand people.
Improvements in building has kept pace, if not exceeded the in
crease of population, and Lexington, where stood a wilderness less
than forty years past, now assumes the appearance of a thriving com
mercial city, and its inhabitants exhibit the polish and intelligence
arising from wealth and leisure. 
A few years after the first settlements were formed, the legislature
of Virginia incorporated for Kentucky, and located in Lexington a
seminary of education under the title of “The Transylvania Univer
sity.” This infant establishment made, during the first years of its
existence, but little progress. Involved in Indian wars, or engaged
in forming new villages and farms, the people had little leisure to
pursue literary objects; but like every thing else concerning this
state, as soon as relieved from the pressure of savage warfare, the
science of the people augmented with astonishing rapidity. Men of .
high attainments in every branch of human knowledge removed into
the state, and brought with them their information and liberal views.
in 1798 the Transylvania University went into operation under the
guidance of twenty-one trustees, chosen on principles certainly novel:
no person belonging to any of the faculties are admitted. Though
not pursued with very general ardour through the state, yet educa
tion made rapid advances in some places, particularly Lexington,
insomuch as to obtain for that town the title of the Athens of the
western states. 
Besides the buildings necessary to public worship, education, and
the courts of law, there are many very flourishing manufactories in
and near Lexington. In a word, a visit to this place cannot fail to
give the warmest pleasure to a benevolent mind. No where in Ame
rica has the almost instantaneous change, from an uncultivated waste
to the elegancies of civilization, been so striking.
FRANKFORT, on Kentucky river, at 38° 14' N. lat. 7° 40' W. 
lon. from Washington city, is now the seat of government for the
state, but is not remarkable for any considerable difference in popu
lation or improvement from Bard's Town, Paris, Washington, or Dan
ville, all of which are flourishing and pleasant towns, containing from 800 to 1200 inhabitants.
EMIGRANT'S 6UIDE, 20?

Louisville, on the banks of Ohio, at the upper extremity of the rapids
in that river, is, certainly, in point of wealth and consequence, the se
cond town in the state. The Rapids of Ohio is at 38° 25' N. lat.
8° 40'W. lon. from Washington city.
Louisville occupies a high bank below the mouth of Bear-grass
creek, extending parallel to the river. There is a fine prospect from
the front street up and down the stream, and of the opposite coast of
the state of lndiana.
A very extensive and active commerce is now carried on between
this place and Natchez, New Orleans, and St. Louis. If the pro
posed canal is made to pass the rapids, it will augment the improve
ment of Louisville to a great extent by establishing manufactures, by
the almost infinite command of water power. 
At the lower part of the rapids a town has arisen by the name of
Shipping Port. Several ships, and vessels of all kinds suitable to the
Ohio or Mississippi, have been built at the latter place. The faci
lity of raſting timber down the Ohio, and of cutting it into plank by
the aid of water from a canal 22 feet fall, will, when the latter
improvement is completed, enable vessels to be built to any possible
extent that an increasing population and commerce could demand,
and upon the most reasonable terms. There would be no known
spot on the globe where the materials could be more easily collected,
or more expeditiously rendered fit for use, not only for the construc
tion of ships, but dwelling-houses also.
Kentucky has passed the era of rapid increase from emigration.
The best lands are sold and have become expensive. The state will
continue to possess the advantage of its local position; and when the
population of the western preponderate over that of the eastern and
northern states, the seat of general government will probably be re
moved into this central state. The period, however, when the weight
of population will have changed its relative situation, is more remote
than most people are in the habit of calculating. It will be seen by
a review of the several states and territories, given in this treatise,
that as in any new settlement, the best lands and those near naviga
ble water-courses are transferred to private individuals, the flood of
migration must begin to subside. From this sole cause arises the
less comparative increase of inhabitants, in periods distant from the
original settlement. Tennessee, Kentucky, and indeed all establish
ments on the valley of Ohio, are examples.
The roads in all the states and territories north of Tennessee, in
the valley of Ohio, are so blended, that a separate list would be un
necessary and perplexing; therefore the residue of the roads and main
routes will be given in connexion, at the end of this treatise.
Illinois Territory takes its name from the river of that name, whose
valley forms rather more than one-half the surface of the territory,
passing through it obliquely from northeast to southwest. The
length of Illinois is from north to south, from the junction of the Ohio
and Mississippi, almost on 37° N. lat. to the northern boundary of the
territory 41° 43' N. lat, or 326 miles, its greatest breadth is about the
fortieth degree of north latitude. This territory is bounded on the
southwest, west, and northwest, by the Mississippi river; on the
203 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
north by the 41°43' N. lat.; east by the state of Ohio, and south
east and south by the Ouabache and Ohio rivers; extending over
51,000 square miles, equal to 32,640,000 American acres.
The following statistical table is defective, as but little of the Illi
nois territory was settled with white inhabitants in 1810.
TOPOGRAPHICAL TABLE.
Counties. Population. Towns.
Randolph, 7,275 Kaskaskia.
St. Clair, 5,007
Gallatin,
Edward,
Johnson,
Madison,
12,282
Progressive Geography, History.—It was through the Illinois
river that the first effectual discovery of the Mississippi river was
made by the French. In 1674, two traders, Joliet and Morquetta,
reached the Mississippi through lake Michigan, Fox, and Ouisconsin
rivers. In 1683, from the report of Joliet and Morquetta, the Che valier Tonty, M. de la Sale, and Father Louis Hennepin, under
dertook an expedition of discovery, and through lake Michigan and
Hlinois reached the Mississippi. The Wabache was soon after ex
plored, and small establishments made at Vincennes, Cahokia, and
Kaskaskia. The greatest part of the country remained in the hands
of the savages until within a few years past.
The original white settlers were French from Canada, but these
people, few in number, and detached from each other, lived by hunt
ing and Indian traffic, rather than by agriculture. In their manner of
life they conformed in great measure to the more numerous savages
by whom they were environed.
Whilst Indiana remained a territory, Illinois formed a western
part thereof; but when the former became a state, the latter was
created a separate territorial government, divided into three United
States' court districts, in which political form it now continues.
The population is increasing, and must now (1817) considerably
exceed 20,000 people. 
Rivers—The rivers of the Illinois territory, are the Mississippi,
Illinois, Kaskaskia, Ohio, and Wabache.
The Mississippi river forms the boundary of Illinois, following the
winding of the stream for upwards of five hundred miles So much
has already been given on this great stream, in the preceding parts of
this work, as to much abridge what need be added in this place.
Above the mouth of Missouri, the water of the Mississippi river is
clear, and very similar to that of the Ohio. The banks continue for
some distance low, and in many places liable to overflow. The soil
is rich; extensive prairies often reach and extend along the stream. About 39° 15' N. lat hills are first found upon the river; above this
place the country gradually rises into eminences of more or less ele
vation, giving a varied appearance to the scenery. 
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 209
s
The peninsula, between the Mississippi and Illinois rivers, has
been surveyed as soldiers’ bounty lands. The surface actually sur
veyed, amounts to an area about equal to 240 regular townships of
36 sections each ; equal to 8640 square miles of 640 American acres
each, or an aggregate of 5,530,000 acres nearly. As the act of con
gress of May 6th, 1812, granting those lands as bounty to the sol
diers enlisted in the army of the United States, expressly pro
vides that the several portions to be granted under that act, shall be
fit for cultivation, a larger surface than barely sufficient to satisfy the
claims was necessarily surveyed. Three millions five hundred thou
sand acres are appropriated by congress, and have, it appears, been
selected by the surveyor general, William Rector, Esq. for that ex
press purpose.
This tract lies between 38° 47' and 41° 47' N. lat., and between
12° and 14° W. lon. from Washington city. A plan of the townships and
ranges, including the water-courses, has been published at the seat of
the general government, by Mr. John Gardiner. It is much to be re
gretted, that this map had not contained some detail of the diver
sity in soil and surface, as well as mere outline. As it is, however,
it affords much valuable information respecting the local features of
the country, and of the relative position of the different townships.
Fronting page 6, of this treatise, is placed a plan of the manner of
surveying public lands. With that plan as a key, any particular sec
tion may be found upon any general map of public lands.
Regarding topographical position, the peninsula between the Mis
sissippi and Illinois, presents many advantages as a settlement. Un
der the article, Missouri territory, page 137 of this treatise, is given
much of what could be here repeated respecting the climate of the
region near the junction of the Mississippi and Illinois. Towards the
north part of the soldiers’ lands, or about 41° N. lat., a very sensible
change of climate is perceived. The parallel of 41° runs through the
south part of New-York, the north part of New-Jersey, divides Penn- .
sylvania into nearly two equal parts, then runs through the northern
parts of the states of Ohio and Indiana, and the Illinois territory.
Contrary to the commonly received opinion on that subject, data are
embodied in this treatise, that tend to establish the fact, that more
cold is experienced on the same latitude in the Mississippi valley,
than on the Atlantic coast, east of the Aleghany mountains. If so,
the climate of the lands we have been reviewing, will be found to
bear great resemblance to that of the northern extremity of Ohio and
Indiana. We are strongly inclined to believe that this will be found
to be the case when the country becomes settled.
The Illinois river, bounds the tract on the east and southeast.
Above its junction with the Mississippi, the Illinois river flows from
the north about 80 miles, with depth of water for boats of considerable
draught at all seasons. The river is then found flowing from the south
east sixty miles; it then in T. 7. N. R. VII. east, inclines N. N. E.
which is its general course to the northeast extremity of the tract, a
distance of about sixty miles, giving an entire range, from where this
stream comes in contact with the region we have been describing, to
its discharge into the Mississippi, of two hundred miles.
of 
210 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
The Illinois is, in all its length, a gentle current, without falls or
even remarkable shoals. Much of its bank is liable to annual inun
dation, and of course rendered unfit for culture. It has been already
remarked, that the general surface of the country is prairie, some
part of which is very fine land, though too much does not deserve so
favourable a character.
Two streams of some consequence flow into the Illinois from the
northwest.
Spoon River, has its discharge in T. 4. N. R. IV. E. Rising near
the northeast part of the soldiers’ tract, Spoon river has a course of
upwards of one hundred miles in length, following its various inflec
tions; its general course is nearly parallel to the Illinois. How far
Spoon river is navigable we are unable to say, but judging from ana
logy, would suppose above one half its entire length.
Crookeu Creek, falls into Illinois in T. J. S. R. I. E. This stream
is marked on Mr. Gardiner’s map as a creek, but from its length and
numerous branches, would deserve the title of river; the distance
through which it flows exceeding eighty miles.
II enderson River, enters the Mississippi in T. 10. N. R. VI. W. and
rises in the same ridge with the head streams of Spoon river. How
far the former river is navigable we are unacquainted.
There are various other small rivers and creeks falling into the
Mississippi and Illinois, of less consequence than those we have no
ticed. On Gardiaer s map, there is marked a singular outlet of the
Mississippi, leaving that river in T. 3. S. R. WIll. W. and flowing pa
rallel to the parent stream forty miles, again falls into it in T. 8. S.
R. IV. W. Several creeks of considerable length enter this outlet from the north. w
An extensive inundated tract is laid down where 40° N. lat. inter
sects the Mlississippi. This tract is about twenty-five miles in ex
tent norta and south. From the data afforded by Gardiner's map,
the country near the margin of the rivers bear a strong resemblance
to the regions adjacent to the Mississippi below the mouth of Ohio.
The bends of the rivers washing bluffs, but generally ranging over
inundated lands. Retiring from the streams into the interior, the
surface becomes gradually more elevated and diversified in its gene
ral aspect.
From the similarity of climate, the natural and artificial productions
must. in a great degree, resemble those of the adjacent regions in the
same atitudes. Wheat, rye, oats, maize, and other cerealia, can be
produced in great abundance. Meadow grass of all kinds must flou
rish Fruits, such as apples, pears, peaches, plums, cherries, and
many others, will no doubt be plentifully reared.
Considering the facility of navigation, by the two great rivers that
encircle it on three sides, and the numerous other streams that flow
from its central parts, the bounty land offers every necessary facility
to navigation, especially by the route of the Mississippi and Ohio.
But little labour would be demanded, however, to open a water
communication through the Illinois to lake Michigan. 
The Intervening country is low, and mostly composed of alluvial
materials, presenting impediments to canal navigation that might be
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 2] I
easily removed. A glance upon the map of the United States, at
tending this treatise, will enable the reader to perceive the favourable
position of this spot, wisely selected by the general government to
reward the gallantry of the soldiers of our late war.
Illinois river, has never been accurately surveyed above the boun
ty land, but it is known, however, to rise in the northeast part of the
state of Indiana, which state it traverses in a western direction one
hundred and thirty miles, enters the Illinois territory, and continuing
west, one hundred and twenty miles, must have a curve to the south
west, not far from the northeast corner of the bounty land. In all
previous maps of Illinois river, that we have seen, its general course
is drawn nearly southwest by west, through, from its source to its
mouth. That course is not very incorrect; yet, when drawn in that
manner, a very false idea is given bf the actual range of the stream.
Indeed, when attentively examined, a very remarkable coincidence
appears in the courses of the Illinois, Wabash, and Ohio rivers. This
is nevertheless a theory in geology, coming more correctly under
consideration in the geographical part of this treatise.
The courses and length of the Illinois river, from its contact with
the bounty lands to its mouth, has been noticed, the entire length be
ing 390 miles.
Kaskaskia river, rises in the prairies between the Illinois and Wa
bash, interlocking with the head streams of the Little Water branch
of the latter. The entire length of the Kaskaskia is about 150 miles,
its course southwest by south, nearly. This river is navigable, at
high water, to a considerable distance above its junction with the
Mississippi, a few miles below the town of Kaskaskia. The quality
of the lands, the natural and artificial productions, are nearly the
same found upon the Illinois.
Upon the Kaskaskia are some of the most extensive settlements yet
made in the Illinois territory; the town bearing the same name with
the river is now the seat of government for the territory, a rank it
must soon lose, from its position and the increasing settlements to the
northwest, upon the Illinois river. 
Vaseur river, is a stream of eighty miles in length, rising between
the waters of the Kaskaskia and Little Water rivers, and flowing
nearly parallel to the former, falls into the Mississippi some distance
above Cape Girardeau. But few settlements, and none of any con
sequence, meriting particular notice, have yet been formed upon the
waters of the Vascux.
Ohio river, washes the southeast part of the Illinois territory, from
the mouth of the Wabash to the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi,
a distance of 136 miles. The banks of the Ohio below that of the
Wabash, assume a general resemblance to those of the Mississippi
below the mouth of Missouri. The concave bank is mostly com
posed of craggy limestone, the convex bank low, and subject to annual
inundation. These features continue as far down as the Great Cave,
below which both banks become low, and in every essential quality
are similar to those of the Mississippi below the mouth of Ohio. The
settlements are confined to the alluvial border on the river. The
swamps commence from a quarter, to half a mile from the margin of
*
212 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
the stream. The soil, like most alluvial land, is extremely fertile,
and valuable where elevated sufficiently for the purposes of agricul
ture. The timber gigantic and extremely abundant. The following list contains the most remarkable timber trees found on this tract, and
will answer generally for all the adjacent country.
Quercus tinctoria, Black oak,
Quercus alba, White oak,
Quercus rubra, Red oak,
Quercus phelos, Willow leaſed oak,
Liriodendron tulipifera, Poplar,
Laurus sassafras, Sassafras,
Juglans amara, Bitternut hickory,
Juglans squamosa, Shell bark hickory, º Juglans olivaeformis, Paccan
Juglans nigra,
Juglans cathartica,
Biack walnut,
White walnut,
Juniperus virginiana, Red cedar,
Acer rubrum, Red maple,
Acer negundo, Box alder, •
Carpinus ostrya, Iron wood,
Carpinus americana, Hornbeam, º
Cerasus virginiana, Wild cherry,
Cornus florida, Dogwood, Diospiros virginiana, n Persimon,
Fagus sylvestris, Beech,
Fraxinus tomentosa,
Gieditchiatriacanthos,
Common ash,
Honey locust,
Nyssa aquatica, Tupeloo
Nyssa sylvatica, Black gum,
Platanus occidentalis, Sycamore,
Populus angulata, Cotton wood,
Tilia pubescens, Linden,
, Ulmus rubra, Red elm,
Ulmus americana, Mucilaginous elm, Ulmus aquatica, Water elm.
There are many other species of trees found upon the rivers and
hills in this tract, besides those marked in the above list, but those
enumerated are the most remarkable and most common. The size
and quantity of valuable timber trees that are every where found east
of St. Louis, upon the banks of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers and
their confluent streams, is not the least remarkable feature in their
natural history, or least beneficial part of their useful properties to
man.
Wabash river, forms part of the southeast limit of Illinois territory,
and possesses great sameness to the Ohio, near the confluence of the
two streams. Several small, but fine rivers rise in the lllinois terri
tory, and flow southeast into the Wabash, entering that stream be
low Vincennes: the principal of these are Embarras and Little
Water. These two latter head with the sources of Kaskaskia river.
The other rivers of the Illinois territory are small and unimportant.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 213
Many of the higher branches of the Illinois and Wabash are in the
Indian country; of course but imperfectly known.
Mountains, there are none in the country of Illinois, or hills of any
particular elevation. Some parts of the country is gently rolling,
..but the far greater part, flat prairie, or the alluvial margin of rivers.
Towns. Kaskaskia, upon the river of that name, is the only town .
of consequence yet formed in the territory of Illinois; it is the seat
of government, and contains 800 or 1000 inhabitants.
Cahokia, four miles below St. Louis, and about one mile from the
Mississippi, is a handsome, but small village. Of the new towns, we
have no certain knowledge. No doubt but that the settlements of
the bounty lands will produce a rapid and favourable change in the
territory we have been describing. This settlement will also, as we
have already noticed, necessarily withdraw the seat of government
from Kaskaskia; and it may be added, change, within a few years,
the territorial into a state government. º
Schools, colleges, and all other institutions, must be here in their
infancy; but like other new settlements made by the emigrants from
the United States, the provision for the education of youth is neither
forgotten or neglected.
Of the mineral or fossil productions of this country, we have said
nothing. From the nature of the soil and surface, neither can be ex
pected to abound, and the higher parts, where usually the most valua
ble and abundant metallic and fossil bodies could be reasonably sought
after, we scarcely know, and have never been examined with either skill or care. (See appendix No. II.)
THE STATE OF INDIANA, has the Illinois territory west,
the state of Kentucky southeast, the state of Ohio east, and the Michi
gan territory, and lake Michigan and the Northwest territory, nerth.
Extent, population, rivers, productions. This state covers an area
of 36,640 square miles, equal to 23,449,600 American acres. More
than one half of this surface remains yet in possession of the Indians.
The southern and much most valuable part of the state is reclaimed,
and is settling with emigrants from the northern and eastern states with
great rapidity. The following statistical table exhibits the subdivi
sions of this state, and the population in 1810. This can afford but
very defective document to give a correct idea of the present state of
the country. There is no doubt but that the number of inhabitants
have increased to near one hundred thousand at the present time.
STATISTICAL TABLE OF INDIANA.
Counties. Population. Chief Towns.
1810. 
Clark, 5,760 Jeffersonville,
Dearborn, 7,310 Lawrenceburg,
Harrison, 3,695 CORY DON,
Jefferson,
Knox, 7,965 Vincennes.
24,616
*214 EMIGRANT'S &UIDE.
Since the last census of 1810, the new counties of Washington,
Switzerland, Jefferson, Wayne, Gibson, Posey, and Warwick, have
been formed. The distributive population of the state of Indiana,
at this time, as well as the aggregate amount, must differ essentially
from the relative position and numbers found seven years past. 
The rivers of the state of Indiana, are, Ohio, Wabash, Illinois, and
Maumee.
Ohio river washes the state from the mouth of the Great Miami, to
that of the Wabash, a distance, following the bends of the stream, of
three hundred and sixty-five miles. It is a curious fact, that in this
long course, no stream, above the size of a large creek, falls into the
Ohio from indiana ; White river branch of Wabash, having its head
streams within thirty miles of the bank of Ohio. There are few
countries in the world can much exceed this part of the banks of
Ohio. The lands are varied, a considerable portion of the first
quality, and but little that can be really considered unproductive.
The settlements are in such quick progress as to render a description
only necessarily correct for the moment.
Wabash river is strictly the principal stream of Indiana, from the
surface of which it draws the far greater part of its waters. The
head branches of Wabash is in the Indian country, of course very
imperfectly explored. This river rises with the Maumee near
For Wayne, and like the Illinois, flows to the west through
Indiana, unto almost the west border of the state, where the river
gradually curves to S. W. by S., which course it maintains to its
junction with the Ohio. The entire length of the Wabash exceeds
three highdred miles; it is a fine stream, without falls or extraordinary
rapids. It was through the channel of the Wabash that the French
of Canada first discovered the Ohio, to which they gave the name of
Belle Riviere, or beautiful river, but considered the Wabash the
main branch, and gave the united rivers its name. In many old maps
of North America, the Ohio below the junction of the two streams,
is called Wabash. The Tennessee was then very imperfectly known,
and considered at one-fourth the size it was found to possess by sub
sequent discovery.
White River, the eastern branch of Wabash, is itself a stream of
considerable importance, draining the heart, and far the finest part of
the state of Indiana. About forty miles above its junction with the
Wabash, White river divides into the north and south branches.
North branch rises in the Indian country by a number of creeks,
which, uniting near the Indian boundary line, forms a fine navigable
river of about 180 miles in length ; its course nearly S. W. South
branch rises in the same ridges with the White Water branch of
the Great Miami; its course S. W. by W. 150 miles. Upon this
latter river many of the most flourishing settlements in the state have
been formed. The country it waters is amongst the most agreeable,
healthy, and fertile in the Ohio valley.
Illinois river has its source in Indiana, but has been noticed when
treating of the Illinois territory.
JMaumee rises in fact in the state of Ohio, near Fort Lo
ramie, but flowing N. W. enters the state of Indiana, turns west,
EMIGRANT'S GUIBE. 215
encircles Fort Wayne, and turning N. E. again enters the state of Qhio, through which it flows to the place of its egress into Lake Erie.
The southern extremity of Lake Michigan penetrates the state of
Indiana, and at or near its extreme south elongation, receives the Ca
lumet, and not far north of its S. E. extension, the small river St. Jo
seph enters from the state of Indiana, but enters the Michigan lake in
the Michigan territory.
The country is here but very imperfectly known; even the latitude of the southern extremity of Lake Michigan remains uncertain.
When the French possessed Canada and Louisiana, their traders con
stantly passed by Chicago into Illinois, and by the Maumee into Wabash, in their voyages. These passages are now again
becoming frequented, and will, within the lapse of a few years, present the active transport of commercial wealth, and the daily in tercourse of civilized men.
It may be doubted whether any state of the United States, all
things duly considered, can present more advantages than Indiana. Intersected or bounded in all directions by navigable rivers or lakes,
enjoying a temperate climate, and an immense variety of soil. Near two-thirds of its territorial surface is yet in the hands of the Indians,
a temporary evil, that a short time will remedy. When all the ex
tent comprised within the legal limits of this state are brought into
a state of improvement, with one extremity upon the Ohio river, and
the opposite upon Lake Michigan, with intersecting navigable streams, .
Indiana will be the real link that will unite the southern and northern
parts of the United States. The connexion between the Canadian lakes and the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, is by no route so direct as through Michigan and Wabash, and by Lake Erie, Maumee
and Wabash. The route by Lake Michigan and the Illinois river
into the Mississippi is more circuitous than by that of the Wa
bash into either Lakes Michigan or Erie, and the route through IIli
nois has another irremediable disadvantage, that of being in a more northern latitude than the Wabash.
When the rivers are in a state of flood, loaded boats of conside
rable size pass from the head waters of Wabash into St. Mary river, the western branch of the Maumee ; the same facility
of passage exists between Maumee ; the Chicago into the Illi nois river.” These facts prove two things: first, the almost perfect
level of the country, and secondly, the great ease with which canals
can be formed, and the very limited expense of their construction.
In the present state of population, the communication by the Wa
bash and Miami of the Lakes into Lake Erie, must produce advan
tages of greatly more extensive benefit, than by Lake Michigan and
Illinois river. Many years must elapse before either is opened. The
country is yet wilderness, and the right of soil in the aboriginal in habitants.
Like Illinois territory, the state of Indiana has no mountains; the latter is however more hilly than the former, particularly towards the
Ohio river.

+ *Drake's Cincinnati, page 222 and 223. Wolney, Paris edition, Vol.1.
page 29.
216 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
The southeastern extremity of Indiana, between White and Ohio
rivers, is very broken. A ridge of hills commences above the junc
tion of the Wabash and Ohio, which extending in a N. E. direction
through Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, is finally lost in the state of
New-York. This ridge in Indiana separates the waters of Wabash
from those of Ohio river; and in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New
York, forms the demarkation between the streams which flow into the
Canadian lakes from those which discharge their waters into the Ohio.
No part of this ridge is very elevated ; its component parts are lime
stone and schistose sandstone. It is barren of minerals except iron
and coal.
Towns—Villages—Schools.-Corydon, on the road from Louisville to
Vincennes, is now the seat of government. This town is recent, but
rapidly improving. The number of its houses or inhabitants we are
unable to state, and it would not, if now accurately given, remain so
one year. 
Vincennes, upon the left bank of the Wabash, is the oldest and
the largest town in the state; having been built by the French from
Canada; most of the inhabitants are of French extraction. The site
of the town is level, and when in its natural state, was an extensive
Prairie. The lands are fertile in a high degree. In a commercial
point of view, the position of this town is very advantageous, and
must advance rapidly. Standing upon the limit of two territorial di
visions, Vincennes cannot ever again become the seat of government,
a loss more than compensated by a favourable situation for agricul
ture, and the transport of produce to New-Orleans, Pittsburg, and in
deed to the entire western and southern parts of the United States.
Blackford, Harmony, Madison, Lawrenceburg, and Brookville, are
all towns of this state. Being of recent formation, they are mostly
small, and have nothing very worthy of notice to distinguish them
from each other. 
No good topographical or statistical account having been yet pub
lished upon this state, the data are not abundant respecting its towns
or other artificial improvements.
The political institutions of this new state are honourable in a
high degree to the framers; the constitution of the state provides
every restraint against the encroachments of power, and the licen
tiousness of freedom, that human wisdom can perhaps foresee. Sla
very is banished from the state, or rather it never was received with
in its borders. The inhabitants at this moment enjoy all that liberty,
industry, and impartial administration of justice can bestow.
Colleges and schools can scarce be considered to exist as public in
stitutions; private schools are numerous, and increasing with the
population.
Productions—Staples.—Flour may be considered the principal ar
tificial production and staple. Much of the land is well calculated to
produce wheat. Mill streams abound. Rye is also extensively cul
tivated, and used as bread grain, to feed horses, and to supply the
distillers. Maize is, next to wheat, the most valuable crop cultivated
in Indiana. The ſertile alluvion upon the rivers and many parts of the prairies are admirably adapted to the production of this excellent
vegetable. The quantity made from an acre of land cannot be de
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE 217
termined with any precision; but the production is generally abun
dant. In all the new settlements in the Ohio and Mississippi valley,
maize is the crop first resorted to for providing subsistence, and we
believe it to be the only grain that in many places would have ren
dered settlement possible. The rapidity of its growth and the easy
application of its farina to use, will always secure to maize a rank
amongst the most precious vegetables yet cultivated by mankind.
Oats, barley, and buckwheat, are also reared; the former in great
abundance as food for horses. Potatoes (Irish potatoes) are culti
wated in plenty, as is a great variety of pulse. Pumpions, squashes,
melons, and cucumbers are cultivated and may be produced in any as
signable quantity.
In no country could artificial meadow be made to more advantage.
This useful part of agriculture is almost always neglected in our new
settlements, and only becomes an object of attention when the natu
ral range is exhausted. The great body of the emigrants coming
from places where artificial meadows are in use, their immense bene
fits are not to be learned by all.
For domestic consumption and exportation, are made large quan
tities of beef, pork, butter, lard, bacon, leather, whiskey, and peach
brandy. With but little exception, Natchez and New Orleans are
the outlets of the surplus produce of Indiana. A few articles are oc
casionally sent to Pittsburgh, but that commerce, never extensive, is
on the decline. The attention of the inhabitants is drawn towards
the natural channel, through which their wealth must circulate. Su
gar, coffee, wines, and foreign ardent spirits, are brought from New
Orleans, but of the former necessary, considerable quantity is made
in the country from the sap of the sugar maple tree.
Dry goods, hardware, ironmongery, paper, and books, are mostly
imported by the route of Pittsburg. Some of all those articles, the
two latter perhaps excepted, are also imported from New Orleans.
Saddles, bridles, hats, boots, and shoes, are manufactured, in great
part, in the state. This indeed is a trait that marks the whole west
ern states, that the latter indispensable articles of domestic consump
tion are generally to be found at every new settlement, for prices
not greatly advanced above that of the same objects in large commer
cial cities on the Atlantic coast. 
The same observations may be made respecting cabinet, and all
other kinds of household furniture. Tables, chairs, and bedsteads,
are made in all the large towns in the valleys of Ohio and Missis
sippi, with all the requisite qualities of elegance and strength.
Except in Lexington, Kentucky, and Pittsburg, book printing is
not yet done to any considerable extent west of the Aleghany. In
these two latter places and in Cincinnati, Nashville, and some other
places, book stores have been established to considerable extent, but a
well assorted library could not be formed in any, or perhaps all those
towns. Professional men, and indeed all men who are emigrating to
the west, ought to carry with them such books as they may need. It
is not without more difficulty than is commonly believed to exist, that
a good selection of books can be made even in New-York or Phila
delphia, much less in towns upon the Ohio or Mississippi waters.
28 
( 218 )
STATE OF OHIO. This state is bounded on the west by the
state of Indiana, north by the Michigan territory and lake Erie, east by Pennsylvania and the Ohio river, and southeast and south by
the Ohio river; having a frontier in common with Indiana, Michigan,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky. Population—extent—The following statistical table exhibits the
present county divisions, and population as it stood in 1810 and 1815.
Counties.
Adams
Ashtabula
Athens
Belmont
Butler
Cuyahoga
Champaign
Clermont
Clinton
Columbiana
Coshocton
Dark
Delaware
Fairfield
Fayette
Franklin
Gallia
Geauga
Guernsey
Green
Hamilton
Harrison
Highland
Huron
Jefferson
Knox
Licking
Madison
Medina
Miami
Monroe
Montgomery
CHAPTER VI.
TOPOGRAPHICAL TABLE.
1810. 1815.
9,434 10,410
3,200
2,791 3,960
11,097 12,200
11,150 11,890
1,459 2,500
6,303 10,460
9,965 12,240
2,674 4,600
10,878 13,600
3,000
1,500
2,000 5,000
4,361 13,660
1,854 3,700
3,486 6,800
4, 181 6,000
2,917 3,000
3,051 4,800
5,870 8,000
15,258 18,700
7,300
5,760 7,300
1,500
17,260 15,000
2,149 3,000
3,852 6,400
1,603 2,100
3,941 5,910
1,200
7,722 13,700
Population. Population. Chief Towns and Population.
West Union
Jefferson
Athens
St. Clairsville
Hamilton
Cleveland
Urbanna
Williamsburgh
Wilmington
New Lisbon
Coshocton
Greenville
Delaware
New Lancaster
Washington
Franklin
COLUMBUS
Gallipolis
Chardon
Cambridge
Zenia
CINCINNATI
Cadiz
Hillsborough
Avery
Steubenville
Mount Vernon
Newark
New London
Mecca
Troy
Dayton
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 219

Counties. Population. Population. Chief towns and population.
1810. 1815,
Muskingum 10,036 1 1,200 Zanesville
Pickaway 7,124 9,260 Circleville
Portage 2,995 6,000 Ravenna
Preble 3,304 5,509 Eaton
Richland 3.900 Mansfield
Ross 15,514 18,000 Chillicothe
Scioto 3,399 3,870 Portsmouth
Stark 2,734 6,625 Canton
Trumbull 8,671 10,000 Warren
Tuscarawas 3,045 3,880 New Philadelphia
Warren 9,925 12,000 Lebanon
Washington 5,991 3,800 Marietta
Wayne 7,100 Wooster.
- 230,760 322,790
. In the tables included in the geographical treatise published with
this work, the population of the state of Ohio is calculated to amount
to 346,000, in the present year, 1817. By the information contained
in Kilbourn's Ohio Gazetteer, that state possessed, in 1815, 322,790
inhabitants. Both the foregoing estimates fall short no doubt of the
actual numbers at the epocha assumed. At the commencement of
1818 the inhabitants of the state of Ohio will most probably exceed
350,000. 
No state in the United States has been so accurately surveyed as
that part of Ohio which has been hitherto settled, of course none
exists the area of which is so perfectly known. The inhabited parts
of the state extends over an area of about 32,000 square miles, or
20,480,000 American acres. The northwest part of the state,
amounting to within a small fraction of 8,000 square miles, remains
yet in possession of the Indian tribes; a considerable portion of this
latter tract was however recently purchased from the savages.
The entire area of the state of Ohio is very little above 40,000
square miles, or 25,600,000 acres.
JNatural geography, -rivers, lakes, mountains,—hills, minerals.
—The rivers of the state of Ohio are, the Ohio, Great Miami, Little
Miami, Scioto, Hockhocking, Muskingum, Cayahoga, Ashtabula,
Sandusky, Grand river, and Maumee.*
Ohio river, forms the limit of the state of Ohio, from Georgetown
in Pennsylvania, where the line between the latter state and Virginia
intersects the Ohio, to the mouth of the Great Miami; a distance of
412 miles, following the sinuosities of the stream. From Georgetown
to Big Sandy river, the Ohio divides Virginia from the state of Ohio;
* Dr. Drake has given to the Miami of the lakes the name of Maumee, without explaining why. . It is painful and disgusting to read the awkward descriptive names so often given to American rivers; it was no doubt with a view to ob.
viate this inelegant repetition that this judicious author adopted this name, but the two sounds produced by Miami and Maumee are too similar to ensure the
desired purpose effectually.
220 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
from the mouth of Big Sandy to that of the Great Miami, the Ohio
river separates the state of Kentucky from the state of Ohio.
Where it washes the state of Ohio, the river forms an immense
bend; presenting its convexity into Virginia and Kentucky. Oppo
site the former the general course is nearly southwest; but below the
mouth of Big Sandy the Ohio turns to northwest by west, nearly
which course it maintains to the mouth of the Great Miami. There
are many partial bends that add to the varieties of this beautiful
stream. That part of Ohio river which we are now describing, con
tains the most pleasing part of its scenery, and the most fertile of its
shores. It is in reality difficult to conceive of any river of the world
winding through a valley mere rich in the bounties of nature, or more
elegantly chequered with hill and dale. Many picturesque islands
contribute to give relief to this delightful canvass. In a distance of
upwards of four hundred miles not one bend of the river but what
presents a new landscape entirely different from that of any other.
The bottoms are from a quarter to a mile wide, having generally
a perceptible slope backwards to the base of the hills. The soil is
uniformly fertile in a high degree, producing, in great abundance,
wheat, maize, rye, oats, barley, and indeed every product necessary
to human subsistence that the climate will admit.
Fruits are also produced in great quantity and of excellent quality,
particularly apples and peaches. The Ohio bottoms are supposed to
produce the latter fruit in greater degree of perfection than any other
part of North America hitherto peopled by the whites. These
bottoms have been also considered the favourite soil of maize ; that
grain does indeed reach in this rich loam the utmost developement
of its growth.
There are upon the margin of the Ohio, often two, and sometimes
three, bottoms, rising one above another by elevations of 20 or 30
feet. The soil of the highest and lowest does not differ materially,
and though extremely fertile, wheat succeeds perfectly well upon
all. For a few years after being first cleared from wood, wheat is
apt to grow too heavy in the straw and fall before becoming ripe;
but four or five years culture removes this exuberance, and wheat
comes to full perfection.
This favourable representation of the lands upon the Ohio must be
confined to the bottoms of that river; the most hilly and broken part
of t e state of Ohio is that part immediately contiguous to the river.
These hills are rich in mineral coal, which have been found in a great
number of places, and no doubt exists in the entire range of hills that
skirt the Ohio in all the extent of the state. Iron ore has also been
discovered in several places. Those hills are in their natural state
covered with a dense forest, composed of a great variety of valuable
timber trees; and amongst others the various species of oaks, poplar,
ash, elm, linden, and maples, may be considered the most pre
dominant. * Sugar maple is in many parts very abundant, large and
productive.
Great Miami, rises in the Indian country by two branches, which
unite in Miami county. The united streams flow south through
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 221
Miami and Montgomery counties, enters the northeast corner of But
ler, through which and Hamilton counties it continues in a southwest
by south course to its junction with Ohio river, 39° 04' north lat.
7° 35' west lon. from Washington city. The entire length of the
Great Miami is about 130 miles, above 100 of which are in the set
tlements. Several branches fall into this river; the White water and
Southwest branch from the west, and Mad river from the east. The
two latter enter the Great Miami a short distance above the town of
Dayton, 75 miles above the mouth ; thus far the river is navigable.
Like all the waters of the state of Ohio which flow into Ohio river,
the-current of the Great Miami is excessively rapid ; as is also that of
all its branches. This trait in the natural history of those rivers arises
from the quick descent from the high table land in the centre of the
State. - - *
Little Miami. The main branch of this stream rises in Green
county, through which and Warren county it flows in a southwest di
rection, then, for twelve miles, forms the limit between Hamilton and
Clermont counties, receives a branch from the eastward and enters the
former county, and after traversing its surface eight miles, falls into
the Ohio six miles above the town of Cincinnati. The entire length
of this stream, by either branch, is about sixty miles in a direct line,
but more than twice that distance if the meanders of the stream are
pursued. The channel of this river is very precipitous, affording an
immense number of mill seats; many of which are already improved.
One or two paper mills are already erected on its banks.
Sciota river, rises in the Indiana country, north of Champaign
county. The country out of which this river flows is morass; the
head branches interlock with those of Sandusky, au Glaize branch of
Maumee, and with those of the Great Miami. Whetstone river, the
northwest branch of Sciota, rises in Richland county, flows over the
northern oblong of Delaware county, enters the Indian country,
which it traverses in a southwest course, and again enters Delaware
county. Seven miles along the Indian boundary line, from where
that line is passed by the Whetstone, it is intersected by the Sciota ;
the two rivers flow a little south of east, nearly parallel, upwards of
thirty miles, over the surface of Delaware and Franklin counties, and
finally unite at the town of Columbus, the seat of government for the
state of Ohio. The united streams form the Sciota, which, pursuing
nearly a south course of upwards of one hundred miles through
Franklin, Pickaway, Ross, Pike, and Sciota counties, joins the Ohio
river at the town of Portsmouth. The tributary streams of the Sciota
are from the southwest, Paint creek, Deer creek, Darby's creek, and
Mill creek ; those from the southwest are, Salt creek, Walnut creek,
and Big-belly creek.
The Sciota is an extremely rapid river, but the stream falling gra
dually, it is navigable to the town of Columbus; towards its source
the country is marshy, in the middle level, though not absolutely
flat, with much fertile soil; towards the Ohio the country becomes
very hilly and broken. Hockhocking river, rises in Fairfield county, near New Lancaster,
- - - - * * *
222 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
and, winding through a very hilly country, falls into the Ohio river at
Troy, after a course of about eighty miles in a southeast direction.
This river has two considerable falls, which by abruptly precipi
tating the volume of water to nearly a level with that in the Ohio,
renders this small stream the greatest distance navigable, compara
tively with its length, of any stream in the state of Ohio.
JMuskingum river, the most extensive river whose entire sources
and course are in the state ; its extreme north sources are in Richland,
Wayne, and Stark counties, interlocking with the head waters of Hu
ron, Vermilion, Black, Rocky, and Cuyahoga rivers, which fall into
lake Erie. The Muskingum is formed by the union of White Wo
man's and Tuskarowas rivers, at the town of Coshocton, in Coshoc
ton county.
White Woman's river, is itself. formed by the junction of Owl and
Mohecan creeks, a few miles above the town of Coshocton. Owl
creek rises in the southwest corner of Richland and Mohecan, in the
centre of Richland and the western part of Wayne county, by two
large creeks, which join in the southwest corner of the latter; the
united streams flow south into Knox, through which it ranges twelve
miles, turns southeast into Coshocton county, quickly joins with
Owl creek, and forms White Woman's river. Killbuck creek rises in
Medina county, and after a southern course of about sixty miles
through Medina, Wayne, and Coshocton counties, falls into White
Woman's river six miles northwest of the town of Coshocton.
Tuscarawas river. The north branch of this stream, Indian creek,
rises in the Medina county, and pursuing a southeast course of twenty
five miles, through Medina, Wayne, and Stark counties, then, within
the latter, bends to the south, and continues that direction thirty-five
miles, to near the centre of Tuscarawas county, where it turns west
southwest, and after following that course thirty miles, joins White
Woman's, and forms the Muskingum river; the entire length of the
Tuscarawas is nearly eighty-five miles. By a very circuitous chan
nel of upwards of one hundred miles, below the junction of White
Woman's and Tuscarawas rivers, the Muskingum falls into the Ohio
river at Marietta, having only received, in this latter, distance, one
creek worthy particular notice, that is, Licking creek, from the
county of the same name, a small stream of about thirty miles in
length.
The Muskingum is navigable to the town of Coshocton for batteaux
of considerable size ; smaller vessels ascend its tributary streams, at
high water, forty or fifty miles higher. At Zanesville, near the mouth
of Licking creek, the Muskingum is obstructed by considerable falls.
A company was incorporated in 1814, to construct lock navigation
around these falls; the operations of the company are commenced;
estimated expense, one hundred thousand dollars.
A remark made respecting the country watered by the Sciota, is
equally applicable to that of the Muskingum, that of becoming more
billy as the Ohio river is approached. The region watered by the
Tuscarawas is also much more broken than that of White Wonnan’s º The current of the Muskingum and all its branches is very
rapid.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 223
Some of the best land in the state is upon this river; the country
watered by it has considerable resemblance to the western parts of
Pennsylvania.
The peninsula included between the Ohio, and Muskingum rivers
is far the most broken part of the state of Ohio. . In this tract lime
stone and mineral coal abound. No streams of any considerable
consequence enter the Ohio river from either bank, between Big Bea
ver and Muskingum, a distance of upwards of one hundred miles.
The Monongehela and Muskingum rivers flows nearly parallel to
each other, though in opposite directions, and preserve very nearly an
equal distance from the Ohio, about forty miles; the intermediate
spaces extremely broken.
Big Beaver rises partly in the state of Ohio, but its mouth is in
Pennsylvania: that part of this stream, Mahoning creek, which rises in the state of Ohio, has its source in Portage county, flows east into
Trumbull, in which latter county, at the town of Warren, it turns
southeast, which course it pursues until passing the line of demarka
tion between the two states, it leaves Ohio and enters Pennsylvania,
a short distance within which it falls into the Ohio river at the town
of Beaver,
The dividing line between the waters which flow into the Ohio
river, from those which enter Lake Erie, winds through Ashtabula,
Trumbull, Portage, Medina, and Richland counties. Leaving the
white settlements, this line runs through the Indian country, first west
between the head waters of the Sciota and au Glaize rivers, then
turning southwest between the sources of the Maumee and Miami,
enters the state of Indiana. This dividing line, in nearly all its range
in the state of Ohio, traverses high table land, some parts of which
are marshy, none very hilly. The line after leaving Pennsylvania,
gradually declines from Lake Erie, in such manner that the rivers that
enter that lake, have a nearly regular increase of length, advancing
through the state of Ohio from northeast to southwest. The most re
markable of these lake streams, are, the Maumee, Sandusky, Huron.
Vermilion, Black, Rocky, Cayahoga, Chagrine, Grand, and Ashta
bula rivers.
JMaumee river rises in the Indian country, near Fort Loramie,
flows first, by the name of St. Mary's river, southwest thirty-five
miles, enters the state of Indiana, thence turns west thirty miles,
again enters Ohio, and assuming a northeastern course, runs twenty
five miles and unites with the au Glaize river, and now assuming the
name of Maumee, continues N. E. seventy-five miles to Lake Erie.
The au Glaize river rises near the sources of the St. Mary’s, but
flows very nearly west forty miles, receives Blanchard's fork, and
twenty miles farther joins the St. Mary. The Maumee is navigable
from the border of Indiana to within a short distance of its mouth,
where it is obstructed by falls and rapids. The lands are represent
ed to be extremely fertile which are watered by this stream ; much
of the surface is however either prairie or marshy. An immense
swamp lies between the Maumee and Sandusky, and reaches nearly
to the au Glaize river. The entire length of the Maumee, exclusive
of its particular windings, is one hundred and sixty-five miles.
£24 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Sandusky river rises in the same swamp with the Sciota, and flows
north sixty miles into Sandusky Bay. This river receives but few
tributary streams, is a very rapid stream, but little impeded by
shoals or falls. The land it waters is a great part prairie, much of it
marshy.
The other rivers falling into Lake Erie, have but little to distin
guish them from each other, and nothing to render a particular de
scription necessary.
It has been already observed, that there are no mountains in the
state of Ohio: it has also been noticed that the border of the state
along the state of Ohio, is extremely hilly and broken. Those hills
do not however rise above the central table land; they appear indeed
to be merely the remains left by the rivers, which in the lapse of ages have worn down their º!". to their present level. The
hills abound in mineral coal lyſºg in horizontal strata. It is more
than probable, that by sinking shafts to sufficient depth, that coal
would be found in most parts of the central table land.
Except coal, the state of Ohio does not appear to be very rich in
minerals; salt springs have been found upon Sciota, some of which are
now in operation. Iron has been discovered near the Ohio river in
many places. Limestone of excellent quality abounds. The most
abundant rock is however sandstone slate; this stone may be con
sidered the basis of the country.
Progressive Geography—History—Towns.—The first civilized na
tion who discovered the country now called the state of Ohio was the
French, who reached this region from Canada. It does not appear
that this nation ever made any settlements of consequence within
what is now the limits of this state. The country remained in the
possession of the savages until long after the termination of the revo
futionary war. The Shawnees, Mingoes, and Potawatomies, were
the principal tribes who inhabited this fine country. The first per
manent settlement made by the whites was in 1787, at the mouth of
the Muskingum. Rufus Putnam, under the direction of the Ohio
Company, commenced Marietta, and the following year John Cleves
Symnes made an establishment at the north bend. A war with the
savages soon after commenced, and in a great measure prevented the
progress of settlement. After a sanguinary contest of five years,
this was terminated by the treaty of Greenville, August 20th, 1795.
This was the real epoch of the settlement of this now flourishing
state. That part included in the counties named in the statistical
tables prefixed, was then ceded, and soon after surveyed and sold.
The cheapness of all the lands and fertility of great part, invited an
immediate and very numerous emigration. The class of people who
have populated Ohio, has been in great part farmers from the north
ern and middle states. The prohibition of involuntary servitude
has taken from useful labour that tacit odium so prevalent in the
southern states, and has contributed to secure to the state of Ohio a
numerous body of useful, industrious, and respectable mechanics and
artisans. As far as equality in condition and civil rights can secure
the happiness of a people, the inhabitants of the state of Ohio pos
sess those advantages.
§MIGRANT'S GUIDE. 223
The tenure of the lands being drawn from the United States, liti
gation arising from disputed titles must be very rare. The mode of
surveying the public lands, has also a tendency to simplify the de
markation between individual proprietors, and renders certain what in
many other countries, and even in parts of the United States, is the
fruitful source of animosity and legal disquisition. This latter im
provement in land tenure, is not however peculiar to Ohio; it is en
joyed in common by all persons, in any part of the United States,
who hold their titles from the government. To know and appreciate
the full value of this mode of conveyance, it is only necessary to
contrast the history of land titles in Pennsylvania and Kentucky with
that in Ohio. So recent, however, has been the commencement of
sales from the United States, and the lands actually held in that man
ner are comparatively so confined in extent,” that the benefits arising
therefrom are but partially enjoyed.
As in every other part of the United States, perhaps of the world,
the first settlements extended along the rivers, and were rapid in ad
vance and compact in their formation, following the fertility of the
soil, and facility of commercial ingress and egress. A line drawn
from Steubenville in Jefferson county, to Hamilton in Hamilton coun
ty, will run very nearly through the most fertile, and far the most
compactly peopled parts of the state. The following view of the
towns of the state of Ohio, will exhibit the rapid increase of a re
gion, to the improvement of which not an axe was laid thirty years
before this article was written.
CINCINNATI, though not now the seat of government for the
state, is, after Pittsburg, the first commercial town of the Ohio valley.
This flourishing town stands upon the right bank of the Ohio river,
22 miles above the mouth of the Great Miami, at 39° 06' N. lat. 7°
20' W. lon. from Washington city.
The progress of this place is an abridgment of the history of im
provement in the Ohio valley. Fort Washington, the germ of Cin
cinnati, was formed in 1788, and soon after the town was surveyed.
Many years passed away before the Indian wars and other impedi
ments permitted any improvements of consequence to take place.
In 1815, Cincinnati contained upwards of 600 dwelling-houses,
and perhaps 7000 inhabitants. Beside dwelling-houses, more than
500 other buildings were occupied as stores, warehouses, schools,
places of worship, courts of law, manufactories, and other purposes.
Many of those buildings are large and elegant, constructed of stone
or brick. Several denominations of Christians have churches, splen
did and spacious ; the most remarkable are those possessed by the
Baptists, Presbyterians, Methodists, and Friends. The building in
Cincinnati that most deserves the attention of strangers, and which
on review must excite a glow of the very best feelings of human
nature, is the Lancasterian school-house. This edifice consists of
two wings, and a connecting building containing the stair-cases. One
of the wings is appropriated to boys, the other to girls. Upwards of
400 children are now educated in this seminary, and the house is
" * September 30th, 1814, only 5,385,467 acres of public land had been sold.
Pitkins' View, p. 834,
29
226 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
calculated to receive 1100. Amongst the many objects that must
arrest the attention and claim the admiration of the traveller, there is
none that can deserve his attention more than this institution. Virtue,
science, and the principles of social life, are now taught, where, less
than thirty years past, stood a forest; or if the human form or habita
tion made their appearance, it was the species in its rudest state of
savage life.
Here are also three brick market-houses, in which are exposed
every necessary, and many luxuries of life. An enormous stone
building is erected on the bank of Ohio as a steam manufactory; it is
nine stories high, and intended for making flour and oil, and also to
be used as a fulling mill. A steam saw mill is also erected. A large
building has been raised by the Cincinnati manufacturing company,
for the execution of their operations. There are one woollen and
four cotton factories, two glass-houses, a sugar refinery, and two or
three breweries.
Two printing-offices publish each a weekly paper. There are
three banking establishments in Cincinnati; two professedly such,
and one commercial association, which issue promissory notes, and
discount as a banking company.
The prosperity of Cincinnati is a proof of the insuperable advan
tage of early establishment and of previous wealth and enterprise.
Louisville is certainly more favourably situated to become the entré
pot between the Mississippi and Ohio, yet though at the head of
constant batteaux navigation, and of antecedent establishment, the
latter town has languished when compared with the former.
The ground upon which Cincinnati is built gives it many advan
tages in point of cleanliness, beauty, and convenience. Two bottoms,
one upon the margin of Ohio river, the other rising like the step of
an amphitheatre 30 or 40 feet. This circumstance enables the in
habitants to drain their streets into the Ohio, and opens a vent for the
air in all directions.
In brief, Cincinnati shares with Pittsburg the commerce of the
valley of Ohio; the former is to the Mississippi what the latter is to
Baltimore, New-York, and Philadelphia. If any calculation could
be hazarded upon the advance of either, it might perhaps be justifia
ble to predict that for a great length of time these two towns will bear
very nearly the same relation to each other that they do at this time.
Hamilton, the seat of justice for Butler county, and a post town,
25 miles north from Cincinnati and 105 southwest from Columbus,
contains between sixty and one hundred dwelling-houses, a printing
office, and several merchants’ stores. This town is situated upon the
east bank of great Miami. 
Dayton, the seat of justice for Montgomery county, is situated upon
the left bank of Great Miami, immediately below the mouth of Mad
river; it is also a post town, containing about one hundred dwelling
houses; a number of wealthy merchants are settled in this place, whe
transact business with the rich country in the vicinity. The neigh
bourhood of Dayton presents a great number of mills, and other ma
chines propelled by water. There are in the town one bank, an academy, and several houses of religious worship. It is distant from
Columbus west by south 66 miles, and 52 north from Cincinnati.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 227
Williamsburg, in Clermont county, has a post office, is the seat of
justice for the county, and is a flourishing village upon the east branch
of Little Miami.
Chillicothe, in Ross county, is the second town in population and
wealth in the state ; it stands upon the right bank of the Sciota at
39° 20' north lat. 5° 53' west lon. from Washington city. It was laid
out in 1796, and now contains near 500 dwelling-houses, and 3,500
inhabitants. The situation of this town is singular and romantic ; it
stands upon a bend of Sciota river, with a hill of near three hundred
feet elevation on the west side of the town, affording from its summit a
delightful view of the river and adjacent country.
The improvements made in this town and vicinity are numerous
and valuable. Of public buildings, the most noted are three places of
public worship, an academy, court-house, and market-house. Here
are four cotton factories, and a great number of mills and machines
of different kinds; three printing offices, which publish a weekly
paper each, The central position of Chillicothe gives it many advan
tages for the transaction of the interior commerce of the country in
its neighbourhood. It is situated 45 miles south of Columbus, and
93 nearly north by east of Cincinnati.
Columbus, the capital of the state of Ohio, is a flourishing new
town laid out in 1812, upon the left bank of the Sciota river, at 39°
47’ north lat. 6° 01' west lon. from Washington city. It stands near
the centre of Franklin county, and within twenty miles of the centre
of the state, in a fine fertile country; of course, the inhabitants may
safely conclude that the town will continue to be the seat of govern
ment. 
To persons from Europe, many of the facts related of the improve
ments in the valley of Ohio must appear almost incredible, and none
certainly can approach the marvellous and yet be strictly true, more
than the history of the town of Columbus.
The lots were first exposed for sale in June, 1812, and the town
now contains upwards of three bundred dwelling-houses, and about
two thousand inhabitants ; four or five schools, a bank, two or three
printing offices, ten or twelve mercantile stores; a state-house, 75
by 50 feet, and a penitentiary.
Columbus is l l 5 miles northeast from Cincinnati.
Zanesville, the seat of justice for Muskingum county, and a post
town, stands upon the left bank of Muskingum river, opposite to the
mouth of Licking creek, at 39° 58' north lat. and 5°02' west lon.
It has upwards of 20 stores, 350 dwelling-houses, and 1500 inhabit
ants. Two glass factories have been erected in its vicinity. The
town possesses two banks, two or three printing offices, and several
laces of worship. 
The falls in the Muskingum near this town provide a natural facili
ty for the erection of labour-saving machinery, which the inhabitants
seem disposed to improve to the utmost. Already have been erected
a nail cutting machine, many flour mills, a woollen factory, and seve
ral saw-mills. Two bridges of stone have been built over the Mus
kingum near this town, connecting it with Putnam, a village on the
opposite bank. Putnam is itself a place of considerable consequence,
containing an academy, a number of stores, about 500 inhabitants
*
228 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
who vie with those of Zanesville in active enterprise; in reality the
two places may be strictly considered as one town. Putnam is mark
ed on Hough & Bournes's map by the name of Springfield, though
the name has changed by a legislative act at the session of 18 13–14.
The situation of these towns, either as a manufacturing or mercan
tile position, is very advantageous. The navigation of the Muskingum
is uninterrupted to the mouth. The adjacent country is fertile and.
well peopled ; it is situated 138 miles southwest by west from Pitts
burg, 67 northeast from Chillicothe, and 161 northeast by east from
Cincinnati. 
.Marietta, is the oldest town in the state, some of the settlers having
formed their locations in 1787. It is a post town and seat of justice
for Washington county, and is situated upon the peninsula formed by
the Muskingum and Ohio rivers, at 39° 30' north lat. and 4° 23' west
lon. from Washington city.
The advance of this town in relative importance has not borne a
proportion to its prior settlement or apparent favourable position.
The site of the town though otherwise delightful, is liable to annual
overflow ; an inconvenience which, from the peculiar localities, is ir
remediable.
Ship-building commenced here about 1800, and was many years
carried on ; several vessels were built, but the interruption in
commerce between 1806 and 1815 suspended this business : a wealthy
commercial and exporting company has been recently formed in this
town, which will no doubt add greatly to its future prosperity.
The mail arrives here direct from Washington, a distance of 320
miles; there is a distributing post office for the various other parts of
the state. The number of inhabitants may amount perhaps to 1000.
Steubenville, the seat of justice for Jefferson county, and a post
town, stands upon the right bank of Ohio, at 40° 25' north lat. and
3° 40' west ion. from Washington city. The site of this town is
like that of Cincinnati, composed of two banks rising from the river.
The scenery in the neighbourhood is romantic and pleasing ; the op
posite shore of Virginia is a bold iedge of rocks rising abruptly almost
from the water edge to an elevation of 250 or 300 feet. Though
very hilly and broken in both Virginia and the state of Ohio, the ad
jacent country affords much very fertile bottoms and high land. It is
one of the most wealthy, best peopled and cultivated tracts in the
United States west of the Aleghany mountains.
The town was laid out in streets and lots in 1798. The author
of this treatise was on the spot in the first week of January, 1799;
there was then one mercantile store, two slight frame houses, and
about a dozen miserable cabins. Most of the ground was covered
with a thick forest; little appearance was then exhibited of the
flourishing and beautiful town that now adorns the banks of the Ohio.
Within one month of 18 years (February, 1817,) after the time of the
foregoing description, Steubenville contained upwards of 450 dwelling
houses, and a population of 2000 inhabitants; a printing office,
woollen and cotton factory, paper-mill, near 60 mercantile stores, a
bank, a spacious market-house, an air ſoundry. In the vicinity are
several saw and grist mills, as also a number of distilleries.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 229
This tºwn possesses the invaluable advantage of having an almost
inexhaustible body of mineral coal within a short distance. Lime
stone, excellent building stone, and also sandstone exist in abun
dance near the bank of Ohio river, both above and below the town.
Iron ore is found in both the states of Virginia and Ohio; a furnace
and a forge were in operation upon King's creek, in Brooke county,
Virginia, in 1799, within eight miles from Steubenville; bar iron is
lowever imported from Pennsylvania.
The foregoing are the principal towns of the state of Ohio : there
are several very flourishing villages, though of secondary consequence;
such as Xenia, in Green county, Greenville in Darke, Troy in Miami,
Urbanna in Champaign, Delaware in Delaware, Williamsburg in
Clermont, New Lancaster in Fairfield, Athens in Athens, Coshocton
in Coshocton, Mount Vernon in Knox, New Philadelphia in Tuskara
was, Wooster in Wayne, Canton in Stark, Cadiz in Harrison, Lis
bon in Columbia, Warren in Trumbuli, and Jefferson in Ashtabula
county.
New towns are annually rising in such numbers, as to render it
extremely difficult to enable topographical description to keep pace
with the progress of improvement. 
Productions,——Seasons,—Climate.—We have made these objects a
separate article, from a consideration, that, from its position, the state
of Ohio must afford a picture of nearly the whole valley of the river
from which its name is taken.
Q The following list contains the most valuable of the timber trees of
hio.
Platanus occidentalis, Button wood,
Juglans nigra, Black walnut,
Juglans cinerea, or cathartica, Butter nut,
Juglans squamosa, Shell bark hickory,
. Juglans porcina, Pignut hickory,
Juglans amara, Bitternut hickory,
Quercus tinctoria, Black oak,
Quercus alba, White oak, several species,
Quercus prinos acuminata, Chestnut oak,
Quercus prinos monticola, Mountain oak,
Quercus falcata, Spanish oak,
Quercus rubra, Red oak,
Acer saccharinum, Sugar maple,
Acer rubrum, Red flowering maple,
Acer negundo, Box alder,
Populus deltoide, or angulata, Cotton wood,”
Populus tremula, Aspen,
Pavia lutea, Buckeye,
Laurus sassafras, - Sassafras,
Circis canadersis, Red bud,
Prunus virginiana, Wild cherry,
Tilia pubescens, Downy leaved linden,
Tilia americana, Black linden,
* This tree grows upon the Ohio as high as Steubenville.
230 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Annona triloba, Pawpaw,
Robinia pseud-acacia, Black locust,
Gledtchia triacanthos, Honey locust,
Magnolia acuminata, Columbia tree,
Liriodendron tulipifera, Poplar,
Morus rubra, Red berried mulberry,
Pinus abies, Hemlock spruce,
Fagus sylvestris, Beech,
Fagus castamea, Chestnut,
Carpinus americana, Hornbeam,
Carpinus ostrya, Iron wood,
Betula nigra, Black birch,
Salix migra, . Fiack willow,
Juniperrus virginiana, Red cedar,
Celtis crassifolia, Hackberry,
Diospiros virginiana, Persimon,
Nyssa sylvatica, Black gum, Fraxinus americans, White ash,
Fraxinus aquatica, Swamp ash, Fraxinus quadrangularis, Blue ash,
Ulmas americana, Slippery elm,
Ulmus rubra, Red elm.
The most dense forests in the state of Ohio are on its south and
southwest borders, near the Ohio river. Perhaps no part of the earth
ever produced more timber, upon an equal space, than does many places near the margin of the latter river, and upon the banks of most
of its confluent streams near their mouths. It has been observed that
the timber of the valley of Chio yields more easily to rot, than does
that upon the east side of the Aleghany mountains. The fact is first
doubtful, and if it exists, the difference must be in the same species,
and not in the aggregate body of timber trees. In the states of Louisi
ana and Mississippi, oak, pine, and hickory, rots sooner than does the
wood of the same genera in the eastern states; but to counterbalance
this defect in part of the southern trees, the wood of the cypress, black locust, and catalpa, support the action of air and water equal to the
timber of any trees in North America.
The state of Ohio, in addition to the forest trees, possesses a
very rich shrubbery; in its forests are found many species of plums, haws, wild grape vines, whortleberry, spice wood, hazle, alder,
blackberry, raspberry, and dewberry; with many others. The her
baceous vegetables are extremely numerous; many of them are valu
able as medical plants, some as food, and many afford an orna
ment to the woods by their flowers. It does not comport with the
design of this treatise to enter into any detail upon the general botany
of any part of the country described. The names and local position
of the timber trees are given, from their indispensable importance in
the most necessary arts, practised by man.
The difference between the climates, east and west of the Ale
ghany mountains, is a subject upon which has existed a singular
difference of opinion. It is also one that involves an inquiry of the first importance, as far as agriculture is concerned. The author of
this treatise has long since been led to consider, contrary to common
J
EMIGRANT's GUIDz. 231
received opinion, that upon the same line of latitude more cold was
experienced west than east of the mountains. This deviation from
general belief was not formed from theory, but an induction from his own experience, Facts have been adduced in various parts of this
work, to show the very low temperature of the winters in the Mis sissippi valley, even upon the border of the Gulf of Mexico.
Many causes may be given why an idea, though erroneous, should
be adopted, that the climate of the Mississippi basin was warmer
than the Atlantic slope, but one will perhaps suffice ; the stream of
emigration has been southwest. Men from the New England states when removed into the Ohio valley, actually found themselves in a
more temperate climate than that one from which they had emigrated;
this circumstance very naturally led them to exaggerate the differ
ence.
The following notices of the climate and seasons, are in conside
rable part founded upon the facts adduced in Dr. Drake's Cincinnati,
a work much too little known.
From the floreal calendar given in the above cited work,” we have
taken the liberty to make the following quotation: “these observa
tions were made on plants growing in the valley of Ohio, and on the
declivity of the adjoining hills, where the developement of vegetation
is four or five days earlier than at a distºice of even a few miles north.
In the interior of the Miami country, this difierence is so great as to
attract the attention of all travellers, who in spring or autumn jour
ney in that direction from Cincinnati. Between the valleys of Mad
river and the Ohio, it is supposed to equal ten or fifteen days. The
causes of the remarkable backwardness in the former situation, ap
pears to be, in part, its higher latitude, greater elevation, and damper
soil,”—and it might have been added, greater exposure to the north
winds.f
It appears, from the same calendar, that peach-trees bloomed at
Cincinnati the first week of April, that on the 12th of May maize
was planted; June 4th, cherries began to ripen ; July 4th, rye
harvest commenced; 10th, wheat; 12th, black berries ripe; August
5th, peaches in market; September 20th, forest becoming variegated ;
October 25th, maize gathered; and at the end of the latter month, the
deciduous trees leafless.
If this chain of facts had been collected from the ordinary course
of the seasons near Pittsburg, the inductions would not be more ap
plicable to that city, than they are as drawn from a place more than
a degree of latitude farther south.
It is a subject worthy of remark, that vegetables are by far the
most certain thermometer; and that inductions drawn from the effects
of heat and cold upon tender plants, are the most satisfactory conclu
sions that can be made upon the phenomena of climate. Nothing
but actual experiment can enable the human mind to form any rea
sonable opinion of the temperature of any given place. Amongst the
deceptive apparent analogies between two or more given situations,
* Page 88.
f See page 25, 27, 31, 167, 172, and sequel of this Treatise.
232 EMIGRANT's GUIDE.
none is so commonly used, and none so productive of error as simi
larity of latitude. The difference often perceived to exist between
the temperature of two places, which to casual observation would
have little or no local distinction, ought to teach caution to writers
and observers on this subject. 4.
It has been seen, when describing the rivers of the state of Ohio,
that their streams appear to be precipitated from a high table land. .
When delineating west Pennsylvania and west Virginia, the same
natural features will exhibit themselves. From which it is demon
strable, that the actual bed of the Ohio is much lower than the table
land from whence the tributary streams of this river draw their wa
ters. The actual difference in elevation has not been accurately de
termined. Dr. Drake supposes the extreme elevation of the central
plains of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, to be about 1000 feet above the
level of the water in the Atlantic; but there is good reason to suppose
that those plains are at least i200 feet above the level of the ocean. If
Brownsville is 850 feet above tide water in the Chesapeake bay,” the
apex of the adjoining hills being at least 400 feet higher than the
level of the Monongahela at the latter town, must be 1290 or 1300
feet above the level of tide water.
The author of this treatise measured carefully the difference of
elevation between the level of the Monongahela river, at the city of
Pittsburg, and the surrounding hills, and ſound the difference about
460 feet. The fall in the river from Brownsville to Pittsburg, must
be 50 or 60 feet. While engaged in measuring the elevation of the
hills near Pittsburg, one fact appeared to obtrude itself at every ope
ration ; that was, that the apex of these hills, and indeed those of
the whole country, west of the chestnut ridge, were very nearly
equal; and that the whole region had once been table land, into
which the descent of water had, in the lapse of ages, cut the valleys
that now exist. This fact is also proved by the phenomena of cor
responding strata, particularly of coal. The coal strata near Pitts
burg maintain very nearly a level with each other, and were evi
dently once united; they are 340 feet above low water mark in the
rivers that environ Pittsburg. Not only the coal, but all the other
strata present marks of continuity. ' The course of the Ohio river
from Pittsburg to the mouth, is gentle; except the rapids at Louis
ville, 22 1-2 feet in two miles. The entire length of the Ohio and
Mississippi from Pittsburg to the Gulf of Mexico, is 2040 miles;
which would yield, by allowing only 5 inches fall per mile, 850 feet
as the elevation of low water mark at Pittsburg, above the level of
the Gulf of Mexico; which sum added to 460 feet, produces 1310
feet as the entire elevation of the summits of the hills on west Penn
sylvania and west Virginia. An abrupt descent, of more than one
third the whole depression, produces an immediate change in atmos
pheric temperature. In the low vale of Ohio, and in such places as
Cincinnati, where plants are presented to a southern, and sheltered
from a northern exposure, inflorescence will take place at very dif.
fºrent seasons, and fruits must always be precocious when compared
* Drake's Cincinnati, page 63.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 233
*
with vegetation in situations however near, which are exposed to the
chilling effects of north winds. From these causes arise the local
difference between flowering, “seed time and harvest,” at Cincin
nati, and 40 minutes of latitude to the north of that town, on Mad river.
From the same cause, the entire table land from the northwestern
side of the Aleghany mountains to the Canadian lakes, being open to
the north and covered from the south winds, must necessarily have a
colder climate than places on corresponding latitudes on the Atlantic
coast.
Assuming vegetable life and the effects of frost upon rivers as the
true criteria upon which to judge of the relative temperature of dif
ferent places, it will be seen from the data given not only by Dr.
Drake, but all other writers on the subject, that Cincinnati is more
exposed to winter cold than Philadelphia, though the former place
stands upon the globe 54" of latitude south of the latter. It has al
ready been observed in this treatise,” that there exists an extraordina
ry discordance between the facts and inductions of writers on this
subject; the following extracts will exhibit the correctness of this
assertion. 
“The piercing northerly winds that prevail during the winter in
the Atlantic states, seldom affect the inhabitants on Cumberland river;
for they have no great mountains to the northward or westward. The
inhabitants of the Atlantic states are also subject to sudden changes in
the atmosphere, arising from their vicinity to the ocean. The air
that comes from the surface of the sea, especially from the warm gulf
stream in winter, must be very different in its temperature from the
air that comes across cold and high mountains ; but the great distance
between the Cumberland settlers and the ocean, as many great moun
tains intervene, effectually screens them against the bad effects of
those sudden changes. Northeasterly storms never reach this coun
try.”f ºr. facts stated in this quotation are substantially correct, except
the latter. Northeast storms are violent and frequent, even at Nat
chez. It certainly must excite some surprise to read in the same
paragraph, that the warm winds from the surface of the gulf stream,
should produce cold, and that an exposure to north winds, heat.
Mr. Stoddard, in his historical and descriptive sketches on Louisia
na, f observes, that, “The settlements in that country, (now Missouri
territory,) are between the 33° and 40° north lat. The winters
among them are much more severe than in the corresponding latitudes
on the sea coast. They generally set in about the 20th of November,
and continue to near the last of February ; though hard frosts, and
even snow, are common in October and March. For three successive
winters, commencing in 1802, the Mississippi at St. Louis was passa
ble on the ice before the twentieth of December each year; and it
was clear of all obstruction, with only one exception, by the last of
* See page 147.
* Morse's Universal Geography, page 524, sixth edition.
* Page 236,
30
**
**
234 TEMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
->
February. In January, 1805,” the ice in that river rather exceeded
twenty-two inches in thickness. There is seldom more than six inches
of snow at the same time; but the severity of the weather at St.
Iouis, in latitude thirty-eight degrees twenty-four minutes north, is
generally about the same as in the back parts of the state of New
Jersey. The mercury frequently falls belew 0; and the cold keeps
it depressed as low as ten or fifteen degrees for several weeks during
each winter. 
If the cold in these regions in winter is greater than in the same
parallels of latitude on the sea coast, the heat in summer bears a pro
portionate increase. We cannot estimate the degrees of heat by any
regular thermometrical observations for any number of years. But
in the summer of 1805, a thermometer was suspended in a large draw
ing room at St. Louis, against a stone partition wall, and constantly
in a current of air; and from the last of June to the first of August,
the mercury frequently rose to ninety-six degrees, and frequently re
mained at that point several hours of the day. The heats in this
quarter while they continue, are supposed to be more oppressive than
those in the Mississippi territory; owing, perhaps, to the greater con
centration of the rays of the sun in the deep and spacious valley of
the Mississippi. They continue, however, only about two months in
each year in upper Louisiana; whereas, they rage with violence for
at least four months at Natchez.’’i
Mr. Stoddard expressly gives his opinion in page 235 of his work,
that the heats are greater in the Mississippi valley than on the Atlan
tic coast in similar latitudes, and then produces well authenticated
facts, which demonstrate directly the reverse.
Mr. Volney entered the Ohio valley with an opinion of its comparative
greater heat when contrasted with the Atlantic declivity, and without
attempting to hazard a doubt of the correctness of the theory, enters
into the following detail; the more material parts of which we have
translated from the original as nearly literal as possible. We are
the more assured of the indulgence of the reader, to the insertion of
this article, as it is the base of the opinions held upon the climate of
a very interesting portion of our country, by almost all foreigners,
and even by many amongst the citizens of the United States.
“Behold one of those singuiarities in nature, that deserves the more
attention, as I am uninformed of its having been described until this
time with all its circumstances. For the principal fact I will borrow
the words of Mr. Jefferson in his Notes on Virginia.”
* The history of the atmospheric changes of the year 1805 in Louisiana, is a
striking commentary upon the routine of the seasons in that country. The au
thor of this treatise was then at Opelousas; and can perfectly remember that
at new year, 1806, that cotton, mullein, and tobacco were all in full bloom.
The same was the case at Natchez, at the same time. The author received a
letter from a friend at that place, dated about the 25th December, 1805, where
in these facts were expressly stated.
About the 10th January, 1806, a very intense frost set in that destroyed every
vegetable liable to destruction from cold; the ponds and stagnant part of creeks
were frozen ; the latter part of the winter was alternately wet or cold; the
spring very backward, and the ensuing summer rainy. t See page 235.
# Stoddard's Louisiana, page 236.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 235
* It is remarkable, that proceeding on the same parallel of latitude
westwardly, the climate becomes colder in like manner as when you
proceed northwardly. This continues to be the case till you attain
the summit of the Aleghany, which is the highest land between the
ocean and the Mississippi. From thence, descending in the same la
titude to the Mississippi, the change reverses; and, if we may be
lieve travellers, it becomes warmer there than in the same latitude
on the sea side. Their testimony is strengthened by the vegetables
and animals which subsist and multiply, there naturally, and do not
on our sea-coast. Thus catalpas grow spontaneously on the Missis
sippi, as far as the latitude of 37°, and reeds as far as 38°. Parro
quets even winter on the Sciota, in the 39th degree of latitude. In
the summer of 1779, when the thermometer was at 90° at Monticello,
and 96° at Williamsburg, it was 110 at Kaskaskia.”
“As a traveller,” says Mr. Wolney, “I can confirm and develope
the assertion of Mr. Jefferson. In the trajet, that I made in the sum
mer of 1796, from Washington on the Potomac to Vincennes on
the Wabash, I collected notes from which the principal results are
these. 
“July 10th—At Monticello, Mr. Jefferson's seat, wheat-harvest com
menced on the lower slopes of the southwest mountain, whilst on the
opposite side, where exposed to the northwest, towards Charlottesville,
wheat-harvest did not commence before the 12th or 14th of the
month.f i
“July 10th–Harvest at Rockfish gap, on the summit of the blue
ridge, 1 150 English feet high; two days sooner, harvest commenced
in the valley of Staunton, 230 feet lower. 
“July 12th–Harvest on Jackson's mountain, 2200 feet above the
level of the Atlantic ocean.
“July 20th–Harvest on the Aleghany mountain, in places elevated
2600 feet above the ocean.
“It is seen that in this ascending line, harvest is late in proportion
to the elevation of the various places.
“In descending the western slope of the Aleghany mountains, into
the low plain of Green Briar, I learned that harvest had commenced
on the 15th of July. 
“In the valley of the Great Kenhawa, at the mouth of the Elk
river, I found harvest began on the 6th July, and on the 11th at Ga
lipolis, a French colony on the Ohio : and at Cincinnati, situated
more to the north, on the 15th of July, f
*Notes on Virginia, page 114. 
f The difference given here of 12 or 14 days, in opening of harvest, in so
short a distance, appears incredible; but if only partially correct, affords a strong refutation of the opinions of its author, and a confirmation of the theory
laid down in the pages of this treatise. Shelter and earposure seems to have pre sented their effects to Mr. Volney at his outset, and ought to have led him to
doubt a hypothesis, that would suppose, that in the Ohio valley, the same
causes that operated so remarkably at Monticello would produce reverse effects at Vincennes.
# It would not be credible without his own testimony, that Mr. Volney could,
with the facts before him, suppose that the climate was comparatively warmer
in the Ohio valley than on the Atlantic declivity. Between Monticello and Gineinaati, there is a difference of latitude of about one degree, and following
256 - EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
“I did not find wheat at Vincennes, on the Wabash; the inhabi
tants preferred maize, tobacco, and cotton, productions that mark a
warm climate.*
“The 1st of July the inhabitants of Kaskaskia had commenced their
harvest as at Monticello.
“The second line that I traced from the Aleghany mountains, west
ward, does not present apparently the same regularity of result as
the preceding line from the sea shore to the summit of the mountains.
The difference, no doubt, proceeds from the diversity of the level,
the exposures, and even of the latitudes, which are more varied in
the latter than in the former. - 
“If, for example, harvest is later at Cincinnati than at Galipolis,
it must be because the former place is more to the north, less sheltered
from north winds, and less open to the south, than the latter town; and
if the valley of Kenhawa presents a harvest more precocious, though
more elevated than Galipolis, the difference must arise from the val
ley of the Kenhawa being enclosed by mountains, the effect of which
is to confine and concentrate the heat, a fact that I perceived myself,
having found the heat here more intense than in the adjacent coun
try: and in our gardens we have the proof of this combined action
in many respects; as our espaliers ripen the same species of fruit 8
or 10 days earlier or later, according as they are exposed to the
south, to the rising or setting sun, or still more according as they are
sheltered from cold winds, or struck with the reverberation of warm
air from other walls. It is not less true also, that the level has great
effect in any given line, and that there is a remarkable coincidence
in the time of harvest (July 1st), between Monticello and Kaskaskia,
situated under the same parailel, and on 1 presume nearly equal
elevation. 
“Nevertheless, I am far from denying, that there exists in the west,
several phenomena of temperature and of vegetation, that cannot be
explained by either the comparative elevation or exposure."
“In the first rank of these phenomena is the circumstance, that for
some years botanists have observed, and daily experience has con
firmed, that on comparing places east and west of Aleghany moun
tains, where trees and plants grow spontaneously, they have discover
ed that places in the basin of the Ohio and Mississippi were warmer
by a difference three degrees of latitude, than those east; and
that trees and plants whose organization demands a warm climate,
and shorter and less severe winters, is found three degrees of latitude
Mr. Volney'sfloral calendar, 15 days in the relative commencement of harvest.
Much uncertainty must rest upon any deductions drawn from the phenomena
of only one year; but as far as dependence can be placed upon the observa
tions made by this author, and the fidelity of his relation of facts has never
been doubted, Cincinnati must be placed in a climate colder than Monticello
by at least a difference of three degrees of latitude. Dr. Drake gives July 4th,
as the commencement of harvest at Cincinnati, and even that difference, though
it lessens the effect, yet leaves a change much more than equal to the real differ
ence of latitude.
." Tobacco has been one of the common crops and staple commodities of Virginia, as far north as the 39th degree of north latitude, ever since the first
settlement of the country. Maize is aow cultivated in New-Hampshire.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 237
farther to the north, in the west of the Aleghany mountains, than on
the same line of latitude on the Atlantic coast. Cotton that succeeds
at Cincinnati and Vincennes on the 39° N. lat., cannot be cultivated
north of 35 or 36° N. lat. in the Carolinas. It is the same with the
catalpas, the sassafras, pawpaw, and paccan or Illinois nut,” and
many other trees and plants, the detail of which would demand more
knowledge than I possess on the subject.
“This kind of proof is irresistible; and it is otherwise supported by
the phenomena of each particular season. In all my routes on the
Ohio, and in my different stations in Kentucky, at Galipolis, at Lime
stone, Lexington, at Louisville, at Cincinnati, and Vincennes, the in
formation I have been able to collect has uniformly established the following facts. t
“That winter only commences about its own solstice, (21st–22d
December.) and the cold only exhibits its effects in the forty or fifty
following days; the term is not fixed or uniform in its duration; it
has also intervals of temperate and even warm days. The ther
mometer does not descend below 5° or 6° degrees of Reaumer, from
16° to 20° of Fahrenheit, below zero. The frosts which appear and
disappear a few days in October, returns towards the end of Novem
ber to again disappear. The intense frost, I say, only commences
towards the beginning of January. Brooks, small rivers, and stag
nant waters, then freeze; but rarely remain frozen above from three
to fifteen days. 
“The winter of 1796–7 is considered without example, when the
mercury fell in Fahrenheit's thermometer 15° below zero;f and also
when the Aleghany. Monongahela, and Ohio rivers were frozen from
the 20th of November to the 30th of January, sixty-five days. 
* Cotton cannot be cultivated to any advantage in the south part of Kentucky,
in lat. 37° North. The catalpa free is at this moment growing in open air, in
the streets of Brooklyn, near New York; and in the state-house yard in Phila
delphia there are several trees of this species. one of which is two feet in di
ameter. The sassafras and pawpaw both grow upon the Delaware, the former
to the size of a considerable tree; the iatter is in all places a shrub.
The author of this treatise resided at Wheeling, on the Ohio, in 1795–6,
and on the Monongehela, near Brownsville, 1796–97. The latter season was
indeed severe, all the rivers in the country were completely frozen, but far
from being unexampled in the country; in the beginning of 1792, the Ohio was frozeu at Wheeling upwards of forty days, in such manner that loaded car
riages passed in pºſert safety from Zane's island to the main shore where the
town now stands. The author can perfectly remember having heard the fre
quent remark, that the quantity of snow which fell in the latter year, was the greatest knowii since 1780 until that season.
# The rivers in west Pennsylvania and west Virginia seldom close so early as the middle ºf December; but as far sººth as the Great Kanbawa they are, five winters in six, completely frozen. ii.e de' iduºus trees are denuded of leaves
before the end of October snow is frequent in the latter month, but rarely if ever fails to fall in November. Remarkable exceptions are frequent. Great part of the month of February, 1799. was so very mild that snow disappeared, and peach buds began to swell about the 20th of the month: and on the 6th of
March of the same year, the ſºonongchela was frozen over at Pittsburg, and
the trees exhibited very little foliage or inflorescence on the 20th of May.
*
23s EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. . .
“The Wabash freezes almost annually, but only from three to four
teen days. In all Kentucky and the basin of Ohio, frost remains on
the ground, ordinarily, only from three to fifteen days, and in the
course of January there is frequently days that are really warm, and
when Fahrenheit's thermometer rises to from 50° to 60°, with south
west winds and a pure and brilliant sky. Spring brings with it rains
and sudden showers, with northwest and northeast winds. Forty
days after the vernal equinox, violent heats commence. These heats
are in full force during the sixty or seventy days that follow the sum
mer solstice; the thermometer stands at from 26° to 27° of Reaumer,
(90–95 degrees of Fahrenheit.) During the whole of this time,
storms occur almost daily on the country near the Ohio: these storms
produce a heavy heat which is not tempered by the rain. Sometimes
rains are brought by south and southwest winds, at other times they
are produced by the evaporation of the water of the river, and from
the vapours of the vast forest that every where cover the adjacent
country. The rain falling in torrents, refreshes but ſor a moment the
parched soil, and the heat of next day forcing it to ascend, changes it
in the morning into a thick mist, and finally into clouds, thus continu
ally renewing the electrical process* of the former day. The tempe
rature of the water is raised to, from 64° to 66°; the nights are calm,
and it is not before 8 or 10 in the morning, that a light breeze rises
from the west or southwest, and which ceases about four o'clock in the .
afternoon.f
* Mr. Volney, according to bis own account, resided in this region only a
very short time, and evidently collected his facts from persons who were very
uufit to give the requisite information, or who must have misunderstood his
views. We recollect hearing a gentleman in Washington, Pennsylvania, using
a remark respecting this respectable traveller that we believe to be strictly cor
rect, because corroborated by others, and which will tend to explain clearly
the cause, wby a man so able as Volney certainly was to observe natural
henomena, should detail established errror, rather than develope the ordinary |. of the climate of places through which he travelled.
This gentleman observed, that though Mr. Volney understood the English language perfectly well. he spoke it in such a manner that his expressions were
frequently misunderstood; and that his method of collecting information was,
by putting set questions to particular persons, and noting the answers. It was his
misfortune to set out with opinions formed from theory, and of course his ques
tions naturally tended to establish those opinions, by eliciting answers in con formity to the wishes of the interrogator. It may be observed, however, as singu
lar, that this traveller evinces more accurate knowledge of the geography of the
United States, than any European whose works have reached our hands.
There can scarce be a doubt, that if he had passed the Aleghany mountains into the valley of Ohio, without ever having read one word upon the country,
that his indications would have been infinitely more in conformity to his facts,
than they were as published, disſigured by hypothesis.
t From such an account we would be led to consider the climate of this re
gion as at least regular, but from an experience of upwards of twenty years
residence in the country, we would feel inclined to give the seasons any gene
ral character, rather than that of regularity. In fact, from the city of Pittsburg to the city of New Orleans, inclusive, any, or all places, will present two suc
sessive years, whose meteorological changes will differ almost as much as
would those changes in any given year at the local extremes we have men
tººd. Every person; the least capable of preserving the fruits of experience, must accede to the truth of the foregoing observation a
pºſſGRANT'S GUIDE. 239
“In every season the dominant wind is southwest, or the current of
air that descends the channel of the river Ohio, coming from that of
the Mississippi, where the course of this wind is south, from the gulf
of Mexico.” I found this wind warm and stormy, at my entrance in
to the valley of the Kenbaway, where no doubt it raises the tempera
ture by arresting the heat at the foot of the mountains: it changes its
direction, following the curves of the Ohio river. This wind is some
times thought west, or south, but is in reality always the same current
of air, and prevails five-sixths parts of the year, leaving to the other
winds only one-sixth. It dominates over Kentucky, but does not
there produce the same effects; because the Ohio valley, in a width
of 15 or 18 miles, is moistened by copious rains; the interior country
is parched with violent drought, that continues sometimes for three
months together; and the farmers have the vexation to behold from
the summit of the hills which border this vale, a sea of mists and rain
whose skirts touch, but never pass this border.
“At the autumnal equinox, rain comes with northeast, southeast, and
even northwest winds. The coolness they superinduce is the fore
runner of frost. Autumn is a season of mild, serene weather, and
surpasses the three other seasons in pleasantness; because, in all
North America, there is no season answering to spring.;
“Such is the climate of Kentucky and of all the basins of Ohio.t
We must advance far northward to find any remarkable changes, and
particularly to find a harmony with the Atlantic coast. Even at Nia
* * This observation is in great part correct, and is the only phenomenon that presents itself in defence of the superior warmth of the air in the basin of Ohio.
This current does, no doubt, contribute to mitigate the cold of winter, and
augment the heat of summer; but its effects are inore than counterbalanced by
a far greater exposure to the north and northwest and northeast, than to the
south or southwest.
# what precise idea Mr. Volney attached to spring, it is very difficult to de
termine. If by spring is meant the vernal season of renewal of vegetation, per haps no country has so protracted a season of spring as the middle states of the United States From the first budding of the elms, maples, and willows, often
in March, to the full developement of the foliage of the woods towards the end of May, three months, or one-fourth the year elapses. That the peculiar cha
racter of an American spring may differ from that of France, we can readily believe ; but we are also disposed to consider that every season in every dis
tant country has an appropriate character, that distinguishes it from the same
nominal season in other places.
# The radical fault of nearly all accounts hitherto published of this very interesting country, is, giving not only a general, but even a uniform character to a space so extensive, and in its various parts so extremely dissimilar. ...The extent and position of the Ohio valley is already given, from which it will ap pear, that the northern and southern extremes must present seasons differing widely in temperature. A very cursory review of the attending map will serve to demonstrate the great inequality in the surface of this extensive region, En
closed by mountains on the east, southeast, and in great part on the south; en tirely open to the north, northwest and west, and cut into deep channels by
its numerous rivers, few countries on earth can exhibit more varied or more distinctive features. Applying any general epithet to such an expanse must lead
to error.
The quality of the local surface and soil is also varied to almost infinity: No description of land from rugged mountains, whose summits are upwards of 2000 feet above the level of the Atlantic ocean to the naked plains of Wabache
º
240 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
gara, it is still so temperate, that cold continues only two months
with any considerable severity; notwithstanding that this place is
the most elevated part of the Plateau, or table land. This circum
stance totally deranges the rule formed from the comparative levels.
“The descriptions that have been made to me of the cold of Ver
mont, of New Hampshire, does not correspond with the seasons in
Genesee;* but rather with that of Philadelphia, 3° farther south.
It has been remarked, as a singular circumstance, that, in the latter
town, frost occurs in every month of the year, except July; and that
on the western side of the mountains, a similar circumstance does not
take place south of the village of Oneida in Genesee,f at the 43°
north latitude; whilst at Albany, east of the mountains, it freezes
every month in the year, and neither peaches or cherries can ripen.
“Before proceeding further in this investigation, it will be necessary
to add some observations, and to observe some preparatory to a more
complete developement of the assumed theory.
“1. it results from the comparison I have presented, that to mea
sure accurately the degrees of temperature existing in different parts :
of the United States; two vast thermometrical scales must be applied
to the whole country, crossing each other at right angles. The one
placed along the ineridian line, having its maximum of cold towards
the pole, say on the river St. Lawrence, and its maximum of heat to
wards the tropics, say in Fiorida; between the two extremes, the
heat increases or decreases regularly, according to the latitudes, the
level and exposure being equal. The other scale placed transversely
º
and the rich alluvial bottoms of Ohio river, but what must be passed in a sur
vey of the country under review.
The productions of the earth are not less varied than its surface; the nume
rous species of vegetables and minerals that have been provided by nature for
the use of man in this unequailed valley, justly claims the attention and admi
rºom of the traveller and geographer. It may be also remarked, that amongst
the mineral products, those most absolutely necessary are most abundant; salt,
iron, coal, and carbonate of lime. It is also rendered possible that to those
will he added gypsum ; and that the three former exist in much greater quan
tity than has been generally thought.
* It would be singular, indeed, if the climate of Genesee was similar to
that of either Vermont or New Hampshire. The greatest part of the two
latter places lie north of the former. Genesee is a level country in the vi
cinity of two large lakes; Vermont and New Hampshire are mountainous.
Proximity to water tends to equalize the temperature of the circumjacent air;
consequently, the climate of places near the Canada lakes, are, in every other
circumstance, equal. more moderate in winter than of places more remote.
f Instances have been known to occur of frost at Philadelphia, even in July,
as was the case in that month, is 16; but the author of this note has been wit
ness to a similar cold at the same season of the year at Washington in Penn
sylvania, and what will seem perhaps more extraordinary, beheld cotton de
stroyed by frost at Natchez September, 1804.
# Albany is in part west of all the mountains, and only 1200 feet below the
extreme eievation of the central table land. Except the space occupied by the
North or Hudson river, Albany is covered by two chains of mountains from the
south winds. Catskill mountains, near 3000 feet high, is in full view from Alba
ny to the southwest. As to the circumstance of cherries and peaches not ri
pening at Albany, the statement is totally incorrect; few places in the world where those fruits are more abundant than at Hudson, Athens, Rhineback,
ALBANY, Troy, and Hansingburg. - 
FMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 241
to the former, from east to west, following a line of longitude, this
latter compound instrument would be in effect a double thermometer,
of two branches, with a common bulb resting upon the summit of the
Aleghany mountains. Each branch would exhibit its maximum of
heat upon either the coast of the Atlantic ocean, or upon the Mis
sissippi; and the degrees of heat measured by either branch, would
be in proportion to the elevation or exposure. It is only by strictly
attending to these complicated rules that a good table can be formed
of the temperature and vegetation of the United States.”
The sketch of a general table of the American climate made by
a society at New-York is ingenious, but to be accurate the above
rules alone ought to be adopted.
2. The difference of climate between the east and west of the
Aleghanys, is attended also with two material circumstances, that I
believe have hitherto been overlooked. The first is, that southward
beyond 35 or 36° N. lat., the difference of temperature observable
in the Ohio valley ceases, and that the climate of Georgia and West
Florida, from the Mississippi to the mouth of Savannah river, is sub
stantially the same: And farther, that the chain of the Aleghany and
its curve about the foregoing latitude, forms the real limit of the dif.
ference. - 
The second circumstance is, that the relative excess of heat in the
interior, ceases almost instantly between 43° and 45° N. lat., to
wards the large Canadian lakes. You have scarcely passed the south
ern shore of Lake Erie, when the climate becomes cold with aston.
ishing rapidity. At Detroit the temperature is similar to that of its
parallel Niagara; but at Lake St. Clair, the inhabitants find the frosts
much longer and more severe, than at Detroit. The latter small lake
* The above observations are substantially correct, and, in reality, contain the
entire philosophy of this subject; but they also afford another singular instance
how far our author sacrificed his own experience to system.
Adopting his own ingenious thermometer, and applying it in the solution of
the problem we are investigating, the result must inevitably prove directly the reverse of his hypothesis. Suppose the instrument laid upon the 38th degree
north latitude, and 3 degrees west longitude from Washington city, the bulb
would rest a short distance from Staunton in Virginia, the west branch would
traverse nearly the centre of the Ohio valley.
Four general cases determine the difference of temperature between any two
given places on our globe. 19. Difference of latitude.
22. Difference of elevation.
3°. Exposure to particular winds.
4°. Proximity to, or remoteness from, large bodies of water.
It may be remarked as singular, that Mr. Volney's climatic thermometer
would necessarily exhibit, in opposition to his own previous opinion, that the
valley of Ohio was 
1°. Equal in latitude to a very extensive range of the Atlantic coast. 2°. Elevated above that coast; the bottom of the Ohio 800, and the apex
of the hills 1200 feet above that coast.
3°. Exposed to the northeast, north, northwest, and west winds, and covered
by mountains more than 2000 feet high from the south and southeast.
4. Remote from the warm air of the gulf stream, or the general equalizing
effects of the water of the ocean upon air.
The assertion may be emphatically made, that, without regarding these pri
mary principles, no rational ideas can be formed on ours, or any climate
31
242 EMſg RANT'S GUIDE.
is frozen annually, from November to February; the south and south
west winds that warm the air in the vicinity of Lake Erie, become
rare at Lake St. Clair. No other fruits can be brought to maturity
except apples and winter pears.
At Michillimakinac, two and a half degrees farther north, 45° 30'
N. lat., observations made in 1797, under the direction of General
Wilkinson,” show, that from August 4th to September 4th, the ther
mometer, in several places beyond Lake St. Clair, never was higher
at noon than 70°, and that in the morning and evening it often sunk to
46°; which makes a colder atmosphere than at Montreal in the same
parallel.
Those facts fully accord with the general result published by
Mackenzie, in his relation of his interesting voyages to the west and
northwest of North America. I had the pleasure to be made ac
quainted with this estimable traveller during my residence in Phila
delphia, and to receive from him much useful information on the sub
ject of my researches. One of his companions, Mr. Shaw, also, had
arrived from a thirteen years' residence in the most remote posts of
the fur trade. This gentleman had also the goodness to reply to m
Aquestions; and the result of their united information establishes the
following facts:
That in advancing west of Lake Superior to the Stony or Chippe
wan mountains, as far as 72° N. lat., prevails a climate which in se
verity can only be compared to that of Siberia. That the surface of
the earth is generally flat and naked of timber, or if any trees do
exist, they are rare and stunted. The country is covered with lakes,
swamps, and a prodigious number of interlocking water-courses, and
incessantly swept by violent and frozen winds, from the north, and,
more particularly, northwest. Above 46° N. lat., the earth is frozen
throughout the year. At several stations of the fur trade, between
50° and 56° N. lat., wells, though very necessary, cannot be sunk;
that Mr. Shaw himself made the attempt at St. Augustine, six leagues
from the mountains, and though the attempt was made in July, the la
bourers found the earth thawed three feet; but below that depth fro
zen, and becoming more solid in descending, they were constrained
to abandon the undertaking twenty feet beneath the surface.
The correctness of these facts cannot be doubted from the respect
ability of the witnesses, and from the credible support received
from other testimony. Robson, an English engineer, who, in 1745,
built Fort Wales on Hudson's Bay, 59° N. lat., recounts, with surprise
and candour, that wishing to sink a well in the month of September,
he found the ground thawed three feet, by the recent heat of sum
mer; but under that superstratum of earth, lay another of eight
inches deep, frozen as firm as a rock. Then commenced a stratum
of dry loose frozen sand, in which the workmen could find no water,
because the moisture near the surface was rendered solid ice, and
prevented the water from penetrating below the superficial bed of
earth thawed by the recent summer heat.
Edward Umfreville, an agent of the Hudson Bay Company, from
* Medical Repository of New-York, Vol. I. I age 530.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 243
1771 until 1782, a sensible and correct observer, attests, that the
earth in these regions even in the heat of summer, when the heats.
are for a term of four or five weeks very intense, does not become
thawed more than four English feet in depth, where the land is clear
ed of timber, and not more than two where the surface is shaded by
dwarf juniper and pine trees, the only timber in the country.
It is from all these facts made evident, that beyond a certain lati
tude, the climate of the interior of North America is not less cold
than on parallel latitudes upon the Atlantic coast. The mean term of
the change is about 45° or 46°N. lat., assuming, as a natural limit, the
Canadian lakes, but more particularly the Algonquin mountains, con
fining the warm climate of the west to nine or ten degrees of latitude,
and also encircled on three sides by other mountains. No doubt but
that the presence of these mountains contribute in part to produce the
difference found to exist between the climates north and south of
their summits: But what is the primary cause ? From whence pro
ceeds this really singular geographical phenomenon 2 Behold the
problem solved a comparison of many facts and circumstances, have
led me to consider as the principal agent, a generally prevailing cur
rent of air in the basin of the Mississippi; which current differs from
those of the coast of the Atlantic ocean. I think myself able to fur
nish to my readers the means of forming their judgment, by develop
ing the entire system of the various currents of air annually prevail
ing in the United States. 
Mr. Volney then enters into an investigation of the courses, and
causes of the winds of the United States, commenced with the ex
pression, “that in Europe, particularly in France and England, the
inhabitants complain of the inconstancy of the winds, and of the Sud
den and violent changes produced in the atmosphere through their
influence; but that the variations in the air in Europe, were nothing
when compared with those in the United States.”
Data have never yet been collected to establish the degree of cor
rect comparison between the climate of western Europe and that of
any part of America. An observation is in the mouth of nearly all
men who speak on the subject, coinciding with Mr. Volney, that the
inconstancy and contrasts of atmospheric air are much greater in
America than in Europe; but a perusal of several articles in Ro
zier's Agricultural Dictionary, would serve to render this assertion
at least doubtful.” That the difference has been exaggerated, to at
least ten times its quantum, we have no doubt. A real difference in
climate does exist, between western Europe and eastern America, of
about ten degrees of latitude ; but the corresponding climates exhibit
very nearly similar phenomena. The south of France and the
southern parts of the United States possess a remarkable coincidence
in the aspect of their respective local positions, as also in the general
character and daily temperature and change of their climates.t
Disquisitions on the winds of any country are an idle speculation, if
not founded upon a very detailed knowledge of the ranges of moun
* See page 30 of this Treatise.
f See page 167 of this Treatise, note.
244 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
tains, and their compactness and elevation ; with the courses of
rivers; the width and depth of their particular valleys; and with the
uniformity or asperity of the surface of the various basins.
It cannot be deemed presumption to assert, that this particular to
pographical knowledge has not been evinced by any European writer
upon the United States. Most of them were men whose minds were
rendered unfit, by national prejudice, to enter into a physical investi
gation; others came to abuse; one or two to praise; and few indeed
have resided long enough in the country to form opinions of the peo F. or climate from long observation, or comparison of well arranged
acts.
The following sketch of the outline of the Ohio basin, will enable
the reader to perceive the true causes, why in reality its climate is
necessarily more severely cold in winter, and also, why in some in
stances in summer, the condensed heat is greater than in most places
on the coast of the Atlantic ocean.
The extent and interior structure of the two basins of Ohio and
Illinois have been descanted on ; * it remains to delineate their out
line, and to show, from their exterior, the causes that produce the pe
culiar constitution of climate in this singular region. *
The Aleghany mountains ranging from N. E. to S. W. skirts along
the S. E. part of the Ohio valley. Though not actually the bounda
ry of the basin, and not very elevated, this chain forms a very effec
tive barrier against the warm winds of the Gulf Stream. The Ale
ghany mountains are remarkable for their compactness, running in
collateral ridges; there exists from the 42° to the 34° N. lat., no abso
lute interval. Where one ridge is cut by a river, the opposite one is
a solid wall, and all are covered with a dense forest to the summit.
This character becomes more distinctive, advancing southwest, and is
most prominent where the influence of such a mass of rocks and
woods would prodtice the greatest effect; that is between 34° and 36°
N. lat. At 34° N. lat. may be considered the nucleus of the whole
mass of mountains. About 34° N. lat. the Aleghany turns almost
abruptly to the west, and imperceptibly declining in elevation, finally
disappears at 14° W. longitude from Washington city. Cumberland
mountain is the same chain that first appears near Angelica in the
state of New-York, and which traverses Pennsylvania by the name of
Chestnut ridge. In Virginia, this chain is known by various appel
lations ; to the south of the Great Kenhawa, it assumes the name of
Cumberland, by which term it is known on the southwest part of
Virginia, and southeast of Kentucky. On entering Tennessee be
tween Cumberland and Clinch rivers, Cumberland mountain first
turns S. W. by W., and about fifty miles within the state, assumes a
western range, very nearly along the 36° N. lat. Though, perhaps,
not more than 700 or 800 feet elevated above the table land of the
Ohio valley, this minor chain does not terminate until reaching west
of Tennessee river, upon the border of the Mississippi alluvion.
That part of the Aleghany mountain which rises south of Tennes see river, continues west-northwest from the northwest part of
* See page 187. Page 188. *
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 245
Georgia, through Alabama territory and the state of Mississippi, until
within thirty or forty miles of the Mississippi river, it terminates in
high broken ridges. West of the latter river, at 36° 30' N. lat., a
ridge of hills reaches its bank near Cape Girardeau, by an immense
precipice of limestone, upwards of 400 feet high; between which
and the western extremity of Cumberland mountain, is an interval of
about 80 miles. Very nearly a similar distance intervenes between
the western termination of the Aleghany, and the eastern elongation
of the Masserne mountains, south of Arkansaw river.
Both the Masserne mountains and the chain of hills which reaches'
Mississippi near Cape Girardeau, are continuous ridges emanating
from the spurs of the Chippewan.
A very striking feature distinguishes, not only the hills and moun
tains east of the Mississippi from those of the west, but affords a strong
contrast between the entire physiognomy of the two regions; that is,
the dense and unbroken forest that clothes the former, and the
open naked prairies that compose the far greater part of the surface
of the latter. This difference accounts satisfactorily for the remarka
ble change of climate between the border of the gulf of Mexico conti
guous to Mobile bay, and that found west of the Mississippi river.
Mr. Wolney states, that south of 35° and north of 45° N. latitude,
the climate of North America equalizes from the Atlantic ocean to
the Chippewan mountains. How far this position is correct in the
north section, we cannot judge from personal knowledge; but upon
the south section actual experience enables us to pronounce it incor
rect; and we have shown why such an uniformity cannot exist.
A review of the attendant map will exhibit the real width of the
proper valley of the Mississippi below the mouth of Ohio; and the
very confined range of the south winds from the gulf of Mexico into
the basin of Ohio.
Mr. Volney has given a map of North America, upon which are
marked the course” of the winds from the tropics over the gulf of
Mexico, and their final distribution over the continent. Such an ar
tificial theory of American winds, must excite some wonder in the
mind of any person who has resided a number of years upon the north
border of the Mexican gulf, where the effects ought to be most in
unison with the hypothesis, and in harmony with each other. The
late Mr. William Dunbar, who resided upwards of thirty years near
Natchez, and who observed the phenomena of the atmospheric
changes in the country with skill and attention, gives, in substance,
the following as the routine of the seasons.
Mr. Dunbar, after recounting the phenomena of the great sleet and
snow storm, at Natchez, in the end of January and first of February,
1800, and other meteorological changes of that year, expressly
states, that on the 12th of December the thermometer was down
at 12°.
The remarks of this gentleman, on the winds and weather of that
country, deserve to be better known than they are ; we shall there
fore transcribe them entire.
* See pages 31, 83, 139 . See page 78 of this Treatise
246 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
“It is with us a general remark, that of late years the summers
have become hotter, and the winters colder, than formerly. Orange
trees, and other tender exotics, have suffered more in the neighbour
hood of New Orleans, within these four or five years, than before that
period; the sugar-cane, also, has been so much injured by the seve
rity of the first of the two last winters, as greatly to discourage the
planters, whose crops in many instances have fallen to one-third, or
less, of their expectations. In former years I have observed the mer
cury of the thermometer not to fall lower than 26° or 27°; but for a
few years past it has, generally once or twice in the winter, fallen as
low as from 17 to 20 deg., and on the 12th December, 1800, as above
noticed, it was found sunk to 12 deg.,” which has hitherto no parallel
in this climate; indicating a degree of cold which in any country
would be considered considerable, and probably may never be again
produced by natural means in lat. 31#”.f
“As this apparent alteration of climate has been remarked only for
a few years, and cannot be traced up to any visible, natural, or arti
ficial change of sufficient magnitude, it would be in vain to search for
its physical cause. Dr. Williamson, and others, have endeavoured
to show, that the clearing, draining, and cultivation extended over
the face of a continent, must produce the double effect of the relaxa
tion of the rigours of winter, and an abatement of the heats of sum
mer; the former is probably more evident than the latter; but ad
mitting the demonstration to be conclusive, I would inquire whether
a partial clearing, extending thirty or forty miles square, may not be
expected to produce a contrary effect, by admitting, with full liberty,
the sunbeams upon the discovered surface of the earth in summer,
and promoting, during winter, a free circulation of cold northern air.;
“The winds of this country are extremely variable in the winter
season, seldom blowing above three days, successively, from the
same point. The northwest wind brings us the severest cold. It may
be considered a general rule, during winter, that all winds blowing
from the east of the meridian bring rain, and those from the west,
dry weather; the east and southeast winds are most abundantly
charged with moisture, as the opposite points are always the driest ;
the northeast winds, during their season, are moist, chilly, and disa
greeable; but seldom prevail for any length of time; the northwest
wind brings (though rarely) sleet or snow.' After two, three, or
" " The author of this treatise resided from the month of Sept. 1799, and all
the year 1800, on Pine Ridge, eight miles north of Natchez, and was witness to
the severe sleet storm of January and February, and the intense cold of De
cember, 1800. During the sleet storm the wind was from northeast.
+ As far as its effects were exerted upon vegetables, and upon stagnant
waters, the frost of February, 1807, and that of December, 1814, must have
been, each, at least as severe, if not more intense, than that of December, 1800.
# The boundless (excepting the respective seas) expanse of prairie in Louisi
ana, affords a complete support to the conjecture of Mr. Dunbar; and this naked
surface, extending northwest of the Ohio and Mobile basins, exposes those
places to the severe cold annually experienced in lat. 30.
§ The sleet storm of 1800, came with a northeast wind, as has been noted; that of 1807, with a northwest wind. 
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 247
four days of damp, cloudy, or rainy weather, it suddenly clears up
with a cold northwest wind, which blows frequently with great force
during the first, and sometimes part of the second day after the change,
the nights being generally calm; after a like period of fair weather,
of which the two first days are clear and freezing, and the other two
fine, mild, and agreeable, with a morning’s heavy frost, it revolves
again into the same circle of damp and rainy weather. This may
be considered as the general revolution of the winter season, but with
many exceptions. The frequent and rapid changes in the state of
the weather during the winter, in this climate, furnish an excellent
opportunity of verifying the vulgar opinion, of the moon's pretended
influence at her conjunctions, oppositions, and quadratures; but truth
compels me to say (what probably may be said of many similar per
suasions”) that after a continued and scrupulous attention to this ob
ject, I have not discovered any such regularity of coincidence, which
might justify the reverence with which those traditional maxims are
at this day received, by all those whose minds are not expanded
by the lights of philosophy.
“With the month of February our spring season may be said to
commence, and southerly winds prevail, as if propitious nature was
inclined to facilitate the operations of the husbandman, by carrying
off the superabundant moisture, with which the surface of the earth is
drenched, after the winter rains. This salutary effect is much more
apparent on the flat lands of lower Louisiana than with us.
“As the spring and summer advances, the winds blow chiefly from
between southeast and southwest, with variations from all parts of
the compass. During the hot season the winds are frequently re
marked to follow the progress of the sun; being found at northeast
or east in the morning, and shifting round, die away in the evening
at south-southwest.
“Before the close of November, we are reminded of the approach
of winter by a few cold mornings and evenings, and sometimes nip
ping frosts, which exhibit their destructive power, first, in the valleys,
by killing tender plants, while those on the adjoining hills retain,
some time longer, their bloom and verdure. This effect is to be ac
counted for by the greater specific gravity of the condensed air, which
runs off at all sides from elevated situations into the nearest valleys,
there forming a mass of great extent, while the hills are supplied with
air less dense and warmer, from a superior stratum of the atmosphere.
The influence of this cause is so great, at the first approaches of win
ter, that a difference of 10° of Fahrenheit's scale, has been noted at
the short interval of three miles in the direction of east and west: one
position overlooking the great valley of the Mississippi, thirty miles
wide, while the other was in the interior, environed by forests. On
the morning of the 13th November, 1799, the thermometer stood, in
the first situation, at 42°, and in the latter at 32°.f.”
* Superior temperature of the Ohio basin, for instance.
S # ºutcºm of the American Philosophical Society, vol. vi. page 43, and
Sequel.
248 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
As far as a residence of sixteen winters, in the Mississippi territory
and lower Louisiana, can enable the author of this treatise to judge,
Mr. Dunbar's observations are accurate, and, if adopted as criteria,
must confirm what has been already stated, that the winds of the Mis
sissippi valley are too variable to produce a general amelioration of
climate, so far north as the basin of Ohio. Mr. Dunbar also records
the fact, that the northwest winds exert their influence as far as
Natchez.
Respecting the destruction of vegetables by frost, the cause assign
ed by Mr. Dunbar produces the greatest part of the effect; but there
is another cause that must be very influential in such countries as that
near Natchez; where the extremes of sterility and fertility often ap
proach within a few yards. In the rich low grounds the juices of
vegetables, particularly cotton, are so abundant as to aid the decom
posing powers of frost.
The fact mentioned by this respectable author, of the difference of
temperature between the sheltered high lands, and the exposed low
lands, renders the correctness of the idea at least doubtful, that clear
ing lands tend to ameliorate climate. Mr. Dunbar has entered his
own veto against this conclusion; and well he might, as every pheno
mena in the country where his observations were made, was in oppo
sition to its adoption. And no country can be more completely suita
ble for satisfactory experiment on this very interesting subject.
This picture of the variations in the air, to which we have been
for many years familiar, is in all its parts correct, and proves the in
fluence of the northwest winds in places far south of the basin of
Ohio. The farther west the traveller advances from the Mississippi
river, the more southern will he find this northern influence. The
vast prairies of North America reach from the gulf of Mexico to the
Frozen ocean, a distance of forty degrees of latitude, and following
the obliquity of their course, near three thousand miles. Part of
this great grassy expanse is protruded into the Ohio basin, and
reaches to the south side of lake Erie. Rising from the surface of
the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, and from that of the Canadian lakes,
the country rises to the northwest into high table land, over which the
winds have an uncontrolled motion, carrying with them to the foot of
the Aleghany mountains, the refrigerating particles collected from
the dreary plains so emphatically described by Mr. Mackenzie and
others. It is by the power of this frozen current that the Mississippi
is se often frozen at St. Louis in December, and which render the
Ohio river unnavigable two months of each year, almost to the
mouth. We are led to believe, that advancing west from the Ale
ghany mountains, the intensity of the cold increases, and that the sea
sons are at St. Louis more rigorous than at Cincinnati, though the former
lies 30 minutes of latitude south of the latter. The peculiar local po
sition of Cincinnati afford a double advantage, sheltered from the
north, and exposed to the south; the position of St. Louis is directly
the reverse, but the frequent freezing of so rapid a river as the Mis
sissippi, and at such an early season of the year, evinces a general
intensity of cold over the adjacent country.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 249
irom the most authentic documents it appears, that the northwest
wind prevails in December, January, and February.* The reason of
this aerial tide is obvious. On the approach of winter, those eternally
frozen regions beyond 46°N. lat., where icy winds range over the
naked desert, and from above 50°, where the frost-bound earth for
bids the existence of wells or springs, comes a volume of condensed,
and almost congealed air, which locks the rivers in fetters of ice,
often as far south as 35° north latitude. Warm weather, in the autum
mal months, is constantly followed in a short time by a cold north
west or north wind.
This flood of cold air in its motion to the southeast, its usual course,
flows down the valleys of the Missouri and Mississippi rivers, sweeps
over the Ohio, and first meets an impediment to its motion when com
ing in contact with the Aleghany mountains. Its progress is here
arrested by two causes; first the mountains themselves, and secondly,
the mass of coid and dense air upon these mountains. The north
west wind thus interrupted in its direct course, turned by its own
gravity to the south, rushes down the Mississippi valley, and often car
ries frost sufficient to destroy the orange trees on the guiſ of Mexico,and
to freeze the ponds and other small bodies of stagnant watct near the
city of New Orleans. Allowing to this great current, a motion of
thirty miles per hour, it would cross the continent, from the Frozen
ocean to the gulf of Mexico, in about for days. Having ſewer cb
stacles westward than eastward of the Mississippi to impede its ad
vance, this mass of cold air has protruded the limit of snow farther
south in the former, than in the latter section of our continent; the
same observation might be made respecting frost, but as the northern
border of the gulf of Mexico is every where subject to frost, it admits
of no interior limit. 
The quantity of water that falls upon the earth, in the form of rain,
dew, hail, and snow, differs extremely in places situated apparently
similar. Not only the existence but the quantity of show has been
connected with the degree of cold, experienced at any given place.
The existence of snow must of necessity depend upon a thermometri
cal depression below that necessary to permit a frost sufficiently vio
lent to freeze water into ice, or prevent its melting ; but there is no
apparent connexion between the intensity of cold and the quantity
of snow. Extremely severe frost often occurs without, or with very
little snow; therefore, no fair data is afforded as respects the tempera
ture of any given place by an accurate register of its snows, unless
that register contains a correct record of the absolute depth of water
that falls in all forms. Rain and snow are mere relative terms.
Whether more or less moisture actually falls west than east of the
Aleghany mountains, has never been determined with sufficient cer
tainly to admit a safe conclusion. Judging from analogy, we should
suppose that in the interior less moisture does fall than on the Atlan
tic declivity, on an equal surface ; but that, of the respective propor
tions of snow to rain, we are fully persuaded more of the former me
teor falls on the western, than does on the eastern section of our
* Drake's Cincinnati, page 99.
32
250 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
country. In general, snow falls sooner, and remains longer on the
ground in the basin of Ohio, than on the Atlantic declivity. Some
particular spots in the deep valleys of Ohio, and some other streams,
are exceptions to this rule, but their area is very limited, when com
pared with the entire extent of the basin.
The following summary contains the leading facts from which the
foregoing conclusions are drawn, with authorities referred to in the
margin.
In 1796, Mississippi and Ohio, (with their confluents) frozen, to
their junction.*
In the same year, in December, mercury, at Cincinnati, three
mornings in succession, down at 14°, 12°, and 1%, below 0+
The Mississippi passable on the ice with horses and carriages be
fore the 20th December, 1802–3–4 f
Rivers are influenced greatly in their congelation by their courses,
and the climates from whence their waters are drawn. This may in
some measure account for the early freezing of the Mississippi; but
the following is an instance of the congelation of that stream, that
could only arise from an excessive frost at the place.
In the winter of 1808–9, the Mississippi at Genevieve frozen solid
in one night, so as to bear horses and carriages next day Š
The extreme difference in the periods of inflorescence and foliage
of plants, found to exist in a short distance ||
Rye harvest commenced 6th of July, on the Great Kenhawa at the
mouth of Elk."[
Wheat harvest at Monticello and Kaskaskia, began on the same
day, July 1st.
Rye harvest began at Cincinnati on the 4th, and that of wheat on
the 10th July **
Woods leafless, October 26th.it
January 8th, 1797, mercury fell at Cincinnati, 18° below zero.;
Deep and durable snows upon the Ohio table land from 40° to 42°
north latitude. §
In addition to these facts, the reader is referred to the description of
the physical construction of the Ohio and Mississippi basins, and the
adjacent regions.
Respecting the relative heat of the interior and maritime parts of
this continent, few words are sufficient. Upon the latter, a sea
breeze has a tendency to mitigate the violence of summer heat, an
advantage that it but little enjoyed in the former. Environed on two
sides by mountains, and cut into deep valleys, where the heat can ac
cumulate and reverberate, it often becomes oppressive, and continues
so, many days in succession. In the year 1793, near three months
passed away without rain, August, September, and October. Long
* Author of this treatise.—Dr. Drake, page 97. # Drake's Cincinnati, page 119. # Stoddard's Louisiana, page 236.
William Rector, Esq. as quoted in Drake's Cincinnati, page 121, note. Ib page 88. ºf Volney, Paris edition, page 157; ib page 156 and 157, * Drake's Cincinnati, page 89. ft Ib. page 90. # Winthrop Sargeant, Esq. as quoted by Dr. Drake, page 94. § Drake, page 106.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. - 251
droughts are frequent, as indeed are incessant rains. The various
seasons differ extremely from cach other: 1794, was as remarkable
for reiterated rains, as the preceding year was for its dryness. The
months of September, October, November, and December, of the year
1794, was a period of almost continued rain.
Some persons of observation have contended that as the countries
in the interior becomes cleared of timber, that the climate will be
come more uniform. Such an anticipation is not warranted by the
phenomena observable in places already and for ages denuded of tim
ber. In no region of the world can the seasons be more uncertain
than in the prairies of Louisiana from one extremity to another. No
changes, particularly from heat to cold, is more sudden or more vio
lent, or where the quantity of rains, or the period of their occurrence
differs more in two successive years. 
The presence of some peculiar vegetables have been adduced as
marks of climate ; it has been shown how uncertain are all data
drawn from such a source. The presence or absence of animals are
still less satisfactory.
We have dwelt upon this subject the more from a conviction how
much it had hitherto been misunderstood. 
As respects the influence of the seasons of the Ohio basin upon emi
grants, we refer to the general observations made upon the same subject,
when speaking of the regions near the mouth of the Mississippi and Mobile rivers. Though essential difference does exist between the
two regions in the quantum and distribution of heat and cold, yet very
nearly similar precaution and choice ef season for removal ought to
be taken for every place west of the Aleghany mountains, at least
south of Muskingum.
The greatest inconvenience attending this vast country is the ex treme difference between the maximum of heat and cold; it is an in
convenience that may be prudently obviated in a great measure.
This subject will however come more appropriately into the last
chapter of this treatise, to which the reader is referred.
So much analogy prevails in the general productions and staples of
Indiana and Ohio, that little could be added respecting those objects afforded by the latter, that has not been noticed under the head of
the former. For some additional articles respecting Indiana and Ohio, see appendix.
WEST PENNSYLVANIA, AND WEST VIRGINIA.
Under this general name is here meant that part of these two states lying in the Ohio basin. In common language, all the region west of
the Aleghany mountains inclusive, has received the term of the
“Western Country,” relative to the Atlantic declivity. It is certain
ly incorrect to include under such an appellation, considerable extent
watered by rivers that flow into the Atlantic ocean.
The tract in question reaches from the north border of the state of
Tennessee, to the south border of the state of New-York, 460 miles
in length; its medial width nearly 90, but in some places exceeding
100 miles. The area of this region amounts to 43,268 square
252 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
miles; 16,500 in Pennsylvania, and 26,768 in Virginia.” We have
included the entire superficies under one head, though forming part of
two states. The natural connexion being so strong as to render a de
scription of the products of one part nearly correct when applied to
the other. 
.Natural Geography—Minerals.-It has been shown that the Ale
ghany mountains do not serve to separate the waters that flow into
the basin, from those that pursue their course towards the Atlantic
ocean ; and what is perhaps more remarkable, is, that the natural
formations pursue a line of separation different from both the rivers
and mountains.
The mountains of West Pennsylvania, are Laurel Hill, and Chest
nut ridge; those of West Virginia are, the Blue ridge, Aleghany
mountains, and Cumberland mountain.
Of these collateral chains, the Aleghany is the principal, and in
some measure the spine of the whole system to which it belongs.
This mountain is not however a continuous ridge, being cut by seve
ral rivers, and bearing local names between the various streams.
This circumstance has introduced considerable confusion between the
various maps that have been published of this part of the United
States.
The Aleghany ridge enters the south boundary of Virginia, be
tween the sources of the Great Kenhawa and Tennessee rivers,
ranges N. E. towards Evansham, where it is interrupted by the valley
of the Great Kenhawa. In Montgomery it again re-appears and con
tinues north, the southwest corner of Maryland, where it is again
broken by the Potomac. From the Kenhawa to the Potomac, the
Aleghany is the demarkation between the waters of the Ohio and
those of the Atlantic. - 
In the state of Maryland, this mountain separates the sources of
the Potomac and Youghiogheny, and then entering Pennsylvania, is,
at about 40° 15' N. lat., again cut by the Susquehanah. Beyond the
latter stream, advancing north, this chain becomes more broken, less
identified, and gradually depresses into table land near Utica, in the
state of New-York ; it is, however, no doubt, the same continuous
ridge that forms the mountains west of Lake George and Lake Cham º and is ultimately lost in Canada, between the St. Lawrence and
ichlieu rivers. •
Cumberland Mountain, by the various local names of Laurel hill,
Chestnut ridge, and Cumberland mountain, properly so called. This
ridge leaves the north boundary of Tennessee between the sources of
Cumberland and Clinch rivers; than in a northeast by east direction
of one hundred miles, forms the limit between the states of Virginia
and Kentucky, unto the head of Big Sandy, where the mountain en
ters Virginia, and turns to nearly northeast, which course it main
tains through the residue of Virginia and entirely across Pennsylvania,
finally disappears near Angelica in the state of New-York.
Beside these two chains of mountains, the region in review pos
* See table page 187, in which it ought to be noted, is omitted to be included
a small tract of 520 square miles in Maryland. º
J
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 253
sesses a very distinctive range of hills, which though less elevated
than the mountains, forms a very prominent feature in the geography
of the country. This range of hills branches from Cumberland
mountain, at the head of the Elk branch of Great Kenhawa, and the
sources of the Monongahela, and pursuing a course very nearly north between the waters of the latter stream and those of Ohio, enters
ennsylvania, and passing by Waynesborough and Washington, is
cut through by the Ohio five miles below Pittsburg. Beyond the latter river, the ridge continues north between the waters of the Ale
ghany and Big Beaver rivers, is only terminated by the southeast side
of Lake Erie. - - 
The peculiar conformation of this region accounts for the curious
manner in which its rivers flow ; the principal of which are, Ohio,
Big Beaver, Aleghany, Monongahela, Youghiogheny, Cheat, Tiger
Valley, Great Kenhawa, Little Kenhawa, Big Sandy, Clinch, and
Tennessee.
The Ohio is formed at the city of Pittsburg by the confluence of
the Aleghany and Monongahela rivers. The stream is about 1000
yards wide at its commencement, with a gentle current. The Ohio
first flows northwest, thirty miles, to the mouth of Big Beaver, where
it wests ten or twelve miles; passes the line of demarkation between
Pennsylvania and the state of Ohio, in a short distance within the lat
ter state, and assumes nearly a south course, which it preserves to the
mouth of Fishing creek, which fails in from Virginia. , Below Fishing
creek, the Ohio turns southwest, and flows in that direction to the
mouth of Big Sandy, where it leaves the state of Virginia.
. The beauty and variety of the banks of this noble river has been
noticed. The scenery is more bold in Pennsylvania, and opposite
to the north elongation of Virginia than farther down in Kentucky and
the state of Ohio. One bank above Fishing creek is generally bold,
sometimes precipitous ; the opposite always an extremely rich, allu
vial bottom. - 
Cultivation of the soil, and other improvements, have advanced, and
are advancing with a rapidity that can scarce claim credit. Under
a review of the towns, this progressive state of society will be noticed
in detail. 
Big Beaver rises partly in Pennsylvania, and partly in the state of
Ohio; is a short but important river. It is interrupted by falls seven
miles above its mouth ; above the falls this stream is navigable 50
or 60 miles into both states, out of which it draws its waters.
The falls afford a fine seat for machinery, which has been much
improved. Some saw mills, grist mills, a furnace, forge, oil mill,
fulling mili, wool and cotton carding machines, have been erected.”
This place admits of indefinite improvement. The mass of water is
such, and height of the ſalis, as to permit the erection of any supposed
number of machines with any power that could be demanded.
.ſlleghany river. This is a very important streato, and may, at no
distant day, form one of the principal inks between the countries
* Ohio and Mississippi Navigator,page 73.
254 - EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
east and west of the Aleghany mountains; its physical position can
not be examined with too much care.
This river rises in Potter county in Pennsylvania, and flowing northwest, by the bends of the stream about fifty miles, then enters
the state of New-York; a few miles within which, at the junction of
Olean creek, stands the Hourishing village of Hamilton. Below
Hamilton, the river flows some distance west, inclines again north
west, receives several large branches from the state of New-York,
gradually assumes a southwest course, again enters Pennsylvania, and
continuing that direction to the town of Warren, there receives from
the northwest Chatauque river.
This stream issues from Chatauque lake, the extreme head waters
of which rise within 8 or 10 miles of Lake Erie. To the northeast
of Chatauque lake lies Buffalo swamp, a large morass of fifteen or
twenty miles in length, and three or four wide, out of the south ex
tremity of which a large creek issues, and falls into Chatauque creek
below the lake. - /
After receiving Chatauque river, the Aleghany continues south
west to the mouth of French creek. The latter rises in the south
west angle of the state of New-York, flows southwest to Meadville
sixty miles, winds to the southeast, and pursuing that course about
forty miles, falls into the Aleghany at Franklin. The united streams
continue nearly southeast to Kitaning, then southwest to the city of
Pittsburg.
Below Franklin, no branch of any consequence joins the Aleghany
river from the right bank, but several unite with it from the left, which
serve to augment its volume of water, and add to its navigable use
fulness. 
Toby's creek rises in M'Kean, flows southwest by west through
Jefferson, joins the Aleghany river in Venango county; its entire
length exceeding one hundred miles.
Sandy Lick creek, and two or three others, fall into Aleghany river
between Toby's creek and the Kiskiminitas river. This latter stream
rises east of the Chestnut ridge, through which it passes in its course
to the westward. The extreme southern source of the Kiskiminitas
is the Conemaugh river, rising near the town of Somerset, in the val
ley between the Aleghany mountain and Chestnut ridge; the stream
flows along the valley to the northwest, thirty miles, receives a large
accession of water by a creek from the opposite direction. The
united streams turn suddenly west, and pierce the Chestnut ridge,
forming an enormous passage, visible from the apex of the Aleghany
mountain 30 or 40 miles distant. This affords one of the finest and
most extensive prospects in America. On the road from Bedford to
Pittsburg, by Youngstown, the Aleghany mountain is passed oblique
iy; from the summit of which the beautiful valley of Somerset lies
expanded as an immense picture, with the long softened line of Chest
nut ridge on the back ground ; and to close the delightful landscape,
the immense gap formed by the Conemaugh, seems to invite the tra
veller to the still more fertile regions beyond the Imit of his view.
The sources of the Conemaugh, and those of the Juniati approach
within a short distance of each other. The Aleghany mountain in
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 255
tervening, the possibility of an artificial communication is doubted.
There are no falls of any particular consequence in the Kiskiminitas,
and without considerable expense, this stream might be rendered navi
gable above the Chestnut ridge. Salt water has been discovered of ex
cellent quality; coal, in immense bodies, and iron ore abound upon
different branches of the Kiskiminitas, and Conemaugh proper.
Two canals have been projected to unite the waters of Lake Erie
with those of the Aleghany river. The first by French creek to Wa
terford or Erie; the second by Chatauque lake. It is confidently
asserted that no serious impediment exists to prevent the completion
of either of the foregoing channels of communication.
An object, however, of direct, and certainly practicable utility, is
the opening of a direct road from Newburgh, or Kingston, in the state
of New-York, to Hamilton, on the Aleghany. This route would no
doubt be of infinite utility to the emigrants from all the New-Eng
land states, by saving them from a painful, circuitous, and expensive
journey through New-Jersey and Pennsylvania to Pittsburg. In the
list of roads at the end of Chap. VII. will be shown the relative dis
tances by the various roads; of course, the emigrant can make his own
selection. The current of the Aleghany river, though rapid, is not
impeded by falls; therefore, an uninterrupted navigation from Hamil
ton to Pittsburg has been opened, and must add greatly to the wealth
and commercial facility of the western country in general.
The Monongahela river flows in the same valley with the preceding
stream, but in a directly opposite direction. This valley, or minor
basin, is bounded west by the ridge of hills noticed in page 252, but on
the east, in part by Chestnut ridge, and in part by the Aleghany
mountain ; and affords an additional proof that the river basins are
but very little, if at all, influenced by the chains of mountains. 
The Monongahela rises in the state of Virginia, near as far south
as 38° north lat. interlocking with the south branch of Potomac by
its east fork, and with Little Kenhawa, and Elk river of the Great
Kenhawa, by its west fork.
The east branch is generally known by the name of Tiger valley
river, which, like the Conemaugh, pierces the mountains in its way
to the main stream : it is navigable into the Green briar valley;
boats have descended from this elevated region to New-Orleans, with
flour and other produce.
After the junction of the Monongahela, or west branch with the
Tiger valley river, thirty miles above Morgantown, and forty above
the Virginia line, the united stream forms a fine navigable river,
extremely rapid, but without falls, or extraordinary rapids.
The length of the Monongahela, in Virginia, is about one hundred
and twenty miles, following the main stream, and nearly a like dis
tance following the channel of the Tiger valley branch.
Cheat river, joins the Monongahela a short distance within Pennsyl
vania. The latter river rises in Virginia, near the southwest corner of
Maryland, between the sources of the north branch of Potomac and
those of Tiger valley. Rising east of Chestnut ridge, this stream
flows to the north sixty or seventy miles, then turns abruptly west
through the mountain, and finally forms a junction with the main
256 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
stream, as has been noticed. At a distance of ten or twelve miles
from the Chestnut ridge, the Monongahela, after receiving Cheat river,
pursues a north course of about seventy miles, following the windings
of the stream to its junction with the Youghiogheny. The latter
river is the longest and largest branch of the Monongahela, having its
source nearly as far south as that of Cheat river. The Youghioghe
my rises in Maryland, between the head streams of the north branch
of Potomac and those of Cheat river, flows north, fifty or sixty miles,
enters Pennsylvania, and continuing north along the valley between
Aleghany mountain and Chestnut ridge, receives a large branch from
the neighbourhood of the town of Somerset, then turns northwest,
passes Chestnut ridge by Ohiopyle falls, and continuing that course
sixty or seventy miles, forms a junction with the Monongahela,
eighteen miles by water above the city of Pittsburg. Below the
mouth of Youghiogheny, the Monongahela is a gentle current, about
480 yards wide.
Comparing the two rivers together, the Aleghany is no doubt the
main branch ; at the junction, its current is much more rapid than its
rival. The physiognomy of the two rivers are also very distinct.
The water of the Monongahela is turbid, of a brown colour ; that of
the Aleghany extremely limpid and pure.
Though deriving, perhaps, two-thirds of its water from the Alegha
ny, the Ohio evidently preserves the features of the Monongahela
river. The junction of these two streams, and the peculiar range of
their respective sources, render Pittsburg one of the most interesting
positions in the interior of North America.--Stretching through four
degrees of latitude, and flowing in opposite directions, the Aleghany
and Monongahela open like two immense arms to engrasp the com
merce of the whole of West-Pennsylvania, part of Virginia, Maryland,
and New-York. They do so in fact, and since the beginning of this
century, Pittsburg has become, from an inconsiderable village, a city
containing from twelve to 15,000 inhabitants, and concentrating an
immense commercial and manufacturing capital, the detail of which
will be given under the article towns.
Little Kenhawa, rises west of the Chestnut ridge, or more correctly,
Cumberland mountain ; it is a stream of no considerable consequence,
falling into the Ohio at Parkersburg. How far this stream could be
rendered subservient to form a connexion between the east and west
side of the Aleghany mountains, has never been shown by any public
document that has reached our hand.
Great Kenhawa, is a large, and from its position, a very important
river. A remarkable resemblance exists in the physical structure of
the Kenhawa and that of the Ohio; though the former is on a much
smaller scale than the latter.
The Great Kenhawa is formed by two branches, the Kenbawa
proper, and Green-briar river.
Kenhawa rises in North Carolina at 36° north latitude. The
sources of this river are actually east of the Aleghany mountain. Its
course is first nearly north, passing the mountains into the Aleghany
valley obliquely. Near Ashe court-house, this river assumes the
range of the latter valley, and, at a distance of about forty miles, en
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 257
ters Virginia, and continuing sixty miles northeast to Inglisville, there
turns northwest by north, passes the Aleghany mountains, and enters
Cumberland valley, over which it meanders about seventy miles, and
receives from the northeast Green Briar river. The latter river
rises in Cumberland, or Green Briar valley, and flows southwest by
west in all its length of about one hundred miles. Jackson's river,
the northwest branch of James's river, approaches to within a very
short distance of Green Briar river; the two streams indeed flow
nearly parallel to each other, having only the Aleghany mountain be
tween them, and what is remarkable, Jackson river assumes its direct
course towards the Chesapeake Bay, nearly opposite to the great
bend of Kenhawa, the two rivers flowing in nearly the same line,
though in contrary directions.
Below its junction with Green Briar the Great Kenhawa flows
northwest forty or fifty miles, passes Cumberland mountain by con
siderable falls; below which the stream, upwards of three hundred
yards wide, pursues nearly a north course of one hundred miles, falls
into the Ohio at Point Pleasant 38° 55' north latitude. 
Elk river rises near the sources of the Monongahela and Little
Kenhawa, and flowing southwest by west one hundred miles, joins
the Great Kenhawa at Charleston.
From its geographical position, no branch of the Ohio is so ſavoura
bly situated as the Great Kenhawa to become part of the channel of
connexion between the Atlantic Ocean and the basin of Ohio. None
of the rivers whose sources are drawn from the Aleghany valleys, are
more navigable, with the exception of the falls in passing the moun
tains. In the various projects for uniting the two great parts of our
country, this stream has arrested great attention.—(See articles ca
mals, and also Appendix No. X.)
Great Sandy river forms the boundary between Virginia and Ken
tucky; it is about one hundred and thirty miles in length, rising in
Cumberland mountain. One half the course of this river is naviga
ble for batteaux of considerable burden. It is upon the Great Sandy
that the reed cane (arundo gigantea) is first found in large quantities
advancing from north to south ; this grass is found, though in less
quantity, on the Great Kenhawa.
Cities, towns,—productions,—proposed canals.-PITTSBURG is
in every respect the principal town, not only of the Ohio valley, but,
New-Orleans excepted, of the whole waters of the Mississippi. It
was created a city by the legislature of Pennsylvania, at the session
of 1815–16.
Travellers are almost always disappointed on entering this city ;
there is but one point of approach that affords a good view of the
place; that is the apex of the coal hill, in the road from Washington
in Pennsylvania. The city is built upon the peninsula between the
Aleghany and Monongahela rivers; the ground plan is nearly in
form of a triangle. The bottom upon which the town of Pittsburg
was originally laid out, is now nearly filled with houses ; a suburb
has been laid out upon the Aleghany called the northern liberties,
and another upon the Monongahela. The former, from the width of
the bottom from the river to the hill, and from the circumstance of the
º
33
258 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
turnpike road ſrom the eastward entering through it, is extending ra:
pidly; the suburb upon the Monongahela cannot increase considera
bly for want of room between Ayres hill and the river. 
There are four other villages, however, that are virtually suburbs
of Pittsburg; Birmingham, upon the left bank of Monongahela, oppo
site Ayres hill; Aleghany, upon a fine second bottom of that stream,
opposite Pittsburg; Lawrenceville, two miles above Pittsburg, upon
the same side of the Aleghany; and a street running along the left
bank of Monongahela, opposite Pittsburg. When this city and vici
nity was surveyed by the author of this treatise, in October, 1815, there were in Pittsburg 960 dwelling houses, and in the suburbs, vil
lages, and immediate outskirts, about 300 more, making in all 1260,
and including inhabitants, workmen in the manufactories, and la
bourers, upwards of 12,000 inhabitants.
This city is literally a work-shop, and a warehouse for the immense
country below, upon the Ohio and other rivers. On a cursory sur
vey, when viewing the iron foundries, glass-houses, and other crea
tive machinery, it is not easy to imagine where the products can be
disposed of; but a review of the emigration over the mountains will
soon remove this wonder. It will be useless to load the pages of
this treatise with the names of the various owners of machinery, but
a recapitulation of the objects of human wants must be interesting to
every emigrant who intends to visit this real phenomenon.
A large steam grist mill, capable of grinding into flour sixty thou
sand bushels of wheat annually. Three breweries, in which are
made an immense quantity of beer, porter, and ale. One nail fac
tory, including the manufacture of many other objects, in which are
manufactured nearly 80,000 dollars worth of ironmongery annually.
Two extensive air foundries, in which are cast excellent cannon and
cannon balls, smiths' anvils, sad irons, stoves, pots and kettles of all
kinds, sugar boilers and cylinders cast, and the latter turned.
Of ironmongery, are now made, sheet iron, nails and nail rods,
shovels, tongs, axes, mattocks, hoes, adzes, drawing knives, cutting
knives, vices, scale beams, plain bits, chisels, spades, and, in fine,
every object necessary in a country of this kind.
Locks, hinges, hasps, screws, but-hinges, bridle bits, buckles, and
stirrup and saddle irons, are all manufactured. 
Waggons, carts, and drays, with every single substance that can
enter their composition, and every tool, (perhaps saws excepted) ne
cessary to their construction, are made in this city. 
In November, 1815, there were neither coach or harness maker in
the city; if that is still the case, an excellent opportunity is offered
to any person acquainted with either or both those occupations.
Perhaps of all the wonders of Pittsburg, the greatest is the glass ſac
tories. About twenty years have elapsed since the first glass-house
was erected in that town, and at this moment every kind of glass,
from a porter bottle or window pane, to the most elegant cut crystal
glass, are now manufactured. There are four large glass-houses, in
which are now manufactured, at least, to the amount of 200,000 dol
lars annually.
*
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 259
Pottery is carried on in Birmingham, where excellent stone and
black ware are made ; common red ware is also manufactured to
great amount.
To the above may be added, white lead, red lead, buttons, wheel
irons, knitting needles, silver plating, stocking weaving, suspenders,
boots, shoes, hats, saddles, bridles, bells, stills, copper kettles, brushes
of every kind, curry combs, trunks, brass and iron candlesticks, and
in fact an infinity of objects of daily demand, brought a few years
past from Europe.
Cotton and woollen cloth is also made extensively, consisting of
blankets, vest patterns, hosiery, coarse and fine cottonade, and broad
cloth.
Except the gratifying reflection arising from the review of so much
plastic industry, Pittsburg is by no means a pleasant city to a stran
ger. The constant volumes of smoke preserve the atmosphere in a
continued cloud of coal dust. In October, 1815, by a reduced calcu
lation, at least 2000 bushels of that fuel was consumed daily, on a
space of about two and a quarter square miles. To this is added a
scene of activity, that reminds the spectator that he is within a com
mercial port, though 300 miles from the sea. 
Several good inns, and many good taverns, are scattered over the
city ; but often, from the influx of stangers, ready accommodation is
found difficult to procure. Provisions of every kind abounds; two
markets are held weekly.
The circumstance which has contributed most, after its relative
position, to secure the prosperity of Pittsburg, is the enormous mass
of mineral coal, that exists in its vicinity. The coal, like all other
fossil bodies in the Ohio valley, rests in horizontal strata, about three
and a half feet thick, of very pure bituminous coal. The strata are 340
feet above low water level, or about 290 above the level of Pittsburg;
consequently a falling body from the moment of issuing from the
mouth of the mine, until placed in the cellar of the consumer. The
medium price, six and a quarter cents per bushel, or two dollars and
twenty-five cents per chaldron. 
Coal abounds in every hill which rises more than four hundred feet
above low water mark: where less than eighty or one hundred feet
of incumbent earth rests upon the coal bed, the quality of the mineral
is found greatly depreciated. It has been already noticed, that the
coal strata are perfectly level with each other. In the neighbour
hood of Pittsburg they are divided into three separate bodies; the
first, and perhaps most extensive, is west of the Monongahela, the se
cond, on the peninsula upon which the city stands, and thirdly, north
west of the Aleghany river. The supply of the city is taken princi
pally from the beds of the second repository, though an ilmmense
quantity is also brought from the first.
Two bridges are, by an act of the state legislature, to be built
over the Monongahela and Aleghany rivers, in places best calculated
to facilitate intercourse with the adjacent country, and to unite toge
ther the scattered and detached fragments of the same commercial
community,
260 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
It may be here observed, that the towns of the interior of the Uni ted States may be considered in a double point of view; their poli tical and commercial character. Respecting the first, each town, appropriately, belongs to the state or territory to which it is attached; in the second, as depots, their exclusive features are merged in the general picture of intercourse, where all parts are confounded in one
entire whole.
. As it respects political regulations, Cincinnati, in Ohio, and New port, in Kentucky, are totally distinct; commercially, they are the same. Pittsburg and its suburbs, as far as internal policy is concern ed, have different regulations, and are subject to municipal authority of different powers; but as parts of a moral, agricultural, and com mercial society, the town and suburbs differ no more from each other, than do the streets of each other taken separately. The same obser vation may be illustrated by the connexion between Boston, Cam: bridge, Charlestown, and Roxbury; by New-York, Brooklyn, and Paulus’ Hook; and Philadelphia and its Liberties, with Campden in
New-Jersey. Perhaps no circumstance respecting Pittsburg, or any part of the valley of the Ohio, could more justly claim the interest of the reader than the following letter. When in Pittsburg, the author of these observations had the curiosity to carry the volume containing this in valuable document to the very point from where it was written sixty two years before, and there read its contents. The description of
the rivers and other durable features in nature are admirably appro priate: but the thick forest that then covered the point has disappear ed, and a flourishing city has arisen. The pleasing circumstances of reminiscence that the perusal of this letter must create are numerous; the immortal mind that dictated it has performed his earthly services, and has gone to the fruition of his reward; but his name and his ex ample must endure to cheer, to animate, and console mankind, as long as literature remains to record virtue, and stimulate to its imitation. When the reader on the spot casts a retrospective glance upon the history of the last seventy years, and recalls the days of the youth of WASHINGTON; when he reviews the events that have changed, not only this, then dreary waste, to a smiling picture of active indus: try and domestic happiness, but remembers also how much the acts of
this youth during his ripened manhood, contributed to this change, his heart must dilate with mingled sensations of pleasure, of gratitude, and admiration.
“The excessive rains and vast quantity of snow which had fallen, prevented our reaching Mr. Frazier's, an Indian trader, at the mouth of Turtle creek, on Monongahela river, till Thursday, the 22d (No vember, 1753). We were informed here, that expresses had been sent a few days before to the traders down the river, to acquaint them with the French general's death, and the return of the major part of the French army into winter quarters. “The waters were quite impassable without swimming our horses, which obliged us to get the loan of a canoe from Frazier, and to send Barnaby Currin and Henry Steward down the Monongahela with our
º
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 261
baggage, to meet us at the forks of Ohio, about ten miles; there to
cross the Aleghany.
“As I got down before the canoe, I spent some time in viewing
the rivers, and the land in the fork, which I think extremely well
suited for a fort, as it has the absolute command of both rivers. The
land at the point is twenty, or twenty-five feet above the common
surface of the water ; and a considerable bottom of flat, well timbered
land all around it, very convenient for building. The rivers are
each a quarter of a mile, or more, across, and run here very near at
right angles; Aleghany bearing northeast, and Monongahela southeast.
The former of these two is a very rapid, and swift running water; the
other deep and still, without any perceptible fall.
“About two miles from this, on the southeast side of the river, at
the place where the Ohio company intended to erect a fort, lives
Shingiss, king of the Delawares.”
The spot alluded to in this extract is now the site of the city of
Pittsburg; and through which, from the first of April to the first of
November, 1815, passed upwards of twenty millions of dollars worth
of merchandise. This assertion may be doubted, but it is founded
upon a careful survey made by the author. The document was re
ceived from the merchants upon the spot. The importations of 1815,
certainly exceeded the ordinary amount; but if the iron and pot
metal used in the work-shops, and which are brought from the Lau
rel hill, and Juinata forges and furnaces are added to other objects of
commerce, 20,000,000 dollars is not too high an estimate for the an
nual amount of merchandise that passes the ware-houses of this rapid
ly increasing city. - 
Pittsburg has been very justly considered as a common centre to
the adjoining country; but it is more, from the very extensive mer
cantile connexions of this city, the emigrant can receive more accu
rate intelligence here than in any other place west of the Aleghany
mountains, upon most subjects of inquiry.
There are in Pittsburg five or six places of public worship, one
academy, several private schools; four banks, three or four printing
offices, and two large book stores. A public library has been com
menced, but not any considerable progress made in the collection of
books.
Mr. Robert Patterson has established upon the banks of the Alegha
ny river, above the northern liberties, a paper-mill upon a large scale,
in which excellent paper of almost every kind necessary for the
consumption of the city and neighbourhood is manufactured.
In brief, this city has within a few years assumed the form and
features of an immense mercantile and manufacturing depot. In it
men of all trades and professions may either find employ, or receive
information where employ may be found.
Brownsville, in Fayette county, stands, in point of wealth and po
pulation, next to Pittsburg, amongst the tows in West Pennsylvania.
* Report of Major, afterwards General, Washington, to Governor Din.
widdie. 
262 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
In this estimate, Bridgeport, above the mouth of Dunlap's creek, is
included. Those two towns have been formed into separate bo
roughs; but in all relations of society and commerce, they are strict
ly one and the same.
The site of Brownsville is singular and picturesque. The banks
of both Dunlap's creek and the Monongahela river are high, with a
very narrow bottom skirting the latter. The town is built upon the
slope of the hill, the houses rising above each other to a considerable
height. The difference of elevation between the houses upon the
Monongahela, and those in the highest part of the town, must exceed
three hundred feet.
Bridgeport was commenced upon the bank of the Monongahela,
above the mouth of Dunlap's creek. The bottom is here considerably
wider than at Brownsville ; the town has however ascended the hill,
and, from the opposite bank of the river, has, like its counterpart, the
pleasing appearance of the steps of an amphitheatre.
In the neighbourhood of these two towns is the oldest, best popula
ted, and best cultivated settlements in West Pennsylvania. An immense
number of machines of different kinds have been erected, either in
the towns or immediate neighbourhood. Coal is abundant, and from
the peculiar structure of the ground, still more convenient than in
Pittsburg. The streets actually pass over the coal stratum; of course
this fuel is dug out amongst the houses. 
This place has been remarkable, since the first settlement of the
country, for boat building. Very considerable number of emigrants
from the southern parts of Pennsylvania, and from Virginia and Ma
ryland, take water here. Boats can always be had at very short
notice, of any description demanded. 
The great road from Washington city to Wheeling in Virginia,
passes Brownsville; from the former place it is distant 220 miles, and
from Wheeling, by the road, 57; but following the bends of the Mo
nongahela and Ohio rivers, 152 miles.
The active capital now employed in the banking, mercantile,
manufacturing, and agricultural establishments near Brownsville, is
very great, and annually increasing. Landed property is now high,
and must probably remain so, if not advance.
Some of the best flour mills in the western country is in this neigh
bourhood. The Monongahela flour is the most esteemed in Natchez
and New Orleans, of any that comes down the Mississippi river, and
many of the best brands are from Red Stone, Dunlap's, and Ten Mile
creeks.
There is one bank, and one printing office, in Brownsville; several
gºod public houses are also established, where strangers can be ac
commodated with comfort, and at the cheapest rate of any town west
of the Aleghany mountains. The society of Friends have given tone
to public manners; some of the most wealthy, respectable, and influ
ential of the inhabitants are of that community. There is perhaps no
part of the Ohio valley where a benevolent mind would be more gra
tified to review, than this singularly active, industrious, and flourish
ing settlement. No section of the country, of which it forms a part,
where the manners of the inhabitants are more polite and attentive to
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 263
the traveller. A bridge over Dunlap's creek unite the towns. The
increased population of Brownsville and Bridgeport must now amount
to between three and four thousand. 
Of the other towns in the neighbourhood of Pittsburg and Browns
ville, the most remarkable are, Washington, Morgantown, Union,
Somerset, Greensburg, Kittaning, Franklin, Meadville, Erie, Water
ford, Hamilton, Butler, Beaver, Charleston, and Wheeling.
Washington, the seat of justice for Washington county, stands upon
one of the head branches of Chartier's creek, upon the road from
Brownsville to Wheeling, as also upon the road from Pittsburg to
Wheeling. It is of course a kind of thoroughfare. This town is
situated amidst a fertile, well cultivated, but broken country, amid
the ridge of hills described in page 252. ~,
The author recollects having, when a boy, collected hazelnuts
upon the very spot where the court-house of Washington now stands.
At this epoch the town contains an elegant court-house, an academy,
several private schools, two printing offices, a very large steam flour
mill, and many other public and private edifices for commercial and
manufacturing purposes, and upwards of 400 dwelling-houses, with
2500 inhabitants. From the apex of a hill upon the road from
Washington to Brownsville, about two miles from the former, the
Chestnutridge can be distinctly seen in a long, blue line, rising above
the distant horizon. This is the first place where, we believe, any
part of the Aleghany mountains can be seen when advancing from
Ohio eastward in the peninsula between the Monongahela and Ohio
rivers,
JMorgantown is the seat of justice for Monongahela county in Vir
ginia; it is an inconsiderable village, on the right bank of the Monon
gahela river, consisting of sixty or seventy dwelling-houses, a few
stores, a court-house and jail, with perhaps 500 inhabitants.
Uniontown, called formerly, from its owner, Beesenstown, is the
seat of justice for Fayette county, and is situated upon both sides of
Bedstone creek, eleven miles southeast of Brownsville, upon the road
from the latter place to Baltimore and Washington city. Union is a
pleasant and agreeable village; the adjacent country is waving,
though not very hilly. Some good public houses are to be found in
this town, where good accommodations can be procured.
In Union are, of public edifices, a court-house, jail, two or three
places of public worship, an academy, several private schools, and a
great number of water, grist, and saw mills, either in the town or vi
cinity. The reader may be somewhat surprised to hear of grist and
saw mills propelled by water in the midst of a town'; but the circum
stance arises in Union, from the peculiarity of its site. The bottom
upon which the town is built is not considerably elevated above the
level of Redstone creek; a dam is laid over the stream above the
town, from which two or three races are conducted, all of which tra
verse the town.
The number of inhabitants in Union are about 1200, for whom,
and those in the vicinity, one weekly newspaper is published.
Greensburg is the seat of justice for Westmoreland county, and is
pleasantly situated upon the great road from Pittsburg to Philadelphia,
264 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
twenty-six miles from the former city. The country near Greens
burg is fertile and well cultivated. There is nothing very remarka
ble to distinguish from the ordinary seats of justice in the respective
counties adjacent. Its present population is about 800.
Somerset is remarkable, as being the most eastern town of any con
sequence in West Pennsylvania, and except Hamilton in the Ohio
valley. It is the seat of justice for Somerset county, and stands near
the head streams of both the Youghiogheny and Conemaugh rivers,
but upon those of the latter. This town stands upon the south road
from Pittsburg to Bedford, and contains about 100 dwelling-houses,
many of them elegant, and about 500 inhabitants. The mountain
valley in which this town is situated, is the abode of health, and pure,
though often keen air. 
Kittaning, the seat of justice for Armstrong county, Pennsylvania,
is a small, but an agreeable and thriving village, upon the left bank of
the Aleghany river, about 35 miles by land northeast from Pittsburg.
This town is of less consequence to emigrants, from not standing upon
any of the great roads from the eastward.
Franklin occupies the point between the Aleghany river and French
creek, and ought to be, from its position, a place of great conse
quence : it has not yet progressed equal to what might have been ex
pected from its local advantages."
Meadville, the seat of justice for Crawford county, stands upon the
left bank of French creek, and is a thriving commercial town, sur
rounded by a rich, well cultivated, and fertile country. The in
crease of this latter town has no doubt contributed to retard the ad
vance of Franklin. Meadville now contains seven or eight hundred
inhabitants. It is upon the road from Pittsburg to Erie.
Waterford, in Erie county, is the point of contact between the
commerce of the Canadian lakes, by Erie, and that of the valley of
Ohio, by Pittsburg. A very fine turnpike road has been formed
from Erie to Waterford, which greatly facilitates the transport of
goods over this portage of fifteen miles. , Waterford is now in a flour
ishing state, has fine public inns, stores for goods, warehouses, and in
fact assumes the appearance of a commercial depot.
Erie, formerly Presqu’isle, is situated upon lake Erie. The site of
this town was not originally in the limits of Pennsylvania, but a pur
chase from the state of New-York. This town is now, and always
must remain, a place of great importance. Its position is extremely
well adapted to connect the northern lakes with the waters of the Ohio.
It is now a port of entry, where merchandise to an immense amount
is entered. Salt, alone, is annually disposed of here to a great amount.
Few towns of the western parts of the United States bids fairer than
this for lasting prosperity. 
Erie is the seat of justice for Erie county, and now contains about
100 inhabitants.
Hamilton, in the state of New-York, is situated on the north branch
of the Aleghany river, at the mouth of Olean creek, in Cataraugus
county. This new town has lately excited considerable attention, as
likely to form a point of contact between the waters of the Ohio and
whºse of the Susquehanna and Hudson. At Hamilton, the Aleghany

EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 265
has assumed the appearance of a river, and is from thence to Pitts
burg navigable, when the waters are but moderately swelled by rain.
Several notices of this town have appeared in the public prints,
some of which may be seen in the Appendix. The list of roads will
exhibit the relative distances from New-York to Pittsburg, by the
route of Hamilton, by Philadelphia and by Albany. The relative
position can be seen upon the attendant map.
Charlestown, on the east bank of the Ohio river, at the mouth of
Buffalo creek, and also on the east side of Wheeling, at the mouth of
Wheeling creek, are flourishing towns, though confined to little more
than one street along the banks of the river. The former of these
two towns is the seat of justice for Brooke, the latter for Ohio'county
in Virginia; they are, particularly the latter place, of considerable
commercial consequence. 
In Virginia, west of the mountains, no other towns of any particu
lar consequence exists. In Pennsylvania, beside those already no
ticed, there are several others of minor importance, but of some con
sequence to the neighbourhood where they are placed, as seats of
manufactures, stores, or of labour-saving machinery. Of this class
are, on the Monongahela, Fredericktown, on the west side near the
mouth of Ten-Mile creek; Williamsport on the same side of the river,
near the mouth of Pigeon creek; M'Keesport, on the east side, at the
mouth of the Youghiogheny river. Upon the Youghiogheny, near the
Ohiopyle falls, stands Connelstown, a small place, but remarkable for
extensive iron-works.
Some others are scattered over the country, but do not merit a dis
tinct notice.
The region we have under review, is remarkable for its mineral
wealth; more especially the most useful, iron, salt, and coal. The
former may be said to abound in a great variety of places, alcng the
entire range from the border of New-York to Kentucky. In Wir
ginia and Pennsylvania are a number of forges and furnaces, where
an immense quantity of iron and castings are made. At Brownsville,
many years past a steel manufactory has been established, which has
succeeded. The cast iron that supplies the manufactories of Pitts
burg, is mostly brought from the waters of the Kiskiminitas. The
best wrought iron from the Juniatta, not far from Bedford.
Salt water has been found upon the Conemaugh, and upon the
Great Kenhawa, and in Wyth county, in Virginia. It is now render
ed probable, that by sinking wells to a sufficient depth, that salt water
might be procured in almost any place along the western range of
the Chestnut ridge. All the salt wells yet formed from Wyth to the
Onondago, in New-York, are in this range.
Salt works are now in operation on the Conemaugh and Great
Kenhawa, where great quantity of salt is made. It is only those who
have resided twenty-five or thirty years in this country, who can
fully appreciate the benefits arising from those salt works. 
From the end of the revolutionary war down to about 1000, when
salt was first brought from Onondago, in the state of New-York, salt
was, in West Pennsylvania, five dollars per bushel, and iſ the then
value of money was taken into the account, near double the foregoing
34
266 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
rice when compared with the present standard of money. By the
introduction of salt from Conemaugh, and from the Great Kenhawa,
that necessary is now often at less than three dollars per barrel. 
In point of public utility, mineral coal disputes with salt the pre
eminence. The quantity and excellence of the latter fossil is a mat
ter of real astonishment. On both banks of the Monongahela and Ale
ghany rivers, as well as those of Ohio, to an immense extent, almost
every hill, rising more than four hundred feet above low water mark
at Pittsburg, is penetrated with coal. Whilst immense forests of
wood remain, the full value of coal cannot be developed; but every
succeeding year, by diminishing the timber, will tend to render the
importance of coal more apparent. 
Pittsburg and Brownsville have been almost created by the use of
coal. When so powerful an agent as steain is formed by a fuel so
cheaply and easily procured, the advance superinduced in the arts
measures at once the march of ages. Human belief a few years
shrunk from, and ignorance scoffed at steam ; but the present state of
the arts in the United States has reassured the former, and given the
blush'to the latter.
In a country which the writer of this article saw little better than
a wilderness only thirty-six years past, is now established every art
that can ameliorate the condition, and embellish human society.
Where he saw the rude canoe, now floats the rapid steam-boat; per
haps the highest point of perfection in human conveyance which na
ture permits.
It may not be irrelevant to notice, that the first steam-boat that
ever floated on the western waters was the New-Orleans, launched at
the city of Pittsburg, March, 1811; the numbers now on the conflu
ent waters of the Mississippi amount to near twenty, and are annually
increasing. - - *
267
CHAP. VII.
That part of the United States included in the basin of St. Law.
rence comprises about one-third part of the state of New-York; a
very small tract of about two hundred square miles in Pennsylvania;
nearly one-fourth part of the state of Ohio; all the territory of Michi
gan; about 1500 square miles in the state of Indiana; and a large
defectively known northwest territory skirting between Lakes Michi
gan and Superior, and to the southwest of the latter.
Of this region, those parts lying in Indiana, Ohio, and Pennsylva
nia, have been noticed. The northwest territory remains unexplored,
and continues in possession of the native Indians. The western parts
of New-York and the Michigan territory are the only parts of the
expanse under review, that have not been described.
Contrary to the method we have hitherto pursued, we shall pre
cede the statistical table of these two latter sections, by a review of
the natural geography of the country in which both are included.
In a review of either West New-York or Michigan, the first and
primary feature that obtrudes itself is that great inland sea, composed
of five large, and several smaller lakes. Of the large lakes, four ap
pertain to the country we are now describing ; several of the smaller
lakes are also situated within this tract.
Lake Michigan is properly composed of two lakes, Michigan pro
per, and Green bay; the latter lying to the northwest of the former.
Lake Michigan is a fine sheet of water of about 270 long, by a medial
width of seventy. The havigation in this lake is good, but the con
nexion with Huron difficult and shallow. No settlements of whites
of any considerable consequence have yet been formed upon either its
banks or confluent rivers. Most of the lands that border this lake
are the property of the aboriginal savages.
Fort Michilimakinac stands upon an island in the strait between
Michigan and Huron lakes. This town is of importance as a station
for Indian trade. The island is barren; but from its locality must,
in the advance of population and improvement, become of great im
portance. Many years past, the peltries exported from Michilimaki
nac, amounted to upwards of $230,000 annually. This post was
taken by the British during the last war, and given up at the peace.
Huron is, next to Lake Superior, the most extensive of the five
large lakes of Canada, lying in the form of a triangle; the greatest
length from Gloucester bay, the most easterly extension to Michili
makinac, 220 miles, and the greatest breadth from Fort St. Clair to
the north side of the lake, 200 miles. Huron is strictly composed of
two lakes, which are divided by the Manatoulin islands, which extend
in a long chain from the peninsula of Cabot's head to St. Mary’s
strait. This lake is navigable for ships of any size; but from the
shallowness of St. Clair river and lake, the passage into Lake Erie is
impracticable, except for small vessels. A long bay, of near seventy
miles in depth, protrudes from Huron into the Michigan peninsula, by
the name of Sagana bay. The country around Huron has been ge
nerally represented as sterile; some latter and perhaps more accurate
268 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
accounts have given a more favourable picture; all concur in describ
ing the climate as severe in winter. 
All the vast body of water from Superior, Michigan, and Huron, are carried down St. Clair river, into the small lake, of the same
name, and from thence by Detroit river into Lake Erie.
The peninsula, now known by the name of the Michigan territory,
is, except to the south, enclosed by the lakes we have noticed, and
by the southwestern extremity of Lake Erie. The entire outline of
Michigan territory is 650 miles, 500 of which is water.
Erie is, to the United States, by far the most important of the
lakes on their northern border. It is at this time the point of contact
between the British dominions in Canada, and the vitals of the west
ern states. Should the canal from the Hudson to this lake be com
pleted, its commercial importance will be greatly enhanced. When
the approaches to Lake Erie are fully examined, it excites admira
tion to behold how far its natural position is calculated to form an ex
tensive chain of connexion between different and very distant mem
bers of the United States. 
Very short canals will unite Lake Erie in two places with the Ale
ghany; another of not much greater length will bring together Caya
haga and Muskinguin rivers. A similar facility exists to open a
communication by Sandusky with Sciota, and St. Mary's with the Wa
bash. The town of Erie stands upon a good, though rather exposed
harbour. The general depth of water in this lake is sufficient for
ships of any tonnage. Marine warfare has already on its surface ex
hibited all the bold and prominent features of naval combat. One of
the most verdant of American laurels was gained on the face of Erie.
After what has been done within the lapse of the last twenty years,
it cannot be dangerous to predict that thirty more years will not elapse
before a water interior communication will extend from New-York to
New-Orleans. *
Upon the formation of the canal from Albany to Lake Erie, one
opinion is entertained by disinterested men; and one source of fail
ure only dreaded. Opposition to improvement too often creates the
obstacles which it pretends to point out; and by exciting distrust,
prepares the way for the fulfilment of its own predictions. If this
great design is completed, it will do honour to the age in which it
was projected, and to the nation by whom it will be performed. . No
doubt but to that, as to Fulton's application of steam to the impulsion
of vessels in water, the most insurmountable impediments will arise
from that distrust that seems the natural offspring of the human heart,
against all undertakings out of the common track of daily habit.
The surface of Lake Erie is by actual measurement 565 feet above
the level of tide water in the Hudson; the surface of the Mononga
hela at Brownsville, as stated by the secretary of the treasury, in his
reports on roads and canals, is 850 feet above the level of tide water in the Chesapeake ; thus it appears, the surface of Lake Erie is de
pressed 285 feet below the river Monongahela at Brownsville, or
about 240 below the Ohio at Pittsburg.
Guario, the least and most eastern of the five great lakes
of Canada, forms part of the boundary of New-York on the north

EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 269
west; it is about 200 miles in length, by 40 in width. The coun
try included in the angle between the eastern extremity of lake Erie
and the south border of New-York, is composed of table land, cut by
two rivers, Genesee and Oswego ; and chequered by numerous
lakes. This table land is divided into two unequal plains. The
lower plain extends along the entire south border of the lake, with a
width of from ten to twelve miles, bearing evident marks of having
been, at no very remote time, covered with water. The second plain
is of equal length with the former ; but of much greater extent, being
near 100 miles wide. Upon this higher plain are the sources of the
rivers Genesee and Oswego, and upon it lie that singular group of
lakes, composed of Oneida, Onondago, Otsego, Skeneateles, Owasco,
Cayuga, Seneca, Crooked lake, Canandaigua, Honeoye, Long, Hem
lock, and Canesus. - 
Except the four latter, which are all small, and which compose, in
part, the waters of Genesee, the others are branches of the Oswego
river.
The Genesee river rises in Potter county, in Pennsylvania, inter
locking with the sources of the Aleghany river, and flows northeast
by north over the state of New-York one hundred and twenty miles in
length, falls into Lake Ontario at very nearly mid distance from its
eastern and western extremities. This river is interrupted by a
fall of seventy-five feet perpendicular, about twelve miles from its
mouth.
Oswego river is one of the most singular streams on earth; its
western branch, Seneca river, is formed by the group of lakes that
have been noticed, which all extend in a nearly north and south di
rection. Their discharge is to the north, into Seneca river. The
course of the Seneca is from west to east, receiving also a number
of creeks from the south beside the discharge of the before mentioned
lakes.
Oneida river rises near Rome, by a stream called Wood creek,
which latter flowing west ten or twelve miles, joins Fish creek; the
united stream within a very short distance below their junction, di
lates inte Oneida lake. The latter lake, contrary to those on the
Seneca river, lies east and west thirty miles in length, and ten or
twelve wide. At the western extremity flows out the Oneida river,
which by a very circuitous channel of twenty or twenty-five miles,
joins with the Seneca, and forms the Oswego river. The latter
stream assuming a course northwest by north thirty miles, falls into
Lake Ontario at Fort Oswego.
It is along the higher plain, already noticed, that the waters of the
Oswego flow ; it is indeed singular, that the courses of all the chan
nels of the lakes south of Seneca river had not continued north into
lake Erie, like the lower plain : the one more elevated, bears evident
traces of having been also once the bottom of a lake.
The higher plain is not an uniform level, its surface being cut by
the numerous channels of the rivers and creeks.
It is over this great table land that the projected canal to unite
the waters of the Hudson to those of lake Erie, is to run. In the
list of roads annexed to this chapter, can be seen the distances and
270 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
elevation of the various points in the route of the canal, as published by the commissioners under whose inspection the survey was made. Upon the map of the United States, prefixed to this volume, the range of the canal is marked with the intermediate distances.
It would swell this treatise to an inconvenient size to enunerate the
various towns of West New-York, or, as is more generally known, “Genesee country.” It will be sufficient to observe, that it is among
the most productive regions of the United States. It abounds in two
of the most useful of minerals, salt and gypsum.
Onondago county seems to be the centre of these minerals, so pre cious to the people of the country where found, and also to the ad
jacent states. Immense sums are annually saved to the people of
the state of New-York from the sale of their surplus salt; gypsum
is now also becoming an object of commerce by the channel of the
Aleghany rivers. See Appendix, No. 11. Of the climate and seasons of West New-York, little can be super
added to what has been noticed in chapter 6.
The following list of roads embraces several routes, for which no
itinerary has ever before been made ; many of the relative distances
may not be entirely accurate, but we were induced to give them
from the best information on hand, as the traveller or emigrant may be benefited by the indication of new channels of communication,
though not minutely correct.
We have chosen the city of New-York as the point of departure in most cases: the reader can however adapt the distances to other
places with very little trouble.
No. 45. 
New-York to Lexington, Kentucky, by Philadelphia and Pittsburg.
Aſiles.
Newark, New-Jersey - - - - 9 9
Elizabethtown - - - - - 6 15
Bridgetown - - - - - 6 || 21
Woodbridge - - - - - 4 25 New-Brunswick - - - - - 10 35
Princeton - - - - - 18 53
Trenton - - : - - - 12 65
Bristol - - - - - - 10 76
PHILADELPHIA - - - - 20 96
The Buck - - - - - 11 96
Admiral Warren - - - - 12. 107
Downing's Town - - - - 10 129 Conestoga bridge - - - - 17 | 1.46
Lancaster - - - - - 4 || 162
Elizabethtown, upon the Susquehanna river - 11 173
Chamber's Ferry - - - - 14 || 187
Carlisle - - - - - 22 207
Shippenburgh - - - - - 21 228 Strasburgh - - * * - - 10 || 231 Fort Lyttleton - • - - - 13 || 254
Juniatta - - -. - - 10 || 264
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 271
JMiles.
Bloody Run 
- 
- 
6 270
Bedford 
- 
- 
8 || 278
Ryan's, foot of the Aleghany mountains - - 11 || 289
Stoy's Town 
- 
- 
17 || 306
Fort Ligonier - 
- 
- 12
|| 318
Young's Town 
- 
- 8
|| 326
Greensburg 
- 
- 
11 || 337
Turtle creek 
- 
- 
20 || 357
PITTSBURG 
- 
- 12
|| 369
Canonburgh 
- 
- 
18 387
Washington 
- 
- 
7 || 394
M“Cracken’s 
- 
- 
10 || 404
Alexandria 
- 
- 
7 || 411
Reefer's, Virginia 
- *
- 10
: 421
Wheeling, on Ohio river - 
- 
6 || 427
St. Clairsville, state of Ohio 
- 
10 || 437
M“Donald's 
- - 
- 7
|| 444
Enslow’s 
- 
- 
9 || 453
Wherry's branch 
- 
- 8
|| 461
Smith's 
- 
- 
5 || 466
Beamer’s 
-- 
- 
5 471
Will’s creek 
- 
- 
6 || 477
Spear's 
- 
- 
8 || 485
Morrison's 
- 
- 
41. 489
Brown's e
- 
- - 5
|| 494
Zanesville 
- 
- 
9 || 503
Beard’s 
- 
- 
12 || 515
Canaway's - 
- 
- 10
|| 525
New Lancaster - 
- 
- 8
: 533
Pursley’s 
- - 
- 11
|| 544
Craig's 
- 
- - 11 || 555
M'Coy's 
- 
- 
6 || 561
Chilicothe 
- - - 
6|| 567
Reave's Crossings *
- 
- 12
l 579
Falls of Paint creek 
- *
- 2
|| 581
Hom's 
- - 
* 20
| 601
January's, on Ohio river, - 
- 
17 | 618
Maysville, Kentucky, - 
- 
15"| 633
Washington 
- 
• - 4
|| 647
May's Lick 
- 
- 
9 || 656
Blue Lick 
- 
- 
13 || 659
Millersburg •
- 
- 
14 || 673
Paris 
- 
- 
8 || 681
Lexington 
- 
- 
20 || 701
NASHVILLE, see Nos. 26 and 39—page 199 - 275 || 976
NATCHEZ, see No. 30, page 157 

432 1438
NEW-ORLEANS, by Madisonville, see No. 8, page 40 156 | 1564
By the Levée, see No. 21, page 150 224 || 1632
272 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
From New-York to New-Orleans, by Pittsburg, and by the Ohio and
Mississippi rivers. *
- - Miles.
PITTSBURG - - - - - . 369
(See No. 12, page 46, Nos. 13 and 14, page 47, No. 27, page 154,
No. 28, page 155, and No. 29, page 156.)
NATCHEZ (see No. 28, page 155.) - - 1613| 1982
NEW-ORLEANS (see the preceding tables) - 22312205
The stationary distances on the Mississippi river, marked in No.
28, page 15, and those upon the Ohio, in No. 29, page 156, falls
short of any estimated distance yet published, of either of those
rivers. In the early period of navigating streams, their length has in
most instances been over-rated considerably. As it respects facility
of gaining a passage from Pittsburg to any given place below that
city, the spring months are the most favourable ; but it is also the
most dangerous season to descend the Mississippi river. For persons
who intend visiting any part of the United States, west of the Ale
hany mountains, below 38° N. lat. the month of October or Novem i. affords the safest season. In most years there is a swell in the
Ohio in one of those two months; this river but seldom closes with
ice before the middle of December, and perhaps two winters in
three not before the beginning of January.
The strictest attention to the soundness of the materials and the
solidity of the workmanship of the boats is indispensable. Most of
the accidents which happen upon the waters of the Mississippi arise
from insufficient boats. This is the more inexcusable, since of all
the vessels made to float on water, there are none in the construction
of which so little need be sacrificed to lightness, as in the arks, made
to float upon the various streams of the western states. When made
from good timber and plank, and skilfully formed, the ark is a pleasant
and safe vessel in which to descend a river.
Floating in the night, and particularly in the Mississippi, is a very
reprehensible practice, that nothing but necessity can excuse. Even
the steam-boats ought to anchor at night above Natchez; below that
city the river becomes less incumbered with timber, and below the
efflux of Atchafalaya few snags exist in the stream.
Steam-boats have, upon the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, reduced
the time and added much to the pleasure and convenience of travel
Jing. These useful vessels are increasing annually ;—it is probable
that, in 1820, thirty steam-boats will be in operation between Pitts
burg, St. Louis, and New-Orleans.
Annunciations are now made in the Kentucky papers, of arrivals
from New Orleans of merchandise by the various steam-boats, in less
than one-third the time formerly demanded to complete similar
voyages by barges. Virtually, the contiguity of New Orleans to the
Western states is diminished at least one-half by the substitution of
the impulsion of steam for that of manual labour.—See Appendix No.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE 273
No. 46.
From the S. W. to the N. E. corner of the State of Ohio.
- Miles.
From Mouth of Great Miami to North Bend
Cincinnati - - - - " 
Lebanon 
Springfield
Grayum's
Franklinton
Worthington
Byseby -
Fredericktown
Greene
Jerome
Northampton
Boston
Cleveland
Grand river .
Harpersfield
Litchfield
M. of Connequght
No. 47.
From Cincinnati to Urbana.
To Reading - - - 
Price’s
Lebanon
Waynesville
Xenia
Yellow Springs
Springfield
Urbana --:.
. .
No. 48.
* From Chilicothe to Cincinnati.
Bainbridge - - - 
Forks of the Road - 
Newmarket - 
Williamsburgh - 
Cincinnati - 
No. 49.
From Chilicothe to Marietta.
Adelphi - - - 
Collen's 
Hewet's
Harper's
Athens
John Brown's
Ewing's
--:- . . . ---
7
16
3 l
44
18
18
22
30
7
23
54
98
115
140
149
165
189
35
274 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Houghland's
Samuel Brown's
Marietta
Waterford
Sealy's
Stephen's
Salt Works
Zanesville
Hudson
Havanna
Durfield
New Lisbon
Steubenville
St. Clairsville
Moor's
Beaver
Toll-bridge
Zanesville
Prom Pittsburg to
White's
Crow’s
Beaver
Falls of Beaver
Greensburgh
Douglas
Curlen's
Youngstown
Warren
Wilson's
Bondstown
Paynesville
Lake Erie
From Pittsburg, by Steubenville, to Chilicothe.
To Mark’s
Marshall’s
Bevington's Mills
Briceland's X Roads
Buchanan’s
Steubenville
From Marietta to Zanesville.
:
From Cleveland to Zanesville.
No. 50.
No. 51.
No. 52.
* *
No. 53.
:--
Paynesville, on Lake Erie.
--:-
Miles.
9
8
18
14
11
:
77
86
94
13
20
24
36
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Maxwell’s
Lattas
Day's
Cadiz
Kennedy’s
Titus’
Wilkins’
Martin’s
Wyrick's
Gambridge
Zanesville
New Lancaster
Chilicothe
Frankfort
Shelbyville
Middletown
Louisville
Clarksville
The Knobs
Beech Creek
Indian Creek
Blue River
Sullivan's Spring
Little Blue River
Big Lick
Patoka Creek
Mud Holes
Muddy Creek
White Oak Spring White River
Vincennes
No. 54.
No. 55.
- From Pittsburg to Vincennes.
To Lexington (See No. 25.) 332
From Pittsburg, via Jefferson, Pickaway Plains, to Urbana.
To Steubenville (See No. 53.) Zanesville (See No. 53.)
New Lancaster
Leather’s
Jefferson Pickaway
36
91
30
8
12
34
New London
Marlde's
Urbana
5
18
332
354
376
396
408
4] 1
416
423
429
441
458
461
469
478
487
497
505
510
525
36
127
157
165
177
211
2I 6
234
276 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. *
No. 56.
From Pittsburg to Detroit.
JMiles.
To Warren (See Nos. 52 and 59.) - - - 77, 77
Cleveland - - - - - 54! 131
Huron - - - - - 47| 178
Sandusky. - - - - - 36] 214
Fort Meigs - - - - - 32 246
River Raisin - - - - - 30| 276
Detroit | - - - - - 36, 312
No. 57.
º From Pittsburg to Philadelphia. To Turtle Creek - - - - - - I2, 12
Greensburgh - - - * - - 20|| 32
Fort Ligonier - - - - - 19|| 51
Stoystown - - - - - 12| 63
Byan's foot, Aleghany - - - - 17| 80
Bedford - - - - - 1 || 91
Crossings (Juniatta) - - - - 14; 105
Fort Littleton - - - - - 10 1 15
Skinner’s - - - - - 13; 128
Strasburgh - - - - - 3| 131
Shippensburgh - - - - - 10| 141
Carlisle - - - - - 21, 162
Chamber's Ferry - - - - - 20, 182
Elizabethtown - - - - - 14|| 196
Lancaster - - - - - 18| 214
M“Cleland's - - - - - 16] 230
Downing's - - * - - - 17| 247
Admiral Warren - - - - - 10] 257
The Buck - - - - - 12| 269
Philadelphia - - - - - 11 280
No. 58.
From Pittsburg to Buffalo, via Erie.
Duncan's - - * - - - 18, 18
White's - - - - - .13. 31
Read’s - - - - - 17| 48
Jones' (Forks) - - - - - 7| 55
Martin's Ferry - - - - - 16 71
Meadville - - - - - 15| 86
Campbell's - - " - - - 8| 94 Culbertson's - - • * - - 8] 102
Waterford - - - - - 7| 109
Reed's - - - - - - 10| 119
Erie - - - - - 5 124
Wood's - - - - - 9. 133
Canadaway - - - - - 25, 158
Eighteen Mile Creek - - - - - 48| 206
Buffalo - - - - - 18! 224
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 277
No. 59.
From Pittsburg to Warren, in the State of Ohio.
Miles
Davis’ Tavern - - e. - - - 4 4
White’s on the Ohio river - - - - 8, 12
Knox's - - * - - 19| 22
Beaver’s - - - - - 7| 29
Falls of Beaver - - - - - 3. 32
Greensburgh - - - - - 8| 40
Douglas' - - - - - 15| 55
Youngstown - - - - - 14| 69
Warren (See No. 56.) - - - - 14| 83
No. 60. 
From Pittsburg to Harrisburgh, (the northern route.)
To the Brick Tavern - - - - - 18| 18
New Alexandria - - - - -* 14| 32
Armagh - - - -- - 22, 54
Ebensburgh - - - - - 17| 7]
Munster - - - * - 7| 78
Frankstown - - - - - 16| 94
Alexandria - - - * * 17| 111
Huntingdon - - - - - 7| 118
Weansborough - - - - - 20 138
Lewistown - - - * - 10|| 148
Mifflintown -" - - - - | 1 || 159
Millerstown - - - - - 13| 172
To Clark's Ferry - - - - - 14| 186
Harrisburgh - - - - - 14| 200
No. 61.
From Union Town to Morgantown and Clarkesburgh. To Curry's - * - - - 8ſ 8
Morris, Cross Roads - - - - - 4|| 12
Morgantown - - - - - 13 25
Swearengen - - - - - - 16|| 41
Hill's Ferry - - - - - 6|| 47
Thomas’ - - - - - 8 55
Clarksburgh - - - - - 10| 65
No. 62. 
From Pittsburg to Washington City, via Winchester.
To Findley's - * - - - 9) 9 Ginger Hill - - - - - l l 20
Brownsville - - - - - 13| 33
Union Town - - , - - - 12| 45
Slack’s - - - - - 6|| 51
Clemment - - - - - 6| 57
Clark’s, forks of ro. - - - - - 4 61
Smith's, at Bridge - - - * - 7| 68
Bough's - - - - * * 1| 69
278 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Simkin's
Tomlinson's
Musselman's
Gwin forks of road
Crissapstown
Frankfort
Springfield
Coxe's
Gale's
Higgin's, Great cr.
Roger's
Rohomäe's
Pey, cwn
Winchester
Charlestown
Key's Ferry
Hillsborough
Lacey's 
Leesburgh
Hummer's
Wiley's
Fall's Church
Potomac Bridge, (Georgetown)
Washington City
From Albany to Buffalo, via Cherry Valley.
Guilderland
Princetown
Duanesburgh
Schoharie Bridge
Schoharie
Carlisle
Sharon
Cherry Valley
Springfield
Warren
Richfield
Litchfield
Bridgewater
Sangersfield
Madison
Morris’ Flats
Nelson
Cazenovia
Manlius Buffalo, (See No. 64.j
No. 63.
.
----
7
11
l
}
JMiles,
| 62
76
87
97
107
116
122
131
137
142
148
151
157
166
188
193
201
209
215
237
243
251
253
From Cherry Valley to Cooperstown, 13–Burlington, 1.1—New Lisbon, 8-Butternuts, 8–Oxford, 28.
* * * ... EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 273
No. 64.
From Albany to Buffalo, by Utica.
Schenectady
Amsterdam
Caughnawaga Palatine
Manhelm
Little Falls
Herkimer
Schuyler
Utica
New-Hartford
Westmoreland
Vernon
Sullivan
MANLIUS
Derne
Onondaga
Marcellus
Skeneateles, L.
Aurelius
Cayuga
Junius
Geneva
Seneca
Gorham
Canandaigua
Bloomfield
Lima
Avon
Genesee river
Caledonia
Southampton Batavia
Buffalo








No. 64.
The following is a list of Post Offices,
pike, leading from Newburg to Geneva, with Newburg to each town.
To Ward's Bridge, Orange County Bloomingburg, Sullivan County Monticello do. 
Whitelake do. 
Bethel do. 
Cochecton do 
Mountpleasant, Pennsylvania,
Gibson do. *
New-Milford do. 
Great Bend do. 
260
296
on the Great Bend turn
the distance from
280 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
Chenango Point, Broome County
Union do 
Nanticoke do. 
Owego do. 
Candor, Tioga County Danby do' 
Ithica, Tompkins County Trumansburg do.
Farmersville, Seneca Co.
Ovid Village do. Romulus . do.
Geneva, Ontario County
On the branch line from Ithica to Auburn,
Ludlowville, Tompkins County * * Kingsferry do.
Aurora, Cayuga County Indianfields do. - 
Auburn do.
* No. 65.
From New-York to New-Orleans, via Philadelphia, Baltimore,
See No. 31, page 158.Washington, Knoxville, and Natchez.
Păulus Hook
Newark
Elizabethtown
Bridgetown
Woodbridge
New Brunswick
Princeton
Trenton
Bristol
Holmesburg
Frankfort
PHILADELPHIA
Darby
Chester
Naaman's creek
Wilmington 
Newport 
Christina 
Elkton - 
Havre de Grace - 
Hartford - 
Joppa cross roads - 
BALTIMORE - 
Bridge over Petapsco river 
Vansville - 
Bladensburg ... - sm.
WASHINGTON." - •
Alexandria - - 

-
-----*
--
º
3
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 281
JMiles. Pohike church - - - - - 11}|243;
Ocoquhan - - - - - |248; Dumfries - - - - - 9|258
Aquia - - - - - g|267; Stafford - - - - - |272
Falmouth - - - - - 9 |281
Fredericksbur - - - - - 1;|282; Wilders , - - - - = - 20:303
Gumspring - - - - - 12"|3.15 Orange court-house - - - • - 20 |335
Charlotteville - - 4. * - 34 M369
New-York - - - - - 20 |389
Waynesboro - - - - - 7 ||396
Staunton - - * - - - 12 |408
Middlebrook - - - - - 11 |419
Brownsburg - " - - - - 1 1 |430
Lexington * - - * - 13 |443
Natural bridge - - - - - 14 |457
Pattonsburg - - - - - 12 469
Fincastle - - - - - 14 |483
Big lick - - - - - 14 |497
Christiansburg - - - - - 26 |523
Head of the Kenhawa river - - - - 14 |537
Inglisville on Kenhawa - - - - 1 1 |548
Evansham - - - - - 31 |579
Head of Tennessee river - - - - 32 611 .
Bowers - - - - - 13 |624
Kings - - - - - l6 |640
Abingdon - - - - - 10 (650
Blountsville in the state of Tenn. - - - 24 |674
Rossville - - - - - 18 |692
Rogersville * - - - - 25 717
Oresville - * * - - 22 739
Rutledge - - • - - . 12 |75|l
KNOXVILLE - - - - - 32 783
* Nashville, - - - - - 192 |975
Natchez, - - - - - 432 || 407
New Orleans, by the Levée, see No. 21, p. 150. - 224 (1631
- No. 66.
From Washington City to Marietta, by Winchester and Clarksburg.
Fairfax court-house - - - • 15|l 5
Centreville - - - - 9|24
Goshen - - - - 1136
Middleburg - - - - 9|44 Paris * - - - 12|56
Shenandoah river - - - - 460
“The reader will please to correct No. 81, page 158, by adding after Kings. ton, “To Knoxville, 42 miles.” º
36
283 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
JMiles.
Millwood
Battletown
Winchester
North mountain
Cacapon river - - 
Romney, south branch of Potomac river
Western Port - - 
Aleghany 
Youghiogheny river
Laurel mountain 
Cheat river 
Gandysville, Virginia
Tiger valley river
Clarksburg
-:
Marshville 
O, to river 
Marietta - 
See page 228, article Marietta. 
The preceding table is the mail route from Washington City to Ma rietta, and from thence to all the southern parts of the state of Ohio.
No. 67.
From New-York to New Orleans, by the Great Bend in the Susque
hanna river, to Hamilton on the Aleghany river, and thence by
water.
Cochecton, on Delaware river
Mount Maria, Pennsylvania
Bethany - 
Bridgewater 
Union, state of New-York
Nanticoke creek
Owego 
Cayula creek 
Newtown 
Painted Post
Bath 
Canistes
Angelica
HAMILTON - 
Extreme north bend of Aleghany river
Aeghany river enters Pennsylvania Warren, at the mouth of Conewango creek
Franklin, mouth of French creek 
Montgomery Falls - - 
Newburg - - - - 6969
Montgomery - - - - 71
Bloomingburg - - - - 1283
Shawngunk mountains - - 
Nevisink river, branch of Delaware 
Monticello - 
.-:-------------------- ----.----------
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 283
JMiles.
Patterson’s Falls •
- •
- 7
|| 511
Parker's Falls as
- •
- 13
|| 524
Mahoning creek 
- 
- 22
|| 546
Sloan's Ferry •
- 
e- 14
|| 560
Nicholson's Falls • - - - 7
|| 567
Kittanning - 
- 
7 || 574
Logan's Ferry •
- - 
I 1 || 585
Kiskimitas river • 
- 
5 || 590'
PITTSBURG • . - • - 25
|| 615
Logstown 
- 
• - 12
627
Beavertown, one mile below the mouth of Beaver river 10
637
Georgetown 
- 
- 
10 || 647
Faucett’s Town 
- 
- 2
: 649
STEUBENVILLE, 
- 

25 || 674
Charleston 
- 
- 
7 | 681
Warren 
- 
- 
6 | 687
WHEELING 
- 
- 
7 || 694
Longreach 
- 
- *
42 | 736
Lower end of Longreach 
- 
13 749
Little Muskingum 
- 

30 || 769
MARIETTA, mouth of Muskingum river - - 4 || 773
Vienna 
- 
- 
7 || 780
Little Kenhawa 
- 
- 5
785
Blannerhassett's island - 
- 
6 || 791
Little Hockhocking river 
- 
3 || 794
Great Hockhocking 
- 
- 6
800
Bellville 
- 
- 4
|| 804
Shade river 
- 
- 
7 || 811
Buffentin's island 
- 
- 6
|| 817
Big Sandy creek 
- 
- 4
|| 821
Letart's Falls 
- 
- 
16 837
Point Pleasant, mouth of Great Kenkawa river - 30
867
Gallipolis 
- 
- 
4 || 871
Little Guyandot river •
- 
- 16
887
Big Guyandot river 
- 
- 17
| 904
Great Sandy, eastern boundary of the state of Kentucky,
on Ohio river 
- 
- I
1 || 91.5
Little Sciota river 
- 

20 | 935
Portsmouth, Big Sciota river 
- 
10 || 945
Salt Lick 
- 
- 
8 || 953
Graham's Station 
- 
- 17
| 970
Adamsville 
- 
- 
5 975
Manchester 
- 
- 
8 || 993
Liberty 
- 
- 
11 || 994
Limestone, or Maysville 
- 
I | 995
Charleston 
- 
- 
5 1000
Augusta 
- 
- 
1 || 1001
Columbia, Mouth of Little Miami 

32 : 1033
CINCINNATI, and Newport - 
- 4
|| 1037
North bend 
- 
- *
16 || 1058
284 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
JMiles.
Great Miami - - - - - 6 || 1059
Lawrenceburg - - - - - 2 : 1061
Big-bone-lick creek - - - - 20 '1081
Port William, mouth of Kentucky river - - 30 | 1111 Westport - - - - - 36 I 147
LOUISVILLE, Falls of Ohio river * - 20 1167
Salt river - - - - - 25 | 1.192
Blue river - - - - - 32 || 1224
Little Blue river - - - - 12 1236
Sinking creek - - - - - - 20 | 1256
Clover creek - - - - - 10 1266
Anderson's Ferry - - - - 30 1296
Hanging rock - - - - - 32 1328
Green river - - - - - 30 ; 1358
Henderson - - - - - 21 1379
Diamond island - - - - - 18 1397
Wabash river - - - - - 27 1424
Saline river - - - - - 25 1449
Cave in the rock - - - - 11 || 1460
Hurricane island - - - - - 3 || 1463
Cumberland river - - - - 35 | 1.498
Smithland - - - - - 3 1501
Tennessee river - - - - - 10 1511
Fort Massac - - - - - | 8 || 1519
Wilkinsonville - - - - - 20 | 1539
Chain of rocks - - - - - 6 || 1545
Mouth of Ohio river - - - - 15 1560
NATCHEZ, see No. 7, page 39; No. 27, p. 154; and
No. 29, p. 156* - - - - 668 2228
NEW ORLEANS, see No. 7, page 39; No. 22, page
151 ; and No. 29, page 156* - - - 322 2550
The direct course from the city of New-York, to Hamilton on the
bank of Aleghany river, is about 240 miles; but as yet no direct road
exists or any mode of passing between the two places so eligible as by
Newburg. The distance from Albany to Hamilton is very near the
same as from New York.. Nothing but good roads are necessary to
permit travellers to pass from the city of New-York to the western
part of the state of New-York, and northwestern parts of Pennsyl
vania, in as short a time as the same distance can be traversed from
the city of Albany.
It will be seen, on inspecting the last route, that the length of the
Ohio is only 945 miles. Hutchins made that river 1188 miles; and
most itineraries of the United States have the latter distance inserted.
From actual survey of its banks, the Ohio measures within a trifle of
the amount given in this table.
* The reader will please to correct No. 29, p. 156, by adding 20 miles to each
aggregate distance below the mouth of Ohio. The real river traverse, from St.
£ouis to New Orleans, is 1209 miles.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 285
The length of the Mississippi below the mouth of Ohio, is 1085
miles; making the entire river distance, from Pittsburg to the mouth
of the Mississippi, 2040 miles.
No. 68.
Much attention has been given to the two projected canals to unite
the Hudson river with lakes Erie and Ontario, towards the west, and
with lake Champlain and the St. Lawrence river to the north of the
city of Albany. Like all great designs, the promulgation of these
works excited much speculation and but little investigation. The
practicability or impracticability of such immense plans, have been
adopted rather from feeling than examination into the ratio of means
to ends. Without entering into any discussion on the subject, we beg
leave to present our readers with the following syllabus of the West
ern Canal, compiled from the Report of the Commissioners who
were employed by the Legislature of the State of New-York to super
intend the survey of the intended route.
It may not be irrelevant to give a recapitulation of the peculiar
position of the country between Albany and lake Erie. In our no
tice of the region comprised in West New-York, the peculiar fea
tures of the country are described, but perhaps not sufficiently expli
cit for the present purpose.
The intended route of the Western Canal traverses two slopes and
one valley. The first slope is from Albany to Rome.
The distance from Albany to Rome, is one hundred thirteen and a
quarter miles, following the canal, rising by an acclivity of four hun
dred nineteen and one-third feet, from tide water in Hudson to the
summit level near Rome.
A short distance west of the latter village, a valley commences
which reaches to Batavia, near the sources of the Tonnewanta creek.
This valley contains the Oneida, Seneca, and Genesee rivers. The
Oneida and Genesee rivers flow rather across than down the valley.
The Genesee traverses it nearly at right angles to the two former
streams. 
Near Batavia commences the western, or lake Erie slope. The Canal Commissioners have marked two routes from the Tonnewanta
creek to the Genesee river, designated in their Report by the rela
tive terms “ North and South routes.” After detailing the distances
and expense of the south route to the Genesee river, the Commis
sioners annex to their Report the following note:
“...Note—The route of the canal, south of the mountain ridge, will
here intersect the route north of that ridge. The distance from Buf
falo to the point, eleven miles up the Tonnewanta creek, is - - * - - 27 miles,
From that point to the Genesee river, on the north route, - - es. - - 72 10 1-2 chs.
The whole distance in that direction is - 99m. 10 1-2ch.
The distance in the direction south of the ridge is supposed to be
92 miles. The whole expense, from Buffalo to the point, eleven
miles up the Tonnewanta, including a proportionate part of the allow
ance for grubbing, superintendence, &c. as estimated in Mr Peacock's
286 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
section, is $205,877. The whole expense, from that point to the
Genesee river, as estimated on Mr. Geddes's section, is as follows:
Whole expense of excavation, for 6 miles and 42 chains, - - - - $401,271
Total amount of extras, thence to Genesee river 224,378
Expense of each mile, after all extras are calcu
lated, for 65 miles 48 1-2 chains, at $2250, (for
which allowance see a subsequent part of the
Report) - - - - 147,611
On this sum - - - - - $773,260
Add for contingencies, 5 per cent. - 38,663
For superintendence, draining, and fencing, at the
rate of $1000 per mile for 72 miles and 10 1-2
chains, - - 72,125
The total amount is • * * * - $884,048
Which added to the expense from Tonnewanta to Buffalo, above stated, • - 205,877
Makes the aggregate cost of the canal from Buffalo to the Genesee river, on the north route, $1,089,925
On the south route, this cost is estimated at 780,000
Leaving a balance of expense in favour of the south route,
by these estimates, of - - $309,925.”
The routes both pass from lake Erie to the central valley;
the north route is not intended to rise above the level of lake Erie;
the south route is more direct, but rises seventy-five feet above the
level of lake Erie, at a distance from that lake of sixty-two miles.
The point where the summit level is attained in rising the acclivity
of the lake Erie slope, is the most elevated part of the intended canal,
being twenty-six and a half feet above the level, near Rome.
The distance from lake Erie, by the northern route, to Seneca
river, is about 170 miles, with a fall of 194 feet. If an artificial
river was formed without locks, crossing Genesee river by an aque
duct, the fall per mile would be something less than fourteen inches.
The possibility exists of conveying a part of the discharge of lake
Erie, down the Seneca and Oswego rivers, into the south-east part of
lake Ontario.
SYLLABUS OF THE WESTERN CANAL.
Distance in Miles. Expense.
From lake Erie to a point upon the Tonnewanta
creek - - - - - . 27 205,877
Tonnewanta to Seneca river - - 136 1,550,985
Seneca river to Rome - - - 77 853,186
Kome to Schoharie creek - - - 71} | 1,099,603
Schoharie creek to Albany - - - 42 | 1,106,087
General contingencies - - - 75,000
353; 4,881,738Aggregate of distance and expense
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 287
Rise and Fall. Feet, I Locks.
From lake Erie to Seneca river, a fall of - 194 25
Seneca river to Rome, a rise of 48; 6
Rome to Schoharie creek, a fall of - 133* | 16
Schoharie creek to Albany, a fall of
*
- 286 30
The aggregate rise and fall is - - 661; 77
Lake Erie is 56 feet higher than tide water at the city of Albany;
and 145 feet higher than the summit level at Rome.* *
The following Extract from the Report of the Commissioners, is a
Recapitulation of the route, distance, necessary labour, and ex
pense of the Northern Canal, to unite the Hudson with Lake
Champlain.
“The examination and levels for this canal, have been made under
the direction of the commissioners, by Col. Lewis Garin, and the
line for the same has been marked out upon the maps herewith pre
sented. There are two places of departure from the Hudson; in
order to connect that river with Lake Champlain, each of which
affords a very favourable route, in point of soil, to be excavated, and
of materials for the artificial works. One of these routes, by com
mencing at the mouth of Fort Edward creek, and pursuing the valley
of that creek to the summit level, and then following the ravine of
Wood creek, will reach Whitehall in the distance of twenty-two
miles. This route was formerly deemed most eligible by a board of
commissioners composed of general Schuyler and others. It is, how
ever, supposed, by the engineer, that the other route may be prefera
ble, which commences about six miles further down the river, near
the mouth of Moses' kill, and which, by the natural channel of this
kill, and of Dead creek, joined to a short length of artificial canal,
forms the summit level from whence it proceeds—partly by the na
tural channel of Wood creek, and partly by artificial cuts, which
greatly shorten the distance to Whitehall. The length of this route
is twenty-eight miles, and it passes over a soil which is, in general,
remarkably favourable, consisting principally of vegetable mould,
loam, and clay. As the northern termination of the canal, a few
yards of limestone excavation will be necessary; this, however, is
not deemed an unfavourable circumstance, as the stone are of such a
quality as will be useful in the construction of locks, and it may be
remarked that the materials for the construction of the locks between
Lake Champlain and the Hudson can be procured with little difficulty.”
Between the Hudson and Lake Champlain nine locks will be ne
cessary, viz. three at the Hudson of 7,779 feet lift each, by which
the summit level will be attained, and by a deep cutting the greatest
depth of which will be 12,465 feet, and the length of which is about
two miles ; the summit level will be extended fifteen miles, and will
terminate about one mile south of Fort Ann. At this place two
locks will be necessary of 6,217 feet lift each. Between this point
and Whitehall, two locks, the first of 8,223 feet lift, and the next of
* Commissioners Report, pages 87 and 88.
288 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE,
9,243 feet liſt, are to be made. At Whitehall, the canal is to be com
nected with Lake Champlain by two locks of 8,550 feet lift each.
—About fifteen miles of this route will need no excavation, as the ca
nal for that distance will occupy the natural channels of Moses’ kill,
Dead creek, and Wood creek. In order to turn off as much as possi-.
ble the superfluous waters of freshets, and to ensure at all times a suffi
ciency of water on the summit-level, it is proposed to erect a dam
across Half-way brook of eighteen feet in height, half a mile above
the mouth of the said brook, and by a natural ravine leading to the
south, to direct so much of the water of said brook to the summit
level, and from thence by several waste-wiers, into the Hudson, as
may be necessary for the convenience of the canal.
The water in the canal is not to be less than thirty feet wide at the
surface, twenty feet at the bottom, and three feet deep, and the locks
to be seventy-five feet long and ten feet wide in the clear.
By the mode of calculation heretofore adopted by the commission
ers, the whole expense between Lake Champlain and the Hudson, at
the mouth of Moses' kill, will not exceed two hundred and fifty thou
sand dollars.
From the mouth of Moses' kill it is proposed to improve the chan
nel of the Hudson for the purposes of navigation as far south as the
village of Stillwater at the head of Stillwater falls. This may be ef
fected in the following manner. By erecting a dam of three feet in
height across the Hudson, at the head of Fort Miller falls, the river
above as far as Fort Edward, would at all times afford a sufficiency of
water for boats drawing three feet. To overcome the descent of
Fort Miller falls, a side cut or artificial canal of about one mile in
length, and with two locks of 10,321 feet lift each, will be necessa
ry.—These works, including the dam, locks, excavation, towing path,
and all other expenses, may be estimated at fifty thousand dollars.
Two and a half miles below the south end of this canal, at the
head of Saratoga falls, a dam three feet in height is to be made across
the river, and a side cut round the falls similar to the above, of about
one mile in length, with two locks of 6,198 feet liſt each. It is be
lieved that all the artificial works at this place may be constructed for
thirty-five thousand dollars.
Thirteen miles below this place, at the head of Stillwater falls,
another dam, of three feet in height, will in like manner ensure a good
boat navigation up to the Saratoga falls.
The cost of this dam, the construction of a towing-path, with seve
ral bridges, the purchase of Schuyler's mill, which it is supposed will
be necessary, together with all the other expenses of this section, are
estimated at fifty thousand dollars.
From the village of Stillwater at a point above the dam last men tioned, it is proposed to cut an artificial canal to the village of Wa terford, where it is to be connected with the Hudson. his canal
will be supplied with water from the river at its upper end. Its
length will be nearly twelve miles, and the whole descent is 76,464
feet: which will require eight locks. The excavation of this canal
for some distance near the upper end, will be considerably expensive,
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 289
as it passes through a slate rock;
the middle and lower parts, how
ever, are very favourable.
.*
The expenses from Stillwater to
Waterford, may be estimated as
follows:
76 feet lockage at $1000 per foot, ". .
. . " 76,000
12 miles of excavation and
towing-path with bridges,
culverts, and other necessary works,
at an average
of $30,000 per mile, 


360,000
RECAPITULATION OF EXPEN SES.
From Whitehall to the Hudson, - - 
$250,000
Dam side cut, and other works at
Fort Miller falls, 50,000
Do. at Saratoga falls, 
- 


35,000
To Stillwater, including dam,
&c. 

50,000
From Stillwater to Waterford,
including lockage, - 436,000
Add for contingencies, engineers,
and superintendence, 50,000
Total, $871,000
Whether the canal from Lake
Champlain enters the Hudson at
Fort Edward creek or at Moses'
kill, is not very material in the
esti
mate of expense; and the
commissioners wish to be explicitly un
derstood, that they consider the
question as still open, and as one
which will require mature
deliberation. . It is ascertained that
both
routes are equally practicable.
37
290 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
ADVICE TO EMIGRANTS.
All instruction that can be given under this head, must be more
particularly addressed to Europeans than to citizens of the United
States. Each are, when removing over the Aleghany mountains into
the Ohio or Mississippi valley, passing into a region, to the physical
laws of which they are strangers; but the citizens of the United
States, if ignorant of the natural features of the seasons or soil, pos
sess an adequate knowledge of the moral and political institutions
of our states and territories. Though some minute shades of difference
exist between the municipal regulations of all our territorial sub
divisions, yet so much sameness prevails in the general structure, that
the intelligent man of New England does not find himself a foreigner or a stranger in Kentucky, Tennessee, or even Louisiana.
The European, however well informed upon general subjects of
jurisprudence and civil government, has, on his arrival in America,
much to learn, and in most cases much to unlearn. The natives of
the British islands, from the similarity of the government under
which they have been educated, and that of the United States and the
individual states, ought to be best prepared to enter easily into a full
comprehension of the true genius of our political and moral constitu
tions. It has been seen in practice, that a great difference exists be
tween the opinions formed by the latter class of emigrants, of our in
stitutions, and the real nature of those institutions, than could be at
first view of the subject thought possible. No doubt the resemblance
between the judicial establishments of the two countries has been con
sidered too exact, and it is also doubtless in the latter particular,
where the institutions of the United States are most in unison with
those of their political parent.
It is to men who remove to the United States with intention of be
coming citizens thereof by actual settlement, and complying with the
regulations necessary for their adoption, that these observations are
addressed.
We would most earnestly recommend a sedulous attention to the
study of the constitution of the United States and of the individual
states; as also the ordinance of 1787, under the provision which
almost all of our territories are governed.
The constitutions can be had in one volume for one or two dollars:
The better to understand the nature, scope, design, and tendency of
the constitution of the United States, a work written by Mr. Madison,
Mr. Alexander Hamilton, and Mr. John Jay, entitled the Federalist,
ought to be carefully read by every stranger, on or before his arrival
in this country, and indeed by every native inhabitant of the United
States. A new and neat edition of this very valuable mass of docu
ments has lately been given in Philadelphia, by Mr. Benjamin
Warner.
Upon the individual constitutions, no good general commentary has
been given; but they however speak in plain language for them
selves, and but seldom admit of ambiguity in their provisions.
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. - 291.
The greatest and far the most serious difference that exists between
the rights secured to or surrendered by the people, in the formation
of our various constitutions, is that of the right of suffrage. In some
states the qualifications of voters are founded upon wealth, and in
some others upon the payment of taxes. In some states there.
exist restrictive disqualifications unknown in others. The qualities
necessary to give a title to be chosen, differ also in many very
essential points. All these strong outlines ought to be known by
every person of even tolerable information who designs to become a
citizen.
A correlative duty to the foregoing is to use the proper steps to
gain a general knowledge of the great geographical features of the
country, and as minute detail of the political divisions as possible.
Though commonly thought easy, this is a task of no common weight.
From all that we have seen of the geographical delineations of the
United States, published in Europe, the most gross errors in science
and in moral deduction abound. We do not exclusively allude here
to the wretched tour-writer, whose pages are at once a libel on the
United States and a stigma upon the writer, but to the most respecta
ble publications of Europe, on the geography and topography of
America.” In Neel’s Atlas, 1814, there is a New-Jersey on the
Mississippi, an Indiana in Virginia, and a Franklinia in East Tennes
see. The same want of common precision pervades all the works on
the subject, published in either England, France, or Germany, which
have found their way into our libraries, colleges, schools or book
stores.
The emigrant, whose information has been derived from de
fective sources, must of course labour under the effects of the inac
curate materials from which that information was drawn. Every in
dividual must, to gain a true knowledge of the various parts of the
United States, resort either to Europeans who have travelled in the
country, or to native writers. All that can be gained from most of the
former class, is worse than absolute ignorance. As we do not wish to
harass the feelings of our readers with a repetition of the names of
men, who have repaid hospitality with abuse, and who have given a
finish to their characters by placing ingratitude on the foreground of
a picture that no other crime could shade, we will leave these authors
to the indignant contempt of this entire nation, and the scorn of the
generous and just of every other. - 
Since the completion of the American revolutionary war, several
Europeans have visited the United States, whose minds were too ele
vated to permit them to become libellers, and some who desired to
describe faithfully without either expressing blame or panegyric.
From such writers much useful knowledge can be gained. The
Marquis Chattellux, Brissot de Warville, and Volney, were of this
class. Their writings contain many valuable facts, upon the man
ners and customs of the people of the United States, and upon its
soil, climate, and productions.
* See page 4, of this Treatise.
292 * EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
The first travels from an author of the British islands, that has met
our observation, which had candour and good will towards the people
and their government as its basis, was Melish's travels, published about
five years past. This work, though rather verging towards panegyric,
contains much really useful information ; and possesses that one
essential requisite of fostering kindness between foreigners and na
tives.
The late work of John Bradbury deserves the highest commenda
tion. The geographical descriptions are correctly made ; but its
chief merit to emigrants is, the excellent advice it contains for the
regulation of their affairs and conduct on their arrival, and during the
first period of their settlement in America. Many of the injunctions
of this benevolent author are of the greatest import, and none we be
lieve are either deceptive or useless. Perhaps, no traveller, in the
region visited by Mr. Bradbury, can be read with more advantage.
Alexander de Humboldt was a traveller of no ordinary cast: his
mind was enlightened by science, and elevated by an intercourse
with polished society; and as he travelled this continent under all the
advantages of wealth and education, and in the Spanish colonies under
the safeguard of royal protection, his information is of the utmost
value to those who desire an extended knowledge of the various fea
tures, metallic, vegetable, and animal productions of America.
Of native writers upon the states east of the Aleghany mountains,
there have been several of great merit; but as the scope of their de
scriptions do not in general reach the regions more particularly em
braced by this treatise, an enumeration of their names can be of little
interest to the reader.
Jefferson's Notes on Virginia, in addition to the valuable topogra
phical matter it contains respecting a part of West Virginia and Penn
sylvania, affords sound information upon the climate, soil, and pro
ductions of the middle states.
Drake's Cincinnati, a work often cited in this treatise, cannot be
read too carefully by emigrants to Ohio and Indiana. This excel
lent performance gives the only collected mass of statistical matter
extant, respecting the centre of Ohio valley.
Stoddard’s Louisiana is a good collection of valuable documents,
and can be read with advantage when seeking information respecting
the now state of Louisiana or the Missouri territory.
Brackenridge's View of Louisiana is a work of great merit; the
information it contains is the fruit of a mind cultivated, liberal, and
observing. The three latter have all written their respective works
during the last ten or fifteen years, from actual observation. Each
travelled the ground described; they were men of respectable cha
racters, whose assertions are entitled to the respect due to veracity.
Mr. Stoddard is no more ; he fell in the cause of his country during
the last war; the other two are yet enjoying the vigour of life.
Schultz's Travels contains some useful information; and as far as
we have been able to compare his descriptions with the objects in na
ture, they are faithfully if not strongly painted.
The work, however, that of all others contains the greatest mass of detached geographical and topographical facts, is Cramer's Ohio
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. 298
and Mississippi Navigator. No person who navigates those streams
ought to be without this cheap and excellent work. Zadoc Cramer,
the original author, was a man whose mind was the seat of truth, and
whose days were spent in usefulness.
Darby's Louisiana is the only statistical work extant, which treats
exclusively upon the regions included within, and lying contiguous to,
the Delta of the Mississippi river. 
Brown's Western Gazetteer contains a fund of information useful to
emigrants. This work may be consulted with safety in all points,
where the author speaks from his personal observation.
Killbourn's Ohio Gazeteer, being arranged alphabetically and
written with evident attention to correctness of facts, affords a good
manual for that state.
Of geographical works professedly, there exists but one on Ameri
ca, written by a native, Morse's Geography, published ºn 1796, and
republished in numerous editions since. This work contains an im
mense document, and ought not to be neglected by those who desire
ample knowledge of the various parts of the United States. It is to
be regretted, however, that the usefulness of the only geography we
possess from the pen of a native, is very much diminished by national
and colonial prejudices; the opinions upon the character of the peo
ple of the southern and middle states ought to be received with cau
tion.
Four large detailed maps of the United States have been recently
published, by Bradley, Lewis, Melish, Shelton, and Kensett.
Upon each the phisiognomy of the United States is marked with suf
ficient precision to yield a good general knowledge on the subject.
Melish's map, extending to the Pacific, and south to the Spanish pro
vinces, gives a more extended view of the central parts of this conti
nent than any other map extant.
With all the maps and descriptive works that can be procured, no
emigrant ought ever to purchase land, or make arrangements for per
manent settlement, before viewing the place where his purchases or
settlements are to be made. The most that reading can do in favour
of the emigrant, is to prepare his mind with more clear ideas of the
means to form a judicious selection. Another necessary precaution
is, to always distrust the information of persons offering lands for
sale. Inquiries ought to be carefully made respecting the seasons,
climate, diseases; and made as much as possible from persons whose
interests are not engaged on the side of a too favourable representa
tion.
Most men on arriving in the United States, expect too much. Per
haps the only essential advantages offered, are the security of person
and property, and the cheapness of land. It demands excessive la
bour, severe economy, and exemptions from extraordinary accident,
to succeed in a newly settled country; and it demands the perma
mency of this suit of labour, prudence, and favourable circumstances.
In West Pennsylvania, West Virginia, in Kentucky, and in Ohio,
where the establishments have continued a sufficient length of time,
the emigrant will find inumerable instances to stimulate his exertions.
Many persons of good character and intelligence, reside there at this
294 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
moment, who have crossed the Aleghany mountains within the last
thirty-five years, “the world before them and Providence their guide,”
who now repose in ease with flourishing families around them.
The emigrant who now traverses those mountains has no savage
warfare to appal him. The first race of men who entered those
wilds smoothed the path for their successors, often at the expense of
their lives. What once demanded almost superhuman bravery, now
only demands persevering industry, and honest sober habits. A
great proportion of the entire number that now reside in the Ohio
and Mississippi valleys, are persons who carried with them little
more than experience in their respective pursuits, and who have
created their fortunes by their labour and ingenuity. This is not
particularly the case with agricultural men; it forms the basis of the
private history of all classes of society. The consequence of ne
cessary exe has been to form a race of active, laborious and en
terprising men, equal to any that the world has produced. The vast
scale upon which the merchants and farmers of the Ohio and Missis
sippi valleys perform their operations is indeed expansive. It will
be seen that from Pittsburg to New-Orleans is about two thousand
miles, and also half that distance from the junction of Ohio and Mis
sissippi to the latter city. Yet great numbers of the farmers are their
own factors at so distant a mart.
The commencement of their course of business is, properly speak
ing, in autumn, when their grain is put in the earth. As soon as
seeding is finished, preparations are then made for converting into
flour or whiskey their small grain, in fattening their pork, and, in fine,
collecting for market the various staples, and in building boats for the
transportation of their property down the rivers to the mart of sale.
In this manner autumn and the beginning of winter is consumed. As
soon as the spring freshets open the rivers, these navigators commit
themselves and the fruits of their fields to the current, and in due time
float to Natchez or New Orleans; dispose of their cargoes, and pur
chase a horse, and return home by land. Every one is anxious to
complete his voyage in time to return to his farm by harvest, which
two-thirds effect. .
The same routine is again pursued, and thus while some members of a family are as high as the 41° north lat. tilling the ground, others
are distant eleven degrees of latitude disposing of their joint property.
So easily do men accommodate themselves to the operations of this wide field of action, that many who, in their native country, consider
ed thirty or forty miles a very serious journey, will in a few years
after passing the Aleghany mountains, converse familiarly upon a
voyage of two thousand miles from home, and a journey of twelve
hundred to return.
One of the most valuable results of the distant voyages and journeys
made by so many, is the infusion into society of an extent of topo
graphical knowledge no where else known on earth. There is no
exaggeration in declaring that no people in the civilized world can,
in an equal population, produce so many men who possess general and
detailed knowledge of a space so immense.
Most of the traders are well disposed to communicate to strangers
i
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. º 295
such information as they possess, and very few are disposed to de
ceive. They are, in fact, a bold, open, intelligent, and candid body
of men. They are the links of a chain of extensive communication.
Like all other men of the west, the farmers and traders have a pe
culiar apparent carelessness of manner, which strangers, even from
the eastern side of the Aleghany, are very apt to mistake for want of
attention to those who address them. The fact is far otherwise:
often when the traveller is thus thrown from his guard, he is in the
presence of a man who penetrates the inmost recesses of his soul, and
who will recount to his companions the very train of reflection passing
in the mind of the stranger during this inspection.
One of the greatest and most fatal faults committed by Europeans
when in this, as they term it, verge of civilized life, is undervaluing
the inhabitants. It is in many respects a very natural result of the
accounts published and read in Europe. One traveller, who, between
New-York and Philadelphia composed two large volumes on the
general characteristics of the United States, very gravely informs his
readers, that in receding from those cities, the scale of civilization
lowers, until upon the Ohio and Mississippi the savage state com
mences. Though it can hardly be supposed that many persons can
be dupes to such representations, yet, from their tenor, prejudices
must follow in the minds of those who read them. It is against the
consequences of such ill-judged colouring we now wish to guard the
emigrant. These calumnies do very little harm to the objects, but
are extremely mischievous to those who travel the interior of the
United States under their influence. Hatred and contempt are plants
of easy growth, and very difficult. to eradicate when once rooted in
the human heart.
With a good personal character and suavity of manners, it is almost
impossible for any man to reside three months on the western side of
the Aleghany mountains without finding employment sufficient to pro
vide for his subsistence. Every man who carries with him those
requisites will find a kind welcome every where, and a disinterested
advice in most intelligent men he meets. '
All trades are wanted, especially those necessary for the sup
ply of the most pressing wants of new settlers, such as carpenters,
masons, Smiths, wheelwrights, tanners, curriers, tailors, shoe-makers,
hatters, saddlers, and cabinet makers.
Mere labourers, however, who possess no handicraft, are as certain
of employment as any class of men ; so great is the task of clearing
land, ploughing, sowing, reaping, threshing grain, and other business
of husbandry, that all men can find work, who are disposed to gain
an honest and virtuous subsistence. To the latter, and to common
journeymen mechanics, we desire to point out a rock, that, as they
value future reputation and happiness, must be avoided;—it is the
idle waste of Saturday afternoons in play, or what is worse, in the
grog-shop. Why this part of time should be so unprofitably thrown
away as it is, it would be difficult to explain ; but the facts are too
numerous to be doubted. Thousands who labour, attentively,
through five and a half days, lose the fruits of their toil and their
peace of mind in the other half, and rise upon the morning of the true
296 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
day of rest much more inclined to repeat debauch, than to perform
the sacred duties, that all laws, divine and human, have imposed;
duties, that to perform, is to secure the highest enjoyment of which
our nature is susceptible.
Let the poorest young man of from twenty to thirty years of age,
who finds himself in the theatre we have under our view, only turn
his eye towards the different members of society, and at every glance
he will find men in different circumstances, who, at a similar age
with his own, had no other patrimony but health of body and mind,
and who experienced no other good fortune but the effects of well
conducted labour. If from Europe, he will find nothing of the hau
teur of high life, towards men who are engaged in honest industry.
He is there relieved from that depression of heart that arises from con
tumely, “the proud man's scorn.” Treated as a party to a fair
contract, and not as a dependant, his mind expands, his nature be
comes daily more exalted, and feelings and virtues arise in his soul
of which he had no previous conception.
Many will say that these observations can only apply to the people
of the states and territories where slavery is prohibited. That is,
however, not the fact ; a residence of sixteen years in places where
slavery is prevalent, enables us to contradict a general expression,
that in such places, whites, performing manual labour, are confounded
in the moral estimates of the people with slaves. Though less respect
is certainly paid to useful labour in the slave states than where all the
duties of life are performed by the whites; yet the distance between
the two races of men are in all cases immense. So deep, profound,
and inveterate is the feeling on that subject, that not any where in
the United States, can property, sobriety, intelligence, and every
other advantage, except colour, raise in public opinion a man, the
most remotely allied to the African, to a rank equal to the meanest
white. Any person who resides a few years in Louisiana will be
witness to some very remarkable exemplifications of this innate con
tempt for all those whose affinity involve them in the contumely
heaped upon men degraded by slavery.
Some of the most wealthy planters in the two states of Louisiana
and Mississippi have made their outset as mechanics. They are now
respected, in exact proportion as their conduct merits. There.
exists no country where skilful mechanics, particularly carpenters,
blacksmiths, millwrights, bricklayers, and tanners, have a more
fruitful field before them than in Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
If attentive to the duties of their professions, they incur no risk of
being confounded with any class of men but the virtuous and the
honest.
One circumstance alone can degrade the white man in any part
of the United States, to a level with the slave ; that is his own moral
dereliction. It is this source from which has flowed almost all
the supposed contempt experienced in the southern states by labour
ing men. 
The whole of these admonitory lessons may be summed up in few
words; that with caution, temperance, honesty and industry, most
EMIGRANT'S GUIDE. -297
men will not only secure competence, but wealth, in any part of the
valleys of Ohio and Mississippi. 
The lessons that can be given respecting health would be in great
part a repetition of what has, or might be, said on the subject of
wealth. There is one circumstance in the former case but little con
nected with the latter; that is, exposure to night air. In all places
in the United States south of Tennessee, and in summer, in many
places north of that state, night air is extremely deleterious. Travel
lers unacquainted with the peculiar circumstances of these regions are
apt to neglect, or are uninformed what proper precautions to take to
provide for their own safety.” Man is so constituted as to compel
him, in order to enjoy a healthy state of body or mind, to sleep one
third his time; and any circumstance that deranges this natural
course for any length of time, superinduces pain and disease. We are
persuaded that no little of the ordinary mortality prevalent upon the
banks of the Mississippi and its confluent streams, arises from undue
exposure to night dews and want of rest. Regimen must be left to
the habits, temperament, and pursuits of the individual ; no advice
from another, or even rules adopted personally, can be undeviatingly
pursued. 
Perplexity of mind often leads to disease. We have been forced
to witness some fatal instances where death could be traced from dis
appointed hopes. In no country has so many instances of those un
founded inflations of mind been exhibited, as in the countries we
have reviewed in this treatise. As every extravagance of expectation
has been fostered, the chagrin that follows failure must be in
proportion to the warmth which hopes of success have been cherished.
Circumstances of bitter regret sometimes happen where the suf
ſerer has been guilty of no other fault than credulity. Land purchases
are abundant, where the purchasers struggled for life against the ef
fects of one ruinous step. The causes are numerous why emigrants,
particularly Europeans, ought to proceed with the utmost caution in
the purchase of landed property. If the purchases are made from
the United States’ government, no apprehension need be indulged
respecting title; but great care should be used in choosing the spot.
The advice of persons long resident ought to be taken as it respects
advantages of commerce, agriculture, health, and other local con
veniences. 
If the purchase is made from private persons, too much care cannot
be used in conveyance. In the state of Louisiana and Missouriter
ritory, landed estate is tacitly mortgaged for its own price,—conse
quently, it becomes the imperative duty of a purchaser to ascertain
that the payments have been made upon former sales, and that the
chain of title is clear from the first grantee to the seller.
The most radical fault committed by emigrants respecting land, is,
the purchase of too much, and the investment of capital in that man
ner, which could be much more beneficially employed upon the
complete cultivation of a lesser quantity. The probable rise in the
price of land is no excuse for this error. Where one man has gained
*See page 40 of this Treatise.
38
298 EMIGRANT'S GUIDE.
by the augmentation in value of land, fifty have become rich by its
fruits. The grasping at wide spaces of soil is a natural consequence.
of the great expanse upon which men exist in new settlements.
The accumulation of land assumes the madness of avarice. Land is
possessed not from any prospect of cultivation, but from vanity.
So prevalent is the foregoing propensity in the western states, that
many persons are ingulphed unwarily, who would, upon mature re
flection, severely condemn their own inadvertence. It may not be
thought probable, but is nevertheless a fact, that within the last twenty
years no subject has been more productive of ruin, to the people of
the western states, than indiscreet land purchases.
The farmer, who with a moderate capital and a family, ought to
prefer a small, fertile and well situated tract as his place of begin
ning. His surplus ought to be appropriated to improvement, and
will if judiciously applied produce more and in a shorter time than
if vested in superfluous landed estate.
To men who remove into the western or southern estates with mo
ney, this is a rock of temptation upon which they are very liable to
be dashed. So many have involved themselves by purchasing land,
that every lure is laid before the monied emigrant to induce him to
relieve, by his purse, embarrassments created by the very folly he is
now solicited to commit. It ... be expected that something ought to be addressed to pro
fessional men. There is, however, but one observation that can be
made as respects either of the learned professions, that they have the
same chances of success as other classes in society, if removing to
the westward. The same perseverance, attention to their respective
duties, and superiority of talent, which ensures superiority in other
pursuits, will produce the same effect with the lawyer or the physi
cian. We can only say, we have never known an individual fail,
from Pittsburg to New-Orleans, in either of the two latter professions,
who deserved to prosper.
To merchants nothing need be addressed. The nature of mercan
tile transactions are nearly the same in all places.
In enumerating the list of authors who have written upon any part
of the Ohio and Mississippi valleys, it may excite some surprise to
find the list so small ; but it would have been difficult to enlarge it,
without including names that, to speak charitably, would convey no
useful information. 
4 Recapitulation Table of the extent of Surface and Population at the end ºf 1817, of the Territorial Divisions embraced in this Treatise.
A frightful uninhabited void ap
The popula
Territoriudition. #;" | *:::::" |########|*|
Alabama Territory, 45,500 29,120,000 12,500 33,000, 40,000
State of Louisiana, 48,220 30,860,600 13,220 35,000 120,000 REMARKS.
Province of Texas, 240,000 153,600,000 5,000 235,000 10,000 The immense extent of territory noticed in this Table, amounts

to near two-thirds of all Europe; the whole in temperate latitudes,
State of Mississippi, 44,500 28,480,000 8,000 36,500 50,000 and in great part productive soil.
pears, which exceeds the six sevenths of the entire surface. Though
State of Tennessee, 40,000 25,600,000 25,000 11,000 340,000 only approximate results could be drawn from the imperfect docu


ment, we are inclined to believe, that the proportions between the
Part of North-Carolina, 2,400 1,536,000] 2,400 25,000 inhabited and :::::::::::::: are nearly correct.
tion of the various political divisions have been given from estimat:
State of Kentucky, 39,000] 24,960,000 30,000. 9,000 580,000 ing as correctly as in our power, the increment made by births and
Missouri Territory, ºw Tºwſ ºf wº. ºe flatter ourselves, therefore, ap
N. W. Louisiana, 560,000 358,400,000 560,000
Illinois Territory, 51,000 32,640,000 10,000 41,000 25,000. If taken upon the entire surface, the present population of this

vast region is about one and half person to each square mile; but if
State of Indiana, 36,840 23,449,600 12,210 24,000 100,000 on the inhabited part, there is about eleven persons to each square
ile.
State of Ohio, 40,000 25,600,000 20,000 20,000 330,000 mile
West Virginia, 26,700 17,088,000 20,000 6,700 120,000

If peopled only equal to the State of Ohio, at present, or about
West Pennsylvania, 16,500 10,560,000 12,000 3,500 202,000 nine persens to the square mile, the entire population would be
W.

13,748,940. In the Table in page 3, the Columbia valley is includ est New-York, 20,000 12,800,000 15,000 5,000 250,000 ed under the head of Missouri Territory; but in this table the Co

lumbia valley i l

Michigan Territory, 27,000 17,280,000 5,000 20,000; 7,000 y is excluded
P. W. Territory, 147,000. 94,080,000 200,000
1,482,060,956,567,600. 205.330 1,823,1802,289,000

[To face page 298.)

APPENDIX.
-e-cº
We have in great part preserved the articles that compose this Ap
pendix in their original form, as the authenticity of the information
must remain supported by the credibility of the various sources from
which it is drawn. We have presented to the public the different
representations as we received them.
No. I.
FoRM OF A SPANISH COMPLETE GRANT.
(Requete, or Petition.)
‘ro His Excell ENCY BARON DE CARONDOLET, Gover Nort, &c.
Your petitioner sets forth, that, having a family of twenty whites,
possessing forty slaves, with a quantity of cattle, he wishes to form
an establishment upon the waters of the Mermentau river; prays your
Excellency to grant him, in the name of his Majesty, the King of
Spain, whom God long preserve, forty arpents of land, with the ordi
nary depth, &c. extending from Pointe L'Ouest, up the river.
Opelousas, May 7th, 1795.
SURVEYOR OR COMMANDANT'S CERTIFICATE.
I do hereby certify that the land as prayed for as above, is vacant
and appertains to the domains of the King.
By me
JAQUES —
ORDER OF SURVEY.
We, Francis Louis Hector, Baron of Carondolet, &c. do order the
Surveyor Jaques , to survey for and put in possession, the above
named petitioner, of the land as prayed for, without injury to per
sons, previous grants, &c.
B, C.
JNew-Orleans, June 9th, 1795.
I do hereby certify, that, in my proper person, on the 13th day of
August, A. D. 1795, that I Jaques , did transport myself to the
!and prayed for in the within (requete), and in the presence of Louis
*
300 APPENDIX.
Ramelle and Guillaume Olivier, I did survey for and put in posses
sion of the said petitioner W. Z. R. the said forty arpents of land,
beginning, &c.
Signed —
PATENT.
We Francis Louis Hector, Baron de Carondolet, &c.
Then foliows the terms of the Patent, sometimes specifying, as
condition of the tenure, the keeping up roads, bridges, &c. nominal
in most cases. 
The mode of obtaining a complete title was circuitous in the ex
treme. After the commandant's certificate was annexed, the paper was
then transmitted to New-Orleans, and laid before the governor, who
endorsed the order of survey. It was then returned to the district
for survey. After survey, again remitted, to New-Orleans for final
completion by grant. 
•-º
No. II.
Canals have been projected to unite the head waters of the Illinois
with the Lake Michigan. The country near the sources of Illinois is
very imperfectly known ; , and some reports respecting it are not
easily reconciled with the features of other adjacent parts, which have
been more accurately surveyed.
The sources of the Wabash and Maumee rise in a high table land.
The Wabash flows in a rapid stream, without falls, to the Ohio; but
the Maumee, before reaching the western extremity of Lake Erie, is
precipitated over extensive cataracts.
Reports have been made, stating that canoes had passed at high
water from Michigan into Illinois ; if so, the valley of the latter must
be very much lower than that of either the Wabash or Maumee
rivers, or the surface of Lake Michigan greatly elevated above that
of Lake Erie. All the difference of level that can exist between the
two latter lakes, can bear no proportion to the difference between
the country near Fort Wayne and the water in Lake Erie. There
fore, if so easy a communication can be effected between Lake Mi
chigan and Illinois river, the latter must flow in a very deep valley,
when compared with the region to the east of its source. If a canal
without locks can be formed to unite the latter lake and river, it will
be the only one of the kind that nature admits in the interior of this
continent.
In point of direct utility, a communication between Lake Erie and
Wabash, would be of infinitely more importance than a similar work
to unite Michigan and Illinois. Calculating from common experience,
it would be rational to conclude, that roads, bridges, and canals,
ought to follow, not precede, civilized settlement.

º
i
*
APPENDIX. 301
Since the preceding article was in type, we received through the medium of the public prints the following information, which we
have thought worthy of insertion, as tending to confirm the fact of a
communication between Lake Michigan and Illinois river.
“Piqua is situated near the centre section of Miami County, Ohio; it is laid out on a beautiful eminence on the west bank of the
Great Miami river, about sixteen miles from the Indian boundary
line, which bounds the county on the north and Champaign county on the east, Montgomery county on the south, and Clark county on the west. The soil of this county is not surpassed by any in the
state in fertility, yielding in abundance all the different kinds of grain usually cultivated in the western country. Piqua has been laid out as
a town since the year 1807, and now contains several buildings that
would not dishonour Lexington. Besides the stores, &c. there is a grist-mill and two saw-mills in the town, and one saw-mill within a
mile of the town ; some of the best unimproved mill seats on the
Miami are here, and there is no section of the country where mills
can be employed more profitably, being situated on a stream which
empties into the Ohio, and near the navigable waters of Lake Erie.
It is 27 miles from this place to St. Mary’s, at the head of navigation
on the St. Mary's river, from which place boats can go at any time, when there is a fresh in Fort Meigs, in teñ or twelve days. There
is a fine body of land lying between this place and Lake Erie, and west of Lake Michigan, capable of forming two more large states,
and supporting as thick a population as any section of the union. It
is about two hundred miles from this place to the southeast end of Lake Michigan, and I do not remember seeing a single hundred acres of land in the whole distance on which a good farm could not be made. The great St. Joseph’s river, which empties into the south
east end of Lake Michigan, is navigable almost up to its source.
There is no better land in America than is to be found on its banks.
This river takes its rise not far from Fort Wayne; it has two
branches, one called the St. Joseph's, and the other Elk Hart; these
unite about eighty miles from the Lake, and form the great St. Joseph's,
which is a large deep stream, capable of carrying vessels of from eighty to one hundred tons burden, without a single obstruction to the
Lake.
“It is a fact that a boat may sail from St. Mary's (27 miles from this
place), proceed past Detroit and through Lakes St. Clair and Huron, By Mackinaw, up Lake Michigan, and out through the Chicago river,
into the river Plein, and down the Illinois to the Mississippi, without ever being unloaded—a distance of inland navigation not known in the
world elsewhere.”
–º
No. III.
WESTERN SETTLEMENTS.
For the following interesting letter, I am indebted to the politeness
of a subscriber, and to the kindness of a friend in this place, through
30.2 APPENDIX.
whose hands it was forwarded to me. Those who feel interested in
the success of our frontier settlements, will find themselves much
gratified by the minute details here furnished. It always gives me
pleasure to afford information to those who wish to remove to the
Western Countries as they are called. Let the nation spread.—
Scarcity of land and density of population will be felt soon enough,
notwithstanding the “iminense swarms” of settlers we are constantly
throwing off towards the Pacific. The rage for manufacturing, and
for imitating Europe in all her luxuries; and consequently for rival
ling at length her inequalities, proprietors, grinding leases and final
pauperism, is sufficiently threatening already. Plenty of “elbow
room” must postpone the period of our arrival at this last stage—and
therefore it gives me pleasure to see the young and adventurous going
to seek their fortunes in lands yet unreclaimed from the desert. In
doing this, they are probably securing fortunes for their progeny, and
an easy old age for themselves. - 
Fort Osage, 330 miles up the Missouri ;
River, March 29, 1817.
SIR-I have recently had the pleasure to receive your very inter
esting letter of the 23d September last, addressed jointly to my bro
ther Hopkins and myself. Although it is principally directed to my
brother at Natchitoches, it happened somehow or other to get a direc
tion to St. Louis, from whence it has been forwarded to me at this
place. To say that I derived pleasure from hearing from an old va
lued acquaintance, after a lapse of many years, would be but a fee
ble expression of my feelings while reading your letter. It seemed
like a renewal of the days of my boyhood, and like a revival of
(what we are apt to call it) good old times. Although I am much
pressed by official duties, I have taken my station at my desk with
the full determination to write you a long letter; and to answer as
correctly as I am able, your inquiries concerning this country. The
same express by which I send you this letter to St. Louis post-office,
will convey your letter (agreeably to your desire) to Natchitoches,
under cover to my brother Hopkins, and you may expect to hear from
him in the course of about two months from the very time you receive
this letter. The public newspapers, as well as your letter, had in
formed me of the general failure of the grain crops throughout the
southern and eastern sections of the union—and I observe also that
the same scarcity had occurred pretty extensively in Europe. I be
lieve our grain crops in the western country have been generally
pretty good, though somewhat inferior to what they are usually. As
far as my observation and information extend, I think the last crop
was uncommonly abundant last year throughout the western country.
Such was the case I know in this territory; and yet the price of
pork has been exceedingly high, and will probably be higher—the
usual price of pork is from 2 1-2 to 31-2 dollars per hundred; beef
3 1-2. Now, pork is 5 to 6, and beef 4 1-2.—This is altogether
owing to the immense swarms of emigrants who are constantly flock
ing to the country from all parts of the union.
APPENDIX. - 303
I refer you to the last edition of Bradley's map of the United
States. No. I will copy such part of it here as may be necessary
for my purpose.
[The editor is very sorry to be under the necessity of omitting the
section of map inserted in this part of the letter. It lays down the
course of the Missouri, through part of the territory of the same
name, to its junction with the Mississippi, Boone's Lick settlement,
with the positions of Fort Osage, St. Charles and St. Louis, as well
as the courses of the Osage and other tributaries of the Missouri, are
also laid down.]
This is truly a very rough sketch, but it will answer our purpose.
Fort Osage was established in the fall of 1803. At this time the
highest human habitation on the Missouri, except Indian huts, was on
the banks of the river, about where the red letter A is placed on the
annexed sketch, say about 38 miles by land above the village of St.
Charles. In December, 1809, business called me to St. Louis. I
traversed the country from Fort Osage, (80 miles) to the Arrow Rock
at B, where I crossed the Missouri by swimming.—From thence I
travelled in a direct course towards St. Charles, 120 miles to C. be
fore I came to a house or a mark of civilized beings. In February,
I returned to this place, and in my route overtook the first families
who moved to Boone's Lick, who were in number about six or eight.
In 1811, in November, l again went to St. Louis, and found at Boone's
Lick, a settlement of about sixty families. In the summer of 1812,
the first settlement was made on the south side of the Missouri, above
the Osage river. During the late war, these settlements suffered
greatly from Indian depredation, but still they increased considerably
by emigration. In 1815 and 1816, they increased beyond all for
mer example. The territorial legislature at their session in 1815–16,
passed an act creating the settlement of Boone's Lick, into the County
of Howard, and allowing them two representatives and one counsellor
in the assembly. The new county includes all the settlements above
the Osage river, on both sides of the Missouri, which have all grown
since January, 1809. It is said, and I believe truly, that the popula
tion south of the Missouri, above the Osage river, is sufficiently nume
rous to entitle them to be created a new county, and no doubt the le
gislature will pass a law to that effect at their next sitting.
The settlement of the tract of country comprised in the new coun
ty of Howard, seems to me like enchantment. Where nothing but
wild beasts of the forest, and savage hunters, were to be met with in
1809, of which not a tree had received the stroke of an axe, is now
nearly all swept away, and in its stead are seen rising comfortable
habitations, merchants’ store-houses, a court-house, and all appendages
of a seat of justice. Merchants, traders, lawyers, physicians, li
censed tavern-keepers, abound; mechanics find their account in re
moving there, such as smiths, saddlers, and a variety of others; there
are several common schools; two or three reputable preachers; and
a weekly newspaper is soon to be printed there, by two gentlemen of
fine talents; two towns have been laid off, and I am told the lots sell
well; another is talked of. It is computed that upwards of a hun
dred families moved to the county of Howard, from Tennessee, Ken
+304 APPENDIX.
tucky, North Carolina and Virginia, during the last winter; and I do.
not think I risk any thing when I venture to say, that emigrations to
this county for 1817, will amount to three hundred families at the
slose of the year. Indeed I should be safe at saying five hundred. I
expect the settlements will extend upwards during the present year,
to within twenty miles of Fort Osage. The county of Howard (I
mean the part settled) as fine a tract of country as any under Hea
ven; whether we consider its fertility, climate, or healthfulness. A
well cultivated field will produce, one year with another, 60 bushels
of corn and 35 of wheat per acre. I have averaged 80 bushels of
corn per acre at this place, but my field is small and highly culti
vated. 
Rye, oats, barley, Irish potatoes, red and white clover, timothy,
and blue grass, turn out extremely well. They raise cotton suffi
cient for family consumption at Boone's Lick. Sweet potatoes do
pretty well; our kitchen gardens are not excelled by any of our
country; cabbages, lettuce, peas and onions, are remarkably fine :
hops, raspberries, gooseberries, strawberries and currants, grow wild
and in great abundance all over the country. The timber is walnut,
hickory, a variety of oak, locust, ash, cotton tree, papau, pacan, cof
ſee nut, sycamore, elm, maple, sugar tree, hackberry, willow, box.
alder, some pine, and some red cedar. The undergrowth is hazel,
arrow wood, red berry, plum, crab apple, wild pea-vine and rushes.
A variety of grapes, and wild cherry and persimmon.—So much for
the settlement of the Missouri river, particularly that of Boon's Lick,
or Howard county.
I shall now speak of the Missouriterritory generally. By reference
to the map you will find it embraces an immense tract of country, in
cluding within its limits, the Arkansaw, White, St. Francis, Merri
mak, Gasconade, Osage, Missouri, and many other large rivers—and
I believe it embraces some of the worst lands as well as some of the
best in the western country.
The climate is generally salubrious and healthy, and the face of
the country beautiful, salubrious and inviting. Lead and iron ore are
in very great abundance; salt springs plenty. In short, nature has
been truly bountiful in the distribution of her favours in this territory.
The Missouri is navigable for large boats 3000 miles, the Arkansaw
upwards of 1200, the White river 500, St. Francis 300, Gasconade
200, Osage 350. St. Louis is the principal commercial town in the
territory. It has from 350 to 400 houses, is beautifully situated on the
Mississippi river, twenty miles below the mouth of the Missouri. It
is growing very rapidly, has at present near fifty regular mercantile
houses, many merchants, and a proportion of the common establish
ments to be usually found in towns.
The trade of the place consists in lead, furs and peltries, and other
Indian articles, pork, beef, salt, tallow, flour, wheat, corn, oats, dry
goods, groceries, &c. Business is commonly pretty brisk, and the
merchants generally grow rich in a few years. Dry goods are
brought to St. Louis, from Philadelphia and Baltimore. They are
waggoned to Pittsburg, and from thence by water to St. Louis; the
cost of transportation from Philadelphia to St. Louis does not exceed
APPENDix. 305
ten cents per lb. House-rent at St. Louis is very high, and lots for
building are nearly as high as they are in some of our larger cities,
and rising very rapidly. Lands near town are from 5 to 200 dollars
an acre. Those lands adjoining St. Louis, are worth from 600 dol
lars to 1000 per acre. Society in St. Louis pretty good, and fast im
proving. Provision markets tolerably well supplied, and pretty
cheap. Labourers are very dear—say from fifteen to thirty dollars
per month and find them. Good boarding is fifteen dollars per
month, including lodging—tavern prices are yet high. Building is
very expensive. Distance from St. Louis to New-Orleans, by water,
1500 miles—freight from New-Orleans to St. Louis, five dollars per
hundred. Our groceries chiefly come from there.
The Missouri territory will become an independent state in a few
years without doubt. Its population must be already great enough to
entitle its admission into the union.
If there was any prospect of my being able to snatch as much lei
sure as would be necessary to write this incoherent and unconnected
scrawl over again in time, I would certainly do so, but there is no
such prospect. Such as it is, therefore, you must be indulgent
enough to put up with it, and make the most of it you can. It has
been written amidst continual interruptions, and I am compelled to
conclude abruptly. 
For myself, I have only, briefly, to inform you, that I have been in
the public service in this country since the fall of 1805.-In Octo
ber, 1808, I came here to make an establishment for government per
taining to lndian affairs—80 regular troops came with me as a guard—
the same number are here now in garrison. My office is agent of
Indian trade and sub-agent of Indian affairs, for which I receive 1666
dollars per annum, and furnished one clerk, one interpreter of Indian
languages, and a comfortable house and furniture at public expense.
Many Indians of various tribes resort to this agency, giving me at
times a great deal of trouble and perplexity. I am obliged to take
my leave, sir, abruptly. If you have leisure, I shall be at all times
happy to hear from you. Direct to me at St. Louis, Missouri terri
tery.
I am, sir,
Very respectfully,
Your most obedient servant,
G. SIBLEY.
JMr. James G. Mask, Henderson, JW. C.
N. B. The Indians in this quarter are peaceable and generally
well disposed. 
º
—— /
No. IV.
‘THE LATE INDIAN TREATY,
CINCINNAT1, Oct. 17,
The commissioners on behalf of the United States, have, at the
treaty lately held at Fort Meigs with the Indians, obtained a relin
39
306 APPENDIX.
quishment of their claims to all the lands within the state, with the
exception of the following reservations: At Upper Sandusky 12 miles square; at Wappakonata 10 miles square; at Lewistown 7
miles square; at Hog creek 5 miles square; at Fort Seneca 7 miles
square, and the tract west of St. Mary’s river, supposed to be about
300 square miles, amounting in the whole to 425,880 acres. The whole tract of land purchased, including the Indian reservations, and
the unceded tract west of the St. Mary's river, contains, by a rough
calculation, says the Supporter, 3,862,420 acres, from which deduct
ing the amount of the reservations as above, will leave 3,345,540
to which the Indian title is extinguished. To this may be added,
say 840,800 acres lying north of the Miami of the Lakes, and east
of a meridian running north from Fort Defiance, ceded by the treaty
of Detroit in 1807, making, agreeably to this estimate, an aggregate of 4,276,340 acres of unoccupied lands in the state of Ohio, to which
the Indian title is extinguished.
For these lands the treaty “allows the Wyandots an annuity of 4000 dollars, the Shawanoes 2000 dollars, and the Senecas 500 dol
lars; together with the sum of 3300 for 15 years, to be divided be
tween the Pottowattomies, Chippewas and Ottowas.”
This, to the state of Ohio, is one of the most important negotia
tions since the adoption of her constitution. Indeed to the whole
western country, it is by no means unimportant. When these lands
are surveyed and placed in the market, the population of the state
will increase with a rapidity heretofore unequalled. The local situa
tion and fertility of soil of a great portion of this tract of country, will arrest the attention of settlers; agriculture and commerce will
soon spread their genial influence over it, the cottage of the husband
man, and lowing herds will soon enliven the scene where the wilder
ness now prevails, flourishing towns and villages will soon assume the
place of the wigwam. Our state will soon assume a high station in
the political scale. [Western Spy.
-º
No. V.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 14.
At a late election for a representative to congress, in the state of
Indiana, nearly 10,000 votes were taken. The population of that state increases so rapidly, that it is probable the census of 1820 will
entitle it to 5 representatives in congress.



-
No. VI.
Vevay, (IND.) Sept. 16.
Jimerican Wine,—The one half of the crop of wine now growing
on the farm of the late David Golay, deceased, was sold on Saturday last, at public auction, for the benefit of his heirs, at 73 cents per
APPENDIX. 307
gallon, to be delivered as coming from the press, the purchasers to
łurnish the casks. The whole of the crop, the product of about
three acres and a half, is estimated at 11 or 12 hundred gallons.
Two men and a few children, besides tending that vineyard, raised a
considerable quantity of corn and other articles.
No. VII.
Geographical—Hamilton, at the head waters of Aleghany river, is
a small village ; but from its situation, it is becoming a thoroughfare
for families emigrating from the eastern states to the countries lying on
the Ohio and Mississippi rivers.—Large arks of 60 feet by 12 and
roofed over, are sometimes built at Hamilton, on board of which fa
milies embark with their waggons and horses. Keel boats of from 5
to 10 tons burden may also be used both ascending and descending
the river. The distance from Hamilton to Pittsburg through the turns
of the river, is about 260 miles, and the only road by land is about
170, yet the direct distance is much short of that, as may be seen by
the map. The Aleghany is a steady stream, and is navigable for arks
and boats in spring and fall, and by occasional freshets in the summer.
-º
No. VIII.
HNLAND NAVIGATION.
The following communication relative to a new channel of com
merce into the interior, will be viewed as of great interest. We also
insert an article on the same subject from a Pittsburg paper, and
which has before appeared in the Columbian. These articles are of
too much importance to be passed over lightly and forgotten. It is a
fact, that during the first week in this month four hundred tons of
American plaister arrived at the village of [thaca, at the southern ex
tremity of Cayuga lake, on its way to the western part of Pennsyl
vania. 
A merchant from Marietta (Ohio), has just left this city with seve
ral tons of goods, (it being his second trip,) who takes them from Al
bany by way of Geneva, and Hamilton on the Aleghany river, to his
place in the state of Ohio. This gentleman is of opinion that goods
can be transported from this place to Pittsburg for considerably less
than they can be taken from Philadelphia over the mountains to
Pittsburg.
Plaister is found in great quantities in the counties of Geneva, On
tario and Cayuga—and is getting use near Pittsburgh, as appears by
the following article from a Pittsburg paper:
Mr. Scull—Sir, I think it a duty I owe to the public to inform them
of the benefits arising from the plaister lately brought to Pittsburg by
H. & W, Jack,
308 APPENDIX,
I have made an experiment, and have no hesitation in pronouncing
it equal if not superior to other plaister brought from different parts of
the world. Therefore those who are desirous of improving their
meadows (for a proof of its good effects) will please call on the sub
scriber, at the Black Horse tavern, 4 miles east of Pittsburg.
JOHN SERVICE.
-º
No. IX.
During the late freshets a considerable quantity of lumber has been
brought down the Aleghany river, from Hamilton, in the state of
New-York; and, it is said, that pot-ashes and plaister of paris may
be expected from that place in future. Although the supply of these
articles will not probably, for some time, be equal to the demand, yet
when the enterprising spirit of the people of New-England, who have
settled, and are settling on the heads of the Aleghany, is considered,
it appears probable that the quantity of both of the above articles will
increase rapidly in this market. So that the proprietors of our glass
works may look forward to the time when pot and pearl-ashes may
be had on moderate terms, and the farmers may hope to supply them
selves with what plaister they want.
We shall stand chiefly indebted for these advantages to the liberal
aid shown by the legislature of New-York, towards the improvement
of Hamilton; which, from this cause, joined to the advantages of its
situation at the junction of the Olean with the Aleghany, must make
speedy advances as a place of trade ; and we may, perhaps sooner
than we are aware of, see goods from the city of New-York embarked
at Hamilton for the states of Kentucky and Ohio, &c. It is no easy
matter to divert trade from its old channels; but it may be done by
neglecting the improvement of those channels. When once done, it
is not an easy matter to see it back again. This is become a serious
subject for Pennsylvania in general, and for Philadelphia in particu
lar ; and it is to be hoped, that the exertions now making to get the
turnpike finished at Greensburgh, will not be relaxed till it is carried
over the mountains of Chambersburgh. This ought to be accom
plished in three years. New-York is wide awake. If we dose, we
shall have time to repent when repentance will not avail.
SYLVANUS.
-*º
No. X.
lNLAND NAVIGATION.
The important subject of internal improvement by Canals and
Turnpikes, appears to have attracted universal attention.—In addi
tion to the great canal from the Hudson and Mohawk rivers in the
state of New-York to Lake Erie, which commenced in July last, it
APPENDIX. 309
is proposed to cut another to connect the waters of Lake Champlain
with those of the Hudson. A survey is nearly completed from the
lake to the river. The gentlemen engaged in this business report,
that the soil is uniformly favourable, and that no obstacles of magni
tude are in the way of this great object. A memorial is now in cir
culation in Virginia, Kentucky and Ohio, to be presented to the legis
lature of Virginia and the Congress of the United States, in which a
plan is laid down for connecting the waters of the Chesapeake with
the Gulf of Mexico. It is stated in the memorial, that James’ river
is capable of being made navigable for boats of considerable burden
to the mouth of Dunlap's Creek, and even some miles higher by an
increased expense ; that an artificial road may be formed with an
unusual facility, the ascent of which will not be more than an angle
of five degrees with the horizon, and the length if only carried to the
nearest waters of Greenbrier river susceptible of navigation, will not
exceed thirty miles; or if extended to the navigable waters of the
Great Kenhawa, below the great falls of that river, will not exceed one
hundred miles; from which latter point, the waters descending with a
bold, but gentle current, for an hundred miles, mingle with the Ohio,
and afford a free navigation for boats of a large size to the Gulf of .
Mexico. By this plan an inland communication would be opened,
from the head of the Chesapeake to the mouth of the Mississippi.—
Should this be accomplished, and canals from the Raritan to the Dela
ware, and the Delaware to the Chesapeake be completed, we shall
have an inland communication from the extremity of Vermont to
New-Orleans, a distance of 3000 miles, and we believe the expenses
attending these several improvements, would be comparatively small
when we take into view the immense advantages resulting to the
eastern and western sections of our country.—In a political view it
would be of great advantage by drawing several sections of the
United States more closely together. It would reduce the distance
to New-Orleans more than one half;–and would tend to remove in
a great measure that antipathy which at present exists between our
western and eastern brethren, resulting from conflicting interests.
The valuable products of the fields and forests of the west, would
find their way through this channel to the Atlantic, and be equally
beneficial to the eastern merchant and western farmer. The apathy
that prevails in this state on the subject of the canal from the Dela
ware to the Raritan is an evil greatly to be regretted.—The benefits
resulting to New-Jersey from this, and from a canal connecting the
Chesapeake and Delaware, would be invaluable. We hope the en
terprise of our northern and southern brethren, will awaken the peo
ple of this state to a sense of their true interests.
-º
No. XI.
It was our intention to have given the time in which various steam
boats performed their voyages from Pittsburg, Cincinnati, and Louis
ville to New-Orleans and in return, but have not been able to procure
310 APPENDIX.
the necessary document. From a recent publication, entitled “Notes
on a Journey in America,” &c. by Mr. Birkbeck,” which reached the
city of New-York after the above was in type, it appears that the
steam-boat Ætna left New-Orleans on the 6th June, 1817, and arriv
ed at Louisville on the 14th July, performing the voyage in 38 days.
The distance 1383 miles, or rather more than 36 miles per day dur
ing the whole time of the voyage. The actual speed of the vessel
must have exceeded, when in motion, fifty miles per day, to com
pensate time lost in stopping at various places. The full value of
steam, as an impulsion upon vessels, will only be demonstrated in
places remote from sea-ports, upon large rivers.
-
No. XII.
Since this Appendix was put to press, Mr. Birkbeck, an English
gentleman, already well known to the literary world, has published a
work entitled, “Notes on a Journey in America, from the Coast of
Virginia to the Territory of the Illinois.”
This publication contains much valuable information, that may be
useful to either residents in, or emigrants to the valleys of Ohio or
Illinois; it is written, not without prejudice, but without any of those
disgraceful antipathies, that render disgusting nine-tenths of the mat
ter published by Europeans respecting America. If Mr. Birkbeck
resides five years in Illinois territory, he will not then charge with
laziness men who have, according to his own account, changed a wil
derness to a civilized residence in three or four years. He will find
that many of those apparently indolent loiterers, were examining
him very much at their leisure. In our Advice to Emigrants we have
taken the liberty to warn them against mistaking for laziness, a com
mon carelessness of manners characteristic of the men of the west.
The rapidity with which towns, villages, and fields have arisen from
the gloom of a desert, is a striking commentary upon the true cha
racter of this really active body of MEN.
Note.—These tables ought to have made part of page 270, but
were omitted in their proper place. ~
Topographical Table of the Counties of the State of New-York, in
cluded in the Ohio Valley and Basin of St. Lawrence.
Counties. Population in 1810. Chief Towns.
Alaghany 1,942 Angelica.
Cattaraugus 500 Hamilton. Cayuga 29,843 Auburn.
Cortlandt - 8,869 Homer.
Genesee 12,588 Batavia.
Jefferson 15,140 Watertown.
* See Mr. Birkbeck's Work, p. 172.
APPENDIX. 311
Counties. Population in 1810.
Chief Towns.
Lewis 6,433
Martinsburg.
Niagara 8,971 Buffalo.
Oneida” 15,000 
Onondaga 26,000 Onondaga. Ontario 42,032 Canandaigua.
Seneca 16,609 Ovid.
St. Lawrence 7,885
Ogdensburg.
191,812
Topographical Table of the Michigan Territory.
Counties. Population in 1810. cºſ Towns.
Detroit 2,227 etroit.
Erie 1,340
Huron 580
Michilimakinak 615 
4,762
* Only the north-western section of this county is in the Basin
of St. Law.
rence.